Document of
The World Bak
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5532-CO
STAFF APPPAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COIOMBIA
HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
June 18, 1985
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
DiJVision III
This docuent has a rcstrited distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnanee of
thelir official dudes. Its contents way -not otherwise ber disclosed without World Bank anthoriztidoo.



CURREICY EOUIVhLUTS
Currency Unit - Peso Colobiano (Col$)
US$1.0 - Col.$135
(May 15, 1985 Actual)
EIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
PRINCIPAL ACROMS USED
CUADS - Centro de Adiestramiento en Salud
(Center fo- Realth Training)
CI - Couitg Interseccional
(Zonail Departmeatal Coordinating Units)
DIP - Departasento Nacional de Planeaci6n
(National Planning Departmoent)
DSBR - Division de Sanesmiento BUsico Rural
(Division of Basic Rural Sanitation)
P1K - Foudo- acional Hospitalario
(National Rospital Fund)
ICEF - Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar
(Colooiian Institute ef FAmily Welfare)
INS - Instituto Racional de Salud
(National Institute of Health)
INSFOPAL - Instituto Raciona' de Fomento Municipal
(Institute-for Municipal Development)
ISS - instituto de Seguros Sociales
(Social Security Institute)
MOH - Miuisterio de Salud
(Ministry of Health)
SBR - Sauesmiento Bgsico Rural
(Basic Rural Sanitation)
SSS - Servicio Seecional de Salud
(Departmental Health Services)
UPA - Unidad Primaria de Atenci6n
(Primary Care Unit)
UR - Unidad Regional
(Health Region)



FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
MEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pate Number
SELECTED SOCIAL IINDICATORS ..............................   ... iii
GLOSS,M  OF TCEM. ..........o...............   - .......... o.... iv
LOAW  AND PROJECT SUOABY .......       - ..........................v
I. Introduction .................. O-* ......   ....,......   l
II. Sector Status              ........                     ......... .1
A. Population ...............                                    I
B. Health ........................ , ........ 3
C. NuEtrition ............................ ......... 4
D. The Health Care System           .  ........           .      5
E. Health Care Financing .......... ...         ...    ........... .8
F. Health Manpower ...............................10
G. Health Information Systems    ,. .....  .. ........... 12
H. Research             ...........
III. Key Sector Issues ...............* ............
A. Lack of Coverage          ............................ ...... 13
B. Sector Deficiencies ....                                     14
C. Management Weaknesses ......... ......
IV. The Bank-s Role ............................ . . ...      15
V. The Project .....................,........,........ 16
A. Project Summary               ................             . 16
B. Sumary Project Composition ............................. .18
C. Detailed Project Description ....                             9
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal and a post
appraisal mission that visited Colombia from June 18 to July 6, 1984, and
frca November 26 to December 7, 1984, respectively. The mission members
yere Messrs. V. De Geyndt (Mission Leader), L. Vassiliou (Economist),
B. Hubert (Architect), W. Stottman (Engineer), Mrs. P. Kleysteuber (Operations
Assistant), and Consultants G. Herrera (Physician) and F. Unda (Engineer).
This docume has a resicd ditbution and may be used by redpients ony in te poefonmane of
thei offc  duts ents may not otheie be ded witbout Wold Bank authobiaton



(ii)
Pate §N-ber
VI. Project Cost and Financing Plan ..................... oe ...27
A. Project Cost Estimate................. ....... . .27
B. Finsacing Plan .....................................29
C. Procurement.... ....................... .o....... 30
D. Disbursements ......................... **...33
B. Retroactive Financing ....... o ........................ 34
F. Accounts and Aditing ........... ..* ... .. .......*... .34
VII. Project Implementation ...............                  ... ..34
A. Project )azagemevt Arrangements .................... .34
B. Project Nonitoring and Evaluation. .................. 36
VIII. Project Justification and Risks .........................37
A. Project Justification    ..       ......           ..... .. 37
B. Project Risks.... .................................... 38
IX. Agreements and Recommendations   ..................... 39
ANNEXES
1.   Sector Data, Project Data, Project Cost
Estimate Tables ..    ..      .. . ........o..... ........ . .,. 41
2.   Rural Water Supply Subcumponent..                               73
3.   Selected Documents and Data Available in Project Files    85
CHRTS
1.   Project Implementation Schedule ................... ........ 86
2.   Organizational Chart - NOR. .................. ............ .. .87
3.   Organizational Chart - INS ......................... . ..... 88
NPS
General Proiect Area:
IBiD 18785
Project Department:
IBRD 18600  Narino                         IBID 18606  Santander
IBID 18602  Cauca                          IBID 18604  Cordoba
IBID 18603  Valle del Cauca                IBRD 18605  Antioquia
IBID 18601  Amazonas                       IBID 18599  Choco
IBID 18607  Putuuayo



(M1±A
I- m nm m
*   1961      I97     (15I4)       IA
Q i, C1i* (U)                        270       440       MiS        -Z
Acl Utiu  Ram W                     62.5    MA)          8D.0       79.5
p4mamtk  a vidtatistics:
-ALstm Mid.Pw (low)               is7m      2U*        21m1
- -
M  _ . *                  ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~48  60    65         6
Pap iS )ew3        w                                  37.5
stto7PF 6a)                                      62.
FMSq. h.                         13.8      18J        23.2      35.Z
1mw sq. bA. igc. 1m                45      10.7 -       A.      9Uk
T_a                              3.1        3.0        2.0       2.
_m                                Si.7      5.2        Z.        3A6
ends ut  saw =  '0l0)             47.2       33.       21         313
eus D       . alts,    00)'       17A         9.7       1.         8.1
Q   qmi  a                    3.3        2.3       1.8        2.0
rom1 i                                                  }lammia
Acom  (om   O)                        IIAm          s 
vans Cl o      rziM)                                  49.0      40.3
_ef  Uamopm ) *                                   49*
lhqCacqei Cf      *
C 5almaZ G  auJzmm)J              96         67        103       in
PLUeC ((vps )                      54        46        55         67
d& !hz1ue P4   330,                                              34
9=06
Lif aqam.e art (uuzc)             53.1       S8.9      63.7       64.7
--l             W     )ta1  lorM  93.4       70.6      53.9       60.6
1*1 w L4) r _b se1U2                       6J1       4.0        .7
Nbp_aihi 1 mici:                  2150       2330    1720(a)      1915
Par. Par his ahi                  4u          730     800(sn       ON
_1a.i.s h oith     l hi                      27.9       S..2      27.3
,. hiw wmpikl 11i:
Teal                             360        450    SllOli        36
3110    40           An
M343
A s t i. WgarCl Pap):
.                                 ?J30       63      64Jaf        65
UhSm                              55         a       73'          75
_-mit                              7         28      46W          4S
Aca  ):t hodf)
TML                              ~~~    ~~~~47  44(a  .53
--b                                          75      60o)         67
a.  - 14WS.         25
Bum    hid lk dml U~mlistwo, Jms L9SL
* s       wM ks1WDt Rqmt 1934 M    idM--
f)19.   )17. (e)I 8   01976.



(iv)
COTMIA
REALTE §SEVICE8 INTEGRATION PROJECT
GLOBY OF TMSD
Adult Literacy Rate:       The percentage of persons aged 15 and over
who can read and write.
Child Mortality Rate:      Annual deaths of children 1-4 years per
1,000 children in the ame age group.
Contraceptive Prevalence   The percentage of married womeo of reproductive
Rate:                      age who are using a moderu method of contraception
at any time.
Crude Birth Rate:          Number of live births per year per 1,000
people.
Crude Death Rate:          Number of deaths per year per 1,000 people.
Incidence Rate:            The nimber of persons contracting a disease
as a proportion of the population at risk,
per unit of time: usually expressed per 1,000
persoms per year.
Infant Mortality Rate:     Annual deaths of infants under 1 year per
1,000 live births during the sane year.
Life Expectancy at         The number of years a newborn child would
Birth:                      live if subject to the age-specific mortality
rates prevailing at time of birth.
Maternal Mortality          Number of maternal deaths per 1J000 births
Rate:                       in a given year attributable to pregnancy,
childbirth or postpartum.
Morbidity:                  The frequency of disease and illness in a
population.
Mortality:                  The incidence of death in the population
in a given period.
Neonatal Mortality         The number of deaths of infants under 28
Rate:                       days of age in a given year per 1,000 live
births in that year.
Prevalence Rate:            The number of persons having a particular
disease at a given point in time per population
at risk, usually expressed per 1,000 persons
per year.
Rate of Natural            Difference between crude birth and crude
Increase:                  death rates, expressed as a percentage.
Total Fertility Rate:      The average number of children a vouan will
have if she experiences a given set of age-specific
fertility rates throughout her lifetime. Serves
as an estimate of average number of children
per family.



(v)
COLOMBIA
HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUNMARY
BORROWER:                 Republic of Colombia
EXECUTING AGENCY:        Ministry of Health
LOAN ANfOUNT:             US$36.5 million equivalent.
TERMS:                    17 years, including 4-1/2 years grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:      The objectives of the project consist of: (i) providing
basic health services including family planning for 3.7
million Colombians living in the poorest areas along
the Pacific C-Sst; (ii) assisting 250 communities with
access to piped water supply and to waste disposal;
(iii) strengthening the rural water supply subsecLor
through technical assistance to INS, and the preparation
of a National Rural Water Supply Plan; (iv) introducing
systemic changes in the organization and provision of
health services through decentralization of service
delivery and integration of all health activities at
the lovest level; and (v) providing a cost-effective
service delivery model covering 14% of the population
which would be replicable to the entire sector.
Achievement of these objectives would be supported
by: (i) the construction and expansion of health care
facilities, water systems and latrines; (ii) a training
program; (iii) the implementation of timely information
system on service statistics and cost data; and (iv) a
set of policy and research studies. The project is
expected to reduce mortality and morbidi-y of women
of childbearing age, infants and children, to increase
contraceptive prevalence and to make significant changes
in the way the health sector is organized and provides
services.  The project faces the risk inherent in the
need for cooperation between several agencies that provide
health, population and nutrition services, water
supply, construction services, and equipment maintenance.
This risk is being minimized through the strengthening
of the regional management capacity, through technical
cooperation by more developed to less developed
health regions, by organizing the project into four
geographic areas, each one headed by a coordinator,
and by interagency cooperation agreements.



(vi)
au.w w m                           mm   us
IB$ OIllma
A. POL WE3M CABE
Smuith 5eviceDOivWry                   21.9        7.4       29.3        25          45
Cmuuity !duatiaa                        13        0.1         1.5         9           2
1 inte                                  0.6        0.8        1.3        59           2
Sub-Dotal P4AL EALMu CAL R            23.8        8.3       32.1        26          50
B. uvIRA         w      viE
lb', 9tar supply Sevie                  6.9        4.4       U13         39          18
llc;r °trol                             4.4       0.5        4.9         10           8
Istimaal ral liter 91wly Pi             1.4        1.1        2.5        43           4
Sub-Total RVInKIAL  U' SlV               12.7        6.0       18.7         32          29
C. IEaYlhaL  1EYE.Cmf
Sector _hmIgst                          3.7        0.8       4.5         18           7
Labortou Support                        1.0        3.2        4.2        77           6
inftmticnsystat                         0.8        0.5        13         36           2
Reucb                                  3.6         0.1       3.7          2           6
Sub-Total MIIIUEM&   EEUf1                9.1        4.6       13.7         33          21
Total PLZK (ZS                            45.5      18.9       64.4         29         100
Physica Gootmgeocia                1.5        1.6        3.1         53           5
Price :tinucies                    5.0        3.3        8.3         40          13
iuraL P061xr c5S                52.0       23.8       75.8         31         118
PinaoreIPmg Plan
IIA  E[       ITL      Z ci
(()- ~~ITA
Wbr ldbk                                21.7       14.8    36.5    4t
GOvemoment                              20.2      -         2D22
Sqplier Crafit                           -9.0               9.0}
ISS                                     5.1       -         5.1    25Z
tber Fees                               5.0       -         5.0)
IL                           52.0       23.8    75.8   loll



(vii)
gat jated DisburseMents
Fiscal Year
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991  1992
Annual      2.0    3.3    5.1       7.1    8.2    7.0   3.8
Cumulative  2.0    5.3   10.4    17.5   25.7   32.7  36.5
Rate of Return: Not Applicable.



COLMBIA
HEALTE SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      A World Bank mission carried out a review of the healtb sector
in Colombia and prepared a Health Sector Review (Report No. 4141-CO)
issued on December 15, 1982. The sector issues identified concerned
the equity, the efficiency and the effectiveness of organizing and delivering
health care services. Equity referred to the vide disparity in healtb
status across the country partly due to lack of coverage of primary
health care and sanitation services. Efficiency and effectiveness could
be increased through better use of existing resources, cooperation between
MOH and ISS, decentralization of service delivery, improved maintenance
of plant and equipment, and more emphasis on and support for preventive
public health measures, sucb as potable water and environmental sanitation.
1.02      The Government agreed with the major conclusions of the report
and prepared a health project to be considered for World Bank financing.
The proposed project would be the first World Bank lending operation
in Colombia which would be managed by the Ministry of Health. It would
expand primary health care coverage to underserved areas along the Pacific
coast and would benefit approximately 3.7 million peri-urban and rural
poor. It would decentralize the planning, organizing, delivery and
evaluation of services and involve the community. The Social Security
Institute (ISS) would for the first time invest in health infrastructure
to be owned and operated by MOH. The proposed project would enlarge
maintenance workshops in regional hospitals, train staff for specific
tasks, strengthen the rural water supply subsector, expand coverage
of environmental sanitation to prevent water borne and fecally related
diseases, strengthen the national laboratory network, and carry out
a set of policy studies.
II. SECTOR STATUS
A. Population
2.01      Current and Projected Population.  Colombia is Latin America's
fourth most populous country. Its mid-1984 population is estimated
at 28 million and by 2000 it is projected to have 37 million inhabitants.
During the 1950s and 1960s it had one of the fastest groving populations
in the world, with an average annual growth rate of 3.0Z. However,
declines in both fertility and mortality during the 1970s resulted in
a present growth rate of approximately 1.9%, which is below the 2.3%
average for Latin American countries and for upper-niddle-income countries
(Table 1 - Annex 1).



-2-
2.02      Fertility.  The total fertility rate (TFR) decline.' by 44Z
betveen 1960 and 1978, and was estimated to be 3.6 in 1983 for the total
country and 4.3 for the proposed project area. Expected fertili y differentials
are observed: (i) fertility is aach higher in rural than in urban areas,
by a factor of over two to one (TFR - 6.0 versus 2.9); (ii) fertility
is also higher among less-educated women and those in low-income housebolds;
(iii) the TFR is more than three times as high in the poorest as in
the richest income groups (TFR about 6.0 versus 1.9); and (iv) the higher
fertility among poorer women is accompanied by shorter birth intervals,
higher infant mortality, and generally poorer health among mothers and
children. Thus, there are still major segments of the population that
are not experiencing fertility declines.
2.03      Contraceptive Prevalence.  Although the percentage of women
remaining single rose in the 1970s, changes in contraceptive prevalence
affected fertility rates more than other proximate determinants of fertility.
The 1969 National Fertility Survey found that 21% of women surveyed
aged 15-49 who were married or in union were active users of contraceptives.
In 1976, the Colombian National Fertility Survey found that the percentage
of active users bad risen to 48%. Since then the rate seems to have
plateaued, as the 1980 National Contraceptive Prevalence Survey results
showed 49% of women in union were using a family planning method (54%
urban and 37% rural). Much of the increase in prevalence is credited
to the subsidized family planning services for the poor provided by
the Maternal and Child Health Program of the Ministry of Health and
by PROFAMILIA, a private family planning association. The proposed
project includes financing of a new National Contraceptive Prevalence
Survey wbich would update the 1980 figures.
2.04      Mortality.  As in most developing countries, Colombia's vital
registration system lacks reliability. Table 2 in Annex 1 provides
recent estimates of the crude death rate from 1970 to 1982 based primarily
on the 1982 Notional Health Survey which suggest that the crude death
rate fell belcv 7 per 1000 soon after 1978. In general, these estimates
are somewhat lnwer than those of the National Statistical Office (DANE)
and the World Bank. Variations among departments range from 9.5 (Guajira)
to 4.5 (Atlantico). Similarly, the distribution of infant mortality
rates range from 46 per 1,000 (Bogota) to 19b per 1,000 (Choco) live
births. These geographic disparities are of special concern to national
policy makers.
2.05      Ase Structure.  Declines in fertility and increases in life
expectancy over the last 20 years have changed the age structure. The
dependency burden (population below age 15 and above age 64) peaked
in the early 1960s. In the late 1970s the proportion of children under
15 fell from 46.6% to 41.4% and is expected to fall to approximately
39% during the 1980-84 period. At present, life expectancy at birth
is approximately 65 years for women and 62 years for men, up from the
low 50s in the mid-1960s.



2.06      Spatial Distribution.  High rates of rural-urban migration
have doubled the share of the population living in cities with 2,500
or more inhabitants from 30.9% in 1938 to over 60X currently. During
the period from 1964 through 1973, the urban population grew at an average
annual rate of 4.2%, whereas the rural population only grew by approximately
12 per year. The four largest cities (Bogota, Cali, Medellin and Barranquilla),
each have more than one million inhabitants and together they account
for one fourth of the total population.
2.07      Minration.  Recent Bank estimates of net international migration
indicate that emigrants *-"eed immigrants by approximately 260,000 annually,
less than 1% of the tot.] population. Immigrants tend to come from
the Caribbeav and Central America, and oil-rich Venezuela is the major
recipient country for expatriate Colombians.
B. Health
2.08      Health conditions in Colombia show great inequalities between
departments. Mortality and morbidity rates are extremely high in the
poorest areas and are caused by limited or no access to basic healtb
services and unsanitary environmental conditions.
2.09      Environmental Health.  Although 60Z of the population in Colombia
has access to piped water, and 48% has sewerage connections, access
to safe water in the proposed project area is limited to 10% for the
dispersed rural population and only 15% have an adequate system for
excreta disposal. These very poor environmental conditions cause high
rates of water-borne and fecally-related diseases. Mortality rates
for infants and children can be reduced substantially through removing
environmental health hazards, especially provision of safe vater, excreta
disposal, liquid and solid waste management, and vector control. A
major emphasis of the proposed project is on environmental health.
2.10      Mortality.  Table 3 in Annex 1 presents primary causes of death
for 1973, 1977 and 1981. Cancer, heart disease, strokes and homicides
were the primary causes of death in 1981 for the population as a whole.
For children under the age of one (Table 4 in Annex 1) the principal
causes of death in 1981 were perinatal diseases, gastro-intestinal infections,
acute respiratory infections, respiratory failure and nutritional deficiencies.
Neonatal deaths (occurring within 28 days of birth) accounted for 47% of
all deaths under age one in 1976, and a substantial proportion of these
deaths could have been prevented by improved maternal health and nutritional
status, better obstetrical care and child-spacing. The major causes
of death for children ages 1 to 4 are gastro-intestinal, acute respiratory
infections, and malnutrition (Table 5 in Annex 1). Mortality is lowest
in the 5-14 age group where accidents are the leading cause of death.



-4-
2.11      The leading causes of death among adults aged 15-44 are accidents
and homicide. Mortality statistics for those over 45 indicate Colombia's
transition towards a morbidity and mortality profile of a developed
country. Tuberculosis and other infectious diseases have been eliminated
from the five leading causes of death. Chronic degenerative diseases,
principally heart disease, cancer and stroke, are now making increasingly
heavy demands on the health system-
2.12      Morbidity. Gastro-intestinal infections and acute respiratory
infections are the leading causes of disease in infants and children
seen in ambulatory clinics (Table 6 - Annex 1). Morbidity data by geographic
area are not available to demonstrate the different epidemiologic patterns
that occur in the cooler highland and lower tropical and coastal regions,
and the within-city differences. Some data are available however; malaria
remains high at 390 cases per 100,000 inhabitants in 1983, and threatens
18Z of the population. Yellow fever and dengue are significant problems
in endemic areas, and hookworm is prevalent in tropical areas. The
proposed project includes a vector control program and research on malaria.
2.13      Abortion is a major public health problem for women in their
childbearing years. Illegal induced abortion remains prevalent, especially
in the cities, and accounts for perhaps a quarter of maternal mortality.
This practice led to the pioneering efforts in family planning delivery
to the poor by PROFAMILIk, and by the Colombian Association of Medical
Schools (ASCOFAME) in the 1960s and the subsequent MOR involvement with
family planning. The persistent high rate of illegal induced abortion
illustrates the unmet demand for family planning services in the lower
income groups.
C. Nutrition
2.14      The nutritional status of the Colombian population has improved
significantly since the mid-1960s. Anthropometry (measurement of weight
and height classified by age) was used to characterize the nutritional
status of children in representative sample surveys conducted in 1965-1966
and 1977-1980. The risk of morbidity and mortality increases significantly
among children classified as severely malnourished by any of several
anthropometric criteria. In 1965, below normal average height for age was
documented and corresponding substandard weight for age. Average height
for age had increased significantly by 1980 and there was a corresponding
increase in weight for age. There was a significant reduction in the
prevalence of malnutrition as defined by three commonly used criteria.
Moderate and severe proteinlcalorie malnutrition, according to Gomez
Classification, had declined by half among children under five and by
a third among those between five and ten.



-5-
2.15      The reduction has been more marked for moderate than for severe
malnutrition. In 1965, 1.7% of children under five were severely malnourished,
and this vas still the case in 1980 in two of five regions of the survey,
the Pacific and Eastern areas. This finding suggests that in 1980 there
was still a subset of the population with severe nutritional deficiencies.
Nutritional status has improved since 1965 with the exception of a small
but significant group of seriously malnourished children. This secular
trend reflects improved diit and living standards, the declining incidence
of infectious disease, vaccinations, and better health care. However,
in the proposed project area, about the poorest in the country, about
22 of children under five are severely malnourished, and 19.4Z have
some degree of malnutrition.
D. The Realth Care System
2.16      Physical Infrastructure.  Colombia's health sector is divided
into three major parts: (i? the public health sub-sector; (ii) the social
insurance sub-sector, including the Social Security Institute (ISS)
for private employees, CAJANAL for public employees, and some funds
targeted for specific areas and groups; and (iii) the private sector.
Currently, 77% of the population has some access to health services,
and 23%, or 6.2 million people, are estimated to lack coverage. Of
the 77% with coverage, the public sector accounts for 52Z, the social
insurance subsector for 15%, and the private sector for 10%.
2.17      The public health subsector has by far the largest service
network of health facilities with 638 hospitals containing about 30,000
beds and around 3000 health cenoers and posts. The bed/population ratio
for the health regions in the proposed project is 0.66 per 1,000 (Table
7 - Annex 1) which is one third of the national average of 1.7. More
than half of the health centers and posts require remodeling and expansion.
2.18      ISS owns 37 hospitals with 4,200 beds, but contracts beds
in 155 KOE and private-sector hospitals, and has a network of about
50 basic care centers (CABS)- Eighty-five nercent of ISS beneficiaries
are in the four largest cities, but only 10% of families have all their
members covered. ISS has recently embarked on a program to extend full
health coverage to spouses and children up to 18 years of age and to
rural agricultural workers. About one out of ten families served by
ISS now has full coverage.
2.19      The private sector consists of 190 small hospitals with a
total of about 9,000 beds, of private office practices, and of laboratory
and radiology centers. Approximately 10% of the population can afforl
the cost of private services.



-6-
2.20      Maintenance of Buildings. Equipment, and Vehicles. Difficulties
in attracting and retaining trained technicians, reductions in-operating
budgets, and the large variations in makes have impeded preventive and
corrective maintenance. A substantial proportion of the medical equipment
-- bought on credit or received as donations from bilateral sources
-- is not being used because it has not been installed, it cannot be
repaired, it lacks technicians to operate, or spare parts are not available.
The project would assist in correcting this situation.
2.21      National Network of Laboratories. MOH established the national
network of-laboratories in 1977 in order to integrate all public health
laboratories into a coherent system. It was envisaged that at the central
level a national reference laboratory would set standards, train specialized
staff and provide technical assistance to departmental and regional
laboratories in the areas of clinical diagnosis. environmental health,
food and drug control and communicable disease control. Some progress
has been made in the first seven years of its existence towards the goal
of an integrated network. Major constraints are: shortage of trained staff,
lack of equipment, materials and supplies, and of equipment maintenance;
the uneven quality and development of departmental laboratories; and the
lack of a well-organized central level. These weaknesses result in
poor quality diagnostic work, inability to perform basic tests at the
lower levels with attendant unnecessary and expensive referrals to higher
levels, lack of supervision and control of standards, and importation
of some medical supplies that could be produced in the country. The
proposed project would address these issues and seek to improve the
efficiency and the quality of the laboratories.
2.22      Organizational Structure.  The public sector (MS/SSS) has three
levels: national (MOR and-its five decentralized institutes), departamento
equivalent to a state or province (SSS), and regional or health region.
(See Chart 2.) The national level consists of the Ministry of Health
in Bogota and its five decentralized institutes: (i) the National Institute
of Health (INS) which is responsible for water supply and sewerage in
towns with up to 2,500 inhabitants, for production and control of vaccines,
for laboratory quality control, and for special research studies (See
Chart 3); (ii) the gational Municipal Development Institute (INSFOPAL)
which handles water-supply and sewerage for larger towas; (iii) the
National Hospital Fund (FNH) which allocates funds for, and approves
and supervises, hospital investments and maintenance; (iv) the Family
Welfare Institute (ICBF) which is responsible for a national pre-school
nutrition program, child-care facilities, and for the protection of
minors; and (v) the Cancer Institute. INS, INSFOPAL, and FNH budgets
are approved by the Minister of Health, but the agencies are managed
autonomously without formal coordination with MOH staff or line units.
The lack of coordination between INS, INSFOPAL and other sections in
the Ministry results in less joint planning of primary healtb care and
water and sanitation improvements than desirable. ICBF is the most
autonomous of the five decentralized agencies.



-7-
2.23      Water supply and sanitation in Colombia is under the responsibility
of NOR, which in coordination with the National Planning Department
formulates national sector policies. In the larger cities, autonomous
municipal companies plan, build and operate water and sewerage systems.
In most small and medium-sized towns and cities, water services are
administered by sanitary works companies which operate on a department-wide
level. These companies are owned and, in conjunction with departmenital
authorities, controlled by INSFOPAL. In rural areas, INS through its
Division of Basic Rural Sanitation has the responsibility and legal
mandate to promote, plan and execute water supply systems in communities
with less than 2,500 people. In the economically stronger departments
(e.g., Valle, Cauca, and Antioquia) the functions of INS with respect
to rural vater supply have been delegated by contract to Departmental
Health Services (SSS) which are responsible for health service delivery,
water and sanitation. At the national MOH level, the Directorate of
Environmental Sanitation assumes responsibility for providing safe water
and sanitation services to dispersed rural populations and native Indians.
There are other public and private institutions involved in the water
sector development. Among these are, most notably, the National Coffee
Growers Committee and departmental governments and developmeat corporations.
In the past, these organizations have accounted for about 2OZ of total
sector investments. They are dominant in some areas, e.g. the Coffee
Growers Comittee in the coffee producing regions.  The presence of
many organizations in the water sector causes jurisdictional, technical
and budgetary disputes. The competition between the Basic Rural Sanitation
Division of INS and the Environmental Sanitation Division of NOR has
been harmful to rural sector development in the past. The proposed
project would strengthen INS and its Division of Basic Rural Sanitation
charged with rural water supply development, and would be the basis
for a national development of the subsector.
2.24           The provincial level comprises 33 departments (SSS), which
implement the national health policies. At this level, overall policy
is vested in a departmental health board, the members of which include
the governor, health-related agency representatives and citizens. Policy
matters and overall internal management are the responsibilities of
the SSS director, appointed by the governor and supported in day-to-day
management by a technical coordinator who is generally a career officer.
The three operational units are for medical care, environmental sanitation
and administration. A similar structure operates at the regional and
local levels, which are managed respectively by regional and local hospitals
designated as headquarters. There are 107 health regions in Colombia.
The health regions supervise and coordinate the activities of 97 regional
hospitals, 470 local hospitals and around 3,000 health centers and posts.
2.25      The social insurance sector consists of over 100 social insurance
institutions which provide health care for salaried employees of private
and public sector enterprises that are sufficiently large and formally
organized to permit regular payroll deductions and employer contributions.
The Social Security Institute (ISS) is the largest and is part of the



-8-
Ministry of Labor. It covers 10X of the population and is financed
by the employer and the employee who together contribute 7X of the payroll.
All other social iusurance schemes. such as those for the police and
military, cover 5% of the population.
Orgamizatlom of the
National Health Synte"
COWUI&
Ministry of Hualth
33 Dapartmental Weath Sevices
(Scciousle)
107 HEalth leons 
470 Local Hospitals
3      3,000 Health Cent.
and Hasth Poits I
E. Health Care Financing
2.26      Total public and private spending for health accounted for
4.9Z of GDP in 1981. NOR shows the sovrces of institutional financing
of the total Colombian health sector to be as follows:
Sources of Health Sector Financing, 1983
Employer/Employee Contributions          21.6Z
National Budget                          22.9
Departmental Budgets                      9.6
Municipal Budget                          0.9
Sale of Services                         18.5
Other Sources                            26.5
TOTAL                                   100.0%
_                                _~~~~~~~~~mm



-9-
2.27      Income from beer and liquor taxes, and from lotteries are
included in the department and municipal sources. Sale of services
are primarily derived from the beneficiaries of the multitude of "cajas"
or social insurance schemes and from the private sector. One sixth
of the user fees are collected in the public sector. Other sources
include returns on investments, leasing of property, donations, endowments,
external credit, and other miscellaneous sources.
2.28     The amounts allocated to each subsector do not equal the
expenditures of that subsector because subsectors purchase services
from each other. This is mostly the case with social security schemes
which lack specific services in their own system and, therefore, buy
these services for their beneficiaries from other providers. The table
below shows that the public sector is allocated 32.7Z of the total health
sector budget but spends 40.9% because it sells services to the social
insurance programs. The Social Security Institute, on the other hand,
receives 29.0Z but spends only 24.4Z on its own service delivery systems.
The difference of 4.6Z is spent on the purchase of services from the
public and private sectors. These intra-sector purchasing arrangements
are efficient because they minimize duplication of equipment, facilities
and personnel. The proposed project encourages these practices and
strengthens them through investment by ISS in NOR facilities, and through
ISS increases in the amounts of purchased services.
Share of the Health Sector Budget Allocated to and Used
by Each Subsector. 1981
Allocation     Use
Public Sector                      32.7%           40.9Z
Social Insurance Schemes
Social Security Institute     29.0            24.4
- Other Insurance Schemes       28.8            23.9
Private Sector                      4.9             6.2
Other Ministries                    4.4             4.5
TOTAL                              100.0%        100.OZ
2.29       Per capita expenditures for health care in 1981 were US$31
for the population covered by the public sector. Average health expenditures
per person for the population covered by social insurance schemes were-
roughly four times that amount, (US$ 120). Differences in the range
of services provided by the two sectors make strict comparisons inpossible.
However, they indicate inequity in the distribution of health care resources.



-10-
F.  Realth Mannower
2.30      Physicians.  In 1984, there were over 23,000 physicians  practicing.
This is triple the figure in 1966, and the country may not be able to absorb
the 1,500 physicians graduating each year. This is evidenced by a. shortage
of places for the internship year; increased competition in private practice
a growing scarcity of positions in ISS and the SSS, which together provide
the bulk of physician employment; and underemployment and unemployment
in large cities.  Quantity is not synonymous with equity however, as
close to 70Z of physicians practice in cities and departmental' capitals,
where approximately 40Z of the population resides.
2.31      Colombian schools of medicine have tended to emulate the medical
curricula of industrialized countries, notably France and USA. Physicians
are trained to provide sophisticated care to individual patients. The
graduates are generally capable clinicians, but their skills do not
match the needs of rural communities where major health problems result
from poor nutrition and faulty public health practices, where human
and material resources are scarce, and the demand for service exceeds
the availability of physicians as health care providers on an individual-
basis. A policy study in the proposed project would analyze the demand
and supply of physicians, and would review the appropriateness of the
medical curriculum.
2.32      Professional Nurses.  Nurses with a degree or licenciate (which
is obtained after four years of university) have never been numerous
in Colombia. In 1982, only 5,000 nurses, or one per 5,500 inhabitants,
were believed to be practicing and they prefer to work in cities. Training
emphasizes clinical care, though few are trained in midwifery, and most
occupy administrative positions in large hospitals.
2.33      Auxiliary Nurses and Nursing Aides.  In 1982 there were approximately
17,000 auxiliary nurses and 15,000 nursing aides. The number of auxiliary
nurses more than doubled since 1970. Auxiliary nurses have been for many
years the backbone of services provided in rural health posts and centers.
Because of the severe nursing shortage, auxiliary nurses fulfill most of the
nursing needs in local, regional and university hospitals. After 18 months
of professional training, they carry out the folloviug tasks: (i) instruct,
supervise and evaluate the health promoters in their units; (ii) evaluate
pregnant women, refer high-risk cases, attend deliveries; (iii) monitor
growth and development of children under 5; (iv) administer vaccinations;
(v) solve simple medical problems, e.g., diarrhea, respiratory infections,
intestinal parasites, skin rashes, cough, fever, etc.; and (vi) teach
the community about health subjects such as family planning, vaccination,
environmental sanitation, etc. Experience in several departments (Caldas,
Valle, Antioquia) has shown that they are able to carry out these tasks
satisfactorily. The auxiliary nurse would be an important health resource
to implement the proposed project and, 160 would be recruited for the
project area or an increase of 1OZ.



-ll-
2.34      An estimated 15,000 nursing aides with no formal training have
acquired a variety of nursing skills, including deliveries, and become
increasingly valuable with emperience and in-service training. A all
proportion eventually become auxiliary nurses.
2.35      Health Promoters.  Health promoters are women trained for three
mouths, sssigned to villages surrounding their homes, and supervised
by auxiliary nurses.   There vere about 5,000 practicing health promoters
in 1982. They perform the following tasks: (i) evaluate pregnant vomen
and refer high-risk cases; (ii) attend normal deliveries; (iii) inform
couples about family planning; (iv) nutritional surveillance of pregnant
and lactating women and children under five; (v) solve simple medical
.problems; (vi) obtain blood samples to detect malaria and sputum samples
to detect tuberculosis; and (vii) coordinate with the sanitation promoter
to expand utilization of latrines, provision of potable water, and appropriate
disposal of wastes to combat water borne and fecally-related diseases. As
a member of the coi.munity she serves, the health promoter takes the service
to the people, involves the community in health actions, and is the
most important preventive health care provider. Experience in several
departments has been positive and shown that the health promoter is
capable of carrying out these tasks. GOC's policy is to extend the
use of the health promoter. The proposed project would double tbe number
of health promoters in the project area.
2.36      The Sanitation Promoter.  In 1981 there were about 1,800 sanitation
promoters. These are sales vho follow a six month theoretical training
program, folloved by field work, and an additional three month formal
training program. They are based at the health region and visit co munities
to perform the following tasks under the supervision of sanitation technicians
or sanitary engineers: (i) organize the conmunity, in coordination with
the health promoter, to improve environmental health conditions;
(ii) supervise maintenance of water supplies and control of quality of
water; (iii) control sanitary disposition of excrets to arrest fecal contamination
of water, food and soil through installation of latrines; (iv) control
liquid and solid waste disposal facilities to avoid water contamination;
(v) control the safety of food, water and milk through sampling and testing;
(vi) control zoonoses through catching and/or vaccinating suspected biting
animals; and (vii) control insects and rodents to reduce vector-borne diseases.
Sanitation promoters as cormunity members play a crucial role in organizing
the population for a cleaner environment through their own efforts. However,
their insufficient number and the abseace of consistent supervision have
limited the full realization of their potential benefit. The proposed
project would iacrease the number of sanitation promoters in the project
area from 240 to 360, train supervisors and allocate vehicles for supervision
and for promoter transportation.
2.37      A major objective of the Government's program is to decentralize
the health system and encourage self-help and community-oriented approaches
to health care delivery. The auxiliary nurses, and the health and sanitation



-12-
promoters are crucial to the achievement of the program. The proposed
project reinforces that program and these three types of health workers
are three-' ourths of the proposed project's additional staffing.
C. Health Information Systems
2.38      The public health sector collects a large amount of detailed data
on numerous forms. Data collected are not converted into useful and timely
management information and are not checked for reliability and consistency.
Data are aggregated at the departmental level which does not benefit the
regional decision-_mker. The proposed project would support the establishment
of a management information system which would first serve the planning
and control needs of the local and regional level, add financial indicators,
and aggregate data at that level before passing it on to the next higher
level.
B. Research
2.39      The highest research authority in the country is the National
Council for Science and Technology (CNCT) chaired by the President.
The CNCT includes a Health Committee chaired by the Minister of Health;
its Secretary is the Director of the National Institute of Health (INS).
The Research Division within INS coordinates all Government financed
health research and liases with non-governmental research institutions.
Colombia is one of the leading Latin American countries in health services
research which is mostly carried out in academic institutions and research
institutes. The economic crisis has decreased research support in the
last five years and research output bas fallen dramatically. For example,
national fertility and contraceptive use surveys were carried out in
1976, 1978, anCu 1980, but the next one is planned for 1987, and would
be partly financed through the proposed project. Studies on the efficiency
and productivity of university hospitals and regional hospitals were
carried out in the late 1970s but this line of research has not been
continued. Research on malaria would better focus the malaria eradication
campaigns. The proposed project supports work on key policy topics,
such as health care financing, contraceptive prevalence, and sector
efficiency.



-13-
III. KEY SECTOR ISS1IES
A. Lack of Coversge
3.01      About 6.2 million Colombians are estimated to lack access
to basic health services, including family planning, and to safe water
and sanitation services. The absence of basic health care in parts
of Colombia (especially the Pacific Coast and the National Territories)
is reflected in these regions' high mortality, morbidity, and fertility
rates. Primary causes of excessive death and disease in infants and
children are related to poor environmental conditions, especially absence
of safe water, excreta disposal, liquid and solid waste management,
and vector control. Im}unization rates are low and malnutrition affects
one out of five children. Total fertility rate of the peri-urban, the
rural, the dispersed rural and the native Indians is well above the
national average for lack of service availability.
3.02      The Government wishes to eliminate the inequity in access
to basic services for the poor and has already launched a number of
programs to reduce and, ultimately, to eliminate the regional disparities
and inequities. In 1982, it selected the Pacific Coast area and the
border zones for accelerated multisectoral economic and. social development.
In 1984 it completed a national vaccination campaign and immunized almost
one million children against five diseases: measles, polio, diptheria,
whooping cough and tetanus. The mass campaign is now being evaluated.
With some additional assistance, these diseases can be substantially
reduced as a public health problem. In June, 1984, a Ministerial decree
established an advisory group to coordinate all primary health care
activities and assigned specific responsibilities for expanding primary
health care to the whole country. A national program for child survival
was launched in late 1984, and contains an innovative strategy consisting
of organizing the nation's youth to assist in high priority infant health
programs. A youth task force of health sentinels, principally high
school students, is being created, and will educate families in the
prevention of the leading childhood diseases.
3.03      Government has taken a number of initiatives to increase coverage
to the underserved and unserved segment of the population. Faced with the
massive tasks of reducing mortality, morbidity and fertility to acceptable
levels within 10 to 15 years, it has requested external assistance to
meet its goals. The proposed project would concentrate on the Government's
designated priority areas. It would assist the Government in expanding
coverage of maternal and child health care, immizations, family planning,
oral rehydration, and malaria control to the lowest income groups in-
those areas.



-14-
B. Sector Deficiencies
3.04      The major sector deficiencies are: (i) a highly centralized
decision-making process and service delivery system; (ii) the duplication
of health actions between ISS and MNE; (iii) the neglect in the maintenance
of plant and equipment; (iv) the absence of a coordinated effort to
develop and maintain rural water supply systems and sanitation services;
and (v) the lack of cost information and cost control.
3.05      In the Government's 1983-86 National Health Plan the health region
is designated as the key organizational unit responsible for planning,
organizing, delivering and evaluating primary health care services;
tberefore, the Pla8 would decentralize decision-making on type and contents
of programs, and on service delivery to the lowest administrative level,
and at the same time mazimizing the potential for community involvement.
A 1984 Presidential decree created a "Technical Committee of Coordination
and Integration between ISS and MON" and task forces have already provided
the Committee with programmatic and geographic areas where integration
and/or coordination of health interventions are feasible. A change
in mnagement at the National Hospital Fund (FNH) responsible for plant
and equipment maintenance, and a planned strengthening of its human
and technical resources has started the process of protecting the country's
large investment in equipment and facilities. INS and MOE have signed
a letter of agreement specifying their respective responsibilities in
the provision of water and sanitation services, and cooperative mechanisms
have already been created.
3.06      To put these sectoral changes into effect will be a gradual
and slow process. The requested external assistance would act as a
catalyst for more rapid change. The proposed project would assist the
Government in strengthening and carrying out its plans for reducing
these sector deficiencies.
C. Management Weaknesses
3.07      A partial cause of the lack of coverage and a major contributor
to sectoral inefficiencies are poor management structures and practices.
Weak logistical support systems disrupt the flows of drugs and supplies,
and of spare parts. Defective maintenance of vehicles decreases the
frequency of supervision. The lack of cost data and late information
on service statistics severely limit planning and control of service
programs. The appointment of clinical specialists, without management
training, does not provide the health region with capable managers.
Health services research must be operationally oriented in order to
guide decisions on programs, activities, and tasks. A major flaw in
primary health care in Colombia is the managerial weakness of the health



-15--
region in terms of leadership, supervision, management information, train-
ing of the right mix of staff, cost accounting, and means of transportation.
3.08      Government has diagnosed management weaknesses as a serious
constraint to sector development. It has started a program based on
the fact that good management needs trained managers, effective management
aystems, timely information, good communication, and regular supervision.
Managers of health regions must now be physicians with a graduate degree
in public health, which includes management training. Government's
policy is to promote self-help at the health region level with direct
participation of the departments and health regions involved. It proposes
to implement this policy through stronger departments and health regions
helping the weaker ones. For the proposed project, it has appointed
four managers to manage four nuclei of about five health regions each
and has identified in each nucleus a lead health region to assist the
institutional development of the other health regions. Government has
requested technical assistance and support of training programs to implement
these policies. The necessary expertise is not available in the country
and no other donor agency has indicated interest or willingness to assist.
3.09      The decentralization of service delivery authority to the health
region level and the strengthening of management systems and practices
at that level would overcome a major management veakness. The proposed
project emphasizes institution building through the provision of technical
assistance and specialist services, the establishment of cost accounting
systems at the service delivery level, training of lower level staff,
a program of research studies, and the strengthening of information
systems.
IV. THE BAMKRS ROLE
4.01      Bank assistance strategy in Colombia includes a broad-based
effort to support agriculture, industry, infrastructure, power, and
selected social projects. The latter include support for education,
water supply and sewerage, nutrition, and health services at least cost.
4.02      Past Bankx Assistance.  Health components were included in the
Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project (Ln. 1487-CO) and the two Rural
Development projects (Ln. 1352-CO and Ln. 2174-CO). All three projects
assisted in the introduction, consolidation or expansion of primary health
care in rural areas previously underserved. A network of primary care
units (UPAs) brought preventive and simple curative care to a significant
number of rural poor. The Nutrition Project made the largest contribution
through the building or remodeling and staffing of about 550 UPAs serving
approximately 350,000 rural poor. The data collected were insufficient
to quantify costs or benefits in terms of reduction in mortality and
morbidity. The rapid expansion of UPAs outstripped the development
of an effective management system to monitor progress, identify problems,



-16-
conduct quality control and oversee the training and continu4d education
of professionals and paraprofessionals. The key organizational flaw
was the absence of delegated authority at the health region level.
4.03      Rationale for Future Bank Involvement.  The proposed project
would be the first Bank-supported health pzoject in Colombia. There
are several justifications for Bank involvement in the health sector.
First, the project is in line with the overall strategy of World Bank
assistance to Colombia. Second, there are serious health problems in
Colombia vhich need to be addressed as a matter of high priority. Third,
the shared concern of the Bank and Governr,ent for more equitable, efficient
and effective provision of health services led the Government to request
the Bank to carry out the health sector review and to the development
of the proposed project. Fourth, the Bank has discussed sector strategy
with MOR extensively during sector work and project preparation, and
the Bank believes that the MOB approach to addressing its most important
sectoral issues is a reasonable one. It is focused on extending coverage
through decentralized and integrated health services delivery and on
addressing sector-wide problems of efficiency. Finally, no other external
assistance agencies are prepared to assist Colombia in financing a project
which would take a comprehensive approach to improving sector efficiency.
The proposed project reflects the findings of the sector review, the
Government's health strategy, and the lessons learned from past Bank
assistance. It aims to provide in selected underserved geographic areas:
access to basic preventive and curative care, improved environmental
health conditions, decentralized health care delivery, and more efficient
use of existing financial, physical and human resources. In addition,
the proposed project responds to GOC's desire to set the pattern for
changes which can be replicated nationally and, thereby, have a long
term impact on the health sector.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Summary
5.01      Proiect Goals.  The goals of the project are: (i) expansion
of coverage: to increase access to basic medical care and preventive
health services including family planning, and to satisfy basic needs
in water and sanitation for the disadvantaged in the project area;
(ii) increasing sector efficiency: to decentralize programmatic decision-making
and service delivery to the health region level; to increase intrasectoral
coordination; to protect the investment in plant and equipment through
proper maintenance; and to install cost-control procedures; and
(iii) strengthening sector management: to effect changes in how health
care is planned, organized, delivered and evaluated; to establish management
systems to contain costs and decrease service unit cost; to train managers.
and to improve supervision.



-17-
5.02      Proiect Obiective..  The goals stated above would be reached
through: (i) strengthening 19 of the country's 107 health regions through
improved management, infrastructure, better trained staff and greater
community participation in geographic areas where access to primary
healtb care services is minimal or non-existent; (ii) expanding rural
water supply coverage; (iii) increasing service delivery efficiency
through improved cooperation between I8S, MOR, ICBF, INS and other entities
active in the sector; (iv) improving the maintenance of plant and equipment;
(v) developing information systems to support planning and control functions;
(vi) reinforcing the national laboratory network; and (vii) conducting
research studies relevant to operational problem solving and expected
to have an impact on national population, health and nutrition policies.
5.03      Project Beneficisries.  Basic health services and access woulJ
be improved for approximately 3.7 million poor (13.62 of the population).
Thirty percent of the target population would be peri-urban and 70X
would be rural, dispersed rural and native Indian. Highest priority
would be given to children under five and women in the reproductive
age group. Forty percent of the population in the project area is 15
years of age or younger and approximately one third of this subset represents
children under five. It is estimated that 80% of the project area population
depends on the public subsector for health care while 10% avails itself
of services from the Social Security Institute and 10% from the private
sector.
5.04      Proiect GeoQranhic Area.  The seven selected departments (out
of 33) and the two national territories form a continuous geographic
area and are part of a disadvantaged area which has been targeted by
GOC for accelerated multisectoral economic and social development.
The project area, therefore, falls within the national priority plans.
Four departments (Choco, Valle, Cauca, NariSo) encompass all the countr"'s
Pacific region and two abutting national territories (Putumayo, Amazonasa)
extend the area selected into the Amazon River basin. Two departments,
Antioquia and Cordoba, border on the Caribbean, and one health region
in Santander forms a logical extension of the Antioquia service area.
Within these seven departments and two national territories a total
of 19 health regions (out of 45) make up the project's geographic scope.
They are the poorest and least developed areas and cover 396,000 square
kilometers, approximately 342 of Colombia's total area. An additional
four low-income health regions in four other departments and two health
regions in the poor department of La Guajira will be provided with tpchnical
cooperation and training but no physical investments. These six extension
points will be a stepping stone to the next phase of Colombia's integration
of health services at the health region level.
5.05      Proiect Population Impact.  It is estimated that the project
would reduce the total fertility rate in the project area from 4.3 to
4.0. In order to achieve that target the contraceptive prevalence rate
would be increased from about 37% currently to about 50% at the end
of the project implementation period, or an increase of 35%. A monitoring



-18-
system would be established to evaluate progress towards the stated
target. The project would also finance the fertility component of the
1985 National Health Survey and the 1987 National Contraceptive Prevalence
Survey.
B. Summary Project Composition
5.06      The project covers a proposed six-year implementation period
between mid-1985 and mid-1991 with an additional 12 months for loan
closing by June 30, 1992.
Component A : Organization and Delivery of Low-Cost Basic Health Care
Services.
(i) The construction and equipping of 3 local hospitals,
7 health centers and 53 health posts;
(ii)  The remodeling and upgrading of 8 regional hospitals,
29 local hospitals, 19 maintenance workshops, 27 health
centers, and 53 health posts;
(iii) The provision of vehicles for health care services delivery
and supervision;
(iv) The training of about 1200 health workers, mostly at the auxiliary
nurse and health promoter levels; and
(v) Support through training for the comumnity education/participation
program.
Component B: Oraanization and Delivery of Basic Environmental Health
Services.
(i) Construction, expansion or rehabilitation of piped water supply
systems, including watershed protection and rehabilitation, and
of school sanitary installations for about 250 communities;
(ii) Institutional strengthening of the Division of Basic Rural
Sanitation in INS through the provision of equipment, technical
assistance and training;
(iii) Preparation of a national rural water supply development plan;
(iv) Provision of vehicles, equipment and materials for installation
of latrines, for the control of food and water, and for the
control of zoonosis and vector borne diseases; and



-19-
(v) Continuing education for sanitary engineers and training of
sanitation promoters.
Component C: Institutional Development.
(i) Sector Manapement: strengthen organization and management
of health sector institutions;
(ii) Research: carry out a set of project-related policy research
studies;
(iii) Nanastement Information Systems: establish and implement
data systems to generate iuformation for management decision
making;
(iv) Laboratory Support: reinforce the national network of
laboratories to increase the local diagnostic capability.
C. Detailed Proiect Description
Cowonent A: Ortanization and Delivery of Low-Cost Basic Health Care
Services.
5.07      Content of Basic Health Care Services.  The project is intended
to develop in each of the nineteen health regions the capacity for assessing
its own health needs, and for planning, execution and evaluation of
appropriate preventive and curative healtL prograss. Basic health care
vould include the following programs in all project areas: Ci) iomunization;
(ii) oral rehydration; (iii) maternal and child health care and promotion
of breastfeeding; (iv) preschool nutrition and primary health care;
Cv) preventive and curative dental care; (vi) family planning;
Cvii) hypertension control; (viii) malaria control; (ix) simplified
surgery; and (x) tuberculosis detection and control. (See Table 8 -
Annex 1 for description of the 10 programs). The relative emphasis
on each one of the above 10 programs would differ according to the specific
health needs of the health region.
5.08   Construction and Equipment.  In order to achieve the objective of
delivering services to underserved areas, the project would support the
c rstruction of 3 local hospitals for a totil of 70 beds at about 50
m  per bed, 7 health centers of about 180 m  each and 53 health posts
of about 80 m2 each. The designs for these facilities are ready and
have been approved. It would also support the expansion and upgrading
of 8 regional hospitals, 29 local hospitals, 27 health centers and 53
health posts. (Table 9 - Annex 1 presents a civil works schedule of
health care facilities by location and site acquisition status.) Construction
for health and sanitation represents about 26Z of the total investment
cost of which 66% is for new construction and 34% is for upgrading existing



-20-
facilities and for site supervision. The construction and renovation
of the health facilities would be accompanied by the upgrading of diagnostic
and therapeutic tools. About 39Z of total investment cost would be
allocated to equipment, and equipment lists have been prepared. Construction
and equipment decisions vere guided by the efficiency criteria of maximizing
the use of existing facilities and emphasizing simple and appropriate
technology easy to use and maintain.
5.09      Maintenance of BuildinKs. Epuinment and Vehicles.  The maintenance
capability would be strengthened at two levels, the national level (FNR)
and the health region where the regional hospital's workshops would serve
the needs of the health region. The project would: (i) carry out corrective
maintenance of buildings and equipment as part of its upgrading program;
(ii) require funds to be earmarked for preventive maintenance;
(iii) train maintenance technicians through an agreement vith SENA,
the national training institute; (iv) enlarge and equip the maintenance
workshops at 19 regional hospitals and assign staff to it; and (v) strengthen
the institutional capability of the National Hospital Fund (FNH) through
staff training and changes in the procurement process. A draft agreement
between NOR and SENA for training of technicians was reviewed during
negotiations and a signed agreement would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
5.10      Staffinw.  To expand the scope and the quality of low-cost
basic health care services, about 1200 additional personnel would be
recruited over five years. Half of this personnel would be health promoters
and 13Z are auxiliary nurses. Together with the other auxiliary personnel,
they represent 85% of staff to be recruited (See Table 10 - Annex 1).
This additional staff represents an increase of about 1.6% over the
current total MOB staff and would redress the imbalance in availability
of health manpower in the project health regions (See Table 11 - Annex 1).
5.11      Staff Training. The project would support: (i) management
training, primarily for regional managers, physicians and supervisors;
(ii) upgrading of professional skills at all levels; (iii) in-service
training of primary health workers; and (iv) training/retraining and
continuous education for maintenance workers. About 13% of total investment
cost would be allocated to this category. (See Table 12 - Annex 1 for
details of staff to be trained.)
5.12      Tecbnical Cooperation. Trainers and consultants from academic
institutions and from professional skills training institutes (e.g. SENA,
CEADS) vould provide assistance in the design of training programs and
of in-service training for specific technical skills. Technical cooperation
for training vould be provided by Colombian universities and training
institutes through agreements with MOH. Agreements already exist with
the Universities of Valle, Antioquia, Nacional and Javeriana. Technical
training agreements exist with SERA; and CEADS is part of NOR.



-21-
5.13 Relationships with Other Service Providers.
A.  Social Security Institute (ISS).  Cooperation between NOR and ISS
has been minimal, although slightly improving in recent years. The project
would increase cooperation significantly in the project area, setting the
pattern for actions at the national level. It would do so by: (i) ISS
making a US$5 million contribution to constructing snd equipping local
hospitals; (ii) ISS agreeing to increase its purchases of inpatient care
from NOR in the project area; (iii) ISS agreeing not to construct hospitals
in the project area unless NOR shall otherwise agree; and (iv) improving
coordination of preventive and promotive care in the project area. A
draft agreement to that effect was reviewed.
B. Family Welfare Institute (ICBF). The ICBF is structurally part
of NOR but financially independent of-it. Its two major responsibilities
are social protection of minors and nutrition. NOR and ICEF have been
working to a large extent independently of each other. The project
would initiate a process of collaboration between two organizations
in the project area with a view to extending joint activities to the
wbole country. NOR and ICBF's methods of nutritional surveillance would
be standardized and applied to all children under seven years of age.
ICBF's regional office nutritionists (already trained in nutritional
surveillance) would assist in training health promoters and auxiliary
nurses in the utilization of growth charts as a tool to detect malnutrition
and monitor child health. In addition, assignment of health promoters
to ICBE preschool centers would establish an operational link between the
NOR and ICBF. An immediate benefit would be the application of uniform
techniques and the standardization of nutrition education materials.
Component B: OEranization and Delivery of Basic Environmental Health
Services.
5.14      Reduction of environmental health hazards complimented by
health education to change behavior would contribute significantly to
a decrease in mortality and morbidity in the project area. The project
would stress the integration of a set of interventions to be carried
out by MOH and INS in the same communities and vith their active participation:
- the installation, expansion or rehabilitation of piped water
supply systems in about 250 rural communities with current
populations varying from 100 to 2,500 people; and the purchase
of equipment such as vehicles, trucks, mobile promotion vans,
and communication and audio-visual apparatus. These systems
would be built by the Division of Basic Rural Sanitation (DSBR)
of the National Institute of Health (INS), in the eight health
regions where it is represented, and by SSS in the other eleven
health regions, under the technical supervision of INS;



-22-
- the preparation of a National Rural Water Supply Plan which
would formulate strategies for accelerated sector development;
- the sanitary disposal of excreta through the construction
of individual latrines and sanitary facilities in rural schools,
and of liquid and solid waste througb the availability of
community disposal facilities;
- the bacteriological control of food and water by sanitary
engineers and sanitation promoters;
- the surveillance and control of zoonoses, and vector-borne
diseases by sanitation promoters and the communities; and
- environmental health education as part of community education
in the basic health care services component.
5.15      On the average 40% of the project area's population now has
access to safe water and sanitary excreta disposal. The figure is as
low as 10% for the rural dispersed population. The rural water supply
subcomponent would provide safe water to about 175,000 people who live
in small rural communities throughout the project area. The project
would support community initiatives through the provision of materials,
supplies and technical assistance to promote self-help interventions
to meet basic needs in safe water, waste disposal and control of insects
and rodents.  The sanitation promoters would be provided with basic
equipment and vehicles to carry out their tasks and supervise community
efforts.  For rural water supply, INS has developed an effective system
of promoting, executing and maintaining rural systems, using community
participation in the initial construction and recovering part of the
cost through user fees. In close collaboration with the MOH health
regions concerned, INS would be responsible for finalizing: (i) the
list of individual interventions; (ii) feasibility studies and designs;
(iii) detailed cost estimates; and (iv) implementation timetables. The
project would also finance a technical assistance program to strengthen
INS' institutional and operational capabilities and to prepare a National
Rural Water Supply Development Plan. (Details of the rural water supply
subcomponent are contained in the implementation volume and in Annex 2.)
5.16      INS would be responsi!le for implementing the rural water
supply subcomponent under an agreement between MOH and INS, and would:
(i) apply the principles and procedures of the basic rural sanitation
program; (ii) apply reduced design standards (design horizons, per capita
consumption) and establish mechanisms for increasing the degree of cost
recovery; (iii) upon completion of a water work, transfer the responsibility
to the sanitation promoters for assisting the local water committees
in the administration, maintenance, and operation of systems; (iv) carry
out work that meets preestablished selection criteria of per capita
costs, health needs, community participation and equity considerations.
For subprojects exceeding US$100 per capita cost (mid-1985 prices) INS



-23-
would present a special justification to the Bank; (v) start work on
projects for which designs have been completed, community participation
has been assured, and local counterpart financing has been secured;
and (vi) give the Bank the opportunity to comment on its overall annual
investment program for the following calendar year. GOC provided assurances
during negotiations that it would comply with the above points.
5.17      The rural water supply subcomponent provides a vehicle for
promoting the strengthening of INS capacity, for promoting greater relitnce
on local resources for water sector investments, and for preparing a
national rural water development plan. It is an important first step
for accelerated water sector development in the future. It also combines
the technical expertise of INS with the local resources of the health
regions such as logistical support, supervision of sanitation promoters,
environmental health education, community participation, a-niity control
of water, and maintenance of water supply systems.
5.18      INS would assist in training and retraining sanitary engineers
and promoters, and provide technical assistance to the health regions'
Divisions of Environmental Health for supervising construction, operation
and maintenance of the project financed rural water supply systems.
In the 19 project health regions, and over the eight-year period, the
number of positions for sanitary engineers would be increased by 14
and that of sanitary promoters by 120 based on a needs analysis of each
health region. Operation and maintenance of water supply systems vill
be the responsibility of the community in collaboration with sanitary
engineers and promoters. INS would provide training to sanitary promoters
in water system maintenance and operation and the sanitary promoters
in turn would train the community.
5.19      Other environmental health actions mainly to be carried out
by the sanitation promoter would be: (i) promoting the construction
of latrines; (ii) in collaboration with the malaria eradication service
(SEK) conduct home visits and participate in community education regarding
vector control programs and, in certain areas, conducting spraying of
public buildings and individual homes; (iii) inspecting the sanitation
facilities and practices in schools, prisons, food establisbments, and
slaughterhouses; and (iv) educating the community on rodent control,
distributing appropriate rodenticides and vaccinating domestic animals
against rabies.
5.20      The Bank revieved and found satisfactory INS' detailed proposal
including: (i) a list of equi;-nent to be purchased and draft term of
reference for the technical assistance and research program and the
National Rural Water Supply Plan; (ii) project implementation schedule;
and (iii) detailed cost estimates and a financing plan. Also, assurances
were obtained that GOC would: (i) by no later than September 30 of each
year, present a rural water supply investment and project implementation
program for the following calendar year; (ii) discuss the findings and
recommendations of the technical assistance program and the national



-24-
rural water supply study with the Bank; and (iii) meet agreed upon selection
criteria for all vater supply subprojects. GOC would also assemble
and maintain for periodic review by Bank missions a file for each rural
water supply subproject containing relevant subproject information.
Component C: Institutional Development.
5.21      This component includes four interventions designed to support
the sector's institutional development and to contribute to the successful
implementation of the two service delivery components described above.
Strengthenxng sector annagement and research capability, and introducing an
effective management information system would also have an impact beyond the
project and affect national policies in health, population and nutrition.
Similarly, the reinforcement of the national network of laboratories
would increase the local problem-solving capability of the health regions
and support one of the central project themes of greater local self-sufficiency.
Implementation of these four sub-components calls for an effort in terms
of training of national staff, either locally or abroad, and specialized
technical assistance.
5.22      Sector Management.  An important objective of the project is
to strengthen the organization and management of the health sector with
changes in the areas of strategic management, financial control, cost
containment, improvement of the quality of health care services, and
monitoring and evaluation. Three sets of training activities would
take place during the life of the project and would be targeted to different
audiences. One-week courses on management decision making would be
organized for 216 upper-level executives of the MOH, its five decentralized
institutes (INS, FNR, INSFOPAL, ICEF, Cancer Institute) and the Social
Security Institute (ISS). Two-week courses on efficient resource management
would be offered to 478 middle-level managers of the same institutions.
Resource management would also be the topic of intensive seminars of
six-weeks duration each, for 146 professional and technical staff of
the same institutions. In addition to imparting specific knowledge
and skills, these three types of courses would act as catalyst and facilitator
to achieve greater collaboration among the many institutes making up
the National Health System. The courses would be taught by universities
and private firms experienced in working with other GCOC ministries.
5.23      Planning and control systems would be created and implemented
in the project area and the experience would be applied to other parts
of the Ministry of Health, and, specifically, to the planning, finance,
and information divisions. Technical assistance rould be provided by
consulting firms and universities and it is estimated that about 45
manmouths of local and 17 manmonthe of international assistance would
be required. Assurances were given that terms- of-reference for the
proposed technical assistance would be submitted to the Bank for approval.
5.24      Research.  The Directorate of Research of the Ministry of
Health coordinates the execution of all Government-financed health research



-25-
and lisises with non-governmental research institutions. Final approval
of project- financed research topics, allocation of resources, control
of execution, and evaluation of results would be under the authority
of the project's General Coordinator advised by the project's Advisory
Comuittee. Execution of the research component which accounts for 52
of project cost would be the responsibility of MOE in cooperation with
INS, academic and non-academic research institutes, and would benefit
the sector at large.  The scope of the research effort would be national,
departmental, or regional depending on the specific research study. Each
major research project would have a technical review comittee, with
representatives from NOR, SSS, ISS and the Universities. Assurances
were obtained that terms-of-reference including method of selecting
consultants, timetable and fees, for all research proposals exceeding
US$75,000 would be submitted to the Bank for approval, and that the
research program would be reviewed on an annual basis.
5.25       Three research areas would be covered under the project,
i.e. sector efficiency, population, and evaluation. (Detailed research
proposals are in project filea.) The priority topics agreed upon include:
- six studies related to sector efficiency: health
care financing; pharmaceuticals policy; development
of appropriate technologies in PHC; training and
managing health professionalm; equipment maintenance;
and operational research at the regional healtb
area level;
- two studies on population: the fertility component
of the 1985 National Health Survey; and a national
contraceptive prevalence survey;
- four evaluation studies: implementation of decentralized
approach to health care delivery as being implemented;
health status changes in project beneficiaries;
incidence and prevalence of malaria on the Pacific
Coast; and planning and control systems at the regional
health area level.
5.26      Seminars and courses would be organized to upgrade staff skills
in planning, management and implementation of research programs. The.e
would include: three four-week courses on research methodology for a
total of 60 persons; ten two-week workshops-on research methodology and
administration for a total of 200 persons; and eight one-week workshops
on measurement, sampling, data collection and processing, and statistical
analysis for a total of 160 persons.  Technical assi3tance needs have
been estimated at 36 staff-months and would be provided mostly by national
sources; international technical cooperation would-be limited to specific
research topics such as health care financing and pharmaceuticals.



-26-
5.27      Manreiment Information Systems.  Information for the National
Health System is generated by the Ministry of Health's Information Division.
Under the project the present Health Information System (SIS) would be
strengthened to serve the planning and control purposes of the project
managers and about 2Z of project cost has been allocated to this subcomponent.
At the level of the health region, an Information Unit would be created to
collect and aggregate data for local decision making. Regional information
would be consolidated at the departmental level. The four departmental
coordinators (CI) would receive copies of the departmental statistical
reports which would be forwarded to the project's General Coordinator
(see paras. 7.01 and 7.04). Regional MIS units would generate weekly
reports for the regional managers, monthly reports for the departmental
managers and departmental committees, and quarterly progress reports
for the project's General Coordinator and the project director at the
national level.
5.28      The project would provide for the training of 27 data input
operators, 17 programmers and 36 systems analysts, through short courses
organized at the central and regional levels. Thirty-seven manmonthe
of national and 8 manmonths of international technical assistance would
also be required for: (i) analysis and design of the information system
(6 n/a); (ii) design of the data bases (2 m/m); (iii) design of the
communication network (2 m/m); (iv) definition of hardware and software
needs (2 m/m); (v) analysis, coding, testing and execution of computer
programs (30 mr/m); and (vi) evaluation and maintenance of the information
system (3 m/m). While national assistance would be secured from universities
or the private industry, it is expected that external technical assistance
would be obtained from WHO/PAHO or private consulting firms. The Government
submitted terms of reference and technical cooperation sources for-the
45 staff-months earmarked for technical assistance.
5.29      Laboratory SuDport.  The National Laboratory Network of the
National Institute of Health (INS) is responsible for the control of
food (meat, milk) and drug quality, of environmental contamination (water,
soil, air) and occupational health, and for the setting and the enforcement
of national standards for clinical laboratories. The National Laboratory
Network would provide effective support to all levels of the National
Health System and would contribute to the strengthening of the diagnostic
capability of the 19 health regions in the project area. This would
increase efficiency through minimizing referrals to the departmental
level and providing quicker diagnost-ic feedback. About 6% of project
cost has been allocated for laboratory support.
5.30      During the first year of this subcomponent, priority would be
given to strengthening the organizational structure, training operational
and maintenance personnel, producing preventive maintenance manuals,
establishing functional relationships between the national, departmental
and regional levels, purchasing a minimum list of urgently needed equipment,
and finalizing the detailed lists of equipment to be procured under
the project. INS would appoint a full-time senior official to manage



-27-
the first year's activities and supervise the preparation and implementation
of the investment program of subsequent years. This manager would also
be responsible for assessing future manpower requirements and preparing
budget estimates to cover operating costs of the National Laboratory
network. Six months of foreign and six months of local technical assistance
would be provided during the first year of implementation. Project
files contain a complete proposal for the total investment program.
5.31      This subcomponent would include 167 months for overseas training
and about 250 staff vould be trained locally. Duration and place of
training would vary according to organizational level and the degree of
specialization required. Training for the central level in Bogota would be
longer, and some of it would be outside the country. Training at the
departmental and regional levels would be typically of short duration
(one week to one month), take place in the country, and be task-oriented.
A detailed training plan has been prepared and is available in project
files.
5.32      Technical Anmistance and Fellswzhips.  Specialist services would
be provided largely by national consultants, and a limited amount from
elsewhere for the establishment of the management information system,
for specific research studies, for the organization of the national
laboratory network, and for the development and the execution of training
programs, and for strengthening the management of the project and NOR.
About 178 manmonths of technical assistance would be required.
5.33      The project would finance overseas fellowships for training in
the areas of health planning, health economics, emergency medical services,
health information systems, hospital and health services administration,
and medical education. A draft of selection criteria for overseas training,
and a list of substantive training areas and the countries for project-financed
fellowships was reviewed. The Government gave assurances that it would
subamit to the Bank by December 31 of each year during implementation,
a list of proposed fellows and their training programs for the subsequent
academic year.
VI. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Project Cost Estimates
6.01      The total cost of the proposed 6-year project, to be completed
by June 30, 1991, is estimated at US$75.8 million equivalent, (including
identifiable taxes and duties).  Base costs are calculated at US$64.4 million
equivalent and contingencies at US$11.4 million equivalent; the project's
base costs with price contingencies on base costs amount to US$72.3 million.
Overall, physical contingencies represent US$3.1 million; price contingencies,
including the projecced devaluation assumptions of the Colombian currency



-28-
amount to US$8.3 million. The foreign excbange component (including
contingencies) is estimated at US$23.8 million, or 312 of total project
cost. The first component ("Basic Bealth Care") would comprise 502
of base costs, the second ("Environmental Healtb Services") 29Z; and
the third ("Institutional Development"), 21%. An regards the main categories
of expenditure, civil works amount to US$14.2 million, or 19X of total
project costs including contingencies; furniture, equipment, materials
and vehicles represent US$23.8 million (312), technical assistance,
training and research studies, US$12.9 million (172), and project aduinistration
US$3.2 million (4Z); incremental recurrent costs generated by project imple-
mentation over a 6-year period were estimated at US$21.7 million (292).
Detailed project costs are sbown in Annex I and are summarized in the
following table.
coimbim 3im. "IOIiUim            onS (sLUU
2t PON= l U                1  ffn an
A. p1Lm HUM GE
_itbh Sayk.e liway      2.9511  997.6 3.948.9   21   45  21.9  74 29J    21  45
cin NzzyMiatia.           1S3.   19.0  200.4   9     2  13  0.1  1.5      9    2
ihiuat                    74.9  107.1  182.0   59    2  0.6  0.8  13    59    2
Sba- tal U a l WA21 CM  3.M7A 1.123.9 4,3313    26   50  23.8  3J 32.       5s
a. uw_ini. immus
ma1 vowr &ply             926.7  5963  1,5M.0    39 18  6.9  4.4 11.3   39  18
1Emctm 1l                589.8  62A  652.2   10      a  4    03.5 4J    10    a
lItimul %InI 'hte g1, Prn  1%.7  148.2  393.0   43   4  1.4  1.1 2.5   43    A
Sib-Toel vinD. l iNw ,m11.2 II7.0  2.518.2   32    29  12.7  60 18.6    32  29
c. EnwrL  I_m,
N, _                      505.1  112.9  616.0   18   7  3.7  0.6 4.    16    7
8dmmm.yM,~rt       130.S  413.8  564.2   77   6  1.0  332 4.2    77    6
efmintimjutrn   112.7  62.5  175.2   36     2  0.8  0.5  1.3    3    2
Iamb                     478.8  7.7  486.5     2     6  3.6  0J  3.6      2    6
Bo1brTl llEUEL            1,ZZ7.I  616.9  1.8D.0   33    21  9.1  4.6 13.7   33  21
To1l 313=                 6,145.7 247.8  8,693.5   29  10 45.6  18.9 64A    29  100
c1OGt_d_im          196.7  2.1  416.9   53     5  1.5  1.6  31    53    5
PrkaOti_iW           4,7544 1.39.9  6,604A    28   76  5.0  3.3  83    48  13
ML Pow   co   E   II.05a 47. 15,716.J    29   la  52.0  23.A 751    31 116
6.02       Basis of Cost Estimates.  The costs of civil works are derived
from current contracts for similar constructions in the project departments.
Costs of equipment, vehicles, furniture and supplies are based on CIF
unit prices or local market prices, adjusted to include installation
(local transportation is provided by NOR vehicles).  Costs of training,



-29-
applied research, local and international consultants, overseas training
fellowships and otber services, reflect local or international rates
as applicable.
6.03      Contin.encv allowance.  Physical contingencies are estimated at
1OZ for civil works, equipment, furniture, and vehicles; overall They
represent US$3.1 million, i.e. 5Z of baseline costs or 41 of total costs.
Price contingencies from 1985 to 1991 are calculated as follows:
(i) local costs 202 in 1985, and 181 for subsequent years; (ii) foreign
costs 51 in 1985, 7.51 in 1986, 8X from 1987 to 1990, and 5Z thereafter;
and (iii) moreover, a variable exchange rate has been used for each
subsequent project year. The resulting amount for price contingencies
is estimated at US$8.3 million, i.e. 131 of baseline costs or 111 of
total project costs.
6.04      Foreinn Exchange Com2onent.  The estimated foreign exchange
component is US$23.8 million, i.e. 31% of total project costs. It is
based on the expectation that: (i) all civil works contracts would be
avarded to local firms, with an indirect foreign exchange of approximately
38Z; (ii) most vehicles and equipment contracts would be awarded through
ICB with an average foreign exchange of 751; (iii) most of the furniture
would be of local origin; (iv) a training component vith direct and
indirect foreign exchange of about 16%; and (v) that about 20X of technical
assistance would be provided by foreign consultants.
6.05      Incremental recurrent costs generated by the project would
gradually increase at constant prices from Col. Pesos 158 million (US$1.2
million equivalent) during the first year of implementation, to Col. Pesos
560 million (US$4.1 million equivalent) during the 6th and last year.
In 1984, total public health sector recurrent expenditures were estimated
at Col. Pesos 56,775 million (US$561.9 million). The above incremental
recurrent expenditure generated by the project represents only 0.31
of that budget, and would grow to 0.9% by the last year assuming budgetary
allocations for recurrent public health sector expenditures remain unchanged
in real terms. These costs are small considering the relatively large
increase in coverage to the undercerved population which would benefit
from access to improved services tbrough the project -- the expense
represents US$1.11 equivalent per capita at constant prices by the last
project year. Assurances were sought that the Government would allocate
the necessary incremental recurrent costs for the project.
B. Financing Plan
6.06      The proposed loan of US$36.5 million equivalent would finance
about 62Z of the foreign exchange component (US$14.8 million equivalent),
and 421 of local costs (US$ 21.7 million equivalent). Foreign suppliers'
credit would finance the remaining 38% of foreign exch&nge (US$9.0 million
equivalent). The Bank loan represents about 502 of total project cost,



-30-
net of taxes and duties. The Government would provide 27Z of total
cost including taxes, and 25% is anticipated to come from other sources
shown below. A number of foreign equipment suppliers have already expressed
interest in providing the necessary export finance. An agreement has
already been reached between MOB and the Social Security Institute,
and a legal instrument is being prepared on the latter's financial contribution
to the project. For the project's water supply subcomponent, community
participation and user fees will be important financing sources for
capital and recurrent costs. It is estimated that cost recovery currently
averages 60% of project cost for water supply investments. The degree
of community participation and cost recovery would depend on the socio-economic
capabilities of the beneficiaries which are generally very low in project
areas. Assurances were obtained that GOC would require each beneficiary
community to contribute on average 25% of total cost in the form of
labor, materials, or land. In addition, each beneficiary comuinity
would pay on the average 50% of the remaining cost through a loan; however,
the adequacy of such a cost recovery would be adjusted in order to improve
cost recovery.
Financing Pln
II-AL    FUQN   Tm=L    z (P
-4uS$'000)-Tmk
Orgnizatims:
Wrld Bamk                             21.7      14.8   36.5    48a
Govenm nt                             20.2      -       20.2   27X
Other:
Sipplier Credit                                  9.0    9.0 }
ISS                                   5.1       -        5.1)  25X
User Fees                             5.0       -        5.0)
IWEIAL                     52.0       23.8   75.8   100%
C. Procurement
6.07      Procurement arrangements would be administered by FNH with
the exception of the rural water supply subcomponent where procurement
will be done by INS. The table below summarizes procurement arrangements:



-31-
WL
Pa:r
mR
Mu              IC    E  oUin (amW
1. M
HIlth 9ewis Dmlwq   -    5.3  2.1  7.4
(4.2)   (1.7)   (5.9)
Vbcm3yutm            -    1.6  5.2  6.8
(1.4)   (2.4)   (3.8)
iI. vinnau              1.8  0.5  0.2  2.5 (a)
(0.2) (0.2) (-)  (0.4)
III. S1U11, imi S MUWAS
lulth Service Delivy  9.7  2.7  0.7  13.1 (a)
(2.9) (2.4) -    (5.3)
lItur Sy!t_           3.3  4.0  0.9  8.2
(2.7) (2.6) -    (5.3)
IV. ZlOAFl ST13S        -   -    3.2  3.2
(3.2)   (3.2)
V. TCIM. ASSIfA1M      -   -    2.6  2.6
(2.6)   (2.6)
VI. NC                  -   -    7.1  7.1
(6.8)   (6.8)
VI. AMIQKMATI           -   -    3.2  3.2
(3.2)   (3.2)
VI. REIZ coB             -   -   21.7  21.7
(-) (-)
IUTAL 'jYC cOm!                   75.8
(Bmk Finmi)                     (36.5)
Ibte: F4wures in par.thenm ame thespective mts finiced by tL
av To be fined by supplier credit for vWhicles (tES210 ud quiap
(157lO; suh bid pn poesl mould include fance ar.uaca.
6.08      Civil Works.  Most civil works are scattered in remote places
of project areas and are too small to attract foreign contractors.
Therefore, civil works contracts amounting to US$6.9 uillion equivalent,
including contingencies, would be awarded following local competitive
bidding provided that: ti} foreign contractors would have the opportunity
to participate; (ii) bids would be opened in public; and (iii) there
would be no restriction for the importation of building material. The
balance of civil works estimated to cost about US$7.3 million for the
construction and remodeling of small health facilities, maintenance
facilities and of some water supply systems and sanitary school units



-32-
in reaote areas of difficult physical access where no contractor is
interested in bidding at a reasonable price would be carried out by
force account with community participation. A provision of US$0.2 million
is also included for the supervision of civil works.
6.09      Goods.  Vehicles and equipment estimated to cost US$14.8 million
equivalent would be procured through international competitive bidding
(US$5.8 million) in accordance with Bank guidelines and US$9.0 million
would be financed through supplier's credits (bids would be presented
with finance terms) as explained in para. 6.10 below. Qualifying domestic
manufacturers would be given a margin of preference in bid evaluation
of 15Z or the applicable import duty, vhichever is the lover. Out of
the total for goods, equipment, furniture and medical supplies for small
health facilities estimated to cost about US$1.5 million equivalent
would be procured through UNICEF. Equipment, furniture and medical
supplies which could not be grouped in packages of more than US$50,000
but totalling less than US$2.0 million would be procured through local
competitive bidding to the extent that such procedures are satisfactory
to the Bank. Contracts for miscellaneous goods amounting to US$10,000
equivalent or less, but not exceeding US$250,000 equivalent in total
would be procured through prudent shopping (at least three price quotations).
6.10      Goods Procured throu2h Supplier's Credit.  NOR will organize
detailed package lists of medical equipment and vehicles in an effort
to attract cofinanciers. The Government, with Bank assistance as requested,
would seek the broadest possible competition for supplier's credit and
consider financing terms in bid evaluation. There is manufacturer and
bilateral interest for the proposed type of goods. Presently, it is
estimated that US$9.0 million equivalent would be financed through supplier's
credits.
6.11      Invitations to bid would explain procedures for bid evaluation,
including consideration for credit terms. The prices of all responsive
bids, including credit terms, would be reduced to present value, using
a preselected and announced discount rate. The contracts would be awarded
to the lowest- evaluated bid in terms of its present value. Contracts
for which thf-_ would be supplier's credit would be totally financed
by the supplier and the Government. The Bank would review, including
instances where supplier's credit is being sought, notices of invitations
to prequalify and to bid, bidding documents, bid evaluations and awa-rd
recommendation, and proposed contracts. To ensure the timely availability
of goods to be procured through supplier's credit, Bank supervision
missions would review procurement packaging, considering economy, efficiency,
quality, and timely availability of goods.
6.12      Services.  The appointment of consultants and advisers would
be done following procedures that are satisfactory to the Bank and in
accordance with Bank guidelines.  Terms of reference and conditions
of employment of consultants and advisers as well as their qualifications
would be satisfactory to the Bank. The selection of courses and candidates



-33-
for the fellowship program would be submitted periodically to the Bank
for prior review.
6.13      Bank review requirements.  Bidding documents and contracts
for the construction of the health facilities and maintenance workshops
in excess of US$200,000 equivalent and all bidding documents and contracts
for furniture, equipment, vehicles in excess of US$50,000 equivalent
would be subject to the Bank's prior reviev of procurement documentation.
This would amount to about 85Z of the total estimated value of civil
works, furniture, equipment and vehicles. Other contracts would be
subject to post review by the Bank after contract award.
D. Disbursements
6.14      The project's closing date would be June 30, 1992, and would
be disbursed in 7 years. It was agreed during negotiations that because
of the advanced stage of project preparation, the implementation period
would be six years, and disbursements in seven years. The Government
intends to expedite the time frame for disbursements tbrough the use
of a revolving fund. It vas also agreed during negotiations that a
special account would be opened for the project, with an initial deposit
of US$2.0 million in Bank loan funds as well as a revolving fund in
local currency equivalent to US$1 million by effectiveness. The Government
would deposit an additional US$1 million equivalent in pesos by June
30, 1986. All expenditures financed under the loan would be channeled
through the account. Meanwhile, standard Bank disbursement procedures
would be followed. The Disbursement Schedule is presented in Table
15 - Annex 1. The proceeds of the loan would be applied as follows:
- 80% for civil works, including site supervision;
- 60% for civil works in water supply;
- 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment,
vehicles, and materials;
- 80% of local expenditures for equipment, vehicles and materials;
- 100Z of foreign expend. tures of training abroad;
- 80% of local expenditures for training;
- 100Z of expenditures for foreign and 802 of local technical assistance;
and
- 100% of salaries and operating expenses for project administration.



-34-
Disbursements for civil works carried out by force account, civil works
for which contract values are less than US$50,000 equivalent, local
trainiug expenditures and salaries and operational expenses for project
administration, would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures.
Documentation for these expenditures would not be forwarded to the Bank
but would be retained by the project unit and be subject to periodic
review by the Bank. All other expenditures would be fully documented.
E. Retroactive Financing
6.15      The proposed project would emphasize institution building
aspects in the public health sector and its success would depend to
a large extent, on adequate manpower training. Consequently, to launch
the project successfully and without delays, the Ministry started early
in January 1985 with the appointment of the Departmental Coordinators,
and some training and fellowships. Implementation plans for these activities
were reviewed by the post-appraisal mission and were found satisfactory.
Thus, it was agreed that retroactive financing would be provided up
to a limit of US$3.0 million for expenditures made after January 1,
1985 for technical cooperation, training and fellowships, and for launching
the project management unit.
F. Accounts and Auditin2
6.16      The project coordinating off.ce would establish and maintain
separate accounts for the project in accordance with internationally
accepted accounting procedures. The project cost includes salaries for
5 coordinators, 5 accountants, one at the central level, and 4 at the
nucleus level located in the four project implementation areas. Technical
assistance would be provided to establish the mechanism to monitor accounts
at the regional and central levels. The accounting office would maintain
separate accounts for project related activities, and prepare disbursement
requests for the Bank. Accounts would be audited by the GOC Contraloria
General and copies of the audit reports would be made available to the
Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
VII. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Proiect Management
7.01      The MOH would be responsible for all project components.
The Director General of the project would be the Minister of Health
who would delegate project responsibility to the MOB Secretary General



-35-
who is the highest level of technical authority within MOB. The Secretary
General would be assisted in his tasks of Pro ject General Coordinator
by four regional coordinators (see para. 7.04). One of the regional
coordixators is located in Bogota and would assume initially the additional
responsibilities of assisting the Project General Coordinator. Project
experience would show if there is a need to create a separate position
for an Assistant General Coordinator. One accountant, two bookkeepers,
a secretary and a driver would provide support services to the General
Coordinator.
7.02      The MOR would delegate authority to the National Institute
of Health (INS) for execution of two sub-components: (i) rural water
supply; and (ii) laboratory support. For rural water supply, an agreement
would be signed between INS and MOB whereby INS will be responsible
for the planning, design and construction of water systems and sanitary
scbool units and MOH will be responsible, through its local sanitary
engineers and sanitation promoters, for operation and maintenance of
the systems. The addition of sanitary engineers and the increase in
the number of trained sanitation promoters would strengthen the maintenance
capability at the health region level. Technical support would be provided
by the departmental INS office. Additional details of the execution
of the rural water supply subcomponent are contained in the implementation
volume.
7.03      The National Hospital Fund (FNH) would be strengthened and
would be responsible for the construction and equipping of health care
facilities and maintenance workshops. Construction is mostly carried
out by private contractors under FNH supervision, or by force account.
FNH would ensure: (i) the timely preparation of all necessary bidding
documents; (ii) the scheduling and organization of the bidding operation
in coordination with local authorities; and (iii) the supervision of
construction.  FNH will also assist MOB in the commissioning of health
facilities. Assurances were obtained that the required site supervisors
and accounting personnel would be hired. Only 40% of the construction
cost is for new health care facilities and the balance for upgrading
existing ones. All new construction will take place in rural areas.
Most sites have been identified and land donated by the community, and
many sites are in the process of being legally transferred to the Ministry.
7.04      The project geographic area has been divided into four implementation
units, called Comit6s Interseccionales (CI). The KOH would appoint
a coordinator for each CI for the duration of the project who would
report to the project's General Coordinator. The CI coordinator would
be responsible for coordinating all project activities in his area.
CI coordinators would be supported by an accountant, a secretary and
a driver. The purpose of each nucleus is to provide horizontal technical
cooperation among the health regions. To achieve that purpose, the
selection of health regions within a nucleus assured the presence of
the 8ost developed and the least developed health regions. The more
advanced health regions will serve as models and training grounds.



-36-
This process has already been formalized by naming one of the health
regions in each nucleus as a model. Provisions have been made in project
cost to cover the travel and related expenses associated with this type
of dynamic interaction among health regions.
7.05      Two advisory coumittees would be established: (i) at the Ministries'
level to ensure coordination among NOR work units, INS, FNB, ICBF, ISS,
INSFOPAL and DNP; and (ii) at the CI coordinator level to coordinate
CI activities of participating departments.
7.06      Each of the 19 health regions has a director who is responsible
for the management of all health activities in the health region. Training
courses would be designed to strengthen the management skills of the
health region manager and technical cooperation would be provided by
national and departmental levels, and by more developed health regions
to weaker health regions. Consultancy agreements already exist with
major universities and training institutes. Under these agreements
courses will be designed and offered, and technical cooperation provided.
7.07      Draft legal agreements between NOR and INS, and SENA were
reviewed prior to negotiations. Presentation of these agreements in
final form vould be conditions of loan effectiveness.
B. Proiect Monitoring and Evaluation
7.08      Monitoring the progress of project implementation according
to the project time schedule would be a main responsibility of the four
nucleus coordinators who would consult with the-regional managers and
report to the General Coordinator. Evaluating the effectiveness of
the project in achieving its objectives would be coordinated by the
MEH Evaluation Unit in the MOE Planning Department supported by the
evaluation research studies prograumed under the research component.
7.09      The MOR Information Unit uses an unvieldy list of 164 indicators
specifying their frequency of reporting and whom should be informed
(Document in project file). This lengthy list has been reduced to a
manageable number of 23 tracer indicators shown in Table 16 - Annex
1. The structure and process variables of these tracer indicators vould
be used to monitor project progress and physical implementation.
7.10      Two research studies have been specifically designed to measure
project effectiveness. One study would nonitor and evaluate the results
of decentralized management in the 19 regional health areas with investment
versus six regional health areas without additional human, financial
and physical resources. The other study would measure health status
changes in project beneficiaries in terms of prevalence and incidence
of specific diseases. This study would also draw upon the Primary Health
Care evaluation study financed under nutrition Loan 1487-CO and to



-37-
be carried out by MOH in 1985. The outcome variables in the list of
tracer indicators are another source of project evaluation.
7.11      The Project Director would be responsible for submitting semi-annual
progress reports to the Bank and also for conducting an evaluation of
the project after one and a half and three years of operation. Technical
cooperation would be secured from outside the MON. Assurances were
sought during negotiations that GOC would submit semi-annual progress
reports to the Bank and that the periodic evaluation would be conducted
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
7.12      Targets for specific critical activities have been established
and are listed in Tables 17 and 18 - Annex 1. Population targets in
terms of women using family planning services by health regions are
shown in Table 19 - Annex 1. These targets are based on the Government's
quantified objective of reducing total fertility rate (TFR) from 4.3
to 4.0. The figures imply an increase in the contraceptive prevalence
rate (CPR) from about 372 to about 50Z. Other project targets are:
(i) a 47% reduction in morbidity from gastro-intestinal infections in
children less than one year and 54% in children between the ages of
one and four; (ii) a 25Z reduction in nutritional deficiencies in children
less than one year and -a 33% reduction for children between the ages
of or-e and four; (iii) raising the immunization rates for measles, polio,
DPT and tuberculosis to about 90% of susceptible children under the
age of four; and (iv) decreasing the number of malnourished children
between the ages of 0 to 4 by 23%. These health actions together with
the improvement of the environment (potable water, waste disposal, vector
control) would cause the infant mortality rates to drop sharply from
the 70-90 range to about 40 deaths per 1,000 live births.   Data collection
forms to-monitor the targets already exist and the information system
subcomponent would strengthen the collection and reporting process.
VIII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Proiect Justification
8.01      The ultimate outcome of the project would be to improve the
health and nutrition status of 14% of Colombia's population with limited
or no access to health services through a reduction of morbidity and
mortality and an increase in contraceptive prevalence. A carefully
planned system would be installed in 19 of the 45 regional health areas
of 7 departments and 2 National Territories to improve e-fficiency and
effectiveness in health services delivery and to extend responsibility
for health to the community as well as the individual consumer of services.
This model would then be introduced gradually to the rest of the country.



-38-
8.02      Specific actions to increase efficiency are: (i) the decentralized
system would give more authority and responsibility to the health regions
in order to integrate their actions against all causes of morbidity
and mortality; (ii) for the first time, parts of large cities  -  starting
with Medellin and Cali -- which have always had their own independent
health services, would be integrated into the departmental delivery
structure and process; and (iii) for the first time also, joint investments
would be achieved between the Social Security Institute (ISS) and the
Ministry of Health. 'SS would finance the construction of health care
facilities in exchange for services to be provided by MOB to its beneficiaries.
More generally, the expected increase in the volume and value of services
purchased by ISS would improve utilization rates of MOR hospital capacity.
8.03      The project would also be instrumental in collecting cost
data through improvement of accounting systems and procedures at the
regional health area level, strengthening the national laboratory network,
and improving corrective and preventive maintenance of facilities and
equipment.
B. Project Risks
8.04       The proposed health project would be the first project vhere
overall responsibility rests with MOR, although this ministry was involved
in the implementation of the primary health care and water and sanitation
components of the Nutrition Project (Lu. 1487-CO). During implementation
of that project, the MOR and INS accounts and auditing were not adequate,
and insufficient supervision slowed down the civil works prog--am and
corresponding disbursements. These problems would be addressed in the
proposed project through improved supervision and financial reporting,
and an information component designed to strengthen project monitoring.
For supervision of civil works, the project would provide 36.5 man years
and 16 vehicles for site supervision. To improve accounting reporting,
the project would hire five accountants and two bookkeepers for the
duration of the project.
8.05      The risk inherent in decentralizing and integrating health
services at the local level was reduced by limiting the number of health
regions to be covered under the project. Moreover, the principal concepts
have already been thoroughly tested, and have actually been implemented
in the departments of Valle, Caldas, and Antioquia. Valle and Antioquia
would provide leadership and technical support to less developed departments
through the Technical Cooperation Nuc'Lei.
8.06      A stepped-up program to expand coverage of basic health services,
including family planning, could run the risk of meeting some resistance
from rural and indigenous populations for cultural and social reasons.
To counter this potential obstacle, half of the additional staff to
be recruited during project implementation would be health promoters
which must culturally and socially be part of the communities they serve.
8.07      The project also faces the risk inherent in the need for cooperation
between several relatively autonomous agencies (HOH, INS, ISS, ICEF) and many



-39-
healtb regions. This risk is being minimized througb the strengthening of
regional management capacity, through horizontal technical cooperation within
the four operational nuclei, and through technical assistance contracts
with local universities, research institutions and specialized consultants.
8.08      Finally, the project would generate incremental operating
costs arising largely from the extension of health services coverage
to underserved and unserved areas. These incremental operating costs
are small in relation to current budgets and were considered as acceptable
by the Ministry of Finance, especially in view of the major benefits
expected from the decentralized delivery model and the emphasis on efficiency
as a model for the rest of the sector.
IX. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      The following were reviewed and agreed upon prior to or during
negotiations:
Ui) Draft agreements between MOH and SENA for training of
technicians [para. 5.091;
(ii) Water Supply Subcomponent: list of equipment to be purchased,
draft terms of reference for technical assistance, a project implementation
schedule, detailed cost estimates, and a financing plan [para. 5.20];
(iii) Information Systems Subcomponent: terms of reference
and technical cooperation sources for 45 staff-months earmarked
for technical assistance [para. 5.28].
(iv) Training Subcomponent: selection criteria for overseas training,
the list of substantive training areas and the countries for project-financed
fellowships [para. 5.331; and
(v) Draft agreement for cooperation between MOB and ISS (para. 5.13),
and between MOH and INS, [para. 7.071.
9.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
Ci) INS would employ reduced design parameters and would adopt
and apply a more stringent cost recovery policy [5.16 Cii)];
(ii) INS would apply the agreed upon subproject selection criteria
(priority, per capita cost) and not initiate the construction of
subprojects without assured community participation and local financial
support [para. 5.16 (iv) and (v)];
(iii) INS would give the Bank the opportunity to comment on its
overall annual investment program [para 5.16 (vi)];



-40-
(iv) INS would, by no later than S:ptember 30 of each year, and
beginning September 30, 1985, present an investment and project imple-
mentation program for the following calendar year [para. 5.20 (i)];
(v) INS would discuss with the Bank the findings and recomendations
regarding the technical assistance program and the National Rural
Water Supply Plan [para. 5.20 (ii)];
(vi) GOC, through INS, would assemble and maintain for periodic
review by Bank missions a file for each subproject containing
relevant subproject information [para. 5.20];
(vii) it would submit for Bank approval terms-of-reference for
technical assistance in sector management [para. 5.231;
(viii) it would submit for Bank approval terms-of-reference
of all research proposals exceeding US$75,000 and review the
research program annually with the Bank [para. 5.241;
(ix) it would submit for Bank approval a list of proposed fellows
and their training programs for the following academic year by
Decembe,- 31 of each year during implementation [pars. 5.331;
(x) it would allocate the necessary incremental recurrent
costs [para. 6.051;
(xi) required site supervisors and accounting personnel would
be hired [para. 7.031;
(xii) it would conduct periodic evaluations under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank and submit semi-annual
progress reports to the Bank [paras. 7.11].
9.03      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be Bank approval of
formal agreements between MOR and INS, and SENA, for implementation
of project activities and establishment of project accounts [paras. 6.14,
and 7.07].
9.04      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project
constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$36.5 million equivalent
with repayment over 17 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace, to the
Republic of Colombia.



- 41 -
ANNEX!I
Sector Data
Table 1        Demographic Projections, 1980-2010
Table 2        Crude Death Rates, 1970-1982   -
Table 3        Primary Causes of Death in Colombia in 1973,
1977, and 1981                   -
Table 4        Ten Most Important Causes of Infant Mortality
in Colombia (1977-1981)
Table 5        Ten MostlImportant Causes of Mortality in Children
I - 4 Years in Colombia (1977-1981)
Table 6        Most Important Diseases in- Infants, Children,
and Total Population Diagnosed in Outpatient
Care, 1981-1982
Proiect Data
Table 7        Physical Infrastructure by Health Regions (1983)
Table 8        Outline of Health Programs to be Organized
in Project Area According to Local Priorities
Table 9        Civil Works Schedule of Health Facilities and
Site Acquisition Status
Table 10       Additional Staff to be Recruited During Project
Implementation
Table 11       Health Nanpower Resources by-Region (1983)
Table 12       Number-of Health Services Providers to be Trained
by Type and Length of Traioing
Proiect Cost Estimates
Table 13       Summary Accounts Cost Summary
Table 14       Summary Accounts by Project Component
Table 15       Schedule of Disbursements
Project MonitorinE and Evaluation Indicators
Table 16       Tracer Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation
Table 17       Provisiona-l Service Delivery Targets
Table 18       Targets for Project Area After 5 Years of Service
Delivery
Table 19       Women Age 15 - 44 at Risk of Unplanned Pregnancy
and Number of Women using Family Plann-ing Services
at the Beginning and the End of the Project
Table 20       Number of Children to be Vaccinated Annually
in Project Bealt-h Area (In Thousands) -
Table 21       Number of Primary Care Units (UPAs) and Health
Promoters Before and After Project Implementation
in Project Realth Area



-42-                      ANMI 1
COLOMBIA
HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
TABLE 1: DEMOCRAPEIC PROJECTIONS, 1980-2010
1980      1990       2000        2010
Total Population                         25,892    31,525    37,457        42,703
Labor Force Age (15-64)                  14,775    19,138    23,915        28,994
Voueu of Reproductive Age (15-49)         6,339      8,285    10,190       11,746
1980-85   1990-95   2CO0-05   2010-15
Birth Rate per 1,000 Population            28.9       25.5       20.3        17.3
Death Rate per 1,000 Population             7.4        6.4        5.8         5.9
Rate of Natural Increase (2)               2.15       1.91       1.45        1.14
Growth Rate (Z)                            1.96       1.82       1.41        1.11
SOURCE: World Bank, P2N Policy and Research Division, 1984



- 43 -ANNEX 
COLOMBIA
REALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
TABLE 2: CRUDE DEATH RATZS, 1970 - 1982
REGIONS                  1970         1975        1980        1982
ATLANTICO
Atlantico                             7.1         5.8         4.9         4.5
Bolivar                             10.9          8.8         7.0         6.4
Cesaa                               11.4          9.1         7.3         6.6
Cordoba                             12.5          9.9         7.7         6.8
La Guajira                          19.3         14.7        10.8         9.5
Magdalena                           11.5          9.2         7.0         6.1
Sucre                               12.1          9.6         7.1         6.1
ANTIOQUIA
Antioquia                             8.5         7.4         6.2         5.8
Calda.                               9.9          8.0         6.6         5.8
Quindia                              9.6          7.8         6.6         6.0
Rimaralda                            8.8          7.3         6.1         5.6
ORIENTAL
Norte Santander                     10.8          7.8         5.8         5.0
Santander                           10.3          7.7         5.7         5.0
CENTRO-ORIENTAL
Bogota                               6.4          5.5         5.O         4.8
Boyaca                              11.0          8.6         6.2         5.2
Cundinamarca                        10.6          8.4         6.5         5.7
11.7         9.5         7.7         7.1
CENTRO-OCCIDENTAL
Huila                               10.7          8.8         7.3         6.7
Tolima                              11.0          7.8         6.1         5.4
PACIFICO
Cauca                               12.9         10.2         7.8         6.9
Choco                               19.3         14.7        10.5         8.9
Narinao                             10.7          8.7         6.7         6.0
Valle                                9.1          7.4         6.1         5.7
Intend. y Couis                     26.0         19.5           -           -
TOTAL                     10.1          8.1         6.4         5.8
~mmmu                     =n           mmmi        =mum         =mum
SOURCE: National Health Survey and Alberto Bayona and Marda Ruiz.
"La Mortalidad en Colombia: 1970 - 1982", 1982.



- 44 -                            ANNEX 1
-  suvCEu ImNTW PK3Z
TAKE 3: PM= CAD= ( MM IN CM01T  DI 1973, 1977 AM 198
1973                   1977                   1981
SZAR                   R3AZ X                 RA Xi,
DIAQIOS             RAEK MHUCZ(R           RANK  MICILZ   2        RAN   KILICE    2
Intestinal infectims         lo.        991 11.3    lo.        673  9.1    7o.        340  5.35
Ccer                         3o.        577  6.6    2o.        619  8.4    lo.        650 10.25
Acute respiratozy infectiws   2o.       750  8.6    3o.        533  7.2    6o.        350  5.57
Otber het disess             4o.        518  5.9    4o.        480  6.5    20.        480  7.53
Iscbudc bent diseases        5o.        448  5.1    50.        475  6.5    3o.        430  6.81
Cerebrovasclar               6o.       398  4.5    6o.         423  5.7    40.        370  5.83
Otber accidents              80.        336  3.8    7o.        289  3.9    8D.        290  4.55
ilcide                        -       -      -       80.       281  3.8    5o.        370  5.81
Chronic respiratory infectios 7o.       394  4.5    9o.        250  3.4      -      -       -
Otber perinatal              lOo.       254  2.9   lOo.        213  2.9    9D.        220  3.39
Rjritimnl deficiency         90.        323  3.7     -       -      -        -      -       -
Hypeltnsia                    -       -      -        -      -       -      lOo.      210  3.31
sas:e: Coobia - 1984 Health Diaosis, WPPAD ad 'MM



COLOMBIA
REALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
TABLE 4: TEN MOST IMPORTANT CAUSES OF INFANT MORTALITY IN COLOMBIA (1977 - 1981)
2====man
1977                           1981
RATE X                         RATE X
DIAGNOSIS               RANK    MILLION    2            RAWK    MILLION    Z
Intestinal infections              lo.       14.470   24.0         2o.        7.240  16.33
Acute respiratory infections    2o.           9.133   15.2         3o.        5.770  13.02
Other perinatal                    3o.        7.355   12.2         lo.        7.650  17.26
Anoxia and hypoxia                 4o.        5.590    9.3         4o.        5.640  12.74
Chronic respiratory infections  5o.           3.907    6.5         7o.        2.120   4.77
Avitaminosiu/nutrition defic.   6o.           2.833    4.7         5o.        2.500   5.64
Congenital malformation            7o.        1.906    3.2         6o.        2.150   4.86
Other bacterial infections         8O.        1.603    2.7         8o.        1.370   3.08
Meningitis                         9o.        1.383    2.3         9o.        1.220   2.75
Whooping cough                     lOo.    774.000    1.3           --        --       --
Other metabolic diseases            --        --        --         lOo.    780.000   1.75
SOURCE: Coloubia - 1984 Health Diagnosis, WHO/PARO and MOH



COLOMBIA
HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
TABLE 5: TEN HOST IMPORTANT CAUSES OF MORTALITY Is' CR'LDREN 1 - 4 YEARS
mummoun  IN COLOMBIA (1977 - 1981)
1977                         1981
RATE X                       RATE X
DIAGNOSIS               RANK   MILLION   2            RANK   MILLION    2
Intestinal infections              lo.       1.629  23.2         lo.         840  16.84
Acute respiratory infections    2o.          1.054  15.0         2o.         730  14.80
Chronic respiratory infections  3o.            618   7.4         50.         320   6.50
Avitaminosis/nutrition defic.   4o.            454   6.5         3o.         420   8.41
Other accidents                    50.         327   4.7         4o.         390   7.87
Measles                            6o.         282   4.0         6o.         270   5.37
Helminthiasis                      7o.         241   3.4         lOo.        100   2.11
Whooping cough                     8o.         181   2.6          --
Meningitis                         9o.         179   1.6         7o.         150   3.11
Anemias                            lOo.        164   2.3                           --
Other bacterial infections          --       --       --         8o.         120   2.50
Mutor vehicle accldents             --       --       --        9o.          110   2.29
SOURCE: Colombia - 1984 Health Diagnosis, WHO/PAHO and MOB



HEAth SEWCN nnl=Ct  r
TAME 6: MM  U1NT    SEse  IN IWMS, (MR,   1PM                 1AL POUaICm  DIMMED 1N WAMIfER  CAME, 1981-1962
0UIEN  c 1 YEAR                            CO      I 1 - 4 YEWS                                   1UrAL POP1t1W
CAUSES                  2                    CAUSES                   2                         CALES                        2
1. Intestinal Infections           27.4      1L Acute respirstory infections    20.8        1. Other childbirth-related cca licatiLms  10.0    Z
2. Acute respiratory infections   24.1        2. Intestinal infectains           14.8       2. Acute respiratory infections              9.8
3. Skin infectimos                  7 R       3. Belzinthiasis                    9.1       3. Deital                                    9.7
4. Chronic respiratory conditLor.   5.6       4. Skin infections                  7.2        4. Genito-urinary disease                   9.4
5. Central nervous "ystem           4.1       5. Chronic re8piratory              6.3       5. Intestinal infections                     7.0
6. Other viral infections           3.8       6. Other nervous systen             4.5        6. Other vcmds                              5.7
7. Perinatal-related conditions     2.7       7. Other infectious diseases        4.3       7. Other nervous system                      5.0
8. Other infectious diseases        2.7       8. Other wounds                     4.3       8. HehDinthiasis                             4.9
9. Hehmnnthissis                    2.6       9. Other viral infections           3.7       9. Skin infections                           4.9
10. Digestive systen                         4.0
90URE: Colombia, 1984 Health Disgnoeis, WIO/A   snd aaH



-48 -                                ANNEX 1
NUTA1M SUVICES fllThM&TLG FKUIK
TAME 7: P-IrAL            ifIitN' BMWAI REMQZ  (1983)
am PER       W         RBIN        L R=  RAR:r  .  R3
HFALI RNI(1S       1000 Pop      (Z)        OSlA1S    80SPITAIS  CMS    POS
NAflED                      0.43        68.2           2           2       8        31
Ipiales                  0.41        62.9           1           0       8         12
Thm                      0.44        72.1           1           2       -         19
CAlIC                       0.42        30.9           2           2       6        32
(Oacidente               0.39        34.0           1           -       2         13
Sur                      0.42        30.0           1           2       4         19
WmI  DX GC                  0.53        59.9           5           7       7        92
Bi.igvuitura            0.70        53.1           1           1       2         22
Cali heA  2             0.05*       40.0           1           -       4         6
Boldmnillo              1.79        44.5           2           2       -         28
nl-Bl                   1.00        75.3           1           4       1         36
A4AZIAS                     2.41        60.1           1           -       5         8
PUIU MD                     0.76        51.0           1           3       7        22
SANTANDE                    2.38        40.0           1           8       1        20
Son Gil                  2.38        40.0           1           8       1         20
0C0EEA,                     0.78        42.7           2           5      43        80
Icrica                   0.98        27.2           1           4      32         60
Ybteria                  0.70        50.5           1           1      11         20
ANlOQCIrA                   0.46        60.4           5          23      20        53
Ia Meseta                0.72        47.5           1          10       2         13
Mq*da, MNedio            1.16        53.6           1           2       1          4
Eajo cra                 0.73        79.7           1           3       4         15
Uraba                    0.76        62.2           1           6       5         21
Keldelin Nor-Orienta     0.11*       67.0           1           2       8          -
-3X 1.04                              44.8           -           3        4        40
Istnina                  1.04        44.8           -           3       4         40
TOAL PBJL    ARFA        0.66        51.8          19          53      101       378
* Ratios reflect situation in the target area in the city.



oam
sum suwin nwmzm~ now
TAKE 8: W.MA  W HUm   P3M6 TDE ONI   IN PM=  AID               fl  D M  IL MI=                                 1P   I Q 2
AmumA    I. Xtzol of ea,tintal riA              tuceuos pw:et            Uqiaml 5Iitatlca unit                          VIruJt t amity
factor (Mter, latdm,                 limta tiz  ed         (D) ftia Switatio Prine
mkatima, vatcr cctnml)             beto
2. iah ti                                                   Ahll        et balth tee,                        3 8, C
3. Oral 3dktimW   dan ccwa                                    *we  gddI by pseux, an. mae                    U                          AM   3 lL
4. ClinIal diquch                    If dLau  peoulat      AhdliaT awe, ISD                                 l,EC                          EBss
5. IdaatZg  dibia                     So  or or parnitt -   lehorstoqy tedldism                              I8
6. 4uprltA -Lca  treatt              Sanm  cuterk, am. ace, 10                                                , Ul
7. etdrtla at htlth ftituta          lb  otbr t t  fails Rove, asiliary a=e                                  5, 18
8. Ibpit iliMtim                                             ICD                                             in, 
O CAEBI  1. Cmity ainhicad   wtivntim             thcuh t puroiet         ommiqty paticipatim  er1, prtu    eu.    C, S, CPW, 8
Dl=       2. Coletiim od the cold chai          Frut tw ewT  Of >oject bIcial Welth akLnaltnatlm                       in,  , 8
3. TheeItEin choti gtm, lm1ar  at WA                                                                         CO, CAmP
4. J6piltlm of aiwila                           n241l Welth uit AInlitator                                    . nlth Milt A.                Q
5. Tr  of feaulima                     _baAt pojet                                                           5, U                        DIm
6. emiatim   f d rMmt m    and                                Printe, atiliary mine, other             _    C       , a, 9
cldlh    Jar 5 yer of Sp                                   blth te
on, am, Palio, Mele)
I    AL   &   1. tdmzlflAtg ad erly               awiq      visit         Prnt1  , amilia  ane                           8 
1jL             ltratuakm d pq        im n
)UIM       2. bferl tolD (if pmeibla)            mm psqmt         are   lrintae, aliy amie                              BP                             1L AND
for risk sea rmt                    qiatn                                                                                                    -
3. Prat l cm  of bl.b riAk cw         DLwrI p                 Xtzry atkZI8, 318
4. PuutAl ce of wAdia risk aeso   W                           C l p jeiciaa, amilUy   e                       1, 8C
5. fttAl e  Of 1w rin CU                                     Amxiliay me, p8Cri                8, in
U5    G. Tame yaciluim, atutliel cane   lwla  prqeiy                    Amliy oie, prwter                  8,  15, U
11T         7. TrainkS of tiuitomul uidifes       baaJ_zt projt           Liiul b_lth unit staff, amiliary mm      8     BP, II
8. Iistfiutll deliy acedi*g         Oa d10                  M, ailiuy   ue,  per                             , 1 8 , 8 c , 8
9. 1ot-tw ce prmelc                  poet-perua               Amiliazy atn e, prmtur                         3. iS, a
kuet feediz
10. Follw fp cue    fwdly plm   q   het-part                pnter                                           8
[AAD       1. h=tion of f ily plasq              Iqltaadinlly            prk<ter, An. Nkae. Ca,ity Part. Wuf            C, 8
2. Clanifutim of xprodrctive risk    Pest-part, an dI        Amilliay ane, 10                                18*  M, IE, BP             FAUX PLAN=
3. Preecriptim of am-anical               at- , cm d_t    Amili. an, 10                                       B, 18, 8C, 5P
4. IlalL  up we, vqlnl cytolg       Amully, p*p mm           hoter, adli   ae mumBP, a
IUmWSIS   1. Dutetic of lceitadi fnally                                   PreIr ailiy amn"                               C, SP, 8
2. *pmm swlnatica                   UKm datectim              Idomtor    tul*Jam, prntr cbtaa seei           la, a                        1_lI18
3. racriptica of t emt                I   din                 IC, UaWr am  cirm to  amlliairs                , sc, in
4. Cmset  ivatiptim ea follow up    *M dbis                  Paiter, amlien  ms*                            U, C
I18: C - Cmaity                               8C * Wlth Cmter         in - la Npltl                                  9 * samol
a - IIP                              o * Walth Pbot           U * Ungll  baita



TAMZ S:  nMM  (W WAL        16MR  W N a-        N M    MU JE=    To 1IAL mmwsXC 2 W 2
~~~~~~~VWr                                          VW         ED  _^ BO
1murm , 1. kodardLotlio of celd path               lint tw 7i ce pject IW ud I Z U*nitiODiIts                               &t, a- Eq.   th lhlu
MD=       2. EqiAtrtin di chUdM  t.              Lo1ngtudinal1y          Priuse smllafX Ure                              U, U, CAM
UYGL           7  pr                                                                                                                                    I      DinnwA
inII.   3. Tmlnlq ci pIrinl ao pthb                Fist tw Ian of pcjuct IQW outritiita                                    sq. halth ubita             lE   MAUS
surviltc                                                                                                                                   cm
4. Piuwtiw   ad  naatiw  sayview      lavitudIly               P a mer. uilisay wre, MD                       la, I, B
for pu-ochwl chilm                                                                                          8, CAm
5. Iefreal of ehildrm with groth      t1a dewtim              Pronter, awil anymnee, CAD staff                        in, 11
fdl.u for diael uuhuzLc
ud tnermt
6. Nhtritlinl rbiItatim               up= refeal               CAM staff, prer. a=Wna  uw                      CAll, BP, D
7. eath ad m*ritla awtim for    Iltibinally ad d'             CAI staff, pioter, sailiary urc                  C, s, CANl, IM
pirte                              child referrel
U. Dhwlct of letlwe presbaol    lanhdJully                     ICW rqaln  staff, Won1D, 1EqI1 Balth            Iw Qat, 1W I
care pr_n                                                   uilt, UUlW
L         1. Vmmlty dicatim                      LelbaiUA lly            lnate, dmtal b1ilidt, datiat                    C, S, a
CAUs      2. iatio  of chool cMl&i am             m   shdol mlb  t  Doul ltiat                                          S, Cwi                       munw    AM
d-al bxs>                                                                                                                               -       -
3. ThgkAl fluwr  plkatla, referral    Dz4  e     tary sbool   Dmul t imist                                     5, wIs
petblq  piut 
4. Dotal trabt utilL                   1  rderal or d d    Dntist, Dutbt amiliain                               I, LE 
dilatila of function dim
ppapiat. prqat  m  ad
childr. (5-14) gins priority
81 IWI  1. Detectia of p           with            ltuitAlly                PrkWter, eilisry u                              1, 
D~~~
2. bam' for dimeLo  md trestmt    W= deteted                   Promter, Sllery Ea1, W 3L
3 ;?FeKuni$m of tteal t                                       MS, a1 iliary urea                               B, K, 11
4. Wollo up  cn                       lauibiinally              ktW, r.11ifiX mase                             1, BP
K1FAA    1. cmity ducation, ciaity             11tudilnl1y              uaaity pstilipatlu Ulu, -, Cuith ftaf          C, H
cegmiutla
2. ectocr atrol                       Lmltuilnaly              sn  rqil S itatla Iit                          C, a                           )UAA
3. btectin of Cair                    Lagitually               Prit, bsltb t-              -                    , BP, K, in
4. LrtOry dlwmi*                      Upm detertlo            laboratoty techniclos                            1l, W, IF
5. Tratt precriptim                   4Up  diagois             MO, hriliay mrs., n                             in, O, W
6. frol20 up                          After dl_i               Prmter,  sudliT mue                             a
ICAL       1. cimty edritba, bIlth taff           Liltudinally            Selth staff, siMlifLed aurguy taff poc          C, B
-4            aimtloc                                                                                                                                   sooIDn=
2. htectim of ca  in ned of           lsltud  1ally           MC allisy mnse pnnc r                           1, 3r, EC, *, U 
emgcl tiulint
3. bdfal to simplified suMy           1m detetim              MD,  udlliry vszrv, pnter                       1, 3, K, la, U
4. TraInin of patiat ud faily         After  efrml             ar, amilizzy mrso, prnter                        , Ic, U, in
5. iead  tmint, day  ery              Aftw talnt               MD with qeial tr unin, nee dot be A             in, X
6. Vol1cwup ane                       loet-a                   1ly,  1iLli   m, pt                             E
cm       Oudelie   caeiq thb foll1lq topics an aremly ta  d.slu t:
(A) Geriatrics; (b) I1tal  tlth; (c)  pr  rqlrazq infetine, Al  ad DMM Abus
$MM: C  c Cnhty                                W '  elsth Cuter           11 a local H ital                            I a Urel
I 11                                  W u mlth Fat             U a lqIfsl Hopital



-3aA
la= intin                              1 EIB=
9: Cl waft IcAhm2i de Smit SmuLd  aSdts AquiaftLm Smsm
-   Rpm mm                mm
sm               miss  WVU  17/s   Wm/8   Wm3    m=
A) mAim
8mw xtrutko:
Pi. lm  -N                                  -     - U    -   -
F. 
pi: 1-    - -                 h     -      -     -
CS.                           40a_i  0    -      -      -
YC.LitmChe                    50 1    -   -      -      _    WA
PiS. Id.mCazi&                50    -     - a           -
C.S.Cc.bmcma dm                     - _          -      -      As
CJ.    1 I-D -                            -   -   - 
C.S. o 1      1* sbtS D                   -      -     -      W
C.S.I1m-ba                   -   50, -   -   -   WA
e.g.     C                    50   -      -      -     -      IV
e ^, w-                            -     -      -   -4lt
. lie-wA                      50  -   -   -   -   IA
2z. cAUC
a) Tam
LB.E  mza ai                 -       50   -      -     -      w
PJ.   i -                            5DACO  -    -     -
:D~~~~~~~~~~S                                         JV
P.B. C= i       _                   -
A)U
P.S.Smtabm                   -      -D
P.S. -mm                       0  -   -   -   -   W
P ..  viBxi                  -       a1    -     -     - 
P_S. Aui                     -   1   -   -   - 
CS. SW mi                     -D   -                          VI -  -  A
P. s_pim                             -    110    -     -      VIA
P.S.   G i                    30                              VA
P.S.   e saD    -                          -     -
C.S. aSm  _bt                              8
P.S. la a   I L                           -       ID
P.S. - gm                                           WA - b)m n4 
P,S.   zm                     S               - -
II.L. Ilsedw                 1f    -      -      -      -     q
C.8. BLUM-  W
c s.4p                        - dao
C B. A1110 -P ta -     -            -                         VIA
C.S. Si bdllStim             -      -      1W    -      -     lA
C,g,-    8                                 .AL; ;_
LUL _9m      L MML                                       - Aegik
PJ. no       MVA -DoMtal



-52- -1
1   DOi       AI ts  2 0 3
Z 9: Civil xibu ktabuIof _ mtb .ftdl mim   Acntim Utab
gm            85/us 6    Winl  UWW  89I90   0=3
3. UZ ML OM
r.s.lcra                S    -    -       -     - 
J.l. _mm a              400   -    -      -     -     WA
U.K.. Puto ~LId s        0    -    -      -     -     WA
P.S. m1 iide            2540   -    -     -     -     WA
P.S. & ebsco ds I4      40   ,      -     _     -    IlA
P.S. linhal            4a    -    -       -     -     WA
Pi.                     40   -    -       -     -     WA
PJ. Cos                 40   -    -       -     -      A
PJ. *_1to               40   -    -       -     -     IA
PJ. Mm Jom de Az Ay     -A
P.8. lIdd               -     40   -      -     - IA
-.S.lm g zmacisowjr     -     40   -      -     -     WA
P.8 l. Pkl              -     4    -            -     W
P.S. Plbteb             -     4    -      -     -     WA
P_i. mimdso X           -     4a   -      -     -     WA
pi. alnCi               -     40   -      -     -     WA
J. GmmiD de             - I         -           -WA
I) cuz
LL JmqdD Paz B.               -    -      -     -  3WA
H.J. .p i  hz3.-Cu      170   -    -      -     -     WA
C) rmuni
NM coubctiLm:
Pi. mt.ATin,ma- llwur   -      D   -      -     -
P.S.c.tm-o1'vr          UD   -    -       -     - 
PJ.3 a                  U s    -    -     -     -o
Do ao                   45   400   -      -     -     W
. l.lixwr             2DO   300   -      -     - 0A
D) TMa
Pi. Im, lr  - frsujlo   ID   -    -       -     -      4
LiLlM                  166   -    -       -     -     lA
NJ.ham1nxo              ISO   -    -      -     -     WA
Pi. k _ii - Mma         56   -    -       -     -    bA
CJ. 3s - . sSmari m           -    -    -       -     W/A
CJ. - -   m                                       - Id.nifid
LJL - IOAL NW=L                                *- 1aPusc_
.IL -MMSJ.  PL                                 X -ktd
ra. -     mPM                                  NfA - Om b t apply



-533-                 AMPEXI
DMZ 9M cVii  fbows of E.1Zb IaoLktrn _ sit. _ypsidn bti.
u   w Iu W
4. MSSS
m:im
3.R. laticis                0    200     -     -     -     W
CS. Akcamtca               -      1     -     -     -      WA
ca. :u.A-etkia             -      3      - -   -     -    PA
C.s. Snia-i.tkia           -      50   -      -     -      VA
C.s. la aOmt-I.^tici       -      150   -     -      -     WA
r.S. an a3a1              -      -     20    -      -     WA
C.S. irdi                  -      1     -     -      -     WA
S. "UUD
N.j Comunctim:
P.S q.                      ID   -      -     -      -      *
*  S. _-                    80   -      -     -      -      *
P.S.I u                     -     -'    -            -      *
P.S.mt.                    -      -     -            -      *
ra.5.  taa                 -      -      UD    -     -      *
P.S.a.oai                   -     -   a       -      -      *
P.S. antAbmde S i          -      -     -      3    -       *
K.L. C.Ia                  -      2D    -     -      -     WA
LL. P_=W l4ri;o            -      35   -      -      -     WA
Ca. Villam                 -      10    -     -      -     WA
C.9. ao                    -                               WA0   -  -
P.S. P   pi                 O    -      -     -     -      WA
rS. a.                       D  -   -   -   -   WA
.S. -  io                          -   -   -   -   WA
6. S g
A) SUI Cl
R.L. S.kqJ-Mxahs           -      250   -     -      -     WA
L D Gi1                    -      460    -    -      - 
I.L.  U gmJame             -      300   -     -      -      A
C.. Vim                    -   1O  -   -   -   WA
7. a
A) 3W
P.S.1M.~ law-                                  -     -M
F.S. Codmlria              -       OD   -      -        
P.L 1 Parwh.mMr- m         -       OD   -      -        
P.S. tio    u 
RL. gmn WjwAt de lrnl - lorics   1.M1  1,490   427 -       WA
LL. am n.mr&                -     M5    50     -     -
P.S. Ini                   -       D   -      -     -       A
PJ.. 4COM o h0 -                      II        -          WA
R. So Vrca dit d  - larks   1 4 14 577   243    -    -     WA
P.S. Pam lbew               -3    6D   -      -     -      WA
C.S. -                         6C    -                 -      IEJA
SLIed- -3 17    2a    -    -hknrn
ca. - M . M.p,
RJ.S - ESI .-                                       X - A      dv1
P.S. - Me   =W - Em  Ct Wp



54 -                   AN
IMuM I      ox=   ruI               NO 4 O 5
TAEX 9s Civil UsdLbu2  o1 buk ilithi m Site Ahcqmidm fteat
7. m
CS.    l   o del  o4baelibm       -     L      -     -      -      X
C.S. Xl Cin110esrzUltA            140    -     -     -     -       *
C.S. VTle                         266   I34   -      -      -      X
CA.bute -butede                    to    -     - -          -
PA. 5TIIrIie_                      O    -      -                   x
Pi.so.p 1ee                        sO       -     -     -      -
Ji. hu w deC. -Ibdk               -     - IID --
P.S. 3ias Joue4berto LJbetIM.r     -     4    -       -     -      C
Prs. .Pkka4telibm                 -      so   -      -      -
rsL.irn4euet*                           -      -     -      -      C
PJ.      W kliTo-imrlt            -      U    -      -      - 
P.B.ftuimieTeL                    -     -       40   -      -      C
PJ. Pbuduz                        -   8  -   -   - *
Pi.SPaInte1-am.1                   OD          -      - 
PJ. uC.1i0a31 .1                         - PI -I
EJ..Ibatolib=m                    -     1)     -      -     -     W
R.B. Ur Jou4uppl                  365   727    09                 W A 
LL SEl Ukl-1m.  _k _i                                 _     _ -    /
C.1am Nicau-Iia                   - v0   -           -      -     WA
CS. mon-Tiern7taia                -     -                        WNA
cS. laS-lulio W                   -      00 -        -     -       /tRA
P..  s     a _5ietwia             -      40   -      -      -     NWA
P.-S. Ieit b74w K ecaud           -      60)   -     -      -     U/A
*-L x,}sto lWimrto&m              -      I-   -0      -     - 
?.L. eto ia-                            I -    -     -      -      /A
U.L. am JomeJlimrmlZAt            467   G67   664    -      -      /A
nX r. 5657157                     - -s
e.S.I1^.letmi                     -     100   -      -     -      s/tA
B. ASMJDUA
A) IA MIM=
460  -   -   -   - o
Pr. Sg Plb1o.CzPl3e               -      U    -      -      -      X
F.s.     lb                       -      OD   -      -     -       C
smdell3:
.. Sm 1ilmli-clrolift             -     27    -      -     -      N/
H..bJaeem:S dt 1                  -     360   -      -     -      N/A
U.L amJoe an I    de               -    210IIII  -                WA
a) InMMAaI 1402
gm GUUtD:dUI:
P.Srillo-P       Brio              S    -      -     -     - 
C) Mm cuc&
Km Ceo25rncd:
LL. EL                            470  _  _        _        -      *
P.. Pk   YiM-0                    -       0   -      -     -       *
P.S. El s,_wmumia                 -     -      eo   -       -
P.s. e1MCIM IA                    -     -       U    -      -
r. I_ C -4c                       -     -      40   -      -       C
P.aaui-'                           U    -      -     -     -       x
C.S. -M=                                                  *    _M;ifA
.L. - O+L   -                                                  I Pmee_
R3. - -     DEm1L NX                                              iud
P.S. -   nPM                                               llA - Da mm qply



- 55 -                AM    1
ago
UFh    DlOIn    - u111=             no 3 w 5
2WZ 9: Ciwil ts Sdm  _b. of 1h litlbUtim a Si. Amyti kabt 
aim              Was  us/siF         WS  1Ws90  IDUg
L AXXEWU
D) =Ua
ILL. ha'o                  1ow   LO   -        -     - s
PJ. I.Azel  t*              -      -     II    -     .- 
Pi. *oimeIrt                -      _           - _          *
PJ. *m  oti -                      -     -     -     -
Pr. enibin  U*              -     -      -                  *
ILL. Odgma.a                 -                        -
LL. an Adk de lrmm           5D   -      -     -     -      WA
C.B. cm"                    -      -     120   -     -      WA
LJL b                       eof   -      -     -      _    WA,#
xJ lbAta                    120   -      -     -     -      WA
SJL.Odgb                    -      120   -     -     -      WgA
R.L.nisI                          -      -     -     -      WA
C.S.cmp                      50   -      -     -     -     VIA
C.S. hmjSz-Nata             -      50   -      -     -     WA
C.S. 11 bL-IWellin          ii    -      -     -     -      s
C.S. Wille de Qmtbl de4     ISD    -     -     -     -      S
C.S. PblnW Va%lli.           -     9    -      -     -ID
9. 0
A) xSDm
LL.UIudoS.t-lmn             -       # i29   -        -      WAt
81X aCsdoun :X
U.L.9amJuew- Qmdaen         300   -      -     -     -      W
C.S, oliU                  V150   -      -     -     -      WA
CS. _d                      -      1-0   -     -     -      W/A
P.S.  11-                   -      7    -      -     -      WA
P.S. Ph                     -   70  -   -   -   WA
P.S. PE                            70 _  _            -    IJ
P.S. 8nbdo                  -      70   -      -     -      WA
P.S. Irido                   70   -      -     -     -     WA
Pi. kdd                      70   -      -     -     -      WA
P.S.a anNi01                -      70   -      -     -      WA
P.S. Cwip-a                  -     -      -     7r    -    N/A
P.S. rtu.i-                  -     - - 7  0      _- _ _      A
P.8. lwAni_Tado             -      -     -    -      -      WA
P.S. FLow at uo             -      -      70   -     -      WA
P.S p. __om                 -      -      0   -      -      WA
P.S. 9mthuato               -     -      10          -      WA
PS.. & g      tD            -  -      -     -         70   WA
P.8. Pie de Pumj  lb        -      70   -      -     -      VA
Pi..gn tar-cmgoo            -      -     70   -      -      WA
P.O.   de fo-hjykdo         -      -      70   - _          WA
R.L. I idoSintc             21.2  203   -      -     -      WA
LL9 M Jm-e=dDtO             3D    166   -      -     -      VA
P.8. Pald1tm                II0   -      -     -     -      WA
Pi. Spi                     100   -      -     -     -      U
C.L - NO=    XTl .                                     -Acqu1f
PJ. - LIU                                           WA - Aitd
P.8. - 1m     v                                     WA a- ont _]J



-56-                      ANNEX 1
COLOMBIA
HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
TABLE 10: ADDITIONAL STAFF TO BE RECRUITED DURING
-----= -n  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
CUMULATIVE
TYPE OF STAFF             NO.    PERCENT   PERCENT
Health Promoters                    626       50.4       50.4
Sanitation Promoters                120        9.7       60.1
Auxiliary Nurses                    159       12.8       72.9
Dental Hygienists                    53       4.3        77.2
Maintenance Assistants               45        3.6       80.8
Medical Records Assistants           35        2.8       83.6
Aduinistrative Assistants            20        1.6       85.2
Dentists                             39        3.1       88.3
Physicians                            0          0       88.3
Other Professionals                 144       11.6       99.9
TOTAL                1,241        100         100
===m_                ===nrnrn ,m            rnrnr,r.



-   -7          N- 
-11       
IIUIAI 1 (OD0)A D                                                                      1=1 _UM              V=m S OXS
allumB                      421.67      1.30      0.26        0.12           0.17        0.05       0.76       0.57    0.21    6.0
Iplas                   18971        1.61      0.3         0.11           0.11         0.11      1.57       0.81    0.05     3.5
'vow                     236.6"      1.01       0.17       0.13           0.2          0.00      0.13       0.3    0.34      9.5
1|:                      =21.548       0.99"      0.20 0.0                  0.S          05       2.3        0A1    217       0.4
Occidot                  54.474      1.10       0.18       0.00           0.00         0.0       3.30       0.18    3.49     0.37
&¢                      167.074      0.96      0.24        012            0.06         0.06      29         04      1.74     0.4
Vm  UL .CMA                831.2"       1.94      0.36        0.19           0.2O        0.00       1.73       0.77    4.21    4.63
_mmavmtm               207.135      2.27       0.19       0.24           0.2A         0.00      lIJ         0X7    6.6      5.55
Can Am  2               3BL85       0.72       0.33       0.15           0.13         0.00      0.08       0.18  1.67       1A
b1ti1                  53.575      3.17       0.75       0.37           037          0.00      6.91       L2      7.65    10.64
hIm.                     81.81      3.80       0.50       0.17           0.39         0.00      3.56       132    5.61      9.03
AsM                         37.69m      4.24      1.59        1.59           0.80        0.00      1035        1.     13.26    20.43
1U 0N                       217.69      1.01      0.44        0.35           0.31        0.00       3.16       0.44    2.77    9.4
sKim                       156.099      2.75      0.96        0.70           0.58        0.00       3.D        0.90    6.2B    21.65
a  ci                   156Q.0       2.75      096         0.70           0.5S         0.00      3.33       0.90    6.3    21.65
3D1s                       62D.656      234        .42        O.52           0.23        0.00       1.93       L93    5.25    10.62
Iorn                     164.511    1.95       0.30       0.43           0.2b         O.0       3.10       1.15    4.9B    1OJ
Nonteris                456.145      2.48       0.46       05S            0.22         0.00      1.51       0.5    5.35    10.52
iAEI u                    1056.921      1.25      0.44        0.86           0.19        0.0        1.30       0.46    2.86    7.6
Ia _ta                  174.988      1.66       0.80       0.06           0.           0.06      2.17       1M      4.06    2B.D
"Imalsona 1               56.83      1.76       0.35       7.74           0.35         0.O       2.29       0.70    4.05     3.70
NAjD cmea                 ".69       1.50       0.50       0.70           0.30         0.10      3.21       0.70    3.91    8A
Oahe                    Z10.724      1.72       0.32       1.09           032          0.05      2.5        0.68    4.26     4.5
Iuliba h -Orimtl *   50u             0.79       0.36       0.30           0.08         0.00      0.00       0.10    1*      li.
cm=                        I0L02B       1.11      0.37        0.46           0.28        0.00       4.26       0.00    0.93    15.0
I.2mb.                  108.028      1.11       0.37      06             0.3          OO        4.26       O.00    0.93    15.09
DU310=  AI             3681.554       609        153        176             43           6        695        235    1256     234
Iatio    10,ODO         -            1.65       0.2        0.48           0.23        0A2        1.9        0.64    3.41     7.97
) uiml. dt wt             .
* Ratios reflect situation In the target area In the city.



-58-                       AX 1
COLOMBIA
HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
TABLE 12: NUMBER OF HEALTH SERVICES PROVIDERS TO BE TRAINED
--"-w-"- BY TYPE AND LENCTH OF TRAINING
LENGTH       NUMBER
O0         TO BE
TYPE OF TRAINING                 TRAINING      TRAINED
FORMAL TRAINING
Public Realth                              12 - 18 mouths          81
Sanitation Promoter                           12 monthb          109
Health Promoter                                3 months          746
Dental Hygienist                               3 months            59
Maintenance Technicians                        6 months            14
Maintenance Perito                             4 months            17
Maintenance Auxiliary                          2 monthb            49
TECHNICAL COURSZS
Management                                     3 months           224
Resource Management                            45 days         1,104
High Level Management Seminars                  1 week            92
WORKSHOPS
Professionals/Technicians                      2 veeks         1,509
Continuing Education Promoter/Auxiliary         1 week         1,308
Community Leaders                               1 week           700
TOTAL                                        6,012
mm mm m                           mm mm m~~~...



- 59-
-    -                     ~~~~~~ANNEX 1
CM04in ~    ~      ~       unx 
1FrMZ  SOUCC r1ATWK4L 11W11
hPe 1 of 6
TAKE 13: 8MW    IMS           101(1W
ON=                                 (XcluMbig Co.tfrwc 
1. ntvmD' 021                           I    5/8i 86/87  87/88 88/89 89/90 90/91  mm         VCQ         cm        L,
A. CIVL WM
1. NE 1W cM1MLQ
low! Hoapitals              Facility  0.8   2.2   -       -     -      -       3       429.3    459.7    889.0
Plth Cate                      o        3      2     2   -       -     -       7       145.2    154.2    299.4
Bultb Post                     "       22    15    12       4   -      -      53       448.8    476.9    925.7
SubTotal NW COM1 I                                                                           1,023.3  1,090.8  2,114.1
2. SrZ DEVLmWIZ               vha.lue    -I* --                    -     -                186.2    235.1    421.3
3. RENOMT5
Itiomal Hospitula           Facility    2   2.5   0.5   -       -      -       5       246.7    263.0    509.7
Locul 1opitals                of      6.1   6.8   2.1       2   -      -      17       461.4    486.0    947.4
'ealth Cuate                   "        3     3      4      1   -      -      11       104.9    111.1    216.0
IealthPc ts                             9    16      8      5     4   -       42       138.3    144.1    282.4
Sub-Total RE IVWII                                                                             951.3  1,04.2  1,955.5
4. EaWUSU
Regional Hoapitals          Facility  1.5   1.5   -       -     -     -        3       268.5    291.7    560.2
Local Eboprial                *       2.1   6.8   2.5   -       -      -      12       590.3    626.9  1,217.2
NGalth Cecers                  "        3     4      4      5   -      -      16       149.8    156.2    306.0
lhala Posta                    "        5     3      3   -      -      -      11       126.7    133.9    260.6
Sub-Total EXPAMICRB                                                                          1,135.3  1,208.7  2,344.0
5. SUPERVISIN    CIVrL WOS
Site Supervisor.             WiY       10    15      9   2.5   -       -      37        -       124.0    124.0
Trawvel Bpuaues              Days  1,560 2,340 1,404   390   -         -   5,694        -        47.9     47.9
Sub-Total SMURVISION OF CIVIL W                                                                  -      171.9    171.9
6. RIMAL WMu SlPHX *
ibter System & School UDits Vaiue l*                                   -     -       1,918.9  4,858 3   6,m.2
_ _-
D. NB2Jl3M9WE    -S                          5      6      8   -      -     -       19      211.5    222.6    434.1
SCBIOIAL CllIL W                                                                     5,426.5  8,791.6  14,218.1
* - Cost intiite include equimt S pipes.
fteam Val 3 o    in rem Fp ietw Yom
WVY  Non-Yeaw



- 60-                 ~ANNEX 1
ma
Pge 2 of 6
TAmt 13: 5..  aM            CEr SaUM
(UW000)
Tiwm                               (Licda Citmmes)
I. Inh R_ woss                       IIT    85/86  86/87 87/88 88/89 89/90 90/91 WIUmL   PN=    LL 
B.      U/IUBM=
1. BuAJI S1(CE ZRmEIU
Regiaml 1ospitals             c           1     4    10   -       -     -       15   1,237.3    62.8  1,862.1
local Nospitals            n              5    39   -                           44   2,047.2  1.0553  3,102.5
helth Ctuters                  n         21    13      1                        35     173.1     90.0    263.1
Health PostsB                            55    74    63    32       4   -      22B     432.0    219.7    651.7
0   21tCea   Fqlipmelt         n         30    30    24       8   -     -       92     789.6    4043  1,193.9
Sub-Total UIMAI  SERVICE IEHZR                                                                4,679.2  2,394.1  7,073.3
2. NMA  WAER S1
Water Syst ,lPipes         Vallue                   * .*    ***   ---    -           4,075.8  3,393A4  7,469.2
115 De_elqpmt Prau         Value        *5*    m    -.*   -       -     -              514.5    267.2    781.7
Sub-Total FINAL WlER SIF1P                                                               4,590.3  3,660.6  8,290.9
3.- IING                      Set           19                                     19      73.7     40.5    14.2
4.  DVIt4hL   IAIT:I
latriros                   Fach       1,805 1,805 1,805 1,805   -       -   7,22)      184.1    242.2    4263
SonitationPrmters          Tool Sets     45    48    19      9   -      -      121      45.6     23.9     69.5
Siitary Reineer            Tool Sets    17   -        -      -     -      -     17      17.8      9.8     27.6
Zo2mois Control             Wit/Set     144   -      -     -      -     -      144      58.6     32.2     9D.8
Trash Collection      SetlCammities      48    72    62    49   -        -     231       -      167.3    1673
Sub-Total E!VnUio1    AL h                                                                    306.1    475.4    781.5
5. IN EWTIW STSf              Value        434.8    239.0    673.8
6. PZ ARUZ ACTIVITIE          Valu                       -     -D.9                                11.5     32.4
7. IABAM f ACIIVf1
laoatory Activities     Value             -     -       --    -     -     -         57.8     31.8     89.6
Tecbmical labortaty EquiPzmt Value            *09*         *5    -       -     -     3,332.4    780.0  4,112.4
bT          1AB     nvEA   S                                                                  3,390.2    811.8  4,202.0
8. ~flUlLEL IYEILEW
Addnistretion of Iutepaion
of Services                Value   9*_9.6                                                    54.8    154.
Sub-Total IRn3flMMLL DEMMU                                                                      99.6      54.8    154.4
SUEOTAT                   *                                                              13,594.8  7,687.7 21,2B2.5
- - 
* - Ttl does not inclcde equipmt for the wmt  uolkw %&hiob re include  in civil 1mks.
* a- ale it   hi respective ye



_61                                      ANU3K1
-n -IN0 nmum Mlm
Pq  3of 6
uM 13: mean               Mr BMW
noo)
43007INclociuirs Conimmism
I. Dn        cm                     1       1? 16  S1I   P/U  W       OM90 90/91 I L  IC II D                     ML
C. anLs
1. Eaith 8.vfr D*lJw7:
4-gi kzrix.                             51                              -       51     411.9    140.2    552.1
Tack                                     2   -                                   2      21.8       7.4     29.2
AWk    w                                4B - - - 4                      -       48     65L2    221.0  JZ.2
bImt                                    30                              -       30     151.3     51.5    202.8
spmm btm                                46                              -       46      92.5     31.5    12.0
II,, _                         n         0    61. 1D   -          -     -      In        -        51.0     51.0
btmqcl-m                                25  -                           -    25   22.1    73   29.4
J yc1n                                  26  -   -   -   - -                     26    4.1   14    5.5
Sub1A1 13I13 SERUM 3m3Z                                                                    1.361.9    514.3  1.,l6.2
2. Civibu Sg1aimi    Each               18   -                                  18     16.9      55.1    218.0
3.    itn   ctiviti            A         I -       -        _1                         20.2       6.9     27.1
4. E,izintul Nhlth:
44lu Drive                     E        17  -    -    -    -    -    17   1373   46.7  18.0
Boa                                      8   -      -                            a8     28.4      9.7      36.1
lNtmclm                                 47    33      3   -       -             3       50.1      16.5     66.6
Bicycle                                 14                    14                      1.7      0.6       2.3
Sh-Total UV_UT hLz 3112S                                                                     217D      73.5    291.0
5. Admiatm;strtimd4-ge     ime Each      5                 -                     5      40.4      13.7     5.1
Sub-Tata  UM28  -                                                                          1,J8.9    663.5  2,466.4
D. RERC   1
Immch r ickati m              Capi   4.300  4,100  4,M    4,00 4.000   -  20.600       16.1      15.4     31.5
=^>mzcb SuAim                FEch        2     3      3      2      1     1    12        -    3,19.9  3,194.9
bb-Toa in43M1 PROGR                                                                           16.1  3.210.3  3,=4
E   DXEIICAL  _SSUI1K
sactOr _ F                     1113     30    27    32       5   -      -       9S     216.6    131.3    347.9
3mmc-Ch StL um                   "       8      8    10    10   -       -       36       -       64.7      64.7
Iomtim Neboc &                           6    16    15       8   -      -       45      3.7      66.4    155.1
lnamTyeitkc                      g 12- -  --- -   12  12.5  10.2  22.7
1  lkter Sply                 uiuhe  -*      *- -                    -                 26.1    173.3    399.4
camalti  Services xbw           m     --*                                               0 -  -  -  5 2.2   1040.9  1,5.1
Sub4Totl 7CAL A1SEA]D                                                                      1,046.1  1.486.8  2,532.9
F. ll&IC
1lic Boomh                 Pat.      18    28    21    18   -                85      31.3    294.1    328.4
Uit*imPgintr                  *      53    48    14   -        -     -      115       65       57.0     63.5
_1 th hrIe                    *     317   268   123    42   -        -      750      28.6    25D.3    278.9
01d Bgemist Am.               "      24    26    12       2   -      -       64       3.7      32.0     35.7
UAincme cb.                   *      14      2   -      -      -             16       1.1      10.2     113
I_h1uePm                             13      4   -      -      -      -      17       1.5      13.2     14.7
hintomze Am.                         27    15      6      6     - -          54       2.9      25.3     28.2
&bk611-       m               n     121    47    57    19   -        -      244      14.0    12Z.9    136.9
magiurg 1-iat                 "     517   100   486    30   -        -   1.133       21.9    190.9    212.8
i3bhXe-I Smz/A&i-ft t                36    22    30    10   -        -       96       3.6      31.5     35.1
PU1UhIFlEo13TUC1Uic      "        102D  614   95    296   -          -   2,916      210.2  1,818.1   2.028.3
Cwtjmiz3  d. Pz.mJhu          "                                                       0.7      5.8       6.5
ciumnitylmim                  "     176   18S   28   208   -         -      73D       3.9      33.7     37.6
b-Tol 28W      CDZIN991N   ISH     PER                                                       332.9  2,85.0  3,217.9
33 -hab
- a lom moo En zuIuectiwe year
-- Pim



-62-                                      ANNEX 1
aw=
Pwe 4 of 6
TMeM 13: sUU W   OM SMW
qJRfflY                            (Iachalig C( tnoge)   )
I.  D _uir ixEis                      INIa   85/86 86/87 8f/88 889  89/90 90/91 ltL         N         lOCAl    TOM
F. TUMlG
2. OleENflY    XCATB
zkui_ps                      Part.   170   146   105   104   -        -      515      10.8     93.2    104.0
Fool &                pt         e                        -    -      -              158.2  1,344.7  1,502.9
Sub-Total COMO=  EXQV                                                                        i69.0  i,437.9  1,606.9
3.PE LIS                                  6      6     4      3     3   -       22      641.2     68.1    709-3
4. MrlUML DEW
Sadiars                      Part.    62    62    62    62   -        -      248       7.0     59.8     66.8
lb&lqm                         i s    297    58   296    60    59   -        770      42.9    371.1    414.0
.1wth _Awzmit SpeCili.mtim   '    -         262   241   261   -       -      764      46.3    388.7    435.0
Qzrriculzalevim              V1ue        *              *      -      -     -         11.2     97.5    108.7
Taltia 9ystm                 Part.    55    2l      4     -     -    -        0        4.6     41.0     45.6
Iabortory Specialix                   191    30    30   -       -     -      251      20.9    188.1    29.0
Beuc;h  Activities                    107   118   128    61    14   -        428      31.4    269.5    300.9
Ikiname Activities                     10     7       -     -         -       17       0.7      6.6      7.3
Subi-Taal flgmUTML IEUAD                                                                     165.0  1,422-3  1,5873
SUMUML 7MARCI                                                                   1,308.1  5,8133  7,121.4
G. AUGMISTNATI a? flhATCS    S9VIY
Sa2ries                          zlue    *   -*                     *                    -    1,447.1  1,447.1
IHterials/upplies              Vle                 "*                                    -       42.8     42.8
Per Dim             l3c--                                  --   "                         -      538.2    538.2
Sub-Total A1IWMl11RANCF (  l    I    IF SMMS                                                   -    2,028.1  2,028.1
IL 7IZZECAL COMWAMM - ICBS
lRiKlQE)            RIQ           a           *lu*   -    *              -     -        112J   1,056.1  1,168.8
-                    (                     ~~~~~~~11$ NUl _   )                 _
ML D        _imnl   CIASw            13.6  15.4  12.6   7.9   3.9   0.5  54.0  23,3070 30,737.2 54,044.2
Part.  Participats
alue -  lue   t    in respective years



-63-                                 ARM-l
caA
Page 5 of 6
TAN  13: 801W             amr 9Q  -
QMt=                 l        _        nchdf omitusuia)
I=  85/86  86187 8t/88 8/89 89/90 90/9 1          L T1G           iL    MM
A. LMMM   SATR
1.  m     ira
entist                    WY        1    11    23    33    39    39   146            -    1,259.2  1,259.2
Veterimowi                          3    10    11    11    11    11    57            -       586.7    586.7
M"nis_  r                         -        4     10    13    13    13    53          -       559.7    559.7
civl B*b=                  "   -   -   -                1   1   1   3                -        2D.3   2D.3
Ruze.                              16    34    45    52    56    56  259             -  1,665.8 1,665.8
lhterioogist               nf     -       4      8    14    15    15    56           -       349.9    349.9
Njtrit t/Dietii            "      -        1     4      9      9      9    32        -       199.6    199.6
Mlinical lob Tecbminim     "      -       4     11    16    18    18    67           -       2D0.2    20.2
Moinistrative  ssistant            -      4     14    17    19    19    73           -       337.1    337.1
eaM Sthsatiticim           n      -        3     6      6      6      6    27        -       138.6    138.6
booul Asistat              "        3     13    23    31    35    35   140           -       495.9    495.9
Asistait 01 Hygenist   "           1    18    34    46    51    51   2)1            -       664.9    644.9
Nasth Printer              "      116   243   381   5D9   646   646 2,54             -    4,858.7  4,48.7
Nlitee   hAtili.y          "        6    23    32    42    45    45   193            -       558.9    558.9
%brse Awiliary                     29    82   12D   137   159   159   686            -    2,127.5  2,127.5
Sub-Tot1 UAI.IH SlAFF                                                                         -    14,053.0  14,053.0
2. RE lA        1 Tr
essuchTan,rantkmcuterm              6     6      6      6      6      6    36        -       254.1    254.1
Sub-Total RMAK    ACEXMS                                                                      -       254.1    254.1
3. D91& I
Ihgsiieera               lWY        1    14    14    14    14    14    71            -       502.0    502.0
9mitazy P1!tar"                    35    52    82   112   12)   12)   521          -       1,571.0   1571.0
Sub-otal    AMI 1                                                                                   2,073.0  2,073.0
4. llSNlT;GISEAFF            WY    -        10    11    11    11    11    54            -       419.0    419.0
SMUIL Dg3921M  _&1M                                                                                16,799.1  16,799.1
8. WD:  MMS - E                   mEmiLA
aicals                      Value  *1*                  --            -                       1,383.3  1,3.3
Pir Dim                     Val                                                         -       839.6    839.6
Sub,al (IARTl3                                                                                -    2,222.9  2,22.9
WY - Non-Yaw
blm - W1ue mnut in repwtne



-64-                               AIEX I
wXia suvice    D     Fi  :mr
Pqe 6 of 6
TAK  13:  8E ACM1 CCIr BMu Wr
qflY                              (r=wixg Ccmbti.mies)
aInrr 85/86 86/87 87188 88/89 89/90 90/91          I   It   CMAL    mL
C. mICO WA¶f OM
lb irtal  milth             Value  --*-~   -~   **   *                              - I82.2          82.2
Sub-otal      I =RATfl     IS                                                            -        82.2    82.2
-~~~~ 
D. N&l1MS1  CW 3EJIRU  & EJlD1N
1th SEC~~~~~V;JIU;iZl  1! ****** 1,845.3  1,845.3
Healt'h Services Facilities    'aium --.                                                   ,4~3185
upb-Total  1maI        (1 E3nl  £ NDEl                                                    -    1,815.3  1,845.3
E. GAsI,U AM EMU¶S            Value                                                  509.3    533    562.8
F. (WTR= SIPLUM
infozztio Syste            Value                             * '* S   '*   -               92.8    92.8
esmzh Activitilue  '*                      * *    *                                 -       483      483
Sub-Toutl aln  SI pLS                                                                            141.1    141.1
G. SPAM PA1S
u&nfomtim= SystmilCwmputing  Value                                                          863      863
Sub-Toal PAI EARUM                                                                       -        863      8S :
Total B   aIFM     nrFITS        tl.I   1.2   2.2   33   43   5.2   5.5  21.7           509.5 21,230.2 21,739.7
1EAL PEE   COTIS.         UW        14.8  17.7  15.9  12.2   9.1   6.1  75.8  23,816.5 51,967.5 75,784.0
V- alue inimt in req':tive years



TAKE 14:   Sy  Acs#t by Pzjtt O
-        (c0alia Peso. '000 - T1au rnoIud1a maftk i)                                     Iqe 1 of 2
mumn                             1m  m                      im
sac            MM       a      n       E  sW            u mml,n sm         IM IZA    EOnM
nrwnw mm                     DMmWZAo AUM                         innCI  03m   sumL -    wumm   umm   ginm                                 EMM7w
i. mnm  ii                                111  (R?1  mzmis    mu                                   ai gu   nawsr                             - s                    UL
A. CIYU IS
1. NM C.tuctk.- 383,462.2                          -                                                                                                             62 2
2. Site De,e1k                      76,389.5                                     -           -                                    -                -         76,3935
3. Rang tim                         369,151J       ------                                                       -                 -                -        369,1513
4. ,qms                             428,605    -              -             -    -                  -             -053
5. &q.zviulz  of Civil Ibk          32,265.2                               -            -                       -                                            32,----2
6. airl iktw sply                                             -        1,438,657.6                   --                                       -           1,48,657.6
7. ibtiintelbpkak                      -          -        82,100.5                            -                 -                                  -         2,100.5
ib-Total C1IL Wm             1,289,673.5     -         82,100.5   1,438,657.6            -      -                 -           -               -       2,EO,631.6
1. lslth 3avlce Deiwiy           1,124,185.9     -       237,623,9                                  -          -                          -              I ,36,UO.8
2. hiral WIter Sply                    -          -           -        1,586,895.7     -        142,S79.8                                          -      1,729,775.5
3. Tra7ini                           17,554.6                                                                    -           -                               17,554.6
4. Iwliummzta Bulth                    -          -           -                    147,395.2                                                       -        147,3952
5. I     tio .tm                         -- -                                          -                                    -   -- I,6013           -       103,6Q.3
6. &eureh Actiitie-                                                                                                                     -        4,969.6      4,969J
7.  tory ActivLti                        --                                      -                  -            -        53.706.8    -            -        93,706.6
S. Iutitutil Dqlout                                -  --                                            -         23,731.1   -               -         -         23,737.1
abotal          o       LB        1,141,741.5             237,623.9   1.56,S695.7  147,395.2    142,679.8     23,737.1  153,706.8   103,6013    4,969.8  4,A2,551.1
C. mam
1. Ielth Skvke Delivy              2t2,726.2       -           -                     7,157.4                                                         -      289,1-83A
2. Civil 1%&s aprsiom               34,244.2                  -                                                      -                                       34,b..2
3. )anme Ativitid                      -                    4,160.7              -             - -                                 -   -           -          4,160.7
4. Iyilal -iit                                    -           -   -                 45,721.7    -                -          -            -    -    45,721.7
5. Anttio b4e1 Driw                    -                            -   -   -8- 8,321.4   - -                                                      -          8,321A
3b-Total IIaEI                316,970A      -         4,160.7          *      52,579.1        -           8,321.4      -           -         -         362,331.6
D. R8          1U(WM                                     -       -                   -                                                       -    666,478.2    6i6,478.2
S. TCICAL       SU                        -                                               -        311,200.9     65,4063    3,492.1    29,419.1  12,909.7    422,42.1
F. Tun=
1. Trainig Ueltb Suvice Pez lI 604,254.4          -                             -                                -                                 -        60,4.4
2. CmuLz  lacatiw                      -      326,482.2           -                                                                       -        -        3265,4.2
3. MP*elwhips                          -          --                        -                                 97,997.6  43,430.8    -              -         14,4S.4
4. !nstitutisl Dmp=t                   -          -         1,228.2                                           D -05,137.8   34,464.5   7,5503  58,796.2    307,179.0
Ib-Totl NTUB                  604,254.4 326,4U2.2     1,228.2          -                                303,135.4   77n,83       7,550.3  58,79.2  1,379,3.0
G.   aMA   OF MDlU                          -         -          -             -    27,467.1                    419,012.0                             -        446,479.1
B. TKCL 0 I- I                                                   -             -           --                   247,221.                    -         -         M7,MJ
I        II S rmvDUI1 me      3,352,639.5 326,4U2.2   325,113,3   3,025,553.3 227,741.4    454U,06.7  1,066,8W.2  935,09C2   140,570.7 743,555.9 10,597,471.7
~ -                                              -              -          -            -            -            -       _                        -  



TANA 14: &my Account by Pojmt C
-         (Clui P 7m000 - Totals 1b=b" C=bMin)                                  1q 2 of 2
1kLIMCALUMM                            E R           UL 8011
mszM  amEzTN                      muswu s   O         SUM            -     uMw                     H=
A. DUffAL   SA
1. Bitb Staff                   3,36X,793.9    -                                                                                              3,36,793.9
2. lmxubkt£it-                                   --                                                                                  56,U9.3    56,U93
3.  iral 7Blth                                                                48-  -  -  8,372.7         -                             -        488,372.7
4. InfOtMim stff                       _                               -          -                                         9 I4    -            9S6AI1
b-Total ZEUWAL WAJZ             3,364,793.9                -                  488,372.7       -      -              -         611.4  56,43  4.S,273
B -,A -   _                                                                      ~IS            -           -                      -^  -
C. wmZlaxPA   M               - M                                          -   18,284.                                       -          -          18,MA
D. IMNMW     Cl DWN  AM  NUo,3 410,277.3                                                                                                          410273
E. A5A U5  -o                                      -          -M-9  -                                       -      125,7C0.2              -        125,70.2
F, OF     m 9"Im                         -          --        -           -         -           -            --3,9A  10,130.6    31,67.2
0.C PAUI -W- -                                                -                                                                220,2253  -         2D,J
TDTAL                        3,775,071.2               -            -    1,011,537.8                  -       125,7C0.2   139,7.3 67,fl9.9  5,U9,3=A
I. PF3rl   oS5              7,127,911.0  326,482.2  325,113.2  3,025,553.3 1,239,279.2   454,0.7  1,066,840. 1,060,7943   23,351.1  10,375.8 15,715,7D.5
-               -                     -----                                                            --
'I



- 67-                    AM=X 1
COLOMBIA
BEALTI SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
TABLE 15: SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
CUMULATIVE        UNDISDURSED
DISBURSEMENTS   DISBURSEMENTS          BALANCE
FISCAL        SEMESTER       -------------   --------------   -------------
YEAR          ENDING        AMOUNT    2       ASOUNT    2       AMOUNT    2
1966     Dec. 31, 1985       0.7      1.9      0.7       2.0    35.8    98.1
June 30, 1986      1.3      3.6      2.0       5.5    34.5    94.5
1987     Dec. 31, 1986       1.3      3.6      3.3       9.0    33.2    91.0
June 30, 1987      2.0      5.5      5.3      14.5    31.2    85.5
1988     Dec. 31, 1987       2.0      5.5      7.3      20.0    29.2    80.0
June 30, 1988      3.1      8.4    10.4       28.5    26.1    71.5
1989     Dec. 31, 1988       3.5      9.6    13.9       38.0    22.6    61.9
June 30, 1989      3.6      9.8    17.5       48.0    19.0    52.1
1990     Dec. 31, 1989       4.0    11.0    21.5        59.0    15.0    41.1
June 30, 1990      4.2    11.5    25.7        70.5    10.8    29.6
1991     Dec. 31, 1990       4.2    11.5    29.9        82.0     6.6    18.1
June 30, 1991      2.8      7.7    32.7       89.5      3.8    10.4
1992     Dec. 31, 1991       2.3      6.3    35.0       96.0     1.5      4.1
June 30, 1992      1.5      4.1    36.5    100.0          0        0
TOTAL         36.5    100%



- 68 -                       ANNEXI
H51M  SMCcB lmAITGI PELIE
TABLE 16:  tAZ DUICMA    FM ?D1LD  AIND EV1IYICt
m -mm  m                            PA.               Im 
A.1CA1S                            P.   R    S    N          H    Q    S    A
1. Cxstrction
a. Percent copletimn of ue works                             x    X    X             X
b. Perct cpletion of expmnsimi uo                            x    X    X             X
c. Percet c*pletiml of rmdeliag                              X    X    X             x
d. Percent ecutiaa of coatuctiom inveuimmit                  X    X    X            X
2. Fq_imt
a. Percent of equipat delivered to Bealtb Ceater             X    X    X             X
b. Percet of equipmt delivered to Pramtores                  X    X    X             X
c. Pereu eastin of irNestubt in Vidcles                      X    X    X            X
received by auiliay stff  Pr)or)
d. Percent ecution of equi4aeat irvea,tmut                   X    X    X            X
3. Trainng
a. Percent promtores trained                                 X    x    X            X
b. Percent praomtos rerained                                X    X    X             X
c. Percet execution of trining iwvtest                       X    X    X            X
4. I-ntitutiral Deqlopuent
a. Percent facilities follwing prmga  executi  n             X    X    X                       X
5. Preventive Iaintemce
a. Percent facilities carrying out prevexive                X    X    X             X
plit  id eqpipumt mintenice
B. PRO=
1. Riher of  di-al visits for childrec <5 yer            X     X    X    X                        X
2. Hospital occupecy rates                               X     X    X    X                        X
3. NQ fmily planing acceptors                            X     X    X    X                        X
4. Wr coverage in childre < 1 yer                        X     X    X    X                        X
5. CoverDge by bealth prmnter                            X     X    X    X                        X
6. Coverage with safe _ter                               X     X    X    X                        X
C. IMD
1. Infant IWrality                                             x    X    X                        X
2. Icidence of Polio                                           X    X    X        X
3. Iocidumce of TetusA                                         X    X    X        X
4. Incidece of Ahcte Diarrbsal Dins;se                         X    X    X        X
LEWD: Fac. - Service Delivery Facility                           m  - mxthly
R  - Regimal I boagent                                   Q  - jterly
S  - Secciaul & N xiea Ibgeslnt                          S  - Sesi*nally
N  - Natimal Nataget                                     A  - mnnually



COLOMBIA
HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
TABLE 17: PROVISIONAL SERVICE DELIVERY TARGETS
PERCENT
SERVICES                          1984           1989       CHANGE
HOSPITAL SERVICES
1. Inpatient Care
a) No. Beds/1,000 population                          0.6           0.60
b) No. Discharges/1,000 population                   20.0          32.5        62.5
c) Occupancy Rate                                    52.8          62.6        18.6
AMBULATORY SERVICES
1. Number of MEDICAL VISITS                        1,523,068    2,059,538         35.2
2. Number of PROMOTER VISITS                         338,718       908,647       168.3
3. Number of NURSE VISITS                            423,793    1,000,211        136.0
DENTAL SERVICES
1. Curative Dental Treatment
a) Number of Treatments                           151,053       250,000        65.5
2. Preventive Dental Treatment
a) Number of Treatments                           227,264       655,048       188.0
SERVICES PROVIDED BY SANITATION PROMOTER
1. Control of Public Establishments
a) Number of Visits                               300,209       484,626        61.4
2. Control of Schools
a) Number of Visits                                 7,305        15,072       106.3
3. Control of Water/Sewerage Systems
a) Number of Visits                                16,901        26,759        58.3
4. Vaccination of Domestic Animals
a) Number of Vaccinations                         162,979       380,476       133.4
5. House Inspections/Vector Control
a) Number of Inspections                          261,701       319,639        22.1



-70                                ANNEX 1
SUM M81!CU INATICN  PR=
TAKE 18: Tugets for Project Aze After 5 Ym  of Srvice DeUiwzy
1983      1989       P
EMMR729 EIXDIM MKRDM9
(;I)      (2)
1. CA1SE-WP3WC    Mrnr
A. Children less tbh 1 year
1. Perinatal ccmlitions            32.6       20.0         38.7
2.  mlstxo-intestinal infecto      13.1        7.0         46.6
3. Acute respiratory infects       11.8        8.0         32.2
4. lUtritimal deficismcies          4.0        3.0         25.0
B. Children ages 1 to 4
1. Acute respiratory mfectums      13.9       10.0         28.1
2. Gstro-intestinal infectioos     13.0        6.0         53.8
3. Accidents                        - 7.8      6.0         23.1
4. Nitri±ional deficiencies         7.5        5.0         33.3
5. Measles                          7.3        0.0        100.0
3a. 0UVE I=M=S
A. T5nnimation
(X of susceptibles < 4 years)
1. Measles                         45.0       90.1        100.2
2. Polio                           32.8       89.2        172.0
3. Dpr                             30.3       89.2        194.A
4. MCG                             56.4       90.7        60.8
B. Family Plnning
1. Nimber of Users               135,090    182,554       35.1
2. Total Fertility Rate CiiR3       4.3        4.0         7.0
3. Contracqptise Prevalence Rate   37.0       50.0         35.1
C. Malnutrition (all degrees)
(Z of childre 0 - 4years)          19.4       15.0        22.7



- 71-                            AMX 1
COLONBIA
9LALT5 BERVICI8 INTIGRATION PROJECT
16ALS.12:Vomen Age 15 - 44 at Risk of Unplanced Pr*gnancy and Number of Woenc
USing Pasily Planning Services at the Beginning Lad the End of the Project
WOMEN UVINv
PP BIRVICEB
WOMEN      _
WOMEN    AT RISK OF
TOTAL       15 - 44    UNPLANNED        1983        1989
HEALTh RIGIONS                POP.       AGE GROUP   PRECNANCY        EST.        88T.
t]9-8       (19             _ -
1. NARINO
(a) Ipiales                       184,971        35,329       18,071        6,686      9,036
(b) Tumaco                        236,699        45,210       23.125        8,556    11.563
2. CAUCA
(a) Occidente                      54,474        11,385         5.374       1,988      2,687
(b) Sur                           167,074        34,584       24,933        5,525      7,467
3. VALLE DEL CAUCA
(a) Buenaventura                  207,135        50.748       20,808        7,699    10,404
(b) Cali Area 2                   388,880       110,053       46,753       17,299    23,377
Cc) Roldanillo                     53,575        12,483        4,805        1,778      2,403
(d) Talua                         181,684        43,604       17,417        6,444      8,709
4. AXAZONAS                            37,698         7,050        2.831        1,047      1,416
S. PUTUNAYO                           227,690       56.992        27,726      10,259    13,863
6. SANTANDFR
c-) Ban Gil                       156,099        32,156       14,772        5,466      7,386
7. CORDOBA
(a) Lorica                        164,511        37,838       14,335        5,304      7,168
(b) Nonteria                      456,145       104,931       39,746       14,706    19,873
8. ANTIOQUIA
(a) La Meseta                     174,988        43,747       16,642        6,158      8,321
(b) Magdalena Nedio                56,830        14,208        5,424        2,007      2,712
(e) Bajo Cauca                     99,690        24,992        9,470        3,504      4,735
(d) Uraba                         220,724        55,181       21,042        7,786    10,521
(e) Medellin Nor-Oriental         504,689       130,210       53,999       19,980    27,000
9. CIOCO
(a) latmina                       108,028        23,334        7,834        2,899      3,917
TOTAL                 3,681,584       874,035      365,107    135,090   182,554
Target of Family Planning Acceptors by Year in PrnJect Areas 1/
1983     1984     1985      1986     1987     1988    1989        TOTAL
Total Users      135,090  140,548  146.955  154,312  162,618  171,875  182.554       182,554
New Acceptors                5,458    6,407    7,357    8,306    9,257  10.679        47,464
1/ New acceptors will be monltored daily by health service delivery personnel using the
official registry No. SIS-135, "Registro Diarlo de Usuarias Nuevas de Planificacion Familiar".
* Women at risk means those women in the reproductive age span assumed between che ages
of 15 and 44, discounting sterIlized and pregnant women



- 72 -                       ANx I
COLOMBIA
HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
TABLE 20: NUMBER O  CHILDREN TO BE VACCINATED ANNUALLY IN
-----m.  PPROJECT HEALTH AREA (In Thousands)
VACCINE                 1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Measles (one dose/cbild)              172      168     170      174     177
PolioSyelitLs (3 doseslchild)    167           167     171      173     176
DPT * (3 doses/child)                 193      166     169      171     173
BCG ** (1 dose/child)                 139      147     145      151     151
* Diptheria, Tetanus, Pertusis
** Tuberculosis
camo
IA3E SMIa; n?nM=l TIMMEC
TAfE 21: NUIR (1 PIRM  CAR MDfl (WA.) M wA1U PRIS
- E   AND AFM PD( D_WRIT1Q  IN PI= WAIIE ANAE
PR1MI  CAs UK=       1984    1989      NO.   PRE=
?Rber of fiuct2ig
Prizzy Care flits       99      166      67       68
Nluber of Bealth Prcwters    515    1,141    626      122
Popultc ReceiviDg Services
fram elth PrzDtezs *     297,90D  659,700  361.800    121
* baed an observed 1983 date of 578 biaies per helth prumter.



- 73 -
AM_I 2
COLOMBIA
IEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATI6N PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SIRVICBS COMPONENT
RURAL WATER SUPPLY SUBCOMPONUNT
Obiectives and ImIDlemsntation
Ob ictives
1.        The rural water supply st'bcouponent would have three main
objectives. The first would be to supplement the efforts under the
Healtb Services Integration Project by providing an adequate and safe
water supply to about 150,000 people who live in rural comunities (average
population about 500) throughout the project area. The second objective
would be to enhance the aboorptive capacity of the rural water supply
sector through the institutional strengthening of INS and the preparation
of a National Rural Water Supply Development Plan. The third is to
promote better inter-institutional coordination and cooperation, particularly
in the maintenance of completed water system. These objectives are
in line with the recomuendations made in the Bank's subsector report
to be published in the near future and have the full support of the
Government.
DescriDtion
2.        The proposed subcomponent project would include:
(a) the construction, expansion or rehabilitation
of water supply systems, including vater shed protection
measures, and the construction of sanitary school
units in about 250 rural communities vith current
popula..ions varying between 100 and 2,500 people;
(b) the purchase of equipment including vehicles,
trucks, mobile promotion vans, communication and
audio-visual apparatus;
(c) technical assistance and traininig to the Basic
Rural Sanitation Division of INS in the folloving
areas: organization and management, low-cost technology,
system design, comnunity motivation;
lEzcerpts from staff working paper for the rural water supply subcomponent
prepared by LCPWS, March 1985.



-74-                                AMX 2
(d) the preparation of a National Rural Water Supply
Plan (NRWSP) which vould include an inventory of
water supply resources and needs, the definition
of short-, zedium- and long-term investment programs
and the formulation of strategies for accelerated
and mcre efficient sector development.
3.        The beneficiary co munities of the subcomponent would be located
in the health regions covered under the Health Services Integration
Project. A list of priority projects prepared jointly by INS and the
Ministry of Health for each of the regions is attached to the Rural
Water Supply Working Paper. With fev exceptions, the system to be constructed
will deliver water to customers through a house- or yard tap. As the
project area covers a large portion of the Colombian territory with
widely varying hydrologic and topographical characteristics, water delivery
will be from springs and by gravity, through pumping from surface water
sources and wells (dug and drilled), and in the rain intensive areas
of Colombia's Northwest through collection of rainwater from roofs.
Proiect Cost
4.        The total cost of the subcomponent, construction is estimated
at USS 16.9 million (Table 1).  The average per capita cost for systems
to be constructed under the project is estimated at US$ 70 in end of
1984 prices.  Contingencies amount to US$ 3.1 million, 22Z of base cost.
INS is exempt from import duties but must pay value added tax of 1OX
on purchase of equipment and materials and a special tax on foreign
consultant fees. Taxes totaling some US$ 800,000 are reflected in the
local cost component of the taxed items. The cost estimates in Table
1 include estimates for the preparation of studies and designs and administration,
supervision and promotion which INS expects to carry out the project
with its present personnel.
Table 1. Shinzy of Sbcuqsr Cost
locl F7oena  Total  Total as Z
of Ewe
I 
Suplyof eOf O*pmlp4      2.8   3.0  5.8        42
Ciilw sViupie awYis      2.8   0.8  3.6         26
Led                     003    -   0.3           2
Sties/daup               0.6   0.2  0.8          6
Ahiir Wtiasuevisie
pmXtio                 0.4   0.4  0.8         6
Subtotal         6.9   4.4  11.3         2
>_ g
Smgplye of ewm           0.2   0.4  0.6          4
Tebical asiatmee         0.2   0.2  0.4          3
Cdtiugservic.a NN        1.0   0.5  1.5         n
sutoata          1.4   1.1  2.5         18
7btalulwCcst             83    5.5  13.8       100
Coatwr-fiu-.             1.4   1.7  3.1         22
Toal Project Cat         9.7   7.2  16.9       1n
_           -     



75 -                             ANNEX 2
Financing
5.        The financing plan of the subcomponent is presented in Table
2. The Bank loan would finance the component's foreign exchange component
(42X of total subcomponent cost), and 30Z of local cost bringing total
Bank financing to about 60% of component cost. The Bank loan and the
government contribution vould be passed on to INS through the Ministry
of Health in accordance with the terms of an agreement to be negotiated
between INS and the Ministry. Local contributions would qualify as
counterpart effort only, if they are spent in investment programs covered
under the project and approved by the Bank. The Bank loan would be
serviced by the Government.
Table 2. Financing Plan
Investment        Sector/Inst.             Total
Program         Development             Proiect
Source of                US$                  US$                 US$
Financinu              million      z       million      Z      million    Z
Bank                     7.7       56.4       2.4       80.0      10.1    59.8
Communities              2.7       19.4       --                   2.7    16.0
Departments/lottery      1.4       10.1                 --         1.4      8.3
INS ordinary budget      1.4       10.1       --        -          1.4     8.3
Gov't budget             0.7        5.0       0.6       20.0       1.3     7.6
TOTAL                   13.9      100.0       3.0      100.0      16.9   100.0
Institutional Responsibilities and Subcomponent Manaxement
6.        INS would bave the responsibility -or executing the water
Supply component.  In the departments of Valle, Cauca and Antioquia
the component would be carried out by Departmental Health Services under
the supervision of INS as established in the delegation contract. For
all subprojects, the principles and procedures of the Basic Rural Sanitation
Program (Attachment 1) vith slight modifications regarding comuunity
participation and cost recovery mechanisms and design parameters will
be applied. Assurances to tuajs. effect were obtained during negotiations.
Within DSBR, the subcomponent would be managed by a Project Execution
Unit (Unidad de Credito Externo) which already has been formed for this
purpose and is staffed adequately. The promotion and execution of the
works would be directed and/or monitored by INS's regional supervisors.
7.        INS would coordinate its work closely with the Ministry of
Health, and Departmental Health Services, especially in the identification
and selection of subprojects, investment progranming and maintenance
and operation.  The Project Management Unit in the NOR, responsible
for the management of the Health Services Integration Project would
be kept fully informed. INS and NOR presented to the Bank a draft agreement
defining the responsibilities of both parties with respect to the execution



- 76 -                             ANNEX 2
of the water supply subcomponent under the Bealth Project. The signature
of the MOR-INS agreement, acceptable to the Bank, is a condition of
effectiveness for the loan.
Execution
8.        INS' departmental offices would promote, identify, prepare,
design and supervise the construction of rural water supply projects
following the procedures established under the Basic Rural Sanitation
Program (Attachment 1). In case of insufficient in-house engineering
capacity, INS would contract out studies and design work.   Procurement
of pipes and other materials would be done in bulk by Headquarters,
while small amounts of materials and civil works would be procured at
the departmental level. The projects would be executed partly by the
members of the community under the guidance of an INS community organizer
or a local skilled foreman. Works exceeding the capacity of the community
would be executed by local contractors or by force account. INS would
have sufficiently experienced personnel and acceptable procedures for
procuring equipment and materials and to supervise and administer the
project.
ProgramminR
9.        The proposed investments would be made during the years 1985
through 1991, i.e., about 42 subprojects per year. The key to the successful
and timely execution of the project would be good programming and planning.
The short-term programming element for the rural vater supply system
construction program would be an annual investment and project implementation
plan which INS would prepare in coordination with NOR and departmental
authorities for each of the years of project execution. This plan would
be submitted to the Bank by no later than September 30 of each year
for the following year and would contain the folloving information:
(a) a description of each subproject proposed for
construction including basic information on the
characteristics of the community, its priority within
the departmental investment program, project cost
(total and per capita) supported by at least a preliminary
design based on a known water source, a financing
plan outlining the participation of the community
and others and an implementation schedule;
(b) bidding documents and a time table for the bulk
procurement of materials and equipment for the subprojects
proposed under the annual investment program; and
(c) a description of activities planned under the
technical assistance program and in the preparation
of the National Rural Water Supply Plan.



- 77 -                             AMNEX 2
10.       The plan should also present financial projections (sources
and application of funds) which would identify all investment programs
which would identify all investment programs which INS plans to undertake
during the coming year. The first annual investment plan would be due
September 30, 1985 and cover INS' activities through the end of 1986.
Assurances were obtaimed from GOC at negotiations that INS would adhere
to the programming procedure described above and give the Bank the opportunity
to comment on its overall annual investment program.
11.       The process of hiring of consultants for the technical assistance
program and the preparation of the National Rural Water Supply Plan
would get under way soon after negotiations. INS has already presented
to the Bank draft terms of reference. Assurances were obtained from
GOC that INS would give the Bank ample opportunity to review and discuss
the findings and recommendations regarding the technical assistance
program and the National Rural Water Supply Plan.
Selection of Subproiects
12.       Beneficiary Communities would be selected from a list of prioritized
projects, which INS has prepared for each Health Region in coordination
vith MOR. The prioritization of project communities within each region
was determined primarily on the basis of estimated per capita investment
cost and present public health conditions but al80 took into account
factors such as: community preparedness to support project; equity considerations;
willingness of department to contribute to the project; importance within
the Government's development programs; and development potential of
community.
13.       With the introduction of reduced design parameters, the average
per capita cost of systems supported under the project is estimated
to be about US$70 (December 1984 prices).  The need to consider more
than mere cost criteria in project selection would make any suuproject
with a per capita cost of up to US$100 or Col$10,000 (in December 1984
prices and exchan%e rate levels) eligible for Bank financing. Any subproject
with a higher per capita cost would have to be approved by the Bank
through a special justification submitted by INS. In addition to meeting
selection criteria INS would initiate the construction of a project
only if: (a) the community has demonstrated its willingness, by signing
a contract with INS, to participate in the construction of the system
and to pay back a part of the investment cost in accordance with the
community participation and cost recovery requirements adopted for the
project, and (b) local funds are available as required under the component's
financing plan. Assurances were obtained that INS would not begin a
project before the afore-mentioned criteria have been met.
Review of SubDroiects
14.       While the Bank would comment on proposed annual investment
plans on the basis of preliminary information, disbursements for an
individual subproject would be agreed to by the Bank only after review



- 78 -                             ANNEX 2
of project documentation showing that the subproject meets all selection
criteria and is being constructed following the principles and procedures
of the Basic Rural Sanitation Program. Attachment 2 presents a list
of information which INS should prepare for each subproject and deposit
in a file for review by a Bank mission. Assurances were obtained from
INS that it would follow this procedure.
Design Parameters
15.       Among the design parameters which INS engineers use at present
to design rura' water systems, several are unjustifiably high and should
be reduced to make more efficient use of the investment funds available.
In particular, design period and per capita water consumption should
be adjusted. For small systems (less than 1000 people) the design period
vould be reduced to 10 years (currently 20 years for all system components)
for those system components which lend themselves to stage construction
such as storage tanks, treatment plants and to some extent vater mains.
For larger systems INS' engineers will carry out a staging analysis
of the major system components and determine the time horizon which
would result in the least-cost staging of works. Per capita consumption
would be reduced from the current 80 - 150 l/cld range to the 60 - 120
I/Icd range and take into account the climatic conditions and socio-economic
characteristics of the community. Assurances vere obtained from INS
that it would apply the reduced design standards and practices summarized
above.
Community Participation and Cost Recovery
16.       Under the proposed rural water supply project, cost recovery
from commuities is expected to increase in the future from a current
average of 602 to about 70x. Table 3 compares present cost recovery
rates presently used by INS in the Basic Rural Sanitation Program with
those to be applied under the project.
Table 3.  Cost recoverl parameters
To be applied
Existing          under proiect
Initial contribution.
Z of Proiect cost
average                           21.7                  25
range                         10 - 15                15 - 30
Z of project cost to be repaid
average                           60                    70
range                         40 - 70                40 - 80
Renayment conditions
amortization period              15                  10 - 15
interest rate                    6%                  6% - 12%



- 79 -                              ANM  2
The degree of comounity participation and cost recovery will depend
upon the socio-economic capabilities of the beneficiaries. Assurances
were obtained from GOC that the cost recovery parameters in Table 3
would be applied by INS for all water supply projects carried out under
the project, and would be reviewed by June, 1986.
Maintenance and O-eration
17.       Under the Basic Rural Sanitation Program, the comunity is
responsible for the maintenance and operation of the water system through
its water committee. The local INS promoter is responsible for assisting
and supervising community water committees. In the past, INS promoters
have not been able to fully support the promotion and follow-up activities
related to the maintenance and operation of water systems end supplemental
action such as hygiene education, promotion of sanitary excreta disposal
facilities, etc. In supporting a major objective of the Health Services
Integration Project, i.e., the decentralization of the health system
and the encouragement of more local involvement in health care delivery,
the responsibility for supervising the maintenance and operation of
completed systems would be entrusted to the Sanitation Promoter of the
Departmental Health Service. The draft agreement between the Ministry
of Health and INS would spell out clearly the respective responsibilities
between the two institutions regarding maintenance and operation responsibilities
for subprojects financed under the loan.
Procurement
18.       A major obstacle in INS' rural water supply operations have
been cumbersome and inefficient procurement limits and procedures.
For example, the authority of a regional office for contracting civil
works has an upper limit of Col$450,000 (less than US$4,500). INS has
presented to the Bank proposals for more efficient local procurement
arrangements which would be applied during implementation.
Disbursements
19.       The water supply subcomponent has a 6-year implementation
period (1985-91) and would be disbursed in 7 years. For the efficient
implementation of the water supply subcomponent, the establishment of
a special account for the project has been arranged. This account would
reduce the time interval during which INS would have to finance with
its own resources the Bank's share of goods and services.
20.       Disbursement of the Bank loan would be against:
(a) 100l of foreign expenditures for direct imports;
80S of local expenditures for equipment and materials;
(b) 60% of total expenditures of civil works performed
under contract or force account;



-80-                               ANNEM 2
(c) lOOX of foreign expenditures and 802 of local
expenditures for consultant fees and training.
21.       For contracts, whose value is less than US$10,000 equivalent
and civil works carried out by force account, disbursement would be
made against certified statements of expenditure.  Documentation 'or
theme expenditures would not be submitted to the Bank, but retainedI
in INS headquarters for periodic review by the Bank. All other disbursements
would be fully documented. INS would handle disbursement tc: tne rural
water supply subcomponent.
Monitoring. Re2ortinft. and Proiect Supervision
22.       INS would inform the Bank and MOR of progress in project execution
through semi-annual progress reports. Reports would be due September
30 and March 31 of each year. The reports would summarize status of
project execution distinguishing between projects under preparation,
execution and already completed. They would also sunmarize activities
and expenditures related to the technical assistance program and the
preparation of the progress reports would be the comparison of targets
stated in the annual implementation programs and achievements and proposals
describing how delays would be made up. Assurances were sought from
GOC during negotiations that INS would adhere to these reporting proc.dures.
Since a major objective of the water supply subcomponent is to prepare
INS and the rural water supply subsector for increased investment in
the future, LCPWS would take on the responsibility for supervising the
execution of the rural water supply subcomponent in coordination with
PEN.



-81-                      ANNEX 2
ATTACHMENT 1
COLOMBIA
HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
Water Supply Subcomponent
Methodology for the Promotion and Construction of Rural
Water Supply Projects Under the Basic Rural Sanitation Program
Once a community has shown the desire to obtain a water system,
the following five basic steps are followed by INS to satisfy the aspira-
tions of the community:
Phase 1 - Study of the Community involves the preparation of a socio-
economic-cultural profile of the community and its attitude towards sanita-
tion to assess the communities' needs, disposition and capacity towards
participation in the project. During this phase the basic technical data
required for a conceptual design of the system are gathered (water source,
sketch of topographical situation). This work is done by INS' promote-a
and involves the Regional Engineer for technical matters. This phase ends
with informing the community of the general feasibility of the project and
a clear exposition of INS procedures for community participation.
Phase 2 - Preparation and Approval of the Project begins, if the initial
response of the community has been favorable and the prefeasibility of the
project has been affirmed. It involves topographic work, the preparation
of studies and designs and the establishment of a cost estimate. In doing
this, INS' regional engineer, or in sume cases engineering consultants,
follow a clearly defined methodology and format and apply established
design criteria.
Phase 3 - Motivation, Promotion and Organization of the Community uses the
existence of plans and designs as tools to obtain full community support
for the project. There are audio-visual presentations about sanitary prac-
tices and the use of water. Community leaders are being asked to give
their support to the project. There are meetings open to all community
members in which the pros and cons of the project and the need for self-
help are stressed. At the end of this Phase, the community, usually repre-
sented by the President of the Junta de Accion Comunal, will sign an agree-          S
ment with INS which stipulates the following major points:
a) percentage of project cost which the community is to contrib-
ute to the project in labor, cash or materials;



- 82 -                     ANNEX 2
ATTACHMHENT 1
b) the portion of the externally-supplied investment funds
through INAS which is to be repaid and the condition for
repayment;
c) the responosbility of the community to take over the care of
the system once completed and the functions of the (Water Com-
mittee which will be elected by the community to administer,
maintain, and operate the system; and
d) the estimated amount of monthly payments which each household
(cuota familiar) will have to make to meet loan amortization
and operating and maintenance costs.
Phase 4 -_Construction of the System begins only after the signing of the
contract. The community will participate in the works by supplying
materials, providing transportation, making available land and right of
ways, and through labor (pipe laying) under the guidance of a local fore-
man. The construction of more involved facilities (storage tank, treatment
plants) is usually carried out by a local contractor hired by INS or
through force account. In some cases, the community will also provide cash
either collected among themselves or made available by local political
authorities. INS keeps careful records of all community contributions.
Phase 5 - Maintenance and Operation.  Once inaugurated, the system becomes
the property of the community which elects a water committee to administer,
operate, and maintain it. The committee consists of three community
members - a President, Vice-President, and a Treasurer and a fourth member
who is representative of INS (usually the community motivator) who has the
task of assisting the committee in administrative matters and controlling
that the committee follows established procedures. The Committee is
responsible for keeping the books, collecting the cuota familiar, and, if
necessary, employing personnel for maintaining the system. It also decides
on system extensions and new customers.



-83 -                        ANNEX 2
ATTACHMENT 2
COLOMBIA
HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY SUBCOMPONENT
SubproJect Documentation
For each subproject to be financed under the subcomponent, INS
would prepare the following documentation:
(a) a technical and socio-economic project appraisal providing
the following information:
(i) physical characteristics of the community and water
resource conditions, including a schematic map;
(ii) assessment of socio-economic characteristics of the
community and prospects for development;
(iii) assessment of sanitary conditions of the community and
description of sanitary practices;
(iv) forecast of population and water consumption;
(v) description and evaluation of alternatives to supply
the community with water;
(vi) calculation of the estimated cost and economic compar-
ison of feasible alternatives;
(vii) selection and justification of proposal solution and
preparation of detailed cost estimates;
(viii) preparation of financing plan and implementation
program;
(ix) projection of future maintenance and operation costs;
(x) calculation of monthly fee for family (cuota familiar)
required to meet maintenance and operation costs and to
pay back loaned investment funds;
(xi) plan of action for supplemental public health wm<?qsures
to be promoted and implemented by Reg-tonal Hcql-ii Unit
such as excreta disposal and hygiene ed1Lation.



ANNEX 2
- 84 -                      ATTACHMENT 2
(b) final designs and specifications;
(c)  signed agreement between INS and comunity specifying level
of costs recovery in accordance with the principles dofined
for the project;
(d) agreement between INS and the Departmental Health Service
regarding continued assistance to the community and the pro-
motion and implementation of supplementary public health
measures such as excreta disposal and hygiene education; and
(e) project financing plan with commitment by departmental
authorities to make available sufficient counterpart funds.
This documentation would be kept by INS in the project file for
review by Bank supervlsion missions. Disbursements for expenditures per-
taining to an individual subproject would only be made after Bank mission
has reviewed the documentation and expressed agreement to its content,



-85-                     AMNEX 3
COLOMBIA
HEALTH SnRVICES INTECRATION PROJECT
Selected Doguments and DAta Available in Prolect Files
"Proyecto Consolidaci6n del Sistema Nacional de Salud", Solicitud do
Cr&dito Externo Banco Mundial, Ministry of Health, Colombia, February
1984. (Four volumes).
"Colombia, Health Services Integration Project, Water Supply Component
- Staff Working Paper", LCPWS Division, The World Bank, January 1985.
"Colombia Health Sector Review", Population, Health and Nutrition Department,
The World Bau', Report No. 4141-CO, December 15, 1982.
"Analisis Financiero del Sector Salud - Nivel Institucional, 1981",
Oficina de Planeaci6n, Ministry of Health, Colombia, October 1983.
"Colombia, Diagn6stico de Salud - PolSticas y Estrategias", Ministry
of Health, Colombia / Pan American Health Organization, logoti, June
1984.
"Bacia la Equidad en Salud", Plan Nacional 1983-1986, Departamento Nacional
de Planeaci6n/Ministerio de Salud, Bogota, January 1983.
"Memoria al Congreso -- Ministerio de Salud 1983-1984", Jaime Arias,
Bogota, 1984.
"Levels and Recent Trends in Fertility and Mortality in Colombia",
Hanis Zlotnik, Committee on Population and Demography, National Academy
Press, Washington, D.C., 1982.
"Poblaci6n y Horbilidad General (1977-80) - Estudio Nacional de Salud",
Aurelio Pabon Rodriguez, Ministerio Salud/Instituto Nacional de Salud/
Asociaci6n Nacional de Facultades de Medicina, Bogoth, December 1983.
"Bibliografia Anotada sobre Poblaci6n/Planificaci6n Familiar, Colombia",
Asociaci6n Colombiana para el Estudio de la Poblaci6ntCorporaci6n Centro
Regional de Poblacion, Bogota, March 1984.



4-------------------------------------                                                              ------
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- -         --           -                                    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - ---
~~~~~~~~~~~- - - - - - - - - - -- =- -   - - - - - =- - - -  l- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -              i .   
L1 41tSi--------- 1   1                                                                      --- -----
Ii42ll-l---li ji0-------------------
I  XI . I::-
L '    ,L  'ii!{!'tlii,i I             I      =.t'l            !]            ixA ,             2lll 
. - - -               -                                                                     -~~~~~~~~-- - -- - - - - - - -- -  
--                                              .--
VI                          A
ii           I ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~IM 11ii                                  If I*Ij j  -11 
iii --  = ----s--         -~~~~~~~~~---------



It                                     'II               r lii                                          I
~~~~~~1~~~~~          .-                                                                 .                                        



ORGIINIZATION CHART OF INSTITllTO NACTONMA. DE SALUD (INS)
OIRECC10ON
OFICNA DE PLANEAC                      __                         _        OFCIA DE CO-R-INACON 
EPIDEUIOLOGICA-
|OFIINA t_ADICA  
DMSlON LADORATO fI NWDOONAL                 DIVISION  DE                  Dl|WSlN DE SANEAMIENTO              DIVISION ADMINISTRATIVA
DE SAM.SAPSPER IARTINEZ             tNITIOACCES ESPECALES                      BASICO RURAL
SuceI~ido Winpslgw,      5cddm difognali                       Oflidna de PoorurtISmId  oPin
hwetlgackm           g .ifeuwflcia  ,.  y . .    ~ 'w  - .                    y Evokaciin
BMswdmdiPwoic h.                  .   .J  SSn de ElludciJ de PIesupuhsIo
_ QulmIsog                  Socizl  _  Eel  _ t.%tk             _                                          p Contabaidod
sd de " s de D' SocI6n do Pioe P                                                         itn   1d
H  Co.mitIms* SdosJ                                                 I       CCmNJWIO        I            SeccI~n di SiIXC k
s1 w  de       de                                                           de 8lApoov d^n b eAgos  .
AN wbs PAN                                                            de d    SALmue        4
Sfool8md 8bwIdes Bdoslo                                                _        dnLobordwbrdeA_ 
p Asls. ndo    a
_   S BiotCIo t_   'Soeclonales  J



IBRD 
-75                                       744-*                        -mAN_
JAM           -   ~~~~~A,/an,ic
C    O    L  O  M    B  I A                              1L       -- HON,BtAS cahorie      Se?5a   'I    O  v
HEALTH    SERVICES                                    ?*-N ZUALA
INTEGRATION PROJECT                                                                         ' -
ATLANTM                  V .-q                  .                         -t
BRAZIL
Oceo~.    / SOIVIA
'-PANAMA                                                                                    ____           ___i_(
r    ,  -g in- -- - rt                                                                                       --         ',rC  -..#,
.0/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
;  ,~~~T   ANTroQlA  SNrAt8R.                                                      V ;i  r .1  Z VEEU ELAJ
i ,   A TI Qe IBR A8605   XSA           u    R
,x' < . / Q8RD 1860 6u    t                                         '
e~~~~~~~ ;f;X      a           w                   C145f   
C A U C                                                                                       AJ  A   I
S       ; IBR -1860        -          -i
2-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
-O' E   <w C   U A) D         _ R                      
0 5    I150  200  250
z'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SI Cd    IS  2b D                                                         2 _-;g       i| 
\iLOMETERS
AMAZONAS                      -
31}   See IBRD 18001        e    B  R  A   Z  I L
CG     Prlect Depcrrlmer/ 19 Potecl Hocstith RogDs&_     
(b   NctcYolI CoDpCr ol|                                                          E  
ComG.s cmd To.mn _.rb Popular,cm Over 40,00 /- 
*  Mcr.n Hlgh - o7s                 ~~p   E    R    U                  
--Depototrnentol Boundor.&s                  -                       
noternoslonol Boundoius               .4
4*                                                                                                                                  W
7°'                                       74*                               A't;
FERUARY' 19f



COLOMBIA
0 ZZ4                                           ~~~~~NARIFJO
P C F C                                             HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
OC/AA                  A                                                              Health Regions of Ipiales and Tumoco
't t t \_ *'xj~~~~-- .... -.---
.- V                                 ,-1   \-.\,,
^  <    i                                   q     -                    /          C A d /             (
ALTH EION BUDARIES                           0      \                     -                                           
EXISTINGG~~~ASO 
EXISTIMG    EXISTQJO   TO BE
I0BE      To BIE     TO BE    EXPA-OED- A
EXISrNO  CONTRUCTED  EXPANDBRDETAODELED  tE_MODELED
-                                                  REAOINAL HOSPItALS             j                  ' 
*                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~LOCAJL HOSPITALS
A  HEALTH CENPTERS             o
a                 HEALTH POsTS                                                                         - s-
TCrIUE DO FRANSPORT PATIENWS TO REFERRAL -ACIITY 
KIL"CUE"TEES                               ( 20    3  AD    so 
_ altOMETERS - X *D 50 *_ r | _K_T_
O



COLOMBIA
CAUCA
HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
Health Regions of Guapi - Occidente and El Bordo - Sur
PACIFIC  OCEAN                  ~VLE                      DL        C U A          ,
V A    L E    DE L    CAU C  A7O
I>                                     - /  I r5~tJ  1    <   )    T 0 t I M A
S t-/d\~-.--   /?                                                                            ,
GiUAPI-OCCIDENTE
\  s, ,s             POPATAN
I R        --           2                                     /       H U I L A
\' _. '         t                    EL BORDO -SUR
EL, r.& A,,
1         P-sl-   sK-   *\  *t-    ot  )f>~~~~~~~~"P-
rJA7~~~~~~~~~~~ NN'c\v              r       yZ ox v-.^t
-  0   ~~~~~~~~~~~~GI " 
0            fo 20                                Io 0S ..
d ^ aFi.~-.   - g:.'                    5    \     Se
10.  110-
.,  _  ~~~~N,; 
-    SELECTED                d.ADS  A /                                        -
AlPORTS                      N A  R I N C         :        .M.....o.I  7_
RIVERS                                                    5 5  d. V.15
HEALTH REGION BOUNDARIES                        (
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                                                   CA O U E T A
ExISTING                                           f
EXISTiNG   EXISTING   TOI8E -BE
To 8f     MC BE     T0 BE   cXPbNDED &             ty,/r^_^_
EKISTING  CONSTRUCTED EXPANDED  REMODELED  REMODELED O
M  REGIONAL HOSPITALS                    \              -    -
Gil              LOCAL HOSPITALS            |                               ---_ -
HEALTH CENTERS
3 a Q /)         HEALTH POSTS                                          -1         - - D
_  2S-30-  TIME TO TRANSPORT PATIENTS TO REFERRAL FACILITY                   - N.                 -
e I__  -~-.5--   _.,_       o



COLOMBIA
VALLE DEL CAUCA
HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT                                                            R AISARALDA
Health Regions of Cali Buenaventura, Roldanillo and Tulva  ,
EXISTING
EXISTING   EXISTIN   TO BE                                                               t
ro BE     rO BE     Tv BE   EXPANDED &                            f
EXIsriNG  CONSTRUCTED EXPANDED  REMOCELED  REIIODELED                                              (
REGIONAL HOSPITALS
LOCAL HOSPITALS    f
HEALTH CENTERS
9          fw               H~~~~~~~~~EALTH POSTS              LOl    
A- *c- TIME TO TRANSPORT PATIENTS TO REFERRAL FACILITY   J           E DOVIO
SELECTED ROADS                                             LLO             QUINDIo
RIVERS             ". uT.
N                      HEALTH REGION BOUNDARIES              j                 IVA.
| DEPARTMAENT BOtlNDARIES          CA.. Is/
0    10   20    30    40    50
KJtOMETERS                       WK
_1  \                                       / - >        ~~~~~~~~~T U  LUA;  
- <   _. r  a       c H O c  O   CN. c         C. S           TU                 \..
5-1kF                     (.      '--                          S    /Its-]                       \  /       I
PAC I F C                         d AmN,ot
0        tF A N           A-c           .      t m   % I
OCFAN ~ ~ ~
4a S- I s.&.N                                          5                              TOt IM A
A      t   ~~~B U E N A V E N T U R A                          
P PUERTO MERt>ALVE                           J- ---
a             -  -~~~~~A..i. d.
m '-twxo /-' > - (~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A U C A @ -_
>   <                '              .-'                            \           _r_  _  V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4 I    -   ~ ~ ~ ~ _!              ''                                             ,~~~~__-rD



1111 1I601
.~~~~~~~~~~~ILI                           ._IO   .              .                                                  INRAIIIS
.    }                  COlOMIIA                                           _--- OMSI
&..e..£   ~                               HAEMNNAMAZONAS                  H
HEALH SERVICES  INTEGRATION   ROJECT 
<            ~~~~~~~Health Region of Leticia          L;t@                                                 uP 
PUTUMAY{                                                                                              '
ft -  .t> 
~ 1
P E R U            
- -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R
AW\    \    X Nf
To u  to II    TO it  I                                                                                    . AN a
fAslN  COSNCI 9APND(  REOIL,11M
(I   ,  X  ,\\       \A \, 
tOA    OPFI                                                            m
0,0l OtOSltII                                                                                    lAD- d  littOelI  lfAODlrm      
0~~~~~~HAI REGION ONAIII             IL,^ +,                           \   \ P      1P¢  |"IO 
oft~~wrw"*..ft                IN~~tINIONAL HOUNlAl5M                                       \ \ \!          \IS    
+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FSUI Illsr / A\ X



IBRD 18607
COLOMBIA
NARlNO  _-    o                                                                                                          PUTUMAYO
C9L0  ¶& P^t°@41o<,0   OCOA;           CAUCA                                           HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
| . Mflt                                                                 CA OU E TAHealth Region of Mocoa
EXISTING
EXISTING    EXISTING      TO BE
A - ?H#.f jVmin                                    ~~~~~TO 8!    TO BE       TO BE    EXPANDED &
\   \<9SPt.Urbtio j  ES x7mfn        I                EXISTING CONSTRUCTED EXPANDED  REMODELED  REMODELED
0 \[ I 78MS m                                                                                                       REGIONAL HOSPITALS
b   \   qlItO   A   f  lOm«n  Maiorore    LOCAL HOSPITALS
,H,icede5,\   ° ' - 20 mon                                  A                              '    @            3      HEALTH CENTERS
Ion' Pdro              I - 70mIA                                                                                                           HEALTH POSTS
TIME TO TRANSPORT PATIENTS TOREFERRAL FACILITY
di4   Re  *        t  o  Hmugo                                                                                                                           -      SELECTED  ROADS
de Sects brow    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~   ~ AIRPORTS
p  j 7<\A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                        RIVERS
to 0L  Oeiu<, s >                                                                  HEALTH REGION BOUNDARIES
E CUADOR                                                              D                                                       DEPARTMENrTOUNDARIES
-.  ===N_- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Rums wrow sas*, wqtag "&
FM Ire cenomw    ait 04 
naduo fmis ooot M ft
C&xb  ne dow-11bors                                                                                                P E R U\ ...
-WW   bmdoban  *m                      tO   10 40   10  10   1
iw ab Th Jrut m*  Vs                                                KIkCMRT_RS                                                             _
t hVuarnr Fum COt WI SM                                                                                                                                                         '     D
AIV Pd"t d" fdt WM tIllt
I ur t  nc,.0ru as _org sem
of vlwyeity eatsy
ernt:,   W or  _ s rptc_a                                                                                                                                                      AMAZONAS
FEBRUARY 1965



COLOMBIA
SANTANDER :
HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
Health Region of Son Gil
O,  10  20   30  40                       C ESAR
KILOMEIERS_.                              .
\   N~~~
< -........, < ...... *NO R TE  DE
, /   u         '--5 \              ls   ~~SANTANDER
SOLIVAR                             +
sf~~~~~~i IIE-.M..
A N T I O O U I A                   A IMF                                    ) .-/
I K.JRES
I 1ff. 30 ..-.
p noi~-
o .mo w=                   +.1 ..fs                       \      f
\     4                                     oJ                t            r-/  '°t^'^ |~:J 
s-5~~~                                ~~~~~~~ 3  0   ).-
* 5                                ( r{     ./                    SELECTED ROADS
/ t~     *    (,.J                t     AIRPORTS
\.!    ~~~~~~~  ~RIVERS
-)  {   " f  -   HEALTH RECGON ROUNDARIES
El o YOA C A    '                                                      -     DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
EXISTING
EXISTING   EXISTING    TO BE
to BE     TO BE      TORBE   EXPANOEDS
EXISTING  CONSTRUCTED  EXPANDED  REMODELED  REMODELED
REGIONAL HOSPITAtS
*          *                 LOCAL HOSPITALS
(31                          HEALTH CENTERS
c                                                                                                     HEALTH POSTS
. _ . _ . n _  T wr ritME TO TRANSPORT PATIENTS TO REFERRAL FACILITY
-o  -_ _ tAA* -             _8., gf.   .                                                                               o
'A                                                                                                                     0I0 



COLOMBIA
Ji                                          CORDOBA
Car,bbea,' Soa                                                   \-  HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
S k  ~4  + / f   Q    Health Regions of Monteria and Lorica
I.Cm~~~'H
r-~~~~~~ 
ClM.L         J.Nd'
(.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
.e\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   .d... '/  
(                             . \    1LTMHEG.ON OJ*'ALT
{~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j 2i _oaoN AI
Pk. !                                                  N
< 0.    J*.                           ......*.....!           .           .           .           .          .          A...  POS .T
-  ~~~~  ~~                  A N T 10 CU I A                      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~   ~0 tRASoR PAI0T TO REERl0FCLt
/L                                                                                                   KILOMETERS
I 9s {.ss ' _ _ W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EALITH REG.oN BOUNDARIES
g _ t \ _/ o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EPARTllEffE BOUNDARIES
(  \                    [                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTINGC  EXIST NG   TOofB
2         ~~~~TO BE    re BE    To BEY  EXPANDED A
i        }                  J                         .    Ewl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISTIkC COhlSTMRUCED EXPANDED WEMODBIEO REBiorED
.~~          ~        ~       ~      ~~~~                ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ M  - >*@      IE-4ON   HOSPITALS'
\~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                                   t    LoA N  OC- HnTALS    T
D  ..  ..  _,,_¢,r,_,,,,_,. .............................. <9~4                          21             NIEAL,T POSTS C
_ .=~~~ .___  "~~~~~^  _._ ~~A N T I10 0 U I A                                _          TIME go TPAN-SPORT PATENTS TO RtEFEIMFAIIAE TYllL



CARIOBEANan"'COLOMBIA
U-      
S f A         - /  l\'                                                        ANTIOQUIA
HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
Health Regions of Medellin, Uroba, La Meseta
Bajo Cauca, and Magdalena Medio
ha t            ....  C O  R D Osn Ak,
-  URU; ;  S  eJ~~URSA                                                  p2
3f10 NNS
a~~~~ IA' Z "                                             CAUC         A         a    g      BOLtI VA R
1\  *9  I- -    aue s  I r  
C H O C O  - Xt A  A PASETAA                                   /                    _o                         4r
r  7               /                                i  \r
i 1 ) q 2t lft 5 A N      J ANJD ES                                                                                    R
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DLI
N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MEDL L N
a i -                                                                                             OY.ACA
0   020 30 40  50
MEDELLIN                                                  ,,                                                | IOIMETLERS
_-       N {\                         2              >                 +     SELECTED ROADS
p3 an-. ..JL. a;                                                         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
.aS .re_  w ,                                                                       - !   _   _HEALTH REGION ROWdOARIES
(h  Sv....                                 Y ,  -7\ _,._--   --         t..J -* c-AL DA                   DEPARTMENI BOUNDANES
EXISTING
a  ~  n -s   a  a3s                                     EXISTING   EXISTING  10 RE
a S                                                           10--  OBE toB  To RE   EXPANDED &
t2X!oa              a,1....±EXISTING  CONSTRUCTED EXPANDED  REMODtLED  REMODELED
C..,           - ..,~*                  U____sw w                                      REGIONAL HOSPITALS
a-                                                                   S         S A_   ;   . _ _   e   *   *   i  tLOCAL HOSPITALS
4      r.±. 5            _S--             _ ,              £                                              0 HEALTH CENTERS
n > g <-gt-_ s 49 @ HEALTH POSTS
-  ,..- -_                  ^'-     --  "    ;_
D I      _       Afler.c..                         2' -O.- TIME 10 TRANSPORT PATIENrTS TO REFERRAL FACILITY O
g0                      __,,                  -Se      -.                                                                                S
t                                                                                                                                        0



COLOMBIA
(  g                    ->                                  CHOCO
HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
Health Region of Istmino
2                  \:  Ns-§
A  N T I 0 0 U I A
4~~~~~~~~~~~~
N
TO E      flOSE      lOSEC   EXPANDELIA
, EXISING CONSTNUCTED ERPANDED  REMAODELED  EXEMODEkED
.         *XREGIONAL HOSPITALs
\ .   d                                                    iP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4)    ICXAI OSPIFALS
H E^iTgI CENIERS
t                                       I~                'ALI" POSTS
TIME TO TRANSPORI PATIENIS 10 REFERRAL FACLETl
SELECTED ROiDS
t     AIRPORTS
RIVE.R5
- -    EALTh gEGION BOUNDARIES
DEPARIMENI SOUNDARIES
L-  INIERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
IL~~~~~
N T                    R.                             0A  R      ID   2 0   I0  O   S O
I,                   /t                          OUIIIDO                 ! (oMtr
f  -  -'           I   t
V A L L E                  UA
x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ n- j, -r 
NA Cy   I                ,,--
) ~~~~                                                                        ---- -  0 _&
'0






