D_cument of
The World Bank
IYlR oMcFIIL USE ONLY
bè/J2 w?//- co
Repe No. P-4128-CO
o                                    REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUT'rE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUY. EQUIVALENT TO US$36.5 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
a
July 8, 1985
The  d     ucmnt    lb a ncOddbdumy  metd hwy be wedby  withopk   odJ i tnhe Peaonrlzat dO
.' ''' tIdr ofd   oml  oemn   not lerwse be d_|bde wi*w   adBn  ubr=ln



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit     -       Colombian Peso (ColS)
Col$101.8         -       US$1.00 (1984 average)
Col$135.00        =       US$1.00 (Exchange Rate Effective
May 15, 1985)
Col$1.00          =       US$0.0074 (Exchange Rate Effective
May 15, 1985)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CI        -  Camites Interseccionales
(Zonal Coordinating Units)
DNP       -  Departamento Nacional de Planeacion
(National Planning Department)
DSBR      -  Division de Saneamiento Basico Rural
(Division of Basic Rural Sanitation)
FNH       - Fondo Nacional Hospitalario
(National Hospital Fund)
ICBF      -  Iastituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar
(Colombian Institute of Family Welfare)
INS       -  Instituto Nacional de Salud)
(National Institute of Health)
ISS       -  Instituto de Seguros Sociales
(Social Security Institute)
MOH       - Ministerio de Salud
(Ministry of Health)
SBR       -  Saneamiento Basico Rural
(Basic Rural Sanitation)
SSS       -  Servicio Seccional de Salud
(Departmental Health Seivices)
UPA       - Unidad Primaria de Atencion
(Primary Care Unit)
UR        - Unidad Regional
(Health Region)



- i -                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Colombia
Executing Agency:  Ministry of Health
Amount:            US$36.5 million equivalent
Terms:              17 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project
Description:       The objectives of the project consist of:  (i) providing
improved access to basic health services including family
planning to 3.7 million Colombians living in the poorest
areas along the Pacific Coast; (ii) assisting 250 communi-
ties with access to uiped water supply and to waste dis-
posal; (iii) strengthening the rural water supply subsec-
tor through technical assistance to INS, and the prepara-
tion of a National Rural Water Supply Plan; Civ) intro-
ducing systemic changes in the organization and provision
of health services through decentralization of service
delivery and integration of all health activities at the
lowest level; and (v) providing a cost-effective service
delivery model covering 14Z of the population which would
be replicable to the entire sector. Achievement of these
objectives would be supported by (a) the construction and
expansion of health care facilities, water systems and
latrines; (b) a training program; (c) the implementation
of timely information systems on service statistics and
cost data; and (d) a set of policy and research studies.
The project is expected to reduce mortality and morbidity
of women of childbearing age, infants and children, to
increase contraceptive prevalence and to make significant
changes in the way the health sector is organized and
provides services.
Project Risks:     The project faces the risk inherent in the need for
cooperation between several agencies that provide health,
population and nutrition services, water supply, construc-
tion services, and equipment maintenance. This risk is
being minimized through the strengthenlng of the regional
management capacity, through technical cooperation by more
developed to less developad health regions, by organizing
the project into four geographic areas, each one headed by
a coordinator, and by interagency cooperation agreements.
The risk of delayed acceptance or utilization of the
health services to be provided by the project should be
mitigated by emphasis on recruitment and training of local
primary health workers who would work directly with the
comunity.
I This document has a restried ditibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
the iroffica duites. Its contents may not oterwie be dicosed without World Bank authorzaton.



- ii -
Local   Foreign  Total
~US NillGon)=-
Estimated Project Costs:
A. Personal Health Care
lealth Service Delivery                  21.9     7.4      29.3
Cowmunity Education                       1.3     0.1       1.5
Maintenance                               0.6     0.8       1.3
Subtotal                                 23.8     8.3      32.1
B. Environmental Health Service
Rural Water Supply Services               6.9     4.4      11.3
Vector Control                            4.4     0.5       4.9
National Rural Water Supply Plan          1.4      1.1      2.5
Subtotal                                 12.7     6.0      18.7
C. Institutional Development
Sector Management                         3.7     0.8       4.5
Laboratory Support                        1.0      3.2      4.2
Information System                        0.8     0.5       1.3
Research                                  3.6     0.1       3.7
Subtotal                                  9.1     4.6      13.7
Base Cost                                   45.5    18.9      64.4
Contingencies:
Physical                                  1.5      1.6      3.1
Price                                     5.0     3.3       8.3
Total project cost                          52.0    23.8      75.8
Financing Plan
IBRD loan                                   21.7    14.8      36.5
Government                                  20.2     -        20.2
Suppliers' credits                           -        9.0      9.0
ISS                                          5.1     -         5.1
User fees                                    5.0     -         5.0
Total                                       52.0    23.8      75.8



:4   -  .  '   :    -   ^:  :      ' I'            '
- iil-                /
Estimated                                        US$ Millions
Disbursements:      Bank FY          1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
Annual           2.0   3.3   5.1   7.1   8.2   7.0   3.8
Cumulative       2.0   5.3  10.4  17.5  25.7  32.7  36.5
Rate of return:     Not applicable
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 5532-CO, dated June 18. 1985.
IBRD Map:           No. 18785
..



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE
HEALTE SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Colombia for the equivalent of US$36.5 million to
help finance a Health Services Integration Project.  The loan would have a
term of 17 years, including four and one-half years of grace, with interest
at the Bank's standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Colombia in July 1982 and its report
(4444-GO) was distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1983. A
mission to review the external sector and agriculture visited Colombia
during April/May 1983, and its report (4981-CO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in April 1984. Country data sheets are presented in
Annex I.
Background
3.        The Colombian economy has made considerable progress since the
early 1950s. From a largely rural and agricultural base, the economy has
evolved into one that is more integrated, with a greater urban-industrial
and services orientation today. The growing economic activity, rapid
rural-urban migration, together with the increased participation of women
in the labor force and expanded public services, have been instrumental in
reducing poverty and improving income distribution over time. Financial
and capital marekets have evolved pari passu with the growing needs of the
economy, and the country has become an active participant in internati=oal
capital markets. State enterprises are few, follow on the whole adequate
pricing policies, and many have some form of private sector participatLon.
The country's energy balance has been changing in recent years and Colombia
is expected to become a net petroleum exporter in 1986 and Co become
increasingly an exporter of thermal coal.
4.        In the 1950s and early 1960s, development policy favored import
substitation supported by high tariff protection. By the mid-1960s, the
prospects for further import substitution were substantially reduced, and
the country was confronted with great economic uncertainty, arising from
the fact that economic activity and the balance of payments were heavily
influenced by developments in the world coffee market. In order to ease
this constraint, beginning in 1967 the autho-rtties adopted an outward-look-
ing development strategy, expanding and diversifying exports. Export promo-
tion policies, including frequent small devaluations of the peso, export



-2-
tax rebates and other incentives were introduced and the authorities began
lowering tariffs somewhat and relaxing capital market controls as a means
of raising efficiency and increasing the profitability and competitiveness
of Colombian goods in external markets. These measures were highly
successful in relieving the foreign exchange constraint and stimulating
growth and employment. However, by 1974 the economy was once again
experiencing difficulties caused primarily by the world recession and by
excessive Central Bank financing of the Central Government's deficit.
A. Economic Performance During the 1970s
5.        In late 1974, the Government introduced measures to correct
policy weaknesses. Before these reforms were fully effective, the economy
was subjected to strong inflationary pressures from a sharp increase in
world coffee prices. The increased coffee export receipts, together with
some official surrender of foreign exchange from illegal exports, caused a
turn-around in the balance of payments. Incomes rose rapidly and stimul-
ated aggregate demand; inflation accelerated. Unemployment fell substan-
tially, both in rural and urban areas. Largely as a consequence of
increased coffee tax revenues, the public finances generated overall
surpluses averaging about 1Z of GDP during the 1976-78 period and, by the
end of 1979, net official international reserves had risen to about US$4.1
billion, equivalent to ahout 12 months of imports of goods and non-factor
services.
6.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom had
some negative effects. The rate of currency devaluation was slowed and the
conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to moderate the growth
of domestic demand, with adverse effects on non-coffee export expansion and
diversification. Also, the Government sought to control inflation by main-
taining high reserve requirements and expanding controls over credit there-
by reducing, in real terms, the financing available to the private sector
through the official capital market.
7.        The 1977-79 economic program was partially successful in
restraining aggregate demand growth, but relatively high inflation
persisted. In response to the increasing restraint on aggregate demand and
troublesome financial market distortions, the authorities began in late
1979 to adjust their program. The rate of peso devaluation was advanced
somewhat, and, in early 1980, credit restraints were relaxed.  At the same
time, interest rates on certificates of deposit-and on lending therefrom-
were freed from controls. To offset the inflationary effects of these
measures, the authorities further liberalized import payments and adopted             -
the policy of not expanding the subsidized selective credit operations of
the Central Bank in excess of the resources captured from private savings
for this purpose. The effects of the above measures were not immediately
noticeable. Real GDP growth decelerated to 4% in 1980 from an average of
almost 6X since 1960, unemployment started to creep up, and inflationary
pressures continued.
B. Recent Economic Developments
8.        In 1981 the economic situation took a turn for the worse, and the
problems continued through 1983. Real GDP growth, which had slowed down to



-3
2.5% in 1981, fell to about 12 on average in 1982 and 1983. Agricultural
output was hard-hit as a result of low international prices, reduced
fertilizer use and adverse weather. Industrial activity deteriorated on
account of depressed aggregate demand, and unutilized capacity continued to
increase, particularly in manufacturing. Uneaployment reached almost 14%
of the labor force at the end of the year, up from about 7% at the end of
1981. Inflation, however, slowed down in 1983 to a 20X average for the
year, down from 28% in 1981 and 252 in 1982.
9.        After experiencing a surplus for six years, a deficit of about
US$1.4 billion emerged in the resource balance in 1981 and it increased to
an average of about US$1.8 billion in 1982-83. These deficits resulted
mainly from a drop in exports in real terms: in addition to domestic
factors, major reasons were the slowdown in world demand, major devalua-
tions and import restrictions in neighboring countries, and the reduction
of Colombia's coffee exports from their previous high levels. Net foreign
exchange reserves declined by about US$1.8 billion in 1983 to about US$3.1
billion, equivalent to about 6 months of imports of goods and non-factor
services. On the fiscal side, a slowdown in revenue growth, together with
increased current expenditures resulting from automatic transfers and
large infrastructure investments in energy and transport led to growing
deficits: the overall Central Government cash deficit grew from 2.1% of
GDP in 1980 to 4.1% in 1983, while that of the consolidated public sector
rose from 3.62 to 7.0X.
10.      TI 1983 the Government introduced policies to stimulate aggregate
demand, expand and diversify non-coffee exports, and resume economic
growth. The rate of peso devaluation was accelerated; the housing con-
struction industry was provided with incentives to mobilize an increasing
amount of resources; and selective credit operations to the productive
sectors were expanded. Temporary import restrictions were introduced to
arrest the falling foreign exchange reserves, with a view to being lifted
once the real exchange rate improved and exports responded to this
incentive. The Government also adopted measures to reduce the fiscal
deficit and ease distortions and restrictions in the financial system.
While the thrust of these measures was in the right direction, they were
insufficient to reverse the deteriorating trends. At the same time, the
country began to be affected by the tight international capital market.
Colombia, unlike other Latin American countries, has not had a debt problem
because of the high share of concessional debt in total debt outstanding
and the term structure of such debt. Nevertheless, the overall Latin
American debt problem produced a rapid and sharp reduction in the credit
lines available to Colombia and difficulties in obtaining medium-term loans
needed to complete ongoing projects, which contributed in turn to further
declines in foreign exchange reserves and to strains in the financial
system.
11.       As a result of the Government's initiatives, a reversal of the
deteriorating trends began to take place in 1984 with a resumption of
growth in manufacturing and non-coffee agriculture and an expansion in
exports. At the same time Government policy focused on demand management
and emphasized the approval of additional revenue and expenditure measures
to contain the fiscal deficit and tighten monetary expansion. In parallel,
the Government accelerated the exchange rate devaluations,further increased



-4-
incentives to exports, and acted to improve the profitability of the com-
mercial banking system's operations and to resolve the external debt
problems of the private sector. The policy reforms began to take hold
during the second half of 1984. Real GDP growth increased to 3.1%, the
unemployment rate fell to 132 of the labor force at year's end while infla-
tion was brought down to 16.42 on average in 1984. Export performance
improved, with total merchandise exports growing at over 16T in nominal
terms compared to 1983; the current account deficit in the balance of pay-
ments was reduced by about US$1 billion to 5% of GDP. The losses in
foreign exchange reserves, which had accelerated during the first half of
1984, were reduced during the second half of 1984 and reserves remained at
about US$1.8 billion, equivalent to about 4 months of imports of goods and
non-factor services.
Current Development Strategy
12.       The Government's strategy for accomplishing its development
objectives is set forth in the 1983-86 National Development Plan. This
strategy emphasizes growth with equity for the purpose of expanding the
benefits of development to Colombia's population. The strategy also places
high priority on the resumption of growth while maintaining price
stability. Thus the Government is reorienting its trade policies toward an
outward-looking growth to take advantage of medium-term trade prospects.
In addition, efficient programming of the public sector investments and
rational pricing policies are to serve as instruments to support sound
medium-term development. In the meantime short term stabilization require-
ments and continued mediumrterm adjustments have become necessary in view
of the abovementioned macroeconomic problems. A stabilization cum adjust-
ment program has been initiated. Aspects of the program that have become
explicit especially for 1985-86 are spelt out below.
13.       Fiscal Policy.  In addition to those in effect during 1984, the
19B55-86 program comprise additional measures to eliminate deductions in the
income tax, a broader base for the value-added tax, an increase in stamp
taxes and an additional temporary 8% import tax, which together should
result in an additional Col$55.5 billion in revenues during 1985. Addi-
tional measures-whose revenue effect has not been fully estimated-have
been approved by Congress. Public sector salaries approved for 1985 imply
an average salary reduction of about 10% in real terms. Public sector sib-
sidies in transport have been reduced and a scaling down of the investment
program has begun. Additional expenditure measures, expected to be in
effect in 1985, will bring a decline in the rate of increase of Central
Government transfers to local governments, the streamlining of decentral-
ized agencies and expenditure controls. The combined effect of the revenue
and expenditure policies is projected to lower significantly the overall
cash deficit of the Central Government to 2.4% of GDP in 1985 and some 2%
of GDP in 1986 from an estimated 4.5% of GDP in 1984. Combined with the
scaling down of the public investment program and real increases in
revenues of public enterprises (in part as a result of tariff policy), the
overall public sector deficit is projected to decline from an estimated
7.3% of GDP in 1984 to 4.6% in 1985 and 3% in 1986.
14.       Investment Program. The scaling down of the investment program
includes the postponement or cancellation of all new large scale power



-5-
generation and a number of large transport projects. The revised program,
which implies containing public sector investment to about 9.4% of GDP
during 1985-86 compared to 10.5% during 1983-84, consists largely of
projects which are already in execution or for which loans have been con-
tracted. The investment program is dominated by rhe mining and power
sectors.  The mining investments of nearly US$1.8 billion include
ECOPETROL's petroleum production and development program, in association
with foreign partners and CARBOCOL's ongoing El Cerrejon Coal project; a
joint vent-ure with EX2ON. Both would contribute to a significant increase
in export earnings from 1987 onwards.
15.       Monetary Policy. A cash deficit of about Col$108 billion on
average during 1985-86 will allow for a reduction in monetary financing to-
the public sector from the high 1984 level of about Col$150 billion.
Central Bank financing of the deficit will be kept to about Col$45 billion
annually during 1985-86, rising modestly in nominal terms thereafter. This
would permit the banking system to expand credit to the private sector in
line with the growth in nominal GDP. Such an outcome would reduce the
pressure in the growth of the monetary base during a period when no major
fall in reserves can be sustained. With year-end levels of reserves at
about US$1.8 billion in 1985 and around US$2.1 billion in 1986, a fiscal
policy as discussed above and a moderate expansion of credit to the private
sector, the growth in the monetary base can be kept to about 22-24%
annually. With no significant changes in the money multiplier, the growth
in money supply would also be of this magnitude, or in line with the
expected growth of nominal GDP.
16.       Exchange Rate Policy. After years of steady appreciation, the
Colombian peso depreciaten in real terms against the US dollar by a large
margin during 1983-84. Given the rapid appreciation of the US dollar
against other major currencies, however, the peso depreciation against a
basket of relevant currencies was much more modest. Nevertheless, a trade
weighted index indicates a gain of less than 10% in 1984 on average,
raising the index to about 82 compared to a mid-1970s base and further
improvements are expected in 1985.
17.       Import Policy.  The persistence of external resource g.s during
1983-84 forced the Government to rely on quantitative restrictions. Mind-
ful of the resource misallocation effects of quantitative restrictions,
however, the Government intends to undertake their phased elimination,
beginning with the removal of all import controls on inputs and inter-
mediate goods for exports. In addition, average nominal tariff rates which
were fairly stable during 1979-81, increased in 1983, and again substan-
tially in 1984, including an increase in the dispersion. Though temporary,
these developments will require policy actions for the reduction of both
the dispersion and the levels o' tariffs.
18.       Foreign Borrowing Strategy.  A reversal in capital inflows is
required: even with the reduction in the current account deficit, gross
disbursements from newly committed and already signed commercial bank
financing of about US$535 million will be needed to stabilize reserves in
1985. The projected pattern of gross disbursements indicates an increasing
dependence in relative terms on official sources of finance (multilateral
institutions, bilateral development agencies and export credit agencies) in



-6-
recognition of the country exposure constraints with external commercial
banks. M4ore than half of the new commitments and disbursements during
1985-86, including the additional commercial bank resources requested,
would be for the productive sectors. In order to support the expansion of
the trade sector, it is also estimated that the country will require main-
tenance of the short-term credit lines available from its major external
bank creditors at levels prevailing at the end of 1984, roughly US$1.5
billion.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
19.       With a successful adjustment during 1985-86, Colombia's growth
prospects for the rest of the decade will be reasonably good. The current
account deficit of the balance of payments is projected to average US$1.3
billion per year during 1985-86, equlvalent to about 3.9% of GDP. The
deficit is projected to be financed by increasing disbursements of existing
and projected public and publicly-guaranteed and private sector loans and
by direct foreign investment. By the end of this period, net official
international reserves would have been maintained at a level of about four
and a half m.onths of imports of goods and non-factor services. This should
be sufficient to support an average growch of real GDP of 2.5% during
1985-86. Total investment will lave to be maintained at about 18.5% of GDP
to complete energy and mining projects; and to avoid too large an increase
in foreign indebtedness, gross domestic savings would need to average about
182 of GDP compared to 16.4% during 1981-84, with the public sector
generating a significant part of the additional savings. Beyond 1986, real
GDP growth should resume at near historical rates, about 52 per year on
average. The current account deficit should also improve rapidly from 1987
on as a result of increasing export proceeds from new non-traditional
exports (particularly crude petroleum and coal).
20.       Total gross external medium- and long-term capital requirements
(including the private sector) are projected to total about US$5.3 billion
for the 1985-86 period, for an annual average requirement of about US$2.6
billion. Net foreign investment is expected to aczount for US$750 million
during 1985-86, most of which -would flow into the country to complete
existing energy projects. This should provide about 14% of the gross
external financing required. Of the remaining 86% (US$4.5 billion) about
US$3.5 billion, has been either committed or is expected to be secured from
multilateral and bilateral sources, while the difference, of the order of
US$1 billion, will need to be borrowed abroad from commercial banks mainly
to complete petroleum and coal projects for export. At the end of 1984,
Colombia's public and publicly guaranteed medium- and long-term external
debt disbursed and outstanding amounted to US$8.1 billion, equivalent to
22.32 of GDP. The Bank/IDA share of this external debt was 22.5% which is
expected to increase somewhat during 1985-86 reflecting the rapid disburse-
ment of the proposed loan. The public debt service ratio in 1984 was 28.5%
and is expected to peak at about 33% in 1986 and then decline gradually to
30% in 1990. The World Bank's share in public debt service is expected to
be less than 23% during 1985-86. With sound economic and financial manage-
ment and the development of new export activities referred to above,
Colombia is expected to maintain its creditworthiness through and beyond
the 1985-90 period.



-7-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
21.       The proposed loan, the 113th to be made to Colombia, wouid bring
the total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$4,792.3 million (net of
cancellations). Of this amount the Bank held, as of March 31, 1985,
US$3,383.8 million;  IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in
1961.  Disbursements have been completed or 70 loans and the IDA credit.
Before 1979, disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, but
had increased to US$286 million in FY84, reflecting the higher level of
commitments in the late 1970s. While disbursements in Colombia have been
slower than those recorded in the Latin American Region for similar pro-
jects, concentrated efforts to overcome problems to initiate project execu-
tion have resulted in a significant increase in disbursements during FY83
and FY84. Improvtng performance of social sector institutions in the
execution of Bank-financed projects, the gradual containment of inflation-
ary pressures and the effects of the recently-introduced fiscal reforms,
which should improve counterpart funding, all point to a higher level of
disbursements in the future. IFC has made investments and underwriting
commitments of US$144.0 million in 29 enterprises and as of March 31, 1985,
it held US$67.5 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, the IDA credit and IFC investments as of March 31, 1985.
22.       Since the initial loan was made in 1949, Bank lending to Colombia
has become quite diversified. Although through the mid-1960s, 88Z of the
loans made were for power or transport, since then the Bank has broadened
its participation in lending for agriculture and industry, and initiated
lending for irrigation and watershed management, education, water supply,
telecommunications, urban development and nutrition. By the late 1970s,
53% of the loans made to Colombia were for projects other than transport
and power. Of the loans made since 1978, 36% were for power and transport,
17X for industry, 192 for agriculture and irrigation, 8% for water supply,
6% for urban, 4% for telecommunications, 2! each for petroleum development
and export diversification and 6% for education, nutrition and multipurpose
projects. The diversification was indeed a desirable aim as it helped
provide close contact rtth a broader range of Colombia's development
problems. The experience gained has served to identify areas in which the
Bank's role can only be a marginal one and, thus, to enable lending to be
focussed upon sectors in which the Bank's presence can have a meaningful
impact.
23.       The Bank's dialogue with the Government through its lending
activity has focussed upon the need to mobilize additional domestic
resources, to diversify and expand exports, to develop rapidly the
country's energy resources, and to free the economy from excessive
controls. The discussions involved fiscal, interest rate and pricing
policies, as we,l as incentives for exports and reduction in the level of
effective protection. Positive results have been obtained particularly in
the power sector, where power rates were increased sharply and a least-cost
expansion was formulated and launched. Similar results have been achieved
in respect of some other public services, including appropridte charges for
water for irrigation and domestic use and petroleum prices.



-8-
24.       In lending to Colombia, the Bank has been supporting the
Government's efforts to maintain sustained economic growth with financial
stability, expanded and diversified exports, increased dependence on
domestic sources of energy, provision of key infrastrncture, and improve-
ment of living conditions of the poor. More recently, in response to
Colombia's having undertaken a graduL adjustment process to expand and
diversify non-coffee exports and to resume growth, the thrust of the Bank's
support has shifted towards strengthening the Government's programs, by
enhancing the effectiveness of resource use, and giving priority to quick-
yielding investments. Within this framework, special attention has been
given to loans which would finance directly productive activities, such as
agriculture and industry, support efforts to raise overall productivity,
income and employment, increase and diversify exports and help develop
renewable sources of energy through lending for hydropower and arranging
associated cofinancing. The emphasis is being placed on operations geared
towards productive sectors and essential infrastructure development which
would: (i) increase output rapidly; (ii) reorient production towards
exports and efficient import-competing goods; (iii) support quick-yielding
infrastructure investments, particularly those that enable the use existing
facilities more intensively; and (iv) increase resource mobilization.
Loans recently approved by the Board, and a number of operations at an
advanced stage of preparation, reflect this overall dircetion.
25.       The Bank's lending in FY85 consisted of loans for agricultural
diversification, small-scale industry, petroleum, development banking,
water supply and sewerage and trade policy and export diversification
totalling US$707.5 million. The trade policy project is designed to
support the first phase of trade policy adjustments in Colombia. In FY86
and beyond, the emphasis on directly-productive projects will continue.
Work is underway on projects for irrigation rehabilitation, agricultural
technology transfer, trade and agricultural policy, petroleum and elec-
tricity development, and vocational training. In infrastructure, the Bank
is stressing rehabilitation, modernization and a more intensive use of the
existing facilities in ports rehabilitation, water supply and electricity
distribution projects, and rural feeder roads. Finally, several projects
in preparation will also support the Government's efforts to help the
poorer segments of the Colombian population. Along with the project
described in this report, proposed lending for further rural development,
agricultural credit, and water supply and sewerage, will help improve the
standard of living of the poor, while being designed to make better use of
existing capacity and reduce losses.
26.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex
I. While IBRD, IDB and bilateral sources provided about 75X of total
external financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has
decreased since then to some 49% for the 1975-82 period and is expected to
decline further to about 40% of external capital requirements during the
eighties. IDB has given increased emphasis to energy-related projects, in
addition to those for low-cost housing, urban and rural development,
agrarian reform, university education, water supply, rural electrification
and land erosion control, which are aimed at improving living standards of
the lower-income population. In the future, it proposes to assist Colombia
in developing sources of domestic energy and in expanding productive sector



-9-
activities to help generate increased employment. USAID has supported pro-
grams in education, rural development and small farm development, but is
phasing out its program in Colombia. The Government of Canada, the Federal
Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have also provided concessional
financing for basic needs and regional integration projects.
PART III - THE HEALTH SECTOR
Background
27.       Health conditions in Colombia, as measured by life expectancy and
infant mortality rates, are about average for a middle-income country but
vary greatly among regions and income groups. Since the start of the 1960s
average life expectancy has increased from 53 to 64 years and, in response
to improved nutrition, water and sanitation and health care, general and
infant mortality have declined by about half. A sharp decline in fertility
accompanied the mortality decline. Two-thirds of the population has access
to piped water, and about two-fifths has sewerage connection. Despite
these advances, however, Colombia continues to face serious health
problems, including malnutrition. For the country as a whole, the most
pressing problems are high infant and child mortality resulting from malnu-
trition and infectious diseases, and high morbidity and mortality of women
related to childbirth, especially among lower income groups and in certain
regions. It is estimated that at present only three-quarters of the
population have ready access co health services. This low service coverage
and the high infant and child morbidity rates contrast with the significant
resources the country spends on health care. This attests to inefficien-
cies in the system and to a neglect of the most cost effective preventive
medical interventions (see para. 33).
28.       Most of the unserved population live on the Pacific Coast, and to
a lesser extent on the Atlantic Coast. The high mortality and morbidity
rates amongst this population mostly reflect low immunization levels as
well as deficient nutritional status and poor environmental conditions.
The primary causes of excessive death and disease in infants and children
are related to these poor environmental conditions, especially the absence
of safe water, excreta disposal, waste management and vector control.
Although overall nutritional status of the Colombian population has
improved significantly, malnutrition affects one out of five children in
this subset of the population. Likewise, the fertility rate (average
number of children a woman will bear) among the urban and rural poor is
4.3, well above the national average of 3.6, partly because family planning
services, and thus contraceptive use, are not widely available.
29.       The Government wishes to extend the access to basic health
services to those not adequately served and has already launched a number
of programs to reduce the regional disparities, giving priority attention
to the hitherto neglected Pacific Coast area and the border zones. In 1984
it completed a national vaccination campaign and immunized almost one
million children against measles, polio, diptheria, whooping cough and
tetanus. With some additional assistance, these diseases can be con-
trolled. In June, 1984, a ministerial decree established an advisory group



- 10 -
to coordinate all primary health care activities and assigned specific
responsibility to the Secretary General of the Ministry of Health for
developing a plan to expand primary health care to the whole country.
Also, a national program for child survival was launched in late 1984, and
contains an innovative strategy consisting of mobilizing the nation's youth
as health sentinels to assist in high priority infant health programs.
The Health Care System, Issues and Policies
30.       There are three types of health care providers in Colombia:  (a)
public, which comprises the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the depart-
mental1/ health services (SSS); (b) social insurance, comprised of the
Social Security Institute (ISS) for private employees, the National
Provident Fund (CAJANAL) for public employees and some smaller funds for
specific groups; and (c) the private sector. The public health sector has
by far the largest service network and provides services for about half of
the population with coverage. The social insurance sector provides 15% of
the coverage, while 10% of the population can afford private services.
About a quarter of the population remains unserved. Utilization of health
services is highest for social insurance beneficiaries and the affluent
private sector patrons. ISS beneficiaries average 3.2 physician visits per
year while MOHISSS provides about 0.5 visits per person per year.
31.       The public sector is organized into three levels:  national
(MOH), departmental (SSS), and regional. The national level consists of
the Ministry of Health and its five decentralized agencies: National
Institute of Health (INS), Institute for Municipal Development (INSFOPAL),
National Hospital Fund (FNH), Colombia Institute of Family Welfare (ICBF),
and The Cancer Institute. INS, INSFOPAL and FNH budgets are approved by
the Minister of Health, but the agencies have different degrees of indepen-
dence and limited formal coordination exist. This results in less joint
planning of primary health care and water and sanitation improvements than
is desirable. The departmental level is composed of a health board in each
of the 33 departmentos which implements national health policies. Members
of the board include the departmento governor, health related agency repre-
sentatives and citizens. Operational divisions under the board are for
medical care, environmental services and administration. A similar struc-
ture operates at the regional and local levels which are managed respec-
tively by regional and local hospitals. There are 107 health regions in
Colombia supervising 470 local hospitals and about 3,000 health centers and
posts. The social insurance sector consists of over 100 institutions which
provide health care for salaried workers in both the public and private
sector. The Social Security Institute (ISS), is the largest (covering 10%
of the 152 served) and is part of the Ministry of Labor.
32.       Health Financing.  Total public and private spending for health
care accounts for almost 5Z of GDP, a relatively high level for a middle-
income country. MOH/SSS, social insurance and the private sector spend
roughly one-third each of total health sector expenditures although the
population served by MOH/SSS is twice the number of the other two providers
1/ Colombia is divided into 33 departmentos which are equivalent to a
state or province.



- 11 -
combined. Central government budget appropriations for health have fluc-
tuated from a low of 6.7% (1980) to a high of 9.3X (1976) depending on the
level of government revenues. Public health sector revenues are derived
from both federal (65%) and departamento (35%) sources. Social insurance
funds are employer/employee financed. Private sector expenditures are
mostly out-of-pocket financed. Hospital care accounts for two-thirds of
all health spending, and chronic hospital deficits, especially in tertiary
care level facilities, continue to plague the health system. Per capita
expenditures for health care in 1981 were US$31 for the population covered
by the public sector. Average health expenditures per person for the
population covered by social insurance schemes were roughly four times that
amount, (US$120). Differences in the range and level of services provided
by the two sectors make strict comparisons impossible. However, they
indicate inequity in the distribution of health care resources.
33.       Issues.  Despite the sizeable amount of global resources that are
being allocated to the sector, the intrasectoral distribution of these
financial and human resources is far from optimal. Health centers and
health posts are underutilized because of lack of supplies and equipment
and inadequately trained staff. Therefore, these facilities are bypassed
in favor of specialized hospitals which are overcrowded and expensive to
operate and maintain. Inadequate attention is being given to primary
health care and the trend, unless reversed, is towards high-cost curative
medicine. These problems are mirrored by an overemphasis on production of
physicians trained to provide clinical health services while less attention
is given to the training of medical doctors experienced in primary health
care and to less expensive lower level health workers. Some evidence
exists that Colombia may not be able to absorb the numbers of physicians
graduating each year. However, while there is ample supply of physictans
in urban areas, too few are found in the countryside. Another major
problem in the sector relates to organization and managerial aspects. The
lack of coordination between the two major health care providers (MOH/SSS
and ISS) results in duplication of facilities, personnel and programs.
Poor management practices are found throughout the health care system.
Weak logistical support systems disrupt the flow of drugs, supplies and
spare parts for medical equipment. Defective maintenance of vehicles
decreases the frequency of supervision.  Planning and control of the
service programs is severely limited by the lack of cost data and service
statistics. Often, clinical specialists without management training are
appointed to manage the health regions, and therefore often a primary flaw
in health care is the managerial weakness of the health region. Finally, a
large proportion of the medical equipment on hand, mostly provided by
donations from bilateral sources or bought on credit as part of trade pro-
motions, is not efficiently used because it has not been installed, cannot
be repaired, spare parts are not available or because of the lack of
technicians to operate it.
34.       Policies.  The Government has recognized that the reduction of
these inefficiencies could provide part of the financial and human
resources required for expansion of services to those with no effective
access to basic health care. The National Health Plan for 1983-86 sets
forth a strategy to deal with the inefficiencies outlined above. The Plan
emphasizes the need for greater sector coordination to expand coverage and
reduce the level of overlapping services and includes efforts to strengthen



- 12 -
the organization of the National Health System by improving the articula-
tion between the primary, secondary and tertiary care levels, and rein-
forcing rhe sub-systems of planning, investment, supplies, personnel,
information and research. Children under five and women in the reproduc-
tive age group are singled out in the Plan as the highest priority popula-
tion sub-groups and priority areas are those where health conditions are
worst and health service coverage is least. The Government has also recog-
nized that good management needs trained managers, effective management
systems, good communication, and regular supervision. Managers of health
regions must now be physicians with a graduate degree in public health,
which includes management training.
35.       Reduction of these sectoral inefficiencies and the establishment
of cost-control procedures will be a gradual and slow process. The
Government has requested assistance to speed up the pace of change and to
overcome institutional resistance to it. The requested outside help in the
form of the proposed project would act importantly as a catalyst and assist
the Government in implementing more quickly the sectoral changes needed to
increase efficiency. The emphasis would be on institution-building,
especially decentralization of service delivery authority and capacity to
the health region level, so that most health problems can be identified and
treated at this level.
Bank Involvement in Colombia's Health Sector
36.       Past Bank Assistance.  Health components were included in the
Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project (Ln. 1487-CO) and the two Rural
Development Projects (Ln. 1352-CO and 1n. 2174-CO). All three projects
assisted in the introduction, consolidation or expansion of primary health
care, including water supply, in rural areas previously underserved. A
network of primary care units (UPAs) brought preventive and simple curative
care to a significant number of rural poor. However, the increase in
physical infrastructure was not accompanied by adequate institution build-
ing efforts, and the rapid expansion of UPAs outstripped the developmenc of
an effective management system to monitor progress, identify problems, con-
duct quality control and oversee the training and continued education of
professionals and paraprofessionals. No Project Performance Audit Reports
have been issued so far.
37.       Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The proposed project would be
the first Bank-supported health project in Colombia. It comes at a time
when a major economic adjustment program is being implemented and when
public sector investments are being scaled down significantly. The
Government considers this project to be important because of its direct
health benefits and because it is expected that the project will develop
and test approaches to health care, particularly by making more effective
use of resources available for the sector, that will permit bringing health
care expenditures under control. As such, this operation is in line with
Bank strategy of improving economic efficiency, strengthening institutions,
and targeting selectively low-income groups and bringing about greater
effectiveness in the social sectors. The shared concern of the Bank and
Government for more equitable, efficient and effective provision of health
services led the Government to request the Bank to carry out the health
sector review. The Bank discussed sector strategy with MOH extensively



- 13 -
during this sector work, and found that the MOH's approach to addressing
its most important sectoral issues was sound. The proposed project
reflects the findings of the sector review, the Government's health
strategy, and the lessons learned from past Bank assistance. Bank involve-
ment would be a natural extension of the policy dialogue which resulted
from the sector work, and would allow introducing a different approach to
health care delivery, which could be replicated elsewhere in Colombia at a
later stage. Bank participation would be instrumental, inter alia, in
bringing about a concerted investment effort of the agencies concerned,
mobilizing the necessary technical cooperation in. project administration,
financial management, monitoring and evaluation, and generally the intro-
duction of financial and economic concepts into the health sector, and
undertaking studies that would provide the underpinning for addressing
health sector policies more effectively in the future. Furthermore, the
rural water supply component of the proposed project would provide the Bank
with the opportunity to support a modest investment program for rural water
supply systems and to strengthen INS, the MOH decentralized agency respons-
ible for implementing sectoral water policies in rural areas, and thereby
pave the way for increased investments in rural water supply in the future.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       The proposed project is the outcome of a review of the health
sector in Colombia (Report No. 4141-CO, December 15, 1982) and was prepared
by the Government (MOH and DNP) with the National Hospital Fund (NHP) and
the National Health Institute (INS) and with assistance from Bank staff.
Appraisal started in June 1984, and following the November 1984 post-
appraisal mission, was completed in December 1984. Negotiations for the
proposed project were held in Washington from May 15-17, 1985, with a
Colombian delegation led by Dr. Rafael de Zubiria, Minister of Health. A
Staff Appraisal Report tntitled 'Colombia--Health Services Integration
Project' (No. 5532-CO, dated June 18, 1985) is being circulated
separately. A supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Main Features
39.       The proposed project would assist the Government in its attempt
to expand primary health care services and thus improve the health condi-
tions of the segment of the population that currently lacks access to basic
health care, including family planning and safe water. The project would
also assist the Government in implementing measures to integrate health
service delivery and would address sector-wide problems of efficiency in
the health delivery system. More specifically, the project would, in a
cost effective manner, increase the availability and access to primary
health services for about 3.7 million people. The target population is the
urban and rural poor, with special emphasis on children under five and
women in the reproductive age group. This population lives in an area
covering seven departments and two national territories extending along the
Pacific and Atlantic coasts and the southernmost fringes of Colombia (see
attached IBRD Map No. 18785). Within this expanse, 19 health regions in
the poorest and least developed areas have been selected. In addition,
four low-income health regions in four other departments and two health



- 14 -
regions in the poor department of La Guajira will be provided with
technical cooperation and training but no physical investments because
there is no need. These people would benefit from reduced mortality,
morbidity and improved use of family planning services. Specific targets
have been established in each of these areas (Annex IV). Environmental
health hazards would be reduced with the construction of rural water supply
and waste disposal systems in targeted communities of 100-2,500 inhabit-
ants. The project would help induce systemic changes in the organization
of health services through decentralization and integration of all health
activities at the health region level. With more intensive use of health
posts and centers and emphasis on preventative, promotive and simple
curative medicine, referrals to higher cost facilities would be reduced.
In addition, the project would demonstrate the feasibility of this innova-
tive health care approach which, if successful, could be introduced to the
rest of the country. Finally, the project can be expected to improve the
nutrition status and to reduce fertility levels by increasing the number of
contraceptive users.
40.       Health promoters in the project's health regions would have the
specific responsibility of promoting family planning through their contact
with the population. This change from a passive stance where clients would
come to the system, to an active one where outreach promoters would carry
out home visits, should result in better access to family planning services
for project beneficiaries, as well as setting a precedent for the rest of
the country. A system has been designed to document and evaluate these
activities, and targets for new acceptors have been agreed with the
Government for each health region. Also, funds for a survey on the use of
contraceptives and a review of fertility trends have been included under
the project's research sub-component.
41.       Project Description.  The project would consist of the following
components, to be executed over a six-year implementation period:
I. Basic Health Care Services (50X or $32.1 million of base cost):
(i) construction and equipping of three local hospitals, seven
health centers and 53 health posts;
(ii) remodeling and upgrading of eight regional hospitals, 29 local
hospitals, 27 health centers, and 53 health posts;
(iii) strengthening the maintenance capacity of regional and local
hospitals by: (a) expanding 19 maintenance workshops, and (b)
training about 80 maintenance technicians;
(iv) provision of about 300 vehicles for health care services
delivery and supervision; and
(v) recruitment of about 1,200 health workers, mostly at the
auxiliary nurse and health promoter levels, and training
programs for staff at all levels of the health system.
11. Environmental Health Services (29% or $18.7 million of base cost):
(i) construction, expansion or rehabilitation of piped water
supply systems, and acquisition of equipment in about 250
rural communities; construction of sanitary facilities in 250
rural schools;



- 15 -
(ii)  preparation of a national rural water supply plan; and
(iii) technical assistance and training to INS in areas of basic
rural sanitation.
(iv)  acquisition and utilization of vehicles and equipment for
supervision and vector control; and
Cv)  continuing education for sanitary engineers and training of
about 120 sanitation promoters.
III. Institutional Development (21X or $13.7 million of base cost)
(i) Sector Management: strengthen organization and management of
health sector institutions by developing planning and control
systems and training health sector institutions' personnel;
and operation of a unit to assist MOH's Secrecary General in
the management of the project;
(ii)  Research:  carry out a set of project-related policy research
studies;
(iii) Management Information Systems: establish and implement data
systems to generate information for management decision-making
by (a) reviewing and revising the information system network;
(b) carrying out training programs for data input operators,
programmers and systems analysts; and
(iv)  Laboratory Support:  strengthen the capability of INS national
laboratory network by (a) improving its management capacity,
(b) carrying out training programs, (c) preparing and adopting
preventative maintenance manuals, and (d) acquisition and
utilization of laboratory equipment in INS' central laboratory
and MOH's laboratories in the project area.
Detailed Project Features
42.       Basic Health Care.  In each of the 19 health regions selected,
the capacity for assessing its own health needs and for planning, execution
and evaluation of appropriate preventive and curative health programs would
be developed. Basic health care would include the following programs in
all project areas: (i) immunization; (ii) oral rehydration; (iii) maternal
and child health care and promotion of breastfeeding; (iv) preschool nutri-
tion and primary health care; (v) preventive and curative dental care; (vi)
family planning; (vii) hypertensi-oni control; (viii) malaria control; (ix)
simplified surgery; and 'x) tuberculosis detection and control. To carry
out these programs, about 1,200 additional personnel would be recruited.
Also, in-service training would be provided for professional health staff,
including (a) management training for regional managers, physicians and
supervisors, (b) upgrading of professional skills, mainly at auxiliary
nurse and health promotion levels and (c) in-service training for other
health workers.
43.       These software aspects would be appropriately supported by a
civil works component, including the upgrading of physical facilities and
the purchase of equipment.  TSL project would also provide assistance to
strengthen the maintenance capability of the regional hospitals by carrying
out corrective maintenance as part of its upgrading program; requiring pro-
vision of adequate funds for preventative maintenance; training of
technical maintenance staff; enlarging, equipping and staffing maintenance



- 16 -
workshops at 19 regional hospitals; and strengthening institutional
capacity of the National Hospital Fund tFNH) through staff training and
changes in the procurement process. An agreement between MOH and SENA, the
national training institute, for the training of technicians would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (para. 57).
44.       Environmental Health Service.  The project would stress the inte-
gration of a set of environmental health interventions to be carried out by
MOH and INS with active community participation. The rural water supply
component, in addition to its health objectives, has been specifically
designed to improve the institutional, technical and financial capacity of
INS and to promote interinstitutional cooperation between MHO, INS and
departmental health services, particularly in the maintenance of completed
water systems. About $2.0 million would be used to finance technical
assistance and training to strengthen INS in the areas of management, low
cost technology, system design and community motivation, and to prepare a
National Rural Water Supply Plan which is expected to pave the way for
wider rural water supply investments in the future. Preparation of the
Plan would include an inventory of water supply resources and needs,
definition of short-, medium- and long-term investment programs and formul-
ation of appropriate strategies for accelerated and more efficient sector
development.
45.       Institutional Development.  Planning and control systems would be
established under the project to strengthen the organization and management
of the health sector in areas of strategic management, financial control,
cost containment, improvement of the quality of health care services, and
monitoring and evaluation. Also, several project related research studies
would be undertaken to help decisionmakers make informed policy choices.
The areas covered would be sector efficiency (health care financing;
pharmaceuticals policy, equipment maintenance), population (fertility
developments and a national contraceptive prevalence survey), and project
impact studies. Finally, the Health Information System (SIS) would be
improved to serve the planning and control purposes of the regional project
managers and regional diagnostic capability would profit from the rein-
forcement of the National Laboratory Network.
Project Costs and Financing
46.       Total project costs-including identifiable taxes and duties-are
estimated at US$75.8 million equivalent. The foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$23.8 million, or 31% of total project cost. US$3.1 million
has been included for physical contingencies reflecting 5% of the base cost
for civil works, equipment, furniture and vehicles. Price contingencies
(US$8.3) have been calculated assuming (i) local inflation rates of 20% in
1985 and 182 thereafter; and (ii) international price increases of 5Z in
1985, 7.5% in 1986, 8% in 1987-1990, and 5% thereafter. A correction was
also applied for expected exchange rate changes over time. Incremental
recurrent costs would increase from Col$158 million (US$1.2 million
equivalent) during first year implementation, to Col$560 million (US$4.1
million equivalent) during the 6th and last year. This represents only
0.3% of the 1984 MOH budget for total recurrent expenditures and would grow
to 0.9% by the last year of implementation assuming that budgetary alloca-
tions for these expenditures remain unchanged. The expense represents



- 17 -
US$1.11 equivalent per capita at constant prices by the last project year
and is considered small relative to the benefits to be provided by the
project.
47.       The proposed Bank loan of US$36.5 million represents 50X of total
project costs net of taxes and duties. It would cover 62Z of the foreign
exchange cost and 42% of local costs. The remaining US$9 million of
foreign exchange cost would be provided through suppliers' credit (para.
61), and the remaining local costs of US$30.3 million would be provided
through a major effort to mobilize local resources by ISS (US$5.1 million),
user fees (US$ 5.0 million), and the Government (US$20.2 million). The
Bank's loan size, including the financing of a substantial part of local
costs, is justified in view of the present economic circumstances, and the
nature of the project, including its low foreign exchange costs. As
explained in paras. 12-18, Colombia is implementing a major economic
adjustment program which includes major cuts in public expenditures. While
the Government is willing to make a significant contribution to total
project costs, budgetary constraints limit its contribution to the above-
mentioned amount. The project as such will permit the introduction of key
recommendations of Bank sector work and can be expected to have a benefi-
cial influence on the country's long-term development. Because user fees
will be an important financing source for the project's water supply comr-
ponent, assurances were obtained that the Government would require each
beneficiary community to contribute, on average, 25% of the total cost of
each subproject in the form of labor, materials or land. In addition, each
beneficiary community would pay, on average, 50% of the remaining cost of
the subproject through a loan (Section 3.01(d)(viii), Draft Loan
Agreement).
Project Mnnagement
48.       MOH would have overall responsibility for the project with the
Minister of Health as Director General. Responsibility for day-to-day
implementation would be delegated to the Secretary General of MOH (the
highest level of technical authority within MOH) who would act as General
Coordinator and assure overall coordination between collaborating agencies
and MOH units. The General Coordinator would have principal responsibility
in monitoring project progress and accounts, and presenting semi-annual
progress reports. A unit with staffing, functions and organizational
structure satisfactory to the Bank would be established to assist the
Secretary General in the management of the project (Section 3.01(g), draft
Loan Agreement). The project's geographic area has been divided into four
zonal coordination units called Comites Interseccionales (CI). MOH would
appoint a coordinator for each CI with advisory, monitoring and reporting
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank for the duration of
the project (Section 3.01(h), draft Loan Agreement). Each CI coordinator
would be responsible for coordinating all project activities in his area
and would report to the General Coordinator. Each of the 19 health regions
has a director who is responsible for the management of all health activi-
ties in the health regions. Advisory Committees with the representation of
participating entities and functions satisfactory to the Bank would be
established: at the Director General's level to advise MOH's Secretary
General in the management of the project, and at the CI coordinators' level
to advise MOH's regional directors regarding project implementation in



- 18 -
their respective areas (Sections 3.01(g)(ii) and (h)(iii), draft Loan
Agreement).
Project Implementation
49.       MOH would delegate authority to INS for the execution of the
rural water supply subcomponent.  INS wolad also have responsibility for
the laboratory support subcomponent. FNH would be responsible for the con-
struction and equipping of health care facilities and the remodeling of the
maintenance workshops. ICBF, which is structurally part of MOR but finan-
cially independent of it, would finance its own activities in the project
area. An agreement has bv.en reachutd between MOB and ICBF to ccordinate
nutrition activities in the project's health regions; MO}I and ICBF's
methods of nutritional surveillance would be standardized and applied to
all children under seven years old. ICBF's regional nutritionists would
also assist in the training of health promoters and auxiliary-nurses.
50.       Because increased cooperation between MOH and the Social Security
Institute (ISS) is of significant importance to project implementation, MOH
and ISS have agreed to closely cooperate in the project area.  By November
1, 1985 MOH and ISS will enter into contractual arrangements whereby ISS
will contribute $5 million for the construction and equipping of local
hospitals, increase its purchase of hospital services from MOH in the
project area, agree not to construct hospitals in the project area unless
KOH agrees and improve coordination of preventative and promotive care in
the project area (Section 3.01(e), draft Loan Agreement).
51.       INS would be responsible for the planning, design and construc-
tion of the rural water systems and MOH would be responsible, through its
local sanitary engineers and sanitacion promoters, for operation and main-
tenance of the systems. The addition of sanitary engineers and the
increase in the number of trained sanitation promoters would strengthen the
maintenance capability at the health region level. The methodology for the
promotion and construction of rural water supply schemes which would be
followed for all subprojects is shown in Annex V. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that INS would comply with its obligations in
regard to selection and review of subprojects, design standards and cost
recovery criteria (Section 3.01(d)(v), (vi), (vii) and (viii), draft Loan
Agreement). Assurances were also obtained that INS' annual investment pro-
gram for rural water supply would be furnished to the Bank for comments
(Section 3.01(d)(ii) and that the implementation program on rural water
supply would be submitted to the Bank fc  its approval, no later than
September 30 of each year for the following year (Section 3.01(d)(iii),
draft Loan Agreement). The draft terms of reference for the consultants
for the technical assistance program and the preparation of the national
rural water supply plan were finalized during negotiations. Assurances
were obtained that INS would discuss the findings and recommendations of
the technical assistance program and national rural water supply plan with
the Bank and, taking account of its views, would implement these programs
by December 31, 1987 (Section 3.01(d)(iv), draft Loan Agreement). It was
also agreed that INS would, by Jtne 30, 1986, exchange views with MOH and
the Bank on the adequacy of subproject costs, community contributions and
cost recovery terms and adjust these conditions as necessary to improve
cost recovery (Section 3.01(d)(ix), draft Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
52.       Specific research topics within the general areas already agreed
upon (see para. 45) would be approved by the General Coordinator under the
advice of the project's Advisory Committees. The contracting and adminis-
tration of the research studies would then be handed over to the
Directorate of Research within MOB which coordinates all government
financed health research and liaises with non-governmental research insti-
tutions. Each major research project would have a technical review commit-
tee comprised of representatives for MOH, DNP, SSS, ISS and universities.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that terms of reference for
all research proposals would be sumitted to the Bank for approval (Section
3.01(k), draft Loan Agreement). Regarding the laboratory support com-
ponent, during the first-year INS would give priority to training
personnel, purchasing urgently needed equipment, finalizing lists of equip-
ment to be procured under the project and establishing functional relation-
ships between the national, departmental and regional levels in order to
strengthen the diagnostic capability of the 19 health regions in the
project area. INS would appoint a full time senior official to manage and
supervise the preparation and implementation of the investment program.
53.       Construction of health care facilities and maintenance workshops,
would be carried out by private contractors under FNH supervision, or by
force account. FNH would ensure (i) the timely preparation of all
necessary bidding documents; (ii) the scheduling and organization of the
bidding operation in coordination with local authorities; and (iii) the
supervision of construction. FNH would also assist MOH in the commission-
ing of health facilities. The designs for the health facilities (three
hospitals, seven health centers and 53 health posts) have been approved and
all building sites have been identified. Most sites will be donated by the
beneficiary community and arrangement for the acquisition of the sites has
been agreed with each community. The standard bidding documents for con-
struction of facilities ha7e been prepared.
54.      Eighty-five percent of the staff recruited would be the primary
health workers (auxiliary nurses, health and sanitation promoters)
necessary for successful implementation at the community level and indis-
pensible for achieving the health and family planning objectives of the
project. The remaining staff recruited would consist mostly of pro-
fessionals such as dentists, sanitation engineers and administrative
personnel. The phasing of this incremental staff has been agreed and will
be embodied in a supplemental letter.
55.       The training requirements of the project would be met through
trainers and consultants from academic institutions for management training
of doctors, supervisors and regional managers, and through professional
skills training institutions for in-service training of the primary health
workers; and training/retraining and continuous education for maintenance
workers.  Seminars and eourses would be organized to upgrade staff skills
for planning, management and implementation of the research program. Work-
shops and seminars for service delivery personnel and CI coordinators are
underway. The project would also finance overseas fellowship for training
in the areas of health planning, health economics, emergency medical
services, health information systems, hospital and health services adminis-
tration, and medical education. During negotiations the selection criteria
for overseas training, the list of substantive training areas and the



- 20 -
countries for project-financed fellowships were discussed. The Government
agreed that all training activities related to the institutional develop-
ment component would be carried out under terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank (Section 3.01(k), draft Loan Agreement).
56.       The project would provide about 178 staff-months of technical
assistance for the establishment of the management information system,
specific research studies, organization of the laboratory network and
development and execution of training programs. A program for hiring the
consultants to provide the technical assistance has been established by MOH
and the terms of reference for specific technical assistance contracts
would be submitted for Bank approval (Section 3.01(k), draft Loan
Agreement).
57.       Each agency's responsibility under the project would be covered
by an agreement with MOH, satisfactory to the Bank; because of the import-
ance of inter-agency cooperation on implementation of the project activi-
ties, subsidiary agreements between MOH, INS and SENA would be a condition
of effectiveness (Section 5.01 of draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursement
58.       The proposed loan would be disbursed against the following
eligible expenditures (i) 80% for civil works not related to water supply,
including site supervision; (ii) 60% for civil works relating to water
supply; (iii) 1002 of foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures
for equipment, materials and vehicles; (iv) 100% of foreign expenditures
and 802 of local expenditures for training; (v) 1002 of foreign expendi-
tures and 80% of local expenditures for consultants' services; and (vi)
100% of salaries and operational expenses for project administration. Dis-
bursements would be made on the basis of approved contracts and would be
fully documented except for local training, salaries and operational
expenses for project administration and for civil works carried out by
force account or valued less than $50,000 equivalent, for which disburse-
ments would be made against certified statements of expenditures. The
documentation would be retained by the project unit and would be subject to
periodic review by the Bank. Technical assistance and consultant services
would be carried out by qualified and experienced consultants under terms
satisfactory to the Bank (Section II of Schedule 5 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
59.       in order to accelerate disbursements, and thereby speed up
project execution, a Special Account would be established (Section 2.02(b),
draft Loan Agreement). The Bank's initial contribution would be $2.0
million. In addition, the Borrower would open a separate Project Account
with an initial deposit in Colombian pesos equivalent to US$1.0 million and
by June 30, 1986, deposit an additional amount of not less than US$1.0
million (Section 3.03(iii), draft Loan Agreement). The establishment of
the Project Account and the initial deposit of US$1.0 million would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (Section 5.01, draft Loan Agreement).
60.       Because the proposed project would emphasize institution-building
aspects, and thus to a large extent its success would depend on adequate
manpower training, MOB has already launched training, fellowships and



- 21 -
technical cooperation, created the project management unit appointed the CI
coordinators and established the Advisory Committees. Retroactive finan-
cing of up to $3 million for expenditures made after January 1, 1985 on
these activities have been included in the loan.
Procurement
61.       Most civil works are scattered in remote places and are too small
to attract foreign contractors. Therefore, civil works contracts amounting
to US$6.9 million equivalent, including contingencies, would be awarded
following local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures that are acceptable to
the Bank, with foreign bidders having the opportunity to participate.  The
balance of civil works estimated to cost about US$7.3 million for the con-
struction and remodeling of small health facilities, maintenance facilities
and of some water supply systems and sanitary school units in remote areas
of difficult physical access where no contractor can be found would be
carried out by the force account. Vehicles, equipment, and materials
estimated to cost US$14.8 million equivalent would be procured through
international compecitive bidding ($5.8 million), in accordance with Bank
guidelines or through suppliers' credit ($9.0 million). Qualified domestic
manufacturers would be given a margin of preference in bid evaluation of
15%, or the applicable duty, whichever is the lower. For suppliers' credit
the competitive bidding would be limited to suppliers capable of providing
credit. The indications so far are that there is considerable interest
among suppliers to bid for this project and there will be possibilities for
arranging blended credit terms for this purpose from a number of
countries. A list of equipment to be procured through suppliers credits
has been prepared and the Borrower will invite as many bidders as is
possible to submit financing offers with their bids.   Equipment, furniture
and medical supplies for small health facilities estimated to cost about
US$1.5 million equivalent would be procured through UNICEF. Equipment,
furniture ana medical supplies which could not be groupea in packages ot
more than US$50,000 but totalling less than US$2.0 million would be
procured through local competitive bidding (LCB). Contracts for miscella-
neous goods amounting to US$10,000 equivalent or less, but not exceeding
US$250,000 equivalent in total would be procured through prudent shopping,
after obtaining at least three price quotations. Prior review of bidding
documents and proposed contract awards, whether ICB or LCB, would be
required on contracts above $200,000 for construction of health facilities
and maintenance workshops and on contracts above $50,000 for furniture,
equipment and vehicles. Other contracts would be subject to post review
after contract award. The table below summarizes procurement arrangements:



- 22 -
TOTAL
PROJECT COST
CATETORY                             ICB    LCB    OTHER    (US$M)
I. CIVIL WORKS
Health Service Delivery                      5.3    2.1        7.4
(4.2)  (1.7)     (5.9)
Water Systems                                1.6    5.2        6.8
(1.4)  (2.4)     (3.8)
II.  VEHICLES                             1.8     0.5    0.2        2.5a/
(0.2)   (0.2)   (-)       (0.4)
III. FURNITURE, EQUIPMENT & MATERIALS
Health Service Delivery              9.7     2.7    0.7       13.1a/
(2.9)   (2.4)    -       (5.3)
Water Systems                        3.3     4.0    0.9        8.2
(2.7)   (2.6)    -        (5.3)
IV. RESEARCH STUDIES                       -       -     3.2        3.2
(3.2)     (3.2)
V. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   -       -     2.6        2.6
(2.6)     (2.6)
VI. TRAINING                               -       -     7.1        ,.1
(6.8)     (6.8)
VII. ADMINISTRATION                         -       -     3.2        3.2
(3.2)     (3.2)
VIII. RECURRENT COST                         -       -    21.7       21.7
{-)       (-)
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                           75.8
(Bank Financing)                                            (36.5)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank loan.
a/     To be financed by suppliers' credit for vehicles (US$2 million) and
equipment (US$7 million); such bid proposals would include finance
arrangements.



- 23 -
Accounts and Auditing
62.       The project coordinating unit would establish and maintain
separate accounts for the project in accordance with internationally
accepted accounting procedures. Technical assistance would be provided to
establish the mechanism to monitor accounts at the regional and central
levels. The accounting office would maintain separate accounts for project
related activities, and prepare disbursement requests for the Bank. INS
would maintain separate accounts and records for the activities related to
the water supply subcomponert. Accounts would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and copies of the audit reports would be
made available to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
Monitoring and Evaluation
63.       As part of the research subcomponent, two research studies will
be undertaken to evaluate the effectiveness of the project. One would
compare the results of decentralized management in the project's 19
regional health areas with six regional health areas not included. The
other would measure health status changes in the target population with
regard to the prevalence and incidence of specific diseases. Physical
implementation would be monitored through indicators designed for that
purpose. Primary responsibility for monitoring the progress of project
implementation would be with the four CI coordinators. The General
Coordinator would submit semi-annual orogress reports to the Bank.
Assurances were obtained that the Government would submit semi-annual
progress reports to the Bank; the first report would be submitted within
six months of effectiveness (Section 3.01(i), draft Loan Agreement). In
addition, two comprehensive reviews of project progress would be carried
out by the Borrower after one and one-half and three years of operation
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. The results of these
reviews would be sent to the Bank for comment. Taking account of the
Bank's views, the Borrower would carry out necessary corrective actions as
may be indicated (Section 3.01(j), draft Loan Agreement).
64.       Data collection forms to measure the targets detailed in Annex IV
already exist and the management information subcomponent (para. 41) would
strengthen the collection and reporting process.
Project Benefits and Risks
65.       The project, in terms of ambulatory services (number of medical,
promotor and nurse visits), dental services and services provided by sani-
tation promoters would more than double the output of health care services
being available in the project area. This would improve the health and
nutrition status of 14t of Colombia's population with limited or no access
to health services through a reduction of morbidity and mortality and an
increase in contraceptive prevalence. Different causes of child morbidity
such as perinatal conditions, gastro-intestinal infections and accute
respiratory infections would be reduced significantly (see Annex IV), and
about 90% of all children would be vaccinated against childhood diseases,
up from about 40Z at present. An increase by 35% in the number of family
planning users is expected to result in a 7% decline in the rate of fertil-
ity. The construction of small rural water supply systems, sanitary



- 24 -
facilities and latrines would reduce the risk of water and sanitation
related diseases for about 150,000 people.
66.       Besides its direct impact on the target population, the project
is expected to make a significant contribution to the Government's objec-
tives of improving efficiency and cost-effectiveness in health service
-delivery. Increased cooperation between MO1 and ISS would evoid overlap
and duplication of efforts. The emphasis on primary health care would be
accompanied by increased use of adequately trained paramedical personnel,
increased community participation, appropriate health technology and strong
administrative and logistic support to field staff. This would allow
increased coverage, earlier detection of health problems and treatment at
the lower end of the health services pyramid and thus a reduction in unit
costs. The project is also expected to be instrumental in collecting cost
data through improvement of accounting systems and procedures at the
regional health area level, strengthening the national laboratory network,
and improving corrective and preventive maintenance of facilities and
equipment. The project would provide a model which would demonstrate the
feasibility of a low-cost health care system which, if successful, is
expected to be replicated in the rest of the country. Finally, the
National Water Supply Plan which would be prepared under the proposed
project would identify the needs and priorities in the rural subsector and
develop an invewtment strategy, which together with the experience acquired
in working with INS, would help pave the way for increased investments in
rural water supply.
67.       This project, to be executed in remote rural areas and poor urban
neighborhoods, would be the first project where overall responsibility
rests with MOH.  Given the difficult logistic problems involved in reaching
the target population, the experimental nature of the decentralized health
care approach, and since the project execution capacity of the Health
Ministry is largely untested, special attention will have to be given to
intensive Bank supervision. This task should be greatly facilitated by the
information component which has been designed to allow close project moni-
toring. Furthermore, the agreed upon indepth reviews of the project after
one and one-half and three years of execution should allow detection of any
problems that might arise and will ensure that corrective action will be
taken swiftly.
68.       The risks inherent in decentralizing and integrating health
services at the local level, are being reduced by limiting the number of
health regions to be covered under the project. Moreover, the principal
concepts have already been thoroughly tested, and implemented in two
departments. These departments would provide leadership and technical
support to less developed ones through the CIs. The risk inherent in the
need for cooperation between several relatively autonomous agencies (MO,
INS, ISS) and many health regions, is being minimized through the strength-
ening of regional management capacity, through horizontal technical cooper-
ation within the four operational nuclei, and through interagency coopera-
tion agreements. To prevent possible delays in project start-up, a project
launch workshop would be organized jointly between the Borrower and the
Bank to familiarize staff of all participating agencies with their specific
roles they are expected to play. Swift acceptance of the project's health
services by the target population, including the expected increase in



- 25 -
contraceptive prevalence, would be fostered by carefully selecting the
health workers from among the local communities.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of
Colombia, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
70.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of loan effectiveness would be that: (a) sub-
sidiary agreements have been entered into between MOH, INS and SENA; and
(b) a Project Account has been established with an initial deposit of
US$1,000,000.
71.      1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attacbments
Washington, D.C.
July 8, 1985
.



-26 -                                            ANNEX 1
T A 5 L K 3                                      Page  1 of 5
COLIA                 - eA. INDICATOIS DATA gu
COLUIUIA                           REFEENCE  OIR0S (WI5CW D A CS) 
amOT                 Ot  RET mE  TUwm  ) m b
%RCMT         mIm"   18005          WIDOW  SuC
L9beLb     ,t7atk    ESTwiAE      LAT. *0ucA A cmR            WRE
A (50lD sq. m)
TOTAL                            1138.9     1138.9     1135.9
ACRICULTURAL                      350.5      150.5      3ZO.5
cur ma cTA (o38)                    270.0       4O.0      1410.0           2101.6                  2345.3
(KiLOCkMS IV OIL EQUIVALENT)      355.0      495.0      690.0            995.5                  1122.8
POPULATSIO AMI VLTA STATISS 
POPULATION, HlD-YEAII CTROSANDS)   15754.0    2126b.0    26965.0
UnA  POPLATION (l OF TOTAL)       48.2        59.8       6'.9             66.5                    46.8
POVULATION PROMECHIUNS
OPULAArON IN SEAS 2000  uItLiL)                        37.5                .                       .
STATIONA! POPIILATION (HtILL)                          61.7
POWPULAON NOHEIUM                                       1.8
POPULATION DENSITY
rEk Sr. KH.                      13.6       Lb.7       23.2             35.1                    82.9
PE5 SQ. Ml. ACIt. LAND          4U.0        bD.7       82.4             92.4                   158.9
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 YRS                        46.8       4b.2       36.1             39.5                     31.6
1-64 lRS                         50.3       51.1       60.3             56.0                    61.1
65 AND ABVIM                      2.S        2.8        3.4              4.1                     7.1
POPULATION CltoER  tATE (2)
oTAL                              3.         3.0        2.0              2.4                     1.6
UPIAR                             5.7        3.2        Z.7              3.6                     3.7
CRwUE NInTH RATE (PERt TWIlS)      47.2       33.8       28.9             31.3                    23.4
CRUDE DEATN RATE (fEE rTious)      17.4        9.7        7.4              8.1                     J.8
CROS REPRODUCTION RAZE              1.3        2.3        1.8              2.0                     1.6
FAIILT PLANNINC
CCEPTORS. ANNRAL (iNUS)            ..      115.4      192.8
USERLS (Z OP HARBtSD 16)           .- -                49.0             40.3
mmn AS usint-
YIIEX OF FrO PROD. PER CAPITA
C1969-71-100)                     100.0       99.0      124.0            11.3                    114.5
ER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMNTS)     9n.e        87.0      lO.0            110.6                   128.6
PROTIS (CRAS PER DAY)            54.0       46.0       55.0             67.3                    89.7
OF UHlM AIIIMIAL AND PULSE     28.0       24.0       25.0 IC          34.1                     34.5
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE        11.2        6.0        4.0              5.7                     5.2
SLIR
LFE Exec. AT 8ITH (EAS)            53.1       58.1       05.1             64.7                    67.4
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER INCUS)     53.4        70.6       53.9             60.6 eA.2
ACmSS 70 SA  WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                            30.0 1.    63.0       64.0 Id          65.4
U8hAN                            54.9 gl    8R.0       73.0 7d          78.1
RURAL                             6.8 e.   28.0        46. o7j          46.2
ACCESS TO ExNCTA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *        47.0       44.4 /d          52.9
URAN                               .        75.0       60.0 7d          67.0
RURAL                              ..        b.0       L4.0 A           24.5
POPULATION PER PRTSICIAN         2640.0     2330.0     1710.0 /f        1917.7                  1065.8
POP. PER JPSINC PERSON           4220.0      730.0      80o.o 7T         815.8                   714.4
POP. PER NOSFiTAZ RED
TOTAL                           360.0      450.0      580-s o1         367.2                   3U63
RbAN                               ..      380.0      490.0 7;         411.5                  20.5
RUIRAL                            ..          ..         ..           2b36.3                      .
AUrISSIONS PER WOSPITAL B1C         ..        22.9       29.8 /C          27.3                    20.0
AVERACE SIZF OF SoUSErOLD
TOAL                               *         5.7 /h
URBAN                              ..        5.5 /h
RURAL                                        5 Y /9 lb
AVERACE NO. OF PERSONSIPOOHR
TOTAL                              ..        1.8 r        .
U112AN                            *. *        .6 7;*                               
RURAL                              .         z.&7
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF IELLINCI)
TOTAL                           .15.0 It        5l1 7h.
UaN                             83.0W       87.5 7       .
IRUM                               0 Te.or    11.7 7



-27-                                               ANNEX I
-AILU    L                                           Page 2 of 5
1Q     7 _      1= -           AY7S iI .AMN11'  Ca        gm
-~~~~~~~~~~ii~ aw                                 k.                          iwu.    & au inc aa aii  uan
ADJUSTD   OLuII  RaT
PERlI   TOZAL                    .77.0       105.0      130-0             105.4                    101.1
-mm                     77.0       107.0      121.0             O 10.3                   05.5
n3w                     77.0      110.0       132.0            106.5                     96.7
IKCoU ! MOAL                      12.0        23.0      4*.0               45.2                    55.1
_  n                    13.0       25.0        45.0             42.3                     66.3
FXNALR                  11.0       24.0        51.0             44.5                     50.6
VOCATOMIAL (t OS EIIMARY)           30.58 .    20.2        21.6 k            33.6                    21.6
PUPzL-AU  Uno
PIDUn                             35.0        38.0       31.0              30.1                     25.1
SECONDARY                         I1.0        17.0       21.0              16.5                    20.5
ADULT LZEERACY RATE CZ)             62.5        30.5 A      1.o0             79.5                    75.6
PASSINI CASTUOUID POP                5.7        11.2       15.6              4.o0                    54.7
RADIO RECEITIBUTIOUSIND P01        125.1       104.3      116.3             225.6                   164.9
TV KzCUVRS/TUOu5=  POP               9.5        36.1       86.9             107.2                    123.8
UUPAM  (-DAILY URUAL9
INTEREST") CIRCULATI
PE 7N CPOUATION             1        .0      108.7       50. 2      l      i .3                     96.3
LABR lICS.
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (T101S)         4727.0      6353.0     9190.0
7IUA   (PERCN)                    19.2        24.5       24.7              23.2                     34.5
ARIULTU  CPERcE)                  51.4        37.9       25.8              31.5                     40.7
D1  (PERCNT)                      19.2        21.0       21.2              23.9                    23.3
PARTXCIPATION RAE CPERCNT)
TOTAL                             30.0        29.9       34.1              3Z.2                     42.9
MALZ                              48.8        45.1       51.2              49.3                     54.7
TrrLE                             11.5        14.8       16.8              15.2                     31.0
ECONOC DPENDEIC! 1ATIO               1.7         1.6        1.2               1.4                     0.9
PECENT 0F PRIVATE DICOM
RECEID I          n
;IICECS SZ o RUSCESOLDS           41.2 /k  31.9
310Z55 Z05 OF _OSEROLD            67.7        60.1
LOVESS 201 Of ROUSERLDS            2.1 7       3.5
L*!YST 40l OF OIUSEROLDS           .5         10.17        ..
ESTMATED ABSOLUTE POVER!! INCOME
LEVEL (1S5 PER CAPITA)
IIBAN                               ..          ..      214.0k            288.2
RIURL                               ..          ..      197.0             l 1B4.0
ZSTSIAED RELATM  POVER! INCOME
LEVEL (CU5 PEM CAPITA)
URBJ                                ..          ..      267.0 /c          522.8
RURAL                               ..          ..      122.0 7e          372.4
ESTIMATED POP. BELC  ABSOT
POVERTY InCCh  LEVEL cz)
Ulm                                  ..         ..       34.0 /c
RUAL                                ..
NOT AVALABLE
NOT APPLICABEz
N 0 7' Z S
/   The    p averages for sach indicator ae population-weigbted arithmtic mn. Coverap of countrlw _mg the
indicarors depends on availability of data a-d Is not iudfozu.
/b  Unlam otharwis notd.éDsta for 1960" refar to ay year betwem 1959 and 1961: 'Dsta for 1970' betwee  1969 and
1971; and data for -Most Recent EZtimte between 1980 and 1982.
Ic  1977; /d 1976; /a 1964; /f 1978; A 1962; /b 1973; /1 1979; ljIncluding teacher trainrdg at tha third level;
/k EcoaooIealy active population.
J1rF. 1984



-28-                                                                                      ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
acai    rep.     .eg (It5m. ladl...cus- s  ebcaeUe   _m _Ae l, I catp I uee     eas.  Mt..e --im.       e      - ,             -c._                 fa
"Jotje n-eltV4-e..   be 's.  It-  lu ott         al ceu - ep   .. 'Mdial.       betho tiM. ad miii. bat. s. OM.. I-mstc ml itreec, es-1e.1t,gP
*Ptlte.1. eMU4 mqe .ecg    is" iM .-nms. -  pepiaths. -cab   aspelbm a                 ia sen Sumac eel  seeU  map S. eerneen  aP bit.              . 
pum  h.  aIsa iu. ebe  1tamen. b-  It. .s.ee.a .t           elee -" eke Idteetabb &PIM, d . - eeetaktlitp .4 ace amR. aaa -esfe.%l. tiUeamt b.
U  -la Ia .eCtI   eem..    -   -ih1mt.e I. semely. Tham..-esMA   am .ip sMKfs I. aU.p.ut    et. -I-e .4 -   AMAIte.- at    I- n-a at. mea.' ad
- teI   e  VISAsIi ac   -.55.                                                      e....         . e..-.    l. A=         ..  - u.1e.-mp          9PUL
,..e.p... II     am hItsacc  ad,s. n t  II. rilloiti  Iti                      .it.tstIC.
Ufasum ate.MI-- aa-                            %a   l.9 poll.rZ1rZ   setla ; 4-1   aK  nep19- b- rpi . (MeA)
LIAAM  - VII,u aII0baa~ 11"wall iIU-si--.                                                .9e...I.-bti- a L ted.l
I33411  so      U   -n" meUPpsa  aIt,a   ..c  mit.ie.a.thiIcih ad                                                picescalla   j.e.llM.i     .U.0.iat lot"le .qie  t-d"
-- -   MAc lelesd. abeat h.e.as                 2.ue MeII bLets -i
I  F-inzPLAINJ-'- - am... ..                              Ioa.   -.".iut                    -atel icM..    P - Luc.Tp tudld tea php.ieI t.ei.e VP a alte
ala SaMbme-A IlaaItMi2tty  U UUanem   .41H "al-A-eS . p.r aerftes itt.                    p..er. . ItetiS     W I  =;-'Ileern  (.ail-.
ems, a    tie.                                                                           djdpn.beiS AUK dat seek..,.' stI-p-I-ndtcki.-
ii.. Uc.ij i.bI Jt,ii d          Ubl s.e     .i.
KIM. its..  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~  4e~.9B5.  ecc. ls.eUei ec
s-ss emettet it.. ems,      if) dat.                                    eke eae.t.u  in mA.  Aemli eaten... a,It              W   -I-MM1
..c.U~Iaidw -e    a      -e   Mg.I smeptte  ad ic,ie9tte                        ia.iIi. RI..U.ate..  Icrnlec1t eetcb           pme        te n- a
epe  iseeepeste.h  etai. rae.mt  tteea  chi. m_.tpaiWKe..
euIe..   .eane a- Rletttt."  citi i9     u I-s.e. .                           If..m.5PUe.            .I~11
Jn!Uol7 =       SW hmLtm a  - menL8         - q.  asc  ..eIe  P.,mrele                 fs.a L            SI! mii  -te.emen  si                        ai
_MMI.-  , =QIsar   la=9eet. 1t.I  s-,eP.ciit  is-etete.'                           MiiiE0 iI.       ik. Raneel-mt-ama    .Umee
a  aqet I a.ast  siU eti atpe .er hi ...ate.emas.at..mes-                                   mb  .-ca    eci   .elmc   ym-edi  pee.i
MAmesc   r     atec   d_A. RIke eaicMPt ICer   SeI.e ser-  ectscdm cc.                 ets         'lb -1-tI  i   cta    ie  ike- e911- a tIll  Oass
bes.9l  p.eeeIbUantcm  .1lbiremtm    Ie . p.m.hta2reL                                                     eLrt   siei -         Iffes.2 -        -
ai .aek  e. -  Itc.Cis. c  ..mftece- .    ec iIIac-...cbet.7eis   c.eCIi  es1r.e9e- _e. p...  t-remmeia
L   - Paet cM-   Us. Pcflteima dImmt U. emata                             *re      wr..  -t.miL. uI e..ke  l.-reif tmi-eti  fe:
I.. .e min Ut. mineS..1. Un.3- rsehiAMR I--flb                            let.. mtlec ceetaim
aaleMl s. ma-  meelecta. -a."        mselc i_ e cI; p... sic..                        te-1IcI mete-t. isemric   t t    Md             aiceei
A-i.=.   ei.c   .l
epelalm pe..... Idece. em tsearee  -            ciie.p.dtc IIe.l..
im     o.b. tic     age mi  ..                                         ad.. thra  -    me..      e  -L Lesssfte. (eHls  -Me .5A st..)-
PtaatIIg.1-0 sat  --    .
e.Iee   m sikbc   Sp -t.) -   .nt-gna   sac  sec        eta-                     ui.tp e.cmitas
par pa.'et.em    is. e,   a   UEdaa,p   Mf  .I..ID   I                                 pa Er. dmsIed teIa I,      ..t
ieetttctui  cet.              turn, ins.   .-.F'm.ec. per mkee.- p.emnae   eecsmt-se  ∂1Wi re t.,.
isMtle Imn-c .ss)rnp  tespnscem             etetmct.  .l                                etm.Cts-9 lc.seaLcc.epts    ..p .I ..risc lat.I peetaitte11
-M     im-itae                c  .eeme  - sea_- Sam-s -I..
bIfttc dc ap 2. P.. 6em s.t eepti -d  sIc mere  nu.-t..                           t      ee
eaidkers  memVfin               im-t  lbt   e                                  fcLcc   as  ier       ieiel   aetcecc1e.tta  s
eacre.    eseem. a   aae     Pe ebe  ~   p..e.                              p.~.      saereu  me ,ficp. 6tee. .-Jee.m'.tseu
ws.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~..cttc-ste.   emtencceea  eere   e-
e pstea. . mt   a  mti..   ee..sccucud. ..  a             ~         fljljj~em   -ca   icKsmafeal.. e.m.y  ie4e 
maar.cesde  c..)CI    -   its  ateeleceete.(ep.Camep(cpes)- ae   et   c  cIp                                                       J-aaiel,n-ee.ii 
ede  icac  srniir.lsime  eltt                  ta       eI.eaepiiit.   e,C  e  a   aeae  t  aacth5   n5  POcIi
UIed   I meI,,   -r b ipd..u.  rc- m stm   erai  et.ate                                   a  a.
de.      -jii   em  cccme    icc.a.,aett  -reetU.e 
Ze .i . .etu -i .ueceiscc .e.eaee      ertte.                                           .cscrs.sscce        ea.et.                    iec  em    n 
cmpae ~ ~       ~        ~       ~         M mqruse;Mm ss.weesatntn  crmp    icpP   e  ereen   eUe    ..cciateesnpm.LOse   aptc.p
des. attibi        -Pa-cepePmecmrc ". 1e.edi Pcpeu.cue         sIsu                    5e   .l  cd csst.pa.ec   se  uetcU.ttp                            ae
iqe..a     4tbe  cca-ck. s4.1  ucpnt  -ut tdesucrn    S   ed.rms-  .  pue'r-ceI  k   ac.  e,aht  t.ee
uauicc. et c  a   e n-ce.a    .. t.   p dscrKrte.    qcr                         sccaecs-   n    c-tmcp
s..   ee.tai   r  ebta  iesapass..rLsetesueiiecsrpipmu-bm   tppimm  ..  'ae                                                                               a 



-29 -
0rw3oc   m   M(1                                                                                                  3wU 4d5
Azt WIA2Mt5              AgmisAnAl        (                 9d 0aPmt            .-PdMM
.e^in,:u                 Cot (g me  1W5 P      _                   Gmtpe m4
-      IUI      am WQ l/ d            5 Y3 WS54B  Sll                  S5     Nil    191    BR         1
QmdwlIcpm=Id            3M      3W              1         5.3    5.       44    13130 m WI   11W    2          IlO    IMl    Wl
6W                   W   7                                 "T-M  -El- M.  =  -W  W
8.41    9;.3   U0       9%       6.2    6.8    Z.6       W      14.9    4      D.      20      1i.2    A3
9im                   36.JJ5   I81CE    D9,4B1   D,Yi8    19    64      48    42    nh    D69    5L5    512    51.7    5.3
0xm    '                A                 ,A3 D MA  1 AM  5A      58      V7   t84              EJ]  ul         82    8.    M6.2
tM. lM                  6.4      7.,D    71il  7,R4       5S1    3.6    72    215 J12            D.0    191   ML         5    19.4
3m.f 8 x    dNS          ,7,    4,B    4,7d       V.W     II      54       7     5.6     39      5.     2.2     1.9    123    135
zpz     sdubdNS          W43    4B       6473    5,81     4.3    0.6    94    IS5    W5.   .I.          1A      Y7    1,3    MII
O= Mdala .              %49      %       5        4.0     5.2    U.2   -L4    OA         M5    162    IR.       39    33.1    WI
f8dtm if I>dum% M
3541    ~          Ql a3-0   l)                _,5 _~mii
l~dudM            am    42       3gll   3.        3J      33      6.1    1U     mD    mDO    In    Ma    mO    MD m
M33rpmy                2.3    1f9l   I.%        i,       2S      LA     2.2   725    72.1    572    MA        SW9    Mg    SIb
hdqr_m                  gI       957     9i7     IIIZ    -      235     7.2     -      1.5   z15    217   2D.7    215   2D.5
ofr                     5        286     4U3  41   3     -        4J  -.         -     17A    M13    1L9       iA    1.       1319
tldeim bpi              4A(      %       5J 9     4W      35      2.1     73    MD    IMD    K         10    laMD    1130   311W
b33J 31                          ML      3.       32    KW      6.1    D3       ?2.     5.1    LO      6A      6.6    5.9    6.3
2:iibn                  50       7i2     IW       63   -7L4    J30    413       ZO      -      1a    116    IL21    120    1.2
Iafiygadexlq           1.,     La8    2J14    La         3.2   -4I    W        4.7   436    :LI       .B    3.0    LB    1.3
Oda                    2,24    2,31    2z.      21       La     5.6     9        .9    5U3    %       41.2   47.4    45J    4.2
34      3W5     06       ES7       5      39 m- 1-92 -b
SADU46(F lEEd/
Qda                            Z.     279      25.5    J.l      D.1    ?L1    2D.b       2.    au        U
i uw=te                        2b.1    319      3.      u8        1      4.      47.3   5Y:    64 Ll       .9
BFl PIIL kKw                        MD    1W63    3BI,    Zi'l MI i<ws    M&                    Lb    0-
h=tgkmei   Mc .7     mo    l                            ml      v       U.7 WU  JID  L                  6I3 IL2
IlbE mnk 11u                  III9 S     D     l12l    139      D72    1199    Du5    1015   132.    1139
Sll 1 5          Fm      FM      1        SKijb
Oag    ine                                              9.2      %3      71.      1.9     7A       84
Ow    InI                                                62      61       1.      6       91       gg
sqztiz(+).ß   (-1                                        10      3.2      -      -0.      -119    -0.9
(OM  q-                                                  4.5     15       11      3B       2.7     L8
Pb    p fkm*gf                                           IA      112      3.      MD      Q1       iL5
QUgNO& ,tL                                              5.10    6.13     3.7
oppwopuapmah- Co                         ~~~~2.83  4.03    L7
Mg'/                                                    3..    2lF5    !.A
"mSwuLbaWzMb                                            0.13    am       Olb
hpzelmdl2                                              1.17     046     LE3
at  5d1 41) 4)1
jul2B,aa 
*      7 IAt_let PI= mata
.-: :--    2    * .y           d     C



zwi    '4Fw;w-'l X4
4iCwm A
m    ru   1i   ro   Tro   rTn  1ro   TI)  7i   £E1               inPW fl=9PIwPqr-<
ZM   EO   Ei    VD   51   91    90   gm)  61)   610                          (m
eV   re   s7    93   rz   n,   I          CZ   91e  Ir sews               ! res 0
z   6Ce   YU   67z.                L . IV   9!  rZ2 a  'z                   CDflUAMD
c"    ID  cmQ   orn) (ww   0m)  (SQa  (6a   amO  (rW
e      :qOm ccm   wI  (Ca   (ritO  (CM)  ('PI  (VW   cm
-U   IA   9W    67 t    W    OLT   L1l   Z9   6WK   CM
CMO Cj'Q  iW)  WDM    riO  WIn  MVI   roD  fIrO (OM
Ce   Gm   (Q  ts   "         (rD  (9L   6lb  (To        )
rU  6!I   9U   02 I   eT1t   6Z    CL   L            SZI       to8q       -maniV
LE   YE   FI   61    Tr   E         1    911   911   91                      dNDXiNgt
ra   6    SW S J 9iT  sX    6ZI  V6   Or6   VS   ZU                           inrd  iF
m%  w;    ; at   s      e mez  g= z  r an ms          M. sn                   PPr-}
1I  m6           a     c B            T 4                                       _M_,l  _ jam
S5 EREg£9fZ   gT'  fiS*  lWl   ?S    U!i :RIF9
(60(a)0M    (I)   CZ) w    CO    r                    C)Z)                         'a
(two (1IT) (9e't  (Wi)  MU   am   (1w   (9i)   M    (to                            am
ac%  gs∂  mfc  q%zz gE     %l    Wi4  (of   Wivi&                                 C
w*R  W9  9 M      lof   (fi Uf  r E'C   O  aN    T    Z Mt                      ______gwj
(M   we   M       M      e C    (90   ( M   (Mn  WM
(-U) (CO~  M0    (     (V*   (0o  MT   M11   (0    M0                      ilaw3immm
cm)  CB)  (M    ca   Wo   MO   M    (*0   (0    m!                                  amO
Mr~C     MD   CE   (WI)   0    Go   CO   (I)  CMi                     mN-rwW
50   WI  £[a           as   S      gm    ME   V9 i    XY1
O) CM       o    C     w(0 CO   (0    (   (     CO                          U (Z2
(-~~  C-~~  C-)   E~   C-)  C-.)  C-)   C-.)  C-   C-                        Um
(TU) (ZO   CL)   CO   (0   ~~coo  (3)  (M)  CMi   MY)                    lWT
--19p    9E                 CZW      19   se   El)   Zi                        lUDPN
WI  a'[  &'i   mI  ohf  ZS~  (a                &i    £EVINDEMMM
;Zs 6=   i"  9 9 2 r    sit  i-it  ri   01   a'S   zC                  3Pas rp
M%   i   ~z W    WIT   GM   iU'h   01   qft'  901   1IPIZ  am '1   1  a,;ia    Axn4=
w ~~~~~~~;¢  (sS; Wi-               Uy W-£J w.   6N VT w-         2=   7t w
orZ  0rr   *-   aU-Il,       9-   GE   If    wE   M-   dEl    M~   ai   93-                              v
m   M (0   )  Ox)  Ce,)  (a)  010   CD   (5)   (9,)   (-)  W4   CM)  W.)                                mmpa
*  90 (?OEM   men (WI) D'i) !)  mg   am    c    n     ('13   00   CD    n   (                         ZEWdw
GE  UT  in       ml   W         I WIW1 in  aB    a    EZ    wi    a    IC                             11
M~~~ aa    MP   TM  QE) tlD   ß       N     I     a    F.    A       Z                       4xm7
mK  Zs   (C    W      1-       Wi   VP   UP  c        a     S    lip   1      g                        mum i'IpqOui 
56 ~     ~      f WE   W-   15        SD'F zF   u  Z ,u       e     c i-w
_    _    _  _    ..    _  _    _     _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~op         a  xsft
ga        Wi  it    m' r      Es  ci' S        rn     U's m   E   U'   K'i  Lif zx
'6 g8i7L  8x'5  9a5    'T    6Dt  U.',  IC   &If   W    Wot O     oft  Yl'   Wi               1i1
'cAU    U E)    ) )  b)    =)   S    ax    93   ( 63931M93    Oa!
1w                               0V'lW=              8U13                     C* MP  (K "   WM1'ia '19
- 1D  1



- 31 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 4
STATUS OF BANK OPERATIONS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN COLOMBIA (as of March 31, 1985)
(US$million)
Loan                                                           Amount (less Cancellation)
Number Year  Borrower                         Purpose           Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
70 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                   1,631.7  23.5 1/    -
1352    1977  Colombia                        Rural Dev.         52.0              1.2
1450    1977  Empreca Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones            Communications    57.6             17.9
1471    1977  C&lombis                        Highways           90.0              2.7
1487    1978  Colombia                        Nutrition          25.0              2.2
1558    1978  Colombia                        Urban Develop-
ment            24.8              4.4
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power              126.0              5.1
1583    1978  Colombia                        Power              50.0             11.0
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial y        Industrial
Comercial de Cartagena          Export           15.0             2.3
1624    1979  Colombia                        Airports           61.0              1.9
1694    1979  Colombia                        Urban Develop-
ment             13.5             6.5
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota      Water Supply       27.9             2.5
1725    1979  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               72.0             12.0
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                     Water Supply       30.5            13.2
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano de la
Reforma Agraria               Agriculture Cr.   20.0              7.6
1807    1980  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power              84.6            35.1
1825    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Communications    44.0                5.2
1857    1980  Banco de la Republica           Industrial Cr.   150.0              39.0
1868    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power              124.9             53.5
1953    1981  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power               85.0             67.5
1966    1981  Colombia                        Rural Roads        33.0             13.0
1996    1981  Instituto Colombiano de
Hidrologia                    Irrigation         37.0            18.7
1/ Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 32 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 4
A. STATENENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1985)
Number  Year  Borrower                         Purpose           Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
1999    1981  Corporacion Electrica de la
Coste Atlantica               Power              36.0             18.5
2008    1981  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power             359.0            214.6
2069    1981  Inatituto Nacional de los
Recursos Nacurales
Renovables y del Medio        Watershed
Ambiente                      Management          9.0              7.3
2090    1982  Ferrocarriles Nacionales de
Colombia                      Railways           73.8            63.7
2121    1982  Fondo Vial Nacional              Highways          149.6            95.6
2174    1982  Colombia                         Rural Develop-
ment            53.0             46.7
2192    1982  Fondo del Ministerlo de
Educacion                     Rural Education   15.0              12.2
2303    1983  Instituto Colombiano             Agricultural
Agropecuario                    Research         63.4             60.0
2349    1983  Carbones de Colombia, S.A.       Coal
Exploration      9.5              9.5
2379    1984  Colombia                         Earthquake Re-
corstruction    40.0             26.6
2401    1984  Financiera Electrica Nacional  Powe- Develop-
ment Finance   170.0             54.3
2449    1984  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Multipurpose
power & water
supply         164.5            156.0
2453    1984  Federacion Nacional de           Agricultural
Cafeteros de rnlombiano         diversifi-         .             '9.9
cation
2464    1984  Banco de la Republica            Industrial Cr.    40.0             35.9
24701/  1984  Empresas Municipales             Water Supply      18.5             18.5
de Cucuta
2476    1984  Empresa Colombiana de Petrol   Petroleum          130.0            109.6
2477    1984  Banco de la Republica            Development
Banking         90.0             82.7
TOTAL                                           4,326.8  23.5
Of which has been repaid                          943.0   4.8
Total now outstanding                           3,383.8  18.7
Amount sold                          51.0           -
Of which has been repaid             51.0           -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                  3,383.8  18.7
Total undisbursed                                                1,384.4
1/ Not yet effective.



- 33 -
Annex II
Page 3 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IPC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                                            Type of              Amount in USS Million
Year                    Obligor                   Business             Loan   Equity   Total
1959           Laminas del Caribe, S.A.           Fiber-board           .50               .50
1960-1965      Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                     Food products        1.98    .08       2.06
1961           Envases Colombianos, S.A.          Metal cans            .70       -       .70
1961-1968      Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                    Home furniture        .08    .09        .17
1961           Electromanufacturas, S.A.          Electrical equipment .50       -        .50
1962-85        Corporacion Financiera             Development
Colombiana                        financing         6.00   2.02       8.02
1962-1963-85   Corporacion Financiera             Development
Nacional                          financing         6.00   2.04       8.04
1963-1967      Compania Colombians de             Textiles             1.98    .15       2.13
1968-1969        Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970      Corporacion Financiera de          Development
Caldas                            financing            -    .81        .81
1964-1968      Forias de Colombia, S.A.           Steel forging           -   1.27       1.27
1966           Almacenes Generales de             Warehousing          1.00      -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966           Industria Ganadera                 Livestock            1.00    .58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74     ENKA de Colombia, S.A.             Textiles            11.75   2.61      14.36
1969           Compania de Desarrollo de          Tourism                 -    .01        .01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973      Corporacion Financiera del         Development
Norte                             financing            -    .45        .45
1969-85        Corporacion Financiera del         Development
Valle                             financing         6.00    .43       6.43
1970           Promotora de Hoteles de            Tourism               .23    .11        .34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977      Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                  Tourism               .80    .24       1.04
1973-1975      Corporacion Colombiana de          Housing                 -    .46        .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974           Cementos Boyaca, S.A.              Cement               1.50      -       1.50
1975           Cementos del Caribe, S.A.          Cement               3.60      -       3.60
1976           Las Brisas                         Mining               6.00      -       6.00
1977           Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.           Utilities           13.00   2.00      15.00
1977           Compania Colombiana de Clinker,  Cement and
S.A.                              Construction
Material          0.49   2.24       2.73



- 34 -
Annex II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1985 (Continued)
Fiscal                                             Type of              Amount in US$ Million
Year                    Obligor                    Business             Loan   Equity   Total
1981           Leasing Bolivar                    Leasing               9.00      .17     9.17
1981-1982      Petroleos Colombianos Ltd.         Chemicals and
Petrochemicals  12.15    3.86    16.01
1983           Frigorificos Colombianos, S.A.   Food Processing         1.00    0.54      1.54
1584           Cementos Rioclaro S.A.             Cement and
Construction
Material         21.67    5.00    26.67
1984           Carbones del Caribe S.A.           Mining               10.24    1.64    11.88
Total Gross Commitments                               117.17   26.80   143.97
Less cancellations, termina-                               -
tions, repayments and sales                         66.89    9.59    76.48
Total commitments now held by IFC                      50.28   17.21    67.49
_-              -
Total undisbursed (including                           49.37    6.36    55.73
participants)



-35-
ANNEX III
Page   of 2
COLOHBIA
HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time required to prepare the project:         12 months
(b)  The agencies which prepared the project:    Ministry of Health, and
National Planning
Department, with col-
laboration of the
National Realth Fund
and the National
lnstitute of Health.
(c)  First mission to review project:              October 1983
Cd) Departure of the Appraisal Mission:           June 1984
(e)  Date of completion of Negotiations:          May 17, 1985
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:               N-'ember 1985
Section II: Spectal Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        Assurances were obtained that the Government would:
(a) establish advisory committees to advise the Secretary General in
the management of the project and to advise regional directors
regarding project implementation in their respective areas (para.
48);
(b)  enter into contractual arrangements with ISS by November 1, 1985
(para. 50);
(c)  submit terms of reference for all research proposals, training and
technical assistance related to the institutional development
component to the Bank for approval (paras. 52, 55 and 56);
(d)  establish a Special Account and a Project Account in terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 59);



-36-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) conduct two evaluations under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank and submit semi-annual progress reports to the Bank
(para. 63).
3.        Assurances were obtained that INS would:
(f) by no later than September 30 of each year, present a rural water
supply project implementation program for the following calendar
year (para. 51);
(g) furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the INS annual investment
program for rural water supply (para. 51);
(h) discuss the findings and recommendations of the technical assist-
ance program and the national rural water supply study with the
Bank and implement such programs by December 31., 1987 (para. 51);
(i) meet agreed-upon selection criteria f or all water supply sub-
projects and maintain for periodic review by Bank missions a file
for each rural water supply subproject (para. 51);
(j ) require each beneficiary community to contribute, on average, 25Z
of the subproject's total cost in the form of labor, materials or
land and pay 50Z, on average, of the remaining cost of the sub-
project (para. 47);
(k) follow the princivples and procedures of the Basic Rural Sanitation
Program f or all subprojects (para. 51).
(1) by June 30, 1986, discuss with MOH and the Bank the adequacy of
subproject costs, community contributions and cost recovery rates
and adjust these conditions as necessary (para. 51);
4.        Conditions of effectiveness woul-d be that:
(a) MOB has entered into subsidiary agreements with INS and SENA
acceptable to the Bank (para. 57); and
(b) MIOB has established a Project Account and has made an inf.tial
deposit of US$1 million equivalent (para. 59).



- 37
aEL  SERVICES iTmiimi PW
*                        Tzagets for Pzoject Area After 5 Years of Service Delivery
t,
1983      1989       PER=
EmITES ESE4TSM fmlmg
(Z)       a)
I. CADSBEIC NIRBflm
A. Childrm less tha 1 year
1. Perinatal ccmditims              32.6      20.0         38.7
2. Gltontestinal infectims          13.1       7.0         46.6
3. Amerespiratory infections        11.8       8.0         32.2
4. NItritional defiieacies          4.0        3.0         25.0
B. Chfldrs ages 1 to 4
1. Acute respiratory infections     13.9      10.0         28.1
2. Gtro-intest1inal infecti'os      13.0       6.0         53.8
3. Accidents                         7.8       6.0         23.1
4. Nitritional deficis 2e           7.5        5.0         33.3
5. Measles                          7.3        0.0        100.0
A. lnzizaitimn
(% of susceptibles < 4 years)
1. MeAles                          45.0       90.1        100.2
2. Polio                           32.8       89.2        172.0
3. Dr                              30.3       89.2        194.4
4. EG                               56.4       90.7        60.8
B. Faly Plma*
-                   1. Nmber of Usr                  135,090    182,554        35.1
2. Total Fertility Rate (R)         4.3        4.0          7.0
3. Coatraceptive Prevalce Rate     37.0       5D.0         35.1
C. Mabutrition (all dgrees)
(Z of cildtr  0 - 4years)           19.4      15.0         2Z.7
.,t 



- 38 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
HEALTH SERVICES INTEGRATION PROJECT
Water Supply Component
Methodology for the Promotion and Construction of Rural
Water Supply Projects Under the Basic Rural Sanitation Program                     X
Once a community has shown the desire to obtain a water system,
the following five basic steps are followed by INS to satisfy the aspira-
tions of the community:
Phase 1 - Study of the Community involves the preparation of a socio-
economic-cultural profile of the community and its attitude towards sanita-
tion to assess the communities' needs, disposition and capacity towards
participation in the project.  During this phase the basic technical data
required for a conceptual design of the system are gathered (water source,
sketch of topographical situation).   This work is done by INS' promoters
and involves the Regional Engineer for technical matters. This phase ends
with informing the community of the general feasibility of the project and
a clear exposition of INS procedures for community participation.
Phase 2 - Preparation and Approval of the Project begins, if the initial
response of the community has been favorable and the prefeasibility of the
project has been affirmed.  It involves topographic work, the preparation
of studies and designs and the establishment of a cost estimate. In doing
this, INS' regional engineer, or in some caR-s engineering consultants,
follow a clearly defined methodology and format and apply established
design criteria.
Phase 3 - Motivation, Promotion and Organization of the Community uses the
existence of plans and designs as tools to obtain full community support
for the project. There are audio-visual presentations about sanitary prac-
tices and the use of water.   Community leaders are being asked to give
their support to the project.  There are meetings open to all community
members in which the pros and cons of the project and the need for self-
help are stressed.  At the end of this Phase, the community, usually repre-
sented by the President of the Junta de Accio,n Comunal, will sign an agree-
ment with INS which stipulates the following major points:
a) percentage of project cost which the community is to contrib-
ute to the project in labor, cash or materials;



- 39 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2 V
b) the portion of the externally-supplied investment funds
through INAS which is to be repaid and the condition for
repayment;
c) the responsibility of the community to take over the care of
the system once completed and the functions of the (Water Com-
mittee which will be elected by the community to administer,
maintain, and operate the system; and
d) the estimated amount of monthly payments which each household
(cuota familiar) will have to make to meet loan amortization
and operating and maintenance costs.
Phase 4 - Construction of the System begins only after the signing of the
contract.   The  community will participate  in  the works  by supplying
materials, providing transportation, making available land and right of
ways, and through labor (pipe laying) under the guidance of a local fore-
man. The construction of more involved facilities (storage tank, treatment
plants) is usually carried out by a local contractor hired by INS or
through force account. In some cases, the community will also provide cash
either collected among themselves or made available by local political
authorities. INS keeps careful records of all community contributions.
Phase 5 - Maintenance and Operation. Once inaugurated, the system becomes
the property of the community which elects a water committee to administer,
operate,  and maintain it.   The committee consists of three community
members - a President, Vice-President, and a Treasurer and a fourth member
who is representative of INS (usually the community motivator) who has the
task of assisting the committee in administrative matters and controlling
that the committee follows  established procedures.    The Committee is
responsible for keeping the books, collecting the cuota familiar, and, if
necessary, employing personnel for maintaining the system. It also decides
on system extensions and new customers.
:,



IBRD 1WS
---                                        ' 74.                                    7 45,8C^<su 4
C  0  L 0 M  B I A                                         r-'N                      C ean Sn                  Oeo
I?             ~~~~HEALTH    SERVICES                              -  -12   411                                EEUL    
INTEGRATION PROJECT                                                                               -u
-    Sana . r  AMA                          r a   '             COMBIAA
ATLAo841I' A                                                     _   _                _
BRAZIL
7                                   /  .S     -9   \(JS.. /1- "Mtcet                                     {E
Ocean    æ/  OLIVIAA'.
a~~~e I  _.- -  -                                                                                         9i
N-PANAM'A                                         p__________
)    Vx   -l8R2w8o   eF    !2 @t             ftRAtl         .Z>      .rrV ENEZUELA                san
rr  \      1;..   1 iRBRD 1860<A?J1ANF                --   =           's  *>fifl* -rt _.fi. lkd 
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sb -t .bim-w ;mfl'   iflS                                                          ag,S  o
. ;9s (,z ,;rg AR I/  6
8,_9Eee:.. lORD 180              0 .1  b   H! ::. -                 R    j- .    VENEZUELA  
~~~~~~lRD 18 606\                                          1                              \    -r    Mt' 
IB ~      -                     
Pc,                                                                                                           f~~~~~~~ P 
Uila              T-lARAt  A                                 i   V HAD EZ     E
9>,  S  IBRD leooo   L S.  1,  :18160F5                                                                                        |. 
18606 '10 . '__
-∞~~~~~~ E  C   U A D  OR                              ,                                                                ILE
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ 0)   H A    sD A0    5
-0  u                                                                    A ~~~~~~~~~~~( IAlt.j4 I /
% PlLO~IIIEfR
N>            5*"IBR l6OI-   -    a   so  IO   15D 2I                    250
AMAZONASKCTS
See 18R0 18601                      B  R  A   Z  I  L
5      Pl@miecr Depcrtn,ents/ 19 Projec Health Rogio-.
*    Noronal COaital
*    Citis mnd l1s with PopulatOn Ovr 4W000
Main Highways
-RiversP E                                             R 
-^-   DDOpartenntal Boundrs, ms
International Boundaries                r               i/
78l                                         74.      V
FEBAl rY'MW






