Report No. PIC5291
Project Name            Tunisia-Second Agricultural Sector Investment Loan (+)
Region                             Middle East and North Africa
Sector                             Agriculture
Project ID                         TNPE50418
Borrower                           Government of Tunisia
Implementing Agency                Ministry of Agriculture
Contact                            Mr. Abdallah Malek
Directeur General
Direction Generale du Financement et des
Encouragements, Ministere de l'Agriculture
30, rue Alain Savary
Tunis, Tunisia..
Tel. 216.1.842.687
Fax. 216.1.784.447
Date this PID prepared             May 1997
Project Appraisal date             September 1997
Project Board date                 December 1997
Background
1.      The agricultural sector has undergone considerable structural
adjustment in the past 10 years but structural problems persist.
Policy decisions to promote trade liberalization lag behind the
pace established for other sectors of the economy, mainly due to
concerns over social consequences in rural areas. While the
Government prepares for negotiations with the European Union on
trade liberalization of agricultural products, to reopen in 2000,
and for which the Bank has identified both Economic and Sector Work
and a lending activity separate from the present project, the
Government is implementing strategies to strengthen the capacity of
the sector to respond flexibly and positively to an eventual
reduction of border protection. The main sector challenges in this
regard are: (a) increasing competitiveness of farm enterprises; (b)
implementing sustainable resource management; (c) ensuring
efficient support services to agriculture; and (d) achieving
poverty reduction.
2.      The project will address all four of these areas. Sustainable
resource management will be addressed through groundwater
prospecting and monitoring, by prudent, small-scale irrigation
expansion where resources and opportunity costs permit, by hill dam
construction and operation for groundwater recharge and by support
of resource management components - of national research, extension
and training programs. Support for irrigation users' associations
will improve management of water resources and mobilization
infrastructure, and tariff policy measures will continue the
Government's consistent reduction in irrigation subsidies.
Efficient support services to agriculture will be addressed by



moving research, extension and training strategies in the direction
of public-private provision compared with the current state-only
provision strategy, and by focusing on overall delivery cost
efficiency. Poverty reduction will be addressed directly by
production-related investments in small-scale irrigation and hill
dams, and indirectly through the research, extension and training
components. Competitiveness in agriculture is a multi-faceted
issue, and the project would affect a portion of it by improving
production efficiency through the research, extension and training
components.
Project Objectives and Description
3.      This bridging loan has two main objectives: (a) to increase
rural incomes derived from sustainable use of water resources and
through effective development, delivery and adoption of improved
farming practices; and (b) enhanced institutional responsiveness to
user demand for agricultural research, extension and training.
4.      The proposed project will consist of: (a) an investment
component - (i) construction of hill dams; (ii) small-scale
tubewell irrigation creation and drainage rehabilitation and
modernization of several large-scale irrigation perimeters; (iii)
groundwater prospecting and monitoring activities; and (iv)
physical strengthening of agricultural research, extension and
training institutions through construction, equipment and vehicle
procurement; (b) policy and institutional actions - these condition
the sub-sectoral investments and make progress towards strategic
objectives; and (c) technical assistance - to support irrigation
associations' assumption of management responsibilities from the
public sector.
Benefits and Target Population
5.      Direct beneficiaries would be farmers practicing irrigation
on the basis of the small-scale irrigation perimeters and wells
benefiting from hill dam groundwater recharge. Experience during
the existing ASIL project is that these projects demonstrate an
economic rate of return in the 12-18% range. The total irrigation
area created, rehabilitated and modernized will be approximately
7,000 ha., disbursed geographically in small units typically of 50-
150 ha. each. Groundwater prospecting and monitoring is a key
component of groundwater management as it is presently practiced,
and as it needs to improve in the future. It is the foundation for
water resource inventories (quality and quantity) which define
sustainable extraction rates for economic uses. It also provides
the data needed for groundwater modeling, which Tunisia needs to
expand in the near future as part of establishing groundwater
management plans for its at-risk aquifers The national research,
extension and training activities would benefit farmers at large in
the agricultural sector by assisting them to adopt improved farming
techniques that increase productivity and quality of output, and to
manage their natural resource inputs more sustainably.
Implementation Arrangements
-2-



6.      The project implementation arrangements will replicate much
of the existing ASIL. Improvement will be sought in the following
areas: (a) monitoring and evaluation expectations and mechanisms
need clear definition from the outset of project implementation;
(b) institutional strengthening of water users' associations and of
government support units needs to be provided for in project
design. Users' associations need to be implicated in irrigation
perimeter projects from the initial design stage; and (c) for the
hill dam component: (i) environmental impact assessments should, in
selected cases, analyze cumulative impacts of groups of dams, in
addition to the currently practiced, site-specific assessments; and
(ii) the current resettlement process provides a good framework for
the proposed project but may need strengthening.
7.      The loan would support component activities that are
initiated under the Government's 1998 and 1999 budget exercises.
The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) will be the executing agency for
implementation of the project, specifically: (a) Directorate
General of Rural Engineering (DGGR); (b) Directorate General of
Water Resources (DGRE); (c) Directorate General of Studies and
Water Works (DGETH); and (d) the National Agricultural Extension
and Training Agency (AVFA); the National Institute of Agricultural
Research and Education (IRESA). Project coordination among these
implementing units would be assured by the DGFE (Direction Generale
du Financement et des Encouragements) and a Coordinating Committee
chaired by the Minister of Agriculture. The hill dam component
would involve two other Ministries: (a) for environmental aspects,
the National Environmental Protection Agency (ANPE) has approval
authority over mitigation plans proposed in response to
environmental impact assessments; and (b) regional representatives
of the Ministry of State Property and Land have authority over the
expropriation and indemnisation process and are involved in the
social impact process of expropriation. The technical assistance
(TA) component to support irrigation associations would involve
mobilizing a second mobile, multidisciplinary team, to be
coordinated and supervised with minor modifications to an existing
TA component financed by another donor.
Project Cost and Financing
8.      Total project cost is currently estimated at US$100 million,
with a Bank loan tentatively placed at US$60 million.
Sustainability
9.      The project directly addresses water use and management
sustainability issues. The groundwater prospecting and monitoring
component addresses the need for Government to develop a more
precise understanding of renewable groundwater resources (quantity
and quality), which represent 45 percent of exploitable national
water resources. The irrigation component is explicitly promoting
beneficiary involvement from the earliest stages of project
conception and establishment of financially autonomous user
associations for operation of irrigation infrastructure such that
the irrigation activity is sustainable with minimal additional
- 3 -



public intervention and cost.
Environmental Aspects
10.     Category B has been proposed for this project. Please see
attached Annex.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending June 6, 1997.
- 4 -



Annex
Environmental Aspects
The hill dams are designed to reduce sedimentation of larger
empoundment dams, to recharge overdrafted aquifers, and to supply
new small-scale irrigation networks. Possible environmental
drawbacks include reduced flood and stream flows to downstream
aquatic systems, reduced runoff to larger empoundment structures,
mosquito breeding in or eutrophication of the hill dam reservoirs,
and excessive sedimentation due to inadequate soil conservation.
Environmental impact studies conducted on a site-by-site basis
under an ongoing project (Loan 3661) indicate modest negative
environmental impacts of the construction and operation phases.
Aggregate impacts of hill dam clusters on downstream surface flows
and aquifer recharge are less well understood. The proposed project
will implement regional environmental impact studies for hill dam
groups to provide input on the environmental criteria that will
condition Loan commitment for specific hill dam investments.
Tubewell irrigation will only be pursued for sites where the
Directorate General of Water Resources has certified that the
tubewell and its proposed operation will not lead to overdrafting
of the concerned aquifer.
A portion of the research, extension and training component focuses
on strengthening the generation, delivery and adoption of resource
management technologies and strategies by farmers that improve
sustainability of land and water resource use.
- 5 -



