                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 26165-TUN

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (SCL-42780)

                                            ON A

                                            LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$42 MILLION

                                           TO THE

                                   REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

              FOR A SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN




                                        June 26, 2003




Water, Environment, Social and Rural Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective February 10 2003)

                                Currency Unit = Tunisia Dinar
                                      TD 1.00 = US$ 0.76
                                    US$ 1.00 = TD 1.31

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 -      December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEP            "Associations Eau Potable"
AIC            "Association d'Intérêt Collectif"
ASIL           Agricultural Sector Investment Loan
ASSP           Agricultural Support Services Project
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CRDA           Regional Commissariats for Agricultural Development
DGFE           Directorate General of Finance and Incentives
DGFIOP         Directorate General of Finance, Investments and Professional Organizations
DGGREE         Directorate General of Rural Infrastructure
DGRE           Directorate General for Water Resources
EMP            Environmental Management Plan
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FRF            French Francs
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GICs           "Groupements d'Intérêt Collectif"
GOT            Government of Tunisia
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
INGREF         Rural Engineering, Water and Forestry Research Institute
INPFCA         National Pedagogical Institute for Continued Training
IRESA          Institute of Agricultural Research and Education
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
MAERH          Ministry of Agriculture, Environment and Hydraulic Resources
MOA            Ministry of Agriculture
MTR            Mid-Term Review
O&M            Operation and Maintenance
PISA           Projet d'Investissement dans le Secteur Agricole (ASIL)
PRVA           Agricultural Research and Extension Project
QAE            Quality At Entry
WSIP           Water Sector Investment Project


                             Vice President:       Jean-Louis Sarbib
                Country Manager/Director:          Theodore Ahlers
                 Sector Manager/Director:          Letitia A. Obeng
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Shobha Shetty

                                           TUNISIA
              SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            25

Project ID: P050418                                                      Project Name: TN-ASIL 2
Team Leader: Shobha Shetty                                               TL Unit: MNSRE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 26, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: TN-ASIL 2                                                L/C/TF Number: SCL-42780
   Country/Department: TUNISIA                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (53%); Irrigation & drainage (34%); Agricultural
                            extension and research (10%); Central government administration
                            (3%)
                  Theme: Water resource management (P); Rural services and infrastructure
                            (P); Rural policies and institutions (P); Civic engagement,
                            participation and community driven development (S);
                            Decentralization (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    05/16/1997                                        Effective: 06/18/1998              06/18/1998
   Appraisal:    10/06/1997                                            MTR: 06/28/2000                06/28/2000
    Approval:    01/29/1998                                         Closing: 06/30/2002               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Tunisia/Ministry of Agriculture; Government of
                                           Tunisia/Environment and Water Resources
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jean-Louis Sarbib                              Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Theodore O. Ahlers                             Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:                 Letitia A. Obeng                               Mark Wilson
Team Leader at ICR:             Shobha Shetty                                  Stephen Mink
ICR Primary Author:             Raffaele Suppa


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                 S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
         The specific objectives of the project were to increase rural incomes derived from sustainable use of water
resources and to enhance institutional responsiveness to user demand for agricultural research, extension and
training. The aim was, thus, to support investment components that constituted line items in the Ministry of
Agriculture's (MOA) investment budget through selected investment in small-scale irrigation, groundwater
prospecting and monitoring, research, extension and training.

         The objectives were clear, realistic and in line with the GOT's priorities and the Bank's country assistance
strategy (CAS) and sector assistance strategy that supported poverty alleviation to be directly addressed by
production-related investments in small-scale irrigation and indirectly through research, extension and training.
Other CAS objectives supported by the project included environmental management for the sustainable use of
scarce natural resources, and the modernization of services including private provision of agricultural services. The
GOT's strategy was to promote private investment through the investment code provisions, to assist the
revitalization of professional organizations, and reorganizing research to better target productivity constraints
addressing at the same time credit, land ownership and marketing constraints to greater farm profitability. The
Second Agricultural Sector Loan (ASIL 2/PISA-Relais) was the logical follow-up of two projects financed by the
Bank: the First Agricultural Sector Investment Loan (ASIL/PISA) and the Agricultural Research and Extension
Project (PRVA). The Bank's support for the project was, therefore, justified as a response to GOT's commitment
and effort to promoting rural growth, employment and poverty alleviation and strengthening administrative
capacity to promote user groups for national resource management.

3.2 Revised Objective:
         The project objectives were not revised during project implementation, and components were maintained
as foreseen at appraisal.

3.3 Original Components:
         The project included the following components: (i) small-scale irrigation; (ii) groundwater prospecting
and monitoring; (iii) agricultural research; and (iv) agricultural extension and training. They matched the project
objectives and were within the administrative and financial management capacities of the main implementing
agency, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). The project also included accompanying measures designed to
enhance the effectiveness of public investment in these components.


3.4 Revised Components:
         Project components were maintained as foreseen at appraisal and no major charges were required during
implementation, although some changes were made in the magnitudes of some activities within components. In
addition to the original project components, several other activities were also reprogrammed under the project due
to the favorable exchange rate that resulted in project cost savings as well as in reduced unit costs for some
components. The project also included: (i) the activities originally expected to be financed under ASIL but finally
never implemented i.e. rural water supply, support to the National Institute of Rural Engineering, Water and
Forestry Research (INGREF), building construction to support INAT, and the training of the support units (cellules
d'appui) for the "Groupements d'Intérêt Collectif" (GICs) in the 14 CRDAs; (ii) the agricultural maps for 10
Governorates to complement the 7 Governorates already financed under ASIL and ASIL2 financed under the
Northwest Mountainous Areas Development Project; (iii) the procurement of equipment to combat the drought;
and (iv) the socio-economic impact evaluation of the irrigation perimeters. The Bank also agreed to an extension of
the loan closing date by six months, i.e. to 31 December 2002, to allow completion of activities under the
small-scale irrigation and groundwater prospecting and to monitor and evaluate the socio-economic impacts of the
irrigation perimeters.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
         Overall, quality at entry is rated satisfactory. Peer reviewers and Bank decision-makers endorsed the
project design and objectives, which were consistent with the CAS. The CAS objectives, among other things,



                                                         - 2 -

aimed at supporting rural growth through gains in agricultural productivity, enhancing the development of a
dynamic private sector to adequately respond to user demand for agricultural services, strengthening
environmental management for a sustainable use of scarce natural resources, and alleviating the pockets of poverty
and at raising overall living standards. The components of the project to strengthen water management and
agricultural support services, building on the successes of already implemented similar projects, i.e. ASIL closed in
December 2002 and PRVA completed in June 1997.

         As foreseen at appraisal, the project faced several moderate risks. They mainly included: (i) crop failure;
(ii) producer price and non-price incentive deterioration; (iii) inadequate progress in defining general strategy in
the two areas of agricultural services and water resource management; and (iv) the GOT wavering on policy
commitment regarding general strategy in the two areas of agricultural services and water resource management.
Related risk minimization measures were adequately introduced in the design of the project and included actions
to: (i) improve research users' participation in research prioritization and evaluation; (ii) focus on policy dialogue
during supervision; (iii) define appropriate policy bench marks that would condition, by project component, the
second year investment support.

         The lessons learned from previous projects, particularly ASIL, had been taken into account at project
design and were also instrumental in establishing adequate mitigation measures regarding project risks. Basically,
the active and early involvement of project beneficiaries in the management of the new irrigation perimeters, the
selection of research themes and training programs were carried out as envisaged at appraisal. Improvements were
sought to assure the sustainability of the irrigation project needs, the institutional strengthening of water users
associations and of the MOA's units to support these associations. Project support was envisaged for the
implementation of the MOA's strategy to decentralize research by strengthening selected regional research poles
and experimental stations and improving representation of beneficiaries within research programming and
monitoring committees. The project also included clear mechanisms and responsibilities for monitoring its
implementation. As regards the environmental assessment, the project was classified under category B. An
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was prepared and confirmed during negotiations to respond adequately to
possible adverse environmental impacts of irrigation development relating to overdrafting of the aquifer. Moreover,
in order to help the "Groupements d'intérêt collectif" (GIC) to manage their irrigation perimeters correctly,
appropriate measures were foreseen at appraisal to be implemented during the life of the project and included the
establishment of itinerant groups of multidisciplinary experts responsible to carry out, at the regional level,
training programs for GIC members. Overall, the project's readiness for implementation was high as evidenced by
the Government's designation of project staff who had already worked on the ASIL, advanced preparation of
bidding documents for the irrigation component, and availability of counterpart funds.              A detailed Project
Implementation Manual was also distributed in advance to the technical departments concerned in order to ensure
adequate dissemination of Bank procedures for procurement, disbursement, and financial management which also
ensured timely effectiveness and smooth implementation.



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
        In spite of a delay of about six months to reach its effectiveness, the project activities, well coordinated by
the (then) Directorate General of Finance and Incentives (DGFE), MOA's overall executing agency, have been
implemented successfully. The physical targets established at appraisal were achieved or surpassed and the
development objectives have been attained.

        The project has also made a positive impact on policy, institution aspects as well as improving the economic
impact of public investments in the sector. In pursuing its objectives, the project adopted a demand-driven
approach particularly under the irrigation development component. Lessons from ASIL were well taken into
account and were instrumental in the successful implementation of the project. The project is also noteworthy for
its strong focus on quality rather than on simply targets, for its pronounced emphasis on learning by doing, and for
the flexibility applied after the Mid-Term Review (MTR) carried out in June 2000. As a result, some project
activities were reprogrammed reflecting earlier experiences and following, at the same time, the changing



                                                         - 3 -

circumstances in the rural economy, specifically the drought situation during many of the project's implementation
years. Major project implementation indicators in physical terms are given in Annex 1, Table 1. The experience
gained under the Research and Extension Project and ASIL, has been effective for project execution and
coordination. In conclusion, the outcome of the project as a whole, both in respect to its development objectives
and its physical implementation, is rated satisfactory.

4.1.1    Increase Rural Incomes derived from sustainable Use of Water Resources and effective Development,
Delivery and Adoption of improved Farming Practices:
        According to recently carried out independent socio-economic impact evaluation of the irrigation perimeters
financed under the project, farmers gross margins/hectare have increased depending on the farm type and cropping
pattern. For the rehabilitated perimeters, the increases ranged from 12% (El Hajeb) to 59% (Lezdine). For the
newly created perimeters, the without-project situation was quite precarious (< 200 DT/ha) and there has been a
net increase for all farm models. For some perimeters (Beni Othman and Negagta), the factor of multiplication has
been 10. For others, the gross margins have increased by 36% (Bougossa) to 84% (Mnasria). However, the impact
evaluation also points out that non-farm income contributes significantly to household income ­ in some cases up
to 80% and this is especially so for small farmers. For the irrigation perimeters that have been rehabilitated,
irrigation efficiencies have improved by more than 30% especially on those perimeters equipped with modern
water-saving technologies (drip and sprinkler). For all perimeters, created and/or rehabilitated, the cropping
intensity has ranged from 100%-150% from a baseline or less than 50%. These outcomes have all contributed to a
sustainable water resources management. In addition, preparation of irrigation projects, using an improved
participatory methodology with identified beneficiaries, continues. Since October 2001, the terms of reference for
creation of new irrigation perimeters has integrated the environmental impact analysis with the technical and
economic aspects. There has also been a significant progress realized under the progress insofar as monitoring of
groundwater resources (quantity and quality) is concerned. This has enabled an upward revision of the available
(and exploitable) water resources. The reforms initiated under the project are to be deepened under the ongoing
Water Sector Investment Project (WSIP) and include mainly irrigation tariff reforms, the transfer of irrigation
water management to users associations including the public irrigation perimeters and water conservation.

4.1.2    Enhancing Institutional Responsiveness to User Demand for Agricultural Research, Extension and
Training:
         Since the late 1980s a process has been underway in Tunisia in the direction of demand-driven services
and increasing private finance and provision. The GOT has been pursuing a strategy of decentralization,
privatization of parastatal functions and public/private partnership, promotion of farmer organizations, and
improving efficiency of public services. This program has proceeded quite slowly and the country at present is in a
transitional phase between state provision and private sector involvement. Although progress has been achieved
under both ASIL and ASIL2, there is a need to deepen the reforms in agricultural services. Government appears
committed to accelerating the pace of implementation and to achieving within a ten-year period a new
pubic/private paradigm. The plan for regionalization is well under way with the creation of the regional centers of
agricultural research. The priority is now to improve the cost efficiency and quality of public and private sector.
The first two regional centers will be implemented under the Agricultural Support Services project (ASSP). The
links between research and extension continue to be strengthened. Recruitment of researchers in the regions also
continues to grow and is estimated at 70% for 2002. The Institute of Agricultural Research and Education (IRESA)
has already effected a certain measure of budgetary decentralization for the research activities managed by the
regions. The creation of a single Research Institute, which would bring together the various existing institutes
envisaged under the ongoing ASSP, would facilitate the effective management and regionalization of agricultural
research in the country.

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1    Small-Scale Irrigation:
         Under this component, a total of 40 new irrigation perimeters, covering some 3,460 ha, have been
established exceeding the appraisal estimates of 3,000 ha by 15%. Unit cost for this activity, as foreseen at
appraisal, proved to be adequate and resulted in an increase of total investment cost at about 13% in line with the
related increase in physical terms. Under the irrigation rehabilitation program, project implementation reached
some 2,690 ha, of which 1,690 with drainage, exceeding appraisal targets of 1,250 ha by 215%. The selection


                                                       - 4 -

criteria for the sub-projects were generally respected and, overall, project interventions under this component
finally benefited a total of 2,875 farmers. The environmental impact analysis required for the fourteen sub-projects
costing over TD 500,000 was initially carried out with some delays and it was not until October 2001 that the
terms of reference for the feasibility studies fully incorporated environmental aspects along with technical and
economic aspects. For the remaining sub-projects, costing more than TD 5,000/ha, related technical and economic
analysis were carried out by the respective CRDA and the criteria regarding the sustainability of water resources
use were followed. These irrigation perimeters were designed on the basis of specific measures set up by the
Directorate General of Water Resources (DGRE) which clearly indicate the quantity of water available on a
sustainable basis. The direct involvement of future project beneficiaries in the establishment of GICs, as foreseen at
appraisal and initiated under PISA, has been followed all along the implementation of the project and the related
supporting measures have been totally and/or partially implemented and results are rated satisfactory. With regard
to the supporting accompanying activities for the smooth implementation of the small-scale irrigation component,
three specific measures were envisaged at appraisal including: (i) the increase of water tariffs; (ii) creation of a
second mobile team to support water user associations; (iii) the progressive implementation of a preparation
approach for sub-projects to strengthen the participation of beneficiaries; and (iv) the establishment of an irrigation
farm revenue monitoring system. At project completion these measures have been implemented in a satisfactory
manner. Water tariff increases presently range from 3% to 5% in real terms, which are lower than the 9% increase
foreseen at appraisal. This was due to the long period of drought during 1999-2000 that obliged the MOA to
postpone tariff increases with a view to alleviating the burden to farmers. It is the GOT intention to compensate for
this in later years in parallel with the expected increases in farmers' revenues. The second mobile team ("groupe
itinérante") for training the support units for the GICs in the 14 CRDAs was established. The participation of
beneficiaries in the preliminary technical studies for the creation/realization of irrigation perimeters has become
institutionalized.

         Despite the overall increase in returns/hectare from small-scale irrigation, the recent impact evaluation
study has shown that the average cropping intensity for the sample perimeters has been of the order of 123% - far
lower than estimated in the feasibility studies. The study also points out that for 2000-2001, the average crop
intensification for all perimeters was only 91%. On none of the perimeters is the irrigated infrastructure being fully
used (despite the 1999­2002 drought), and that there is little sign of crop intensification. The report observes that
"irrigated" farmers are still behaving as if they were rain-dependent. Farmers are tending to favor low-margin
crops that need less water (cereal and forage), rather than increasing the share of land in high-margin fruit and
vegetables. Irrigation water use as a percentage of water requirements ranged from 19% to 98% in the newly
created perimeters. In 9 of the 22 farm models studied, over one-half of the irrigated area was in cereals and
forage. This may partly reflect deficiencies in the quantity and quality of water delivered. Of the 159 farmers
interviewed for the study, only 30 percent said they were satisfied with the access to irrigation water. Moreover, the
limited use of complementary inputs is depressing crop yields.

         As regards to the farm revenue monitoring, the Directorate General du genie rural et de l'exploitation des
eaux (DGGREE) carried out, with the help of GIC committees, a data collection exercise to estimate the current
cost recovery rate related to water use. Two summary reports were produced, one regarding the "Association
d'Intérêt Collectif" (AIC) for potable water (AEP) and the other on the GICs for irrigation. The latter, based on a
sample of 278 GICs, considered adequate to represent the total GICs, showed that 38% of GICs are able to cover
fully their operational and maintenance cost. Similarly, the 43% of GICs reported cost coverage rates ranging
from 50% to 100%. The remaining 19% of GICs are able to cover less than 50% of these costs. The average cost
recovery rate is assessed at about 80%, which is considered satisfactory on the assumptions that these rates are still
gradually increasing.

4.2.2    Groundwater Prospecting and Monitoring:
         At project completion 289 deep exploratory tubewells were realized representing an increase of 33.5%
over the target of 212 foreseen at appraisal. Total linear depth reached 71,985 meters slightly above the 71,000
meters estimated at project design indicating that, on average, the depth of wells was only about 75% of the
originally estimate. The actual costs per linear meter resulted to be two thirds of those experienced under ASIL.
This is to be attributed to two main factors: (i) the reduced depths of the wells compounded with the fact that
higher unit costs are generally associated with deeper wells and, more importantly, (ii) the measures taken during


                                                         - 5 -

the course of the project to promote greater private sector participation in this implementation program which
resulted, as far as the project is concerned, in a beneficial competition among contractors. Under the project, 181
reconnaissance wells were executed by the private sector compared to 108 by the public sector. For the piezometric
network subcomponent the initial estimate was for 115 units, for a total length of 14,750 linear meters. By the end
of the project, 193 units were realized for a total length of 22,235 m corresponding to 168% and 151% of the
appraisal estimates respectively. All the piezometers were installed by the private sector with the exception of 13
units. The first criteria for site selection for the exploratory tubewells were generally respected taking into account
existing and well documented hydrological studies of the groundwater table. The site selection criteria have been
operated by a committee put in place by the Directorate General of Water Resources (DGRE) with the aim of
reviewing and improving the existing methodology taking into account both technical as well as socio-economic
factors prepared by CRDAs. The implementation of the accompanying measures is rated satisfactory. They
included the facilitation of professional organization of the private sector for tubewell and piezometer drilling and
groundwater prospecting companies, as well as the strengthening of technical selection of sites for exploration
wells. As indicated above, the competition among contractors resulted in less than expected unit cost without
endangering the quality of the works. As of to date, some 85 contractors are considered eligible by DGRE to
operate in this field. About 40% of them can undertake works within a depth of 150-300 meters, which represents
the average depths of wells estimated under the project. Under the second accompanying measure, the criteria for
the selection of sites for the exploratory wells have also been strengthened taking into account both technical as
well as socio-economic factors. The cost-effectiveness of groundwater exploration (including adequate comparison
with other options for mobilizing water for a locality) has been estimated at 72% confirming the results
experienced under the previous similar projects. However, it has been recorded that groundwater prospecting
conditions become more difficult with time as the more favorable sites are generally the first to be exploited so the
current rate of 72% is still eminently satisfactory. In addition, the selection criteria are currently taking into due
consideration farmers' needs following, at the same time, sustainability requirements. The monitoring of the
groundwater quality also saw significant improvements under the project with 3,412 monitoring locations as of
2001. The data provided by the expanded piezometric network will be used to improve aquifer management
notably the quality of shallow aquifers. This is currently being consolidated under the SINEAU in the ongoing
WSIP. The ASIL2 also saw the initiation of the development of efficient, user-friendly, standard central and
regional data management systems to utilize the system as a decision-making tool and this is being further
consolidated under the WSIP. Under the WSIP, a pilot participatory aquifer management approach (an idea
mooted during the preparation of the ASIL2) in the rich agricultural area of Cap Bon is underway which will serve
to provide lessons for sustainable management of the groundwater resource in other parts of the country. The WSIP
also includes the establishment of real-time monitoring of water supplies (flows and reservoir storage) and water
demand in the major sectors based on a modernized data collection and transmission system to enhance surface
water management in the important Medjerda valley. These are expected to enhance resource sustainability for
future interventions.

4.2.3    Agricultural Research:
         Most of the activities foreseen under the research component of the project have been implemented and
their outcome is rated as satisfactory. The three Regional Research Poles at Chott-Meriem, Tozeur and Sidi Bouzid
were constructed in order to adequately sustain the activities of the regional centers of agricultural research. The
research programs concerning strategic crops were reinforced and new programs in biotechnology and animal
health were launched. Research equipment and vehicles were procured within the expected timeframe and have
allowed the smooth implementation of the specific priority research projects and programs. The training programs
on computer science and data processing were carried out as expected and were well received by participants.
Contrary to expectation at appraisal, the construction of the biotechnology laboratory did not materialize after
IRESA decided to integrate biotechnological research activities within the existing research program on a
demand-driven basis. The decentralization of research is continuing satisfactorily and the criteria for the selection
of research projects were respected. The sub-projects were selected in accordance with the priorities defined by the
research commissions.       Related annual budgets to cover investment and recruitment costs requirements are
currently prepared, together with financial plans and indications of interim and final output expected. The M&E
capacity of IRESA still needs to be strengthened. Moreover, the number of research users participating in the 10
research commissions is still limited. More reflection is needed on this to ensure that adequate mechanisms are in




                                                            - 6 -

place to better facilitate participation of the users in the choice of research themes and the monitoring of research
results. Overall, the investments under this component were 90% of those estimated. The above results are also due
to the satisfactory implementation of the accompanying measures. The strengthening of the process to regionalize
research continues as expected and adequate support was provided under the project to strengthen the activities of
the research committees and good coordination exists among the research poles concerning the definition of their
specific attributions.

4.2.4     Agricultural Extension and Training:
          The extension and training component of the project included the rehabilitation of the seven existing
training centers and the National Pedagogical Institute for Continued Training (INPFCA) in Sidi Thabet and
aimed at increasing the mobility of the extension agents in the eight governorates that were not covered under the
previous Research and Extension Project. All the seven training centers and the INPFCA were rehabilitated as
expected and adequately equipped. The procurement of 32 vehicles was carried out without delay and allocation
took place as planned. Audio-visual and computer equipment were also procured to upgrade the conference rooms
at INPFCA in Sidi Thabet. For both these sub components, the total costs resulted to be about 17% higher than the
amount estimated at appraisal since some unexpected financing had to be made available under the project to cover
the cost of close supervision of contracts works which were considerably underestimated.

        The outcome regarding the mobility of extension agents is rated partially satisfactory. As foreseen at the
project design, the provision of the additional vehicles has actually increased extension agents' mobility from 1.5
days/vehicle/agent/week to only 1.9. This performance represents only one third of the two-fold increase estimated
at appraisal. In reality, original targets appeared to be over ambitious on the account that extension agents at
CRDAs continue to carry out some tasks not directly linked with extension.

        The formulation of a new extension strategy has been developed and is currently being implemented within
the framework of the Xth Social and Economic Development Plan. As envisaged, the new strategy would be
followed-up during the course of preparation of the ASSP, which would also test innovative approaches to
delivering extension services. The links between research, extension and training is rated as satisfactory and
continue to be strengthened in the selection of research themes and in the validation of the research results.
However, improvements still need to be made in the areas of research programming to better involve extension
agents and the producer organizations, as well as the valorization of research results. Four of the five specific
accompanying measures foreseen as project design to support the implementation of the training sub-component
have been carried and their outcome is rated as satisfactory. They included: (i) the improved work programming
and mobility of the extension agents; (ii) the identification of complementary providers of extension; (iii) the
reinforcement of the links among extension, research and training; and (iv) the preparation and submission for
approval of draft application decrees for the existing orientation law for training. The activities included in the
fifth accompanying measure, namely the improved programming of the training of trainers, are expected to be
implemented under the ASSP within the framework of the innovative approaches for delivering this kind of
service. There has been a strong demand from both farmers and student during the project and records indicate
that, while in 1997 a total of 2,500 farmers and 950 students received training, these figures increased to 27,500
and 3,250 respectively in 2002.

4.2.5     Environmental Management Plan:
          The project was classified as a Category B project. In line with Bank guidelines, an EMP was prepared.
During the ICR mission, the implementation of the EMP was reviewed and, overall, the implementation of the
EMP was judged to be satisfactory. The technical justificatory measures required before the creation of a new
irrigation perimeter (from deep wells) to ensure that groundwater resources were not overexploited were carried
out in a satisfactory manner. For the environmental analysis required of all irrigation projects over 500,000 dinars,
initial progress was slow and it was not until October 2001 that the terms of reference for the feasibility studies full
incorporated the environmental aspects along with the technical and economic aspects. However, these terms of
reference have now been generalized for all projects irrespective of financing source thereby contributing to the
environmental sustainability of the investments. The monitoring of the groundwater quality also saw significant
improvements under the project with 3,412 monitoring locations as of 2001. The data provided by the expanded
piezometric network will be used to improve aquifer management notably the quality of shallow aquifers. This will


                                                           - 7 -

be consolidated under the SINEAU under the ongoing WSIP. Mitigatory measures envisaged under the EMP have
been implemented in a satisfactory manner for the irrigation and drainage projects. All these sub-projects have
been subjected to: (i) pedological studies concerning the water resources as well as the state of exploitation of the
aquifer under question; and (ii) identification of the risks of salinization including measures of attenuation such as
drainage measures or selection of appropriate irrigation techniques. In addition, the activities under research,
extension, and water conservation have also contributed to the environmental sustainability of the investments
under the project. For example, in 2002, 33 training sessions were conducted on the theme of irrigation benefiting
524 farmers. Between 1999 and 2002, 126 extension agents were trained in modern (drip and sprinkler) irrigation
techniques and a further 175 trained in conservation of water and soil techniques. The national program for
modernization of irrigation saw an increase in the area equipped with water-savings technologies from 150,000 ha
in 1997 to about 260,000 ha in 2002. In research, several research projects were realized in the utilization of
brackish waters, reuse of treated wastewater in agriculture, irrigation techniques and the like that have directly and
indirectly contributed to a more rational use of water resources.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
         As at appraisal, the economic analysis at project completion was carried out for both the deep tubewell
exploration and the tubewell irrigation. The analysis presented in detail in the additional Annex 8, confirmed the
economic viability of these activities with ERRs of 12.8% and 14.6% for deep tubewell exploration and tubewell
irrigation respectively, with an ERR for the project as a whole of 11.4%, which is also considered satisfactory. The
investment and operating costs of the other components ­ agricultural research, agricultural extension and
training, and groundwater monitoring ­ as well as all the additional activities, for which no return could be
estimated, are thus covered by the returns from irrigation. The ERRs, although about six points lower than those
estimated at appraisal, are still attractive, and the net present values of TD15.1 million and for the irrigation
development and of TD23.0 million for the deep tubewell exploration respectively are substantial. The lower than
expected economic returns may be attributed to the delay in project benefits. On the basis of data collected by
CNEA, it seems that it will take seven years for most farmers to reach full development, whereas the appraisal
anticipated six years; four further years have to be added for deep tubewells between the handing over of the wells
to DGGREE and the first irrigation, i.e. doubling the estimate made at appraisal. The increase in net present values
could be a result of the fact that the irrigated areas are larger, i.e. 3,459 ha instead of 3,000 ha for irrigation
development, with a probably even larger difference for deep tubewell exploration; there is also the increase of
project life to 30 years from the 20 anticipated at appraisal.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
         Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
         The institutional development impact has been substantial. The formulation for project execution and
coordination, tested under ASIL and PRVA proved to be adequate. The institutional improvement and innovations
introduced by the project, mainly related to the accompanying measures, were instrumental in supporting the
implementation of the project components. The project has succeeded in developing private sector capacity in the
areas of well exploration and drilling ­ a major success story. The investments started under the ASIL regarding
the training and creation of water users groups has continued . The integration (albeit delayed) of the
environmental aspects along with the technical and economic aspects in the terms of reference for the creation of
irrigation perimeters has also contributed to improving sustainability. Participation of beneficiaries in the design
and execution of irrigation perimeters has become institutionalized. The promotion of farmers' organizations and
the decentralization/privatization of selected parastatal functions are progressing satisfactorily and links between
agricultural research and extension continue to be strengthened. The strengthening of the training system for the
agricultural extension has allowed a more effective and practical implementation of the needs of all concerned
including farmers, students and extension agents. Overall, the institutional development impact is rated
satisfactory.




                                                          - 8 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
       Several outside factors had an impact on the project during its implementation. Reported droughts in
1999-2000, 2001-2002 and 2002-2003 had a very negative impact on the agricultural sector in Tunisia and
consequently on project implementation. As a result, some project funds were made available to procure some
research equipment to support the GOT in its efforts to fight against drought. The longer than expected droughts
have consequently increased farmers' interest for irrigated agriculture, introducing at the same time adequate
agricultural practices that have finally resulted in water use savings. The project cost savings have also allowed to
finance certain complementary investments which were not foreseen at appraisal and/or to support and to carry out
new activities, i.e. agricultural mapping and a study on socio-economic impact evaluation of irrigation perimeters.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
         The ex-post evaluation of the irrigation perimeters financed under this project (and the earlier ASIL)
indicates that quality and reliability of the irrigation service still leaves much to be desired. Further, extension
services to advise the farmers on crop choice and farming practices needs to be strengthened. Marketing and
commercialization networks to achieve economic benefits still remain weak. Although some of these issues are
being addressed under the WSIP and ASSP, if not properly addressed in the post-project period, these issues could
affect the sustainability of the project development objectives. There were also some difficulties in providing
timely preparation of documentation for individual research projects portfolios during May 1998 and a short delay
by MOA to mobilize the support team for reinforcing Water User Associations. The majority of project staff were
also engaged in the implementation of the First Agricultural Sector Investment Loan (ASIL) thus facilitating
continuity and learning from experience.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
       Key project positions were filled with competent individuals. The fact that the majority of project staff were
also engaged in the implementation of the previous similar project (ASIL) is, in retrospect, to be considered
beneficial to the satisfactory execution of ASIL2. The project approach did not need any significant change and its
implementation, after an initial setback of three months, was finally carried out without major delays in relation to
the program foreseen at appraisal. MAERH has always shown a strong interest in the project and was instrumental
to the smooth implementation of its activities.

         At the regional level, the Regional Commissariats for Agricultural Development (CRDA), in which there
are units representing the central Directorates, adequately provided technical support assuring at the same time
co-ordination among technical units.

5.4 Costs and financing:
          The project was completed at a cost of US$61.8 million or 91% of the amount of US$67.9 million
estimated at appraisal. Project costs expressed in local currency, i.e. TD77.6 million were in line with the amount
of TD77.1 million estimated at appraisal. In US$ terms, final project costs were about 10% less than the amount
estimated at appraisal due to substantial change in exchange rate. At the request of the GOT, the loan was
denominated in a single currency: French Francs (FRF) at a variable PIBOR-based interest rate. The total amount
of the loan was FRF246.6 million, equivalent to US$42.0 million. While at the time of appraisal, the TD/US$
exchange rate was 1,136, the average TD/US$ exchange rate between 1998 and 2002 was 1.256. Finally, the total
amount of the loan was fixed at US$36.4 million, which was fully disbursed. The full utilization of the loan is
certainly due to the timely decision of both the Government and the Bank staff to use savings from the groundwater
prospecting and monitoring component of the project to finance activities considered complementary to the
foreseen investments. This has certainly avoided the risk of possible important loan cancellation.




                                                         - 9 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
         Overall, the sustainability of the project is rated as moderately likely.

         The main project objectives of increasing rural incomes derived from the use of water resources and
improved farming practices, and the enhancement of institutional responsiveness to user demand for research,
extension and training have been achieved and their sustainability is rated as moderately likely. The small-scale
irrigation component has been undertaken on farmers' land and related investments have achieved satisfactory
financial and economic return and, together with the high degree of beneficiary ownership, are expected to ensure
proper and timely maintenance of the infrastructure rehabilitated under the project. MAERH staff, responsible for
the project, were able to capitalize in the implementation experience gained under ASIL/PISA and PRVA. This has
avoided difficulties, which are generally linked with the introduction of new activities. In addition, the fact that the
project has served as a "relay" between the two previous projects and two current ones, i.e. WSIP and ASSP is a
strong element of sustainability for project interventions. However, there are signs that the outputs of the project
have been achieved to a greater extent compared to the impacts/outcomes. This is evidenced by the fact that a large
proportion of the farmers are still dissatisfied with the quality of the irrigation service and many continue to behave
like rainfed farmers. Despite the increase in the mobility of the extension agents, a large percentage of farmers are
sticking to their old ways. Some of these issues are being addressed in the ongoing WSIP and ASSP. This general
indication of project sustainability is supported, for each project component, by the following considerations:

        The sustainability of small irrigation perimeters newly constructed or rehabilitated by the project will
basically depend on two essential conditions: the quality of works and their maintenance. The quality of works also
depends on the quality of the feasibility studies. These have been reviewed by the mission and considered
satisfactory and were further improved thanks to active participation of final beneficiaries, who, during project
design, had the opportunity to analyze various technical alternatives. The quality of works themselves is also to be
considered generally satisfactory. Local contractors were adequately selected and were able to carry out works
according to the foreseen schedule and responding, as far as the works are concerned, to a satisfactory level of
quality. Effective maintenance of installation will depend on the level of farmers' income increases necessary to
cover additional related costs. Although too early at this stage, preliminary calculations indicate that project
investments are economically viable. Farmers' incremental benefits are expected to reach a satisfactory level
covering, at the same time increases in O&M costs. In addition, both the establishment of the water user
associations (GICs) from the moment the civil works were initiated coupled with the training of GIC staff at
CRDA level are positive indicators that         O&M activities will be executed in line with adequate technical
requirements. Reports and ad-hoc studies presented to the ICR mission and interviews with project beneficiaries'
provide support to the validity of the above considerations.

        The investments carried out within the groundwater prospecting and monitoring component of the project
are also considered sustainable. Site selection of tube wells has taken into account the existing level of exploitation
in the aquifers to minimize possible risks of increasing future demand for both water supply and for irrigation.
DGGREE does not respond immediately to farmers' demand unless the question of sustainable exploitation of
groundwater is first assured. Automatic recording equipment for piezometers, a geophysical resistivity unit and
video devices to diagnose conditions in existing exploitation wells have been installed. This has provided
information to farmers regarding possibilities for future irrigation as well as providing data for improved water
resources management.

         The sustainability of the investments made under the agricultural research component of the project both
in terms of support to selected research programs and follow-up is rated as likely. The successful consolidation of
the research regionalization strategy, the strengthening of research committees through the implementation of a
monitoring approach and the extended representation of research users have all contributed to a synergy that
resulted in considerable reduction of management costs. Furthermore, the GOT, being aware of the importance of
adequate financial sources to be made available for research, has decided to allocate up to 1% of the GDP for this



                                                          - 10 -

purpose by 2004. It is to be noted that the decision for the establishment of a single Agricultural Research Institute
has been published on the "Journal Officiel" dated 14 January 2003.

         The sustainability of extension results will largely depend on the success of activities as foreseen under the
PRSAA (ASSP). Vehicles procured under the project have improved the mobility of extension agents in the eight
Governorates and their operation and maintenance is assured by adequate financial support, which is intended to
be continued as required. However, a substantive improvement of the extension service to farmers is expected to
come from testing new alternatives, currently being studied within the PRSAA.

         The strengthening of the agricultural training system has proved to respond adequately to the needs of
farmers, students and technicians. The annual MAERH budget is considered sufficient to cover the operation of
different training institutions. In addition, the GOT continues to give high priority to agricultural training, willing
to meet the increasing demand for this purpose. In addition, some training programs are currently being executed
under PRSAA and/or under the Modernization Project for Training and Employment.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
         No specific transition arrangements were required. The project supported a time-slice of the Government's
public investment budget in the agricultural sector. Standards and criteria set by the project for selection of
investments were initiated during the previous ASIL and subsequently mainstreamed into regular Government
budget prioritization procedures. The government avoided any financing gaps through the two major operations -
WSIP in the water sector, and ASSP addressing agricultural services ­ which became effective before the ASIL2
closed. The processes, systems, and skills developed by the ASIL in the MOA have been strengthened through
their application in this as well as subsequent projects. The government has also mobilized cofinancing from the
AFD, AfDB, and the KfW for the WSIL and the ASSP. The project's achievements and sustainability will be
strengthened when the MOA now devotes more attention to monitoring and evaluation of impacts and outcomes
and increasing communication capacity and effectiveness between the different units of the MOA.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
         The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation assistance and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory. The project was consistent with GOT and Bank development priorities and the Bank's CAS. Relations
between the Bank and the Borrower's institutions were good during identification, preparation and appraisal,
notwithstanding the lively debate on many project design issues. At appraisal, the Bank responded positively to the
GOT request to drop three project activities namely (i) the hill dam component; (ii) the identification of an
interdisciplinary team to strengthen water user association; and (iii) the reconfiguration of the extension
component. The request was subject to an adequate technical review and the final decision was endorsed by both
the GOT and the Bank. Preparation and appraisal were carried out very rapidly: less than seven months separated
the first identification mission from the moment the appraisal of the project initiated and less than 15 months
before the loan became effective. The Bank effectively assisted the MOA to conduct the launching workshop for
the project in April 1998 with the participation of representatives of MOA Central Units, CRDAs, the Central
Bank and the Ministries of International Cooperation and Finance and of Economic Development. The workshop
also resulted in useful clarifications on interpretation of the monitoring indicators. The Borrower noted that the
expertise marshalled by the Bank in the areas of small-scale irrigation and in groundwater prospecting and
monitoring in particular was well received and continues to guide operations today.

7.2 Supervision:
         The Bank's performance during supervision was satisfactory. Nine supervision missions, including a
project launch mission and a MTR in June-July 2002. were carried out to review progress at intervals of
approximately six months. Appropriate skill mix and staff continuity was assured, with consultants being
mobilized for specific regarding aspects of certain project components but excluding environmental aspects. No
supervision missions were carried out during the last year of the project mainly because of the initial reticence of
the Bank to respond to the GOT's request to extend the project by a year. This was subsequently revised to a



                                                         - 11 -

request for an extension of only six months which was finally approved by the Bank. Supervision reports
realistically rated project's performance in terms of achievement of its development objectives and physical
implementation. The MTR did not result in a restructuring of the project components. However, as requested by
the GOT in April 2002, the Bank agreed to a GOT request to reallocate funds from category 1 (civil works) and
category 2 (goods) to category 3 (consultant services and training) to cover the cost of additional studies envisaged
under the complementary program investment for 2000-2002 in line with actual implementation progress and
needs, and amendments to the Loan Agreement were made accordingly.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
         Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
         Borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory. The GOT did not leave preparation of the
project entirely to the Bank, but stayed very closely engaged in the design process following the lessons from the
experience gained under ASIL and PRVA. The preparation of a set of accompanying measures to support the
implementation of the major project components provided a very valuable framework for focussing the objective
scope and directives of the project. The Borrower mobilized competent staff, and all concerned entities closely
participated in and effectively contributed to the preparation effort.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
         The performance of the GOT is rated satisfactory. It provided full support to the project, and
implementation details were managed independently and effectively by the concerned line agencies under the
effective overall guidance of the MOA. Suggestions and recommendations from supervision mission were followed
up effectively. The M&E unit based at DGFIOP played an important role in mobilizing and coordinating project
concerned staff from various institutions.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
         The performance of the MOA and its respective implementing line agencies, department and related
CRDAs was satisfactory. The MOA displayed a strong commitment to the project and had well trained and
motivated staff, both at HQ and at CRDAs level, ensuring effective implementation and good monitoring of all
project activities. All legal covenants were complied with, and there were no problems with procurement or
financial management.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
         The overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

·        This project which has served as a bridge loan between the ASIL and the Water Sector Investment Project
on the one hand, and the Research and Extension Project and the Agricultural Support Services Project. It was
useful in maintaining the momentum and progress achieved under the earlier projects. Operations completed under
previous projects proved to be instrumental for the successful implementation of the new project.

·        The project benefited from a high level of commitment ­ both from the Bank as well as the Borrower and
which were in tune with the major objectives of the CAS. This was underpinned by a robust policy dialogue and
solid analytical work. These have been crucial to the project's success.            The Bank's readiness to adjust
implementation arrangements to changing circumstances and needs were also instrumental for the project's
successful implementation;
coincidence of objectives as presented in the CAS with those of the Government, finally both reflected in the
project, has been essential for the success of the project.

·        The institutional development impact insofar as the creation and strengthening of water users associations
(GICs) has been substantial albeit with significant variability in the quality of the GICs. There is still a long way


                                                         - 12 -

to go before the GICs can be truly considered autonomous and well-functioning. The disengagement of the State is
far from total and the GICs continue to rely heavily on the over-stretched CRDAs for major repairs, and operations
and maintenance.       This underscores the need for continued training of the GICs especially in financial
management, and irrigation management. Community management of water is still at a nascent stage in many
areas and requires continued capacity building to ensure that the benefits are sustained.

·        The presentation of the environmental management plan (EMP) to the concerned technical departments
during the appraisal of the project would have been useful in sensitizing the various stakeholders regarding the
environmental aspects of the various investments. This would have facilitated a more systematic approach to the
implementation of the mitigatory measures as well as perhaps accelerated the adoption of the integrated terms of
reference for the creation of new irrigation perimeters.

·        The underutilization of the hydraulic infrastructure and the finding that irrigated farmers behave like
rainfed farmers (choice of cereals and forage; low diversification) has underscored the need for actions on several
fronts to ensure that the economic benefits are justified. There needs to be an improvement in the quality and
delivery of the irrigation service as also a need for intensification of technical advice provided to farmers on crop
choice and farming practices.       The lack of diversification into high-value crops indicates the need for the
improvement of the marketing and commercialization networks, and the incentives system which through tariffs
and other mechanisms favors production of lower value import substituting crops, particularly cereals, over higher
value export crops which also face restrictions in overseas markets.

·        The progressive decentralization of research activities has improved the linkages between research and
extension. CRDAs farmers and extension agents participate in the research committees and during information
days. However, there is still a need for a more collaborative arrangement between AVFA and IRESA to ensure
that new and relevant messages are being delivered to the end-users.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
         Despite its complexity (many sub-sectors and components, 23 CRDAs, 4 technical departments, and
important institutional reforms), the project was launched successfully and the procedures and requirements of the
Bank were well understood by the Tunisian counterparts thanks to the efforts expended jointly by the project
management staff in the DGFE and the Bank. In addition, the project implementation manual was elaborated
along with all the procurement, disbursement, and financial management procedures required by the Bank and was
made available in advance to all the staff of the technical departments concerned well before the effectiveness of
the project. These included the        sample bidding documents for the irrigation perimeters and groundwater
exploration components, procurement procedures and procedures for bid evaluation, disbursement, and
monitoring.

Bank Performance

         The Bank's performance during the preparation, appraisal, and implementation of the project was highly
satisfactory and very positive. The relationship between the Bank task managers and the project managers was
distinguished by its clarity and confidence. The biannual supervision missions of the Bank provided rich and useful
assistance for the personnel in charge of project implementation and never remained a purely academic exercise.
The missions identified the problems and constraints and assisted in the elaboration of practical solutions. The
mission also aided the technical staff in the decision-making process in order to better valorize public investments.
Further, despite the change in the Bank's task management (undesirable usually due to the lack of continuity
during project implementation), the management of the project by the Bank did not encounter any major problems
and was actually highly satisfactory. Nevertheless, due to the favorable exchange rate and the competitiveness
factor, the costs (at appraisal) of certain components (deep tubewells, irrigation perimeters, various equipment for
agricultural research and training) were over-estimated. In addition, the distribution by category of the loan
amount was not well studied in light of the market exigencies, and the physical requirements. These two factors
concomitantly with the savings realized with a number of contracts resulted in a commitment jointly with the Bank



                                                         - 13 -

towards a program of complementary investments as well as an extension of the project closing date. In this regard,
the Bank team is to be congratulated for its efficient collaboration, the prompt treatment of the project files, and its
unstinted support for assuring the smooth implementation of the project. Regarding the financial aspect, the
payment of the contractors was achieved in a timely manner due to the funds available with the Central Bank of
Tunisia (BCT) or the Bank itself. Finally, it is to be noted that during the ICR mission, the Bank fielded a
multidisciplinary team that was excellent. The preparation of the ICR based on the work of this team has resulted
in a report that is complete, exhaustive, and rich in details and that could serve well for the formulation of new
projects.

Borrower Performance

          The Borrower, convinced of the objectives of the project and the flexibility of the ASIL2 instrument
(support for the MOA's annual investment budgets) demonstrated great political and administrative will to achieve
the project objectives without major time and cost overruns. Considerable efforts were expended during the project
launch and several corrective measures were taken in a timely manner to resolve problems pertaining to
procurement, disbursement, and the accompanying policy measures. In this regard, several measures were taken to:
(i) assure the sustainability of the project and meet its objectives; (ii) encourage and promote the private sector in
different domains ; (iii) encourage farmers and the private sector to participate actively in the development effort ;
(iv) improve the economic impact of public investments in the sector; and (iii) reinforce the institutional capacity
of the Ministry with regard to planning, preparation, and implementation of investment projects.


(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A.

10. Additional Information

          Poverty alleviation and social objectives: According to a recently carried out independent socio-economic
impact evaluation of the irrigation perimeters financed under the project, farmers gross margins/hectare have
increased depending on the farm type and cropping pattern contributing to reducing poverty and meeting social
objectives. For the rehabilitated perimeters, the increases ranged from 12% (El Hajeb) to 59% (Lezdine). For the
newly created perimeters, the without-project situation was quite precarious (< 200 DT/ha) and there has been a
net increase for all farm models. For some perimeters (Beni Othman and Negagta), the factor of multiplication has
been 10. For others, the gross margins have increased by 36% (Bougossa) to 84% (Mnasria). However, the impact
evaluation also points out that non-farm income contributes significantly to household income ­ in some cases up
to 80% and this is especially so for small farmers.

          Environmental Objectives: The EMP was prepared and reviewed during the supervision/ICR and, overall,
its implementation is rated satisfactory. The mitigation measures foreseen in the EMP specifically linked to the
creation of new irrigation perimeters to ensure that the groundwater resources were not over exploited, were
carried out in a satisfactory manner. Nonetheless, there were certain lacunae, in the implementation of the EMP.
The revised terms of reference for the creation of irrigation perimeters integrating environmental aspects were not
adopted till October 2001. There remains a need for capacity building within the technical departments to improve
the supervision of the environmental impact evaluations. There is a similar need for strengthening capacity in the
local consulting firms to carry out effective environmental assessments. The existing monitoring systems for the
control of land degradation are concentrated in the public irrigation systems. There is still a need for a more
systematic M&E system for supervising the exploitation of the shallow aquifers and soil salinization in the private
perimeters.

          Private Sector Development:       The decree governing the participation of the private sector and the
organization of the enterprises in the areas of well exploration and drilling was published in 1997 and brought into
effect in 1998 when the project became effective. The project has succeeded in developing private sector capacity in




                                                         - 14 -

the areas of well exploration and drilling, and piezometers ­ a major success story. At the end of the project, about
85 enterprises have obtained the license to operate in the sector. More than 50 percent of these operate in the
shallow aquifers (less than 50 m depth) while 32 enterprises now operate in the deep aquifers (150-300 m) which
correspond to the majority of the deep tubewells in the project. Of the 193 piezometric units realized under the
project, all except 13 were carried out by the private sector. The number of deep tubewells that have been carried
out by the private sector has exceeded 181 whereas that by the public sector has been around 108. The investments
started under the ASIL regarding the training and creation of water users groups has continued . The promotion of
farmers' organizations and the decentralization/privatization of selected parastatal functions are progressing
satisfactorily.




                                                        - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                           1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Groundwater abstraction (Mm3/year)                                           1896
2. Additional groundwater resources                                             81.3
mobilized (Mm3 )
3. Evolution of the piezometric network                                         340 (33%)
(number, % equipped)
4. Share of total irrigated land equipped with                                  82
water-saving technology (%)
5. Share of total irrigated land equipped with                                  65
water-saving technology (%)
6. Water consumption by sector (%)                                              Agriculture (86%)
                                                                                Domestic (10%)
                                                                                Industry and tourism (4%)
7. Rural incomes in project areas (gross TD,                                    43
average % increase)
8. Number of research results used in                                           120
practice
9. Number of new technologies/number of                                         25
researchers (%)
10. User representation on research                                             30
programming commissions


Output Indicators:
                                                                           1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION
New Irrig. Perimeters
  Number                          (no)          30                              40
  Area                            (ha)          3,000                           3,460
Rehabilitation
 Area                                           1,250                           2,691
GROUNDWATER PROSPECTING
Drilling exploratory tubewell     (no)          212                             289
Linear depth (tubewell)           (m)           71,000                          71,985
Piezometers                       (no)          115                             193
Linear depth (piezometers)         (m)          14,759                          22,235
Measuring equipment                (unit)       1                               1
Electric prospecting equip.        (unit)       1                               1
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
Construction. research poles             (no)   3                               3
Construction biotechn. lab.             (no)    1                               -
Procurement scient. equip.               (set)  1                               1
      "        agric. equip.             (set)  1                               1
      "        computers                 (set)  1                               1
      "        various equip.            (set)  1                               1
AGRIC. EXTENSION & TRAINING
Rehabilitation of training centers        (no)  7                               7
Rehabilitation training unit Sidi Thabet (no)   1                               1
Audiovisual equipment                     (set) 1                               1
Vehicles                                  (no)  32                              32
ACCOMPANYING MEASURES
Agric. maps                    (no. of Govt.)   10                              10
Water supply                   (forfait)        1                               1
Drought equipment              (forfait)        1                               1
Equipment for INRGREF         (forfait)         1                               1
Equipment for IRVT            (forfait)         1                               1
Socio-economic study           (no)             1                               1

1End of project



                                                             - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
Small-scale irrigation                                      22.50          24.30              108
Groundwater prospecting and monitoring                      36.30          23.30             64.2
Agricultural research                                        4.00            4.70           117.5
Agricultural extension and training                          5.10            4.90            96.1
Accompanying measures                                                        4.60

Total Baseline Cost                                         67.90          61.80
                         Total Project Costs                67.90          61.80
                   Total Financing Required                 67.90          61.80


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.70            55.10         1.20         0.00         57.00
                                   (0.40)         (32.90)      (0.70)         (0.00)      (34.00)
2. Goods                           7.20             2.30         0.70         0.00         10.20
                                   (5.50)          (1.70)      (0.60)         (0.00)       (7.80)
3. Services                        0.00             0.20         0.00         0.00          0.20
                                   (0.00)          (0.20)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.20)
4. Recurrent Costs                 0.00             0.00         0.00         0.50          0.50
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           7.90            57.60         1.90         0.50         67.90
                                   (5.90)         (34.80)      (1.30)         (0.00)      (42.00)




                                                - 17 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00              49.90              0.20             0.00             50.10
                                           (0.00)            (30.00)            (0.10)            (0.00)           (30.10)
   2. Goods                                 2.40               4.80              0.20             0.00              7.40
                                           (2.00)             (3.90)            (0.20)            (0.00)           (6.10)
   3. Services                              2.00               0.20              0.20             0.00              2.40
                                           (1.80)             (0.20)            (0.10)            (0.00)           (2.10)
   4. Recurrent Costs                       0.00               0.00              0.00             1.90              1.90
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                4.40              54.90              0.60             1.90             61.80
                                           (3.80)            (34.10)            (0.40)            (0.00)           (38.30)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Civil work                     34.00        23.00         0.00       30.10         20.00      0.00       88.5      87.0      0.0
Goods                           7.80         1.40         1.00        6.10         0.30       1.00       78.2      21.4    100.0
Services                        0.20         0.00         0.00        2.10         0.30       0.00      1050.0     0.0       0.0
Recurrent Cost                  0.00         0.50         0.00        0.00         1.90       0.00        0.0     380.0      0.0
Total Disbursement             42.00        24.90         1.00       38.30         23.50      1.00       91.2      94.4    100.0




                                                           - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

PAD Approach

         At appraisal, it was considered difficult to conduct a comprehensive cost benefit analysis since the project
was a sector investment loan and there were, at that stage of preparation, some details for the 1998 program, and
only a broad envelope of activities for the 1999 program. The specific sub-projects for irrigation systems expected
to be financed by the loan were supposed to be subjected to economic selection criteria, whose application had
already been tested under ASIL. Direct beneficiaries included farmers in small-scale irrigation systems expected to
gain in terms of increased production and income. For small-scale, tubewell-based irrigation investments, the
project was expected to generate rates of return ranging from 15% to 21% in line with the results experienced
under the ASIL project. Benefits from the investments in agricultural research and extension were not easily
quantifiable, as these activities did not lend to themselves. Qualitatively, they were expected to benefit farmers at
large in the agricultural sector by assuming them to adopt improved farming techniques that would have increased
productivity and quality of output, managing at the same time their natural resource inputs more sustainably.

         The cost-effectiveness analysis for Deep Tubewell Exploration was based on the fact that between 1990
and 1995, explorative activities by the DGRE resulted in the estimated annual sustainable aquifer yield in Tunisia
increasing by 40 million m3, of which 80% was utilized in irrigated agriculture and the remainder for urban and
rural potable water supply. Based on this increased availability of water, returns to three representative cropping
patterns for a "with project" situation under irrigated agriculture, were analyzed and compared to a typical "without
project" cropping pattern under rainfed conditions. The results of the analysis taking into account the least
value-added cropping pattern showed an ERR of 18.2%. The nature of the results for the conservative case
demonstrated that the deep exploratory tubewell program was cost-effective. As far as the Small Tubewell
Irrigation is concerned, the same conservative low value-added cropping pattern was used in the deep tubewell
case and the ERR was estimated at 20.1%.

ICR Approach

         As at appraisal, the economic analysis at project completion was carried out for both the deep tubewell
exploration and the tubewell irrigation. The analysis presented in detail in the additional Annex 8, confirmed the
economic viability of these activities with ERRs of 12.8% and 14.6% for deep tubewell exploration and small
tubewell irrigation respectively, with an ERR for the project as a whole of 11.4%. The analysis was carried out on
the basis of the following assumptions:


i.       2002 constant prices;
ii.      opportunity cost of capital at 10%;
iii.     the life of the project connected with the average life of the most important investment items, i.e.
         deepwells and irrigation perimeters infrastructures that were estimated to last 30 years;
iv.      irrigation development of a total area of 3,459 ha during 2000, 2001 and 2002;
v.       in the at long term, the water availability from deepwells was estimated to reach some 40 million m3/year,
         of which 90% for irrigation. DGGREE's estimate of the area that could be irrigated with this volume of
         water was assessed at 10,800 ha.
vi.      taking into consideration the present intervention capacity of DGGREE, it is anticipated that the
         construction of irrigation schemes using water from the deep tubewells drilled during ASIL 2 will take
         five years, starting in 2003;
vii.     the investment costs taken into account in the two analyses encompass the cost of the tubewells,
         development of irrigation schemes, and on-farm irrigation equipment ; in the case of irrigation
         development, it was considered that the cost of the tubewells financed by ASIL could not be viewed as a
         sunk cost and must be taken into account in the economic analysis;
viii.    renewal costs cover development of irrigation schemes (30 % of investment costs every ten years) and
         on-farm irrigation equipment (50 % every ten years);




                                                         - 19 -

ix.      on the basis of present average costs of irrigation using water from deep tubewells, annual operations and
         maintenance costs were estimated at 450 TD per hectare;
x.       the with-project and without-project cropping pattern data were taken from the draft socio-economic
         impact assessment study of irrigation schemes published by CNEA in February 2003; data on the
         intensification achieved after an average of three years of irrigation were of assistance in estimating the
         situation at full development anticipated after seven years; as during the appraisal, rates of intensification
         were estimated conservatively;
xi.      conversion factors were updated; the factor was thus estimated at 80 % for unskilled labor, and at 82 %
         for irrigation-related investments (value-added tax of 18 %), apart from tubewells, which are exempt from
         value-added tax.

         The cost-effectiveness of the two productive components of the project is rated satisfactory. The ERRs are
attractive, and the net present values of TD23.0 million and TD15.1 million for the deep tubewell exploration and
for the small tubewell irrigation respectively are substantial. Moreover, switching values indicate how firm these
rates are. The benefits would have to fall by 22 % and 29 % respectively for the economic rates of return to fall to
10 %. Although, these ERRs are lower than those estimated at the time of appraisal, they are still rated satisfactory.
On the basis of data collected by CNEA, it seems that it will take seven years for most farmers to reach full
development, whereas the appraisal anticipated six years ; four further years have to be added for deep tubewells
between the handing over of the wells to DGGREE and the first irrigation, i.e. doubling the estimate made at
appraisal.

         The increase in net present values could be a result of the fact that the irrigated areas are larger, i.e. 3,459
ha instead of 3,000 ha for irrigation development, with a probably even larger difference for deep tubewell
exploration ; there is also the increase of project life to 30 years from the 20 anticipated when the appraisal was
being carried out.

         This analysis clearly shows the cost-effectiveness of irrigation from deep tubewells drawing on Tunisia's
groundwater. The benefits make relatively large investments, over TD9,000 per ha, cost-effective, while providing
a substantial rise in farm income. The benefits provided by irrigation not only make the investments for the two
productive components cost-effective, but can also cover, from an economic point of view, other project costs. The
economic analysis shows an overall project rate of return of 11.4 %, which is also considered satisfactory. The
investment and operating costs of the other components ­ agricultural research, agricultural extension and
training, and groundwater monitoring, as well as all the additional activities, for which no return could be
estimated, are thus covered by the returns from irrigation.




                                                         - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/23/1997                2    E, IE
              06/16/1997                5    E, Ext, E, GW, Rtt

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/08/1997                5    E, E, Ext, IE, AR


 Supervision

              05/08/1998                7    TEAM LEADER; IRRIG. (1);         S               S
                                             IRR & DRAIN RESEARCH (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (2);
                                             DISBURSEMENT (1); AG.
                                             RESEARCH & EXTEN. (1);
                                             GROUNDWATER MGMT (1)
              10/19/1998                4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             SR.ECONOMIST/CO-TTL (1);
                                             IRRIGATION (1);
                                             AG.RESEARCH &EXTENSION
                                             (1)
              05/07/1999                3    TTL; GROUNDWATER (1);            S               S
                                             IRRIGATION (1);
                                             RESEARCH&EXTENSION (1)
              05/07/1999                3    SR.IRRIGATION ENGINEER           S               S
                                             (1); ECONOMIST/TTL (1);
                                             SR.ECONOMIST/RES.&EXT.
                                             (1)
              07/10/2000                3    SR. ECONOMIST/TTL (1);           S               S
                                             IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);
                                             IRRIG. RESEARCH (1)
              06/12/2001                4    SR. ECONOMIST/TTL (1); SR.       S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT ADV. (1);
                                             AGRONOMIST (1);
                                             IRRIGATION SPECIALIST (1)
              06/12/2001                2    ECONOMIST/TTL (1);               S               S
                                             IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1)


 ICR
              05/01/2003                1     E                               S               S




                                              - 21 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            13.9                           50.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   8.9                          32.1
  Supervision                          131.1                         471.9
  ICR                                     3.0                          10.8
  Total                                156.9                         564.8




                                            - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.   Project Appraisal Document, December 30, 1997 (Report No. 17208-TUN)
2.   Agreed Minutes of Negotations, December 1, 1997
3.   President's Report
4.   Loan Agreement, March 16, 1998
5.   Quarterly Project Management Reports (PIU)
6.   Supervision Mission Aide-mémoire and PSRs
7.   ICR Mission Aide-Memoire and related technical annexes
8.   "Evaluation d'impact socio-économique des périmètres irrigués" ­ study by CNEA, February 2003.
9.   Staff Appraisal Report - ASIL: TN-PE-5721
10.  Loan Status; Category Recap. Data ASIL2
11.  FACT: Financial and Cost Application - ASIL2
12.  Economic Analysis Excel Tables (electronic files)




                                                 - 25 -

- 26 -

