Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3150-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR AN
URBAN ENGINEERING PROJECT
November 11, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =   Peso (P (100 centavos)
P 1.00           = US$0.128
US$1.00          =   P7.8
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
CIF            -   Capital Improvement Folio
CVUP           -   Central Visayas Urban Project
EPZA           -   Export Processing Zone Authority
MHS            -   Ministry of Human Settlements
MPWH           -   Ministry of Public Works and Highways
MTC            -   Ministry of Transportation and Communications
NEDA           -   National Economic and Development Authority
NHA            -   National Housing Authority
NHMFC          -   National Home Mortgage Finance Corporation
ODA            -   Official Development Assistance
RCDP           -   Regional Cities Development Project
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
URBAN ENGINEERING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Republic of the Philippines
Amount:           $8.0 million equivalent
Terms:            Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at 11.6% per annum. The loan could be refinanced
under any subsequent loan or credit the Bank Group may
provide to implement a proposed Regional Cities Development
Project.
Project           The proposed engineering project would assist the Government
Description:   in completing preparation for a proposed Regional Cities
Development Project (RCDP) and a Central Visayas Urban
Project (CVUP).  It would finance:
(a) For RCDP: Detailed engineering for urban investments;
special studies; and technical assistance for project
management and planning.
(b) For CVUP: Feasibility studies for urban investments;
detailed engineering for selected urban investments;
special studies; surveying and other equipment; and
technical assistance for project management and
planning.
(c) Training programs for central government transport
specialists and municipal government staff.
The proposed engineering project would provide for about 30%
of all detailed engineering required for the RCDP and about
25% for the CVUP, which would be sufficient to establish
final design criteria and assist in firming up cost esti-
mates for all the principal components of the RCDP and CVUP.
The risk associated with the proposed project is minimal as
the terms of reference and the short-list of consultants for
most of the studies are now in an advanced stage of pre-
paration; no major implementation delay is therefore anti-
cipated. However, assured access to identified parcels of
land would be a necessary prerequisite for detail- .
ed engineering activities. Mutually acceptable programs of
action for land acquisition have been prepared by the
Government and their progress will be closely monitored.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost /1                                 Local    Foreign    Total
-------US$ million-------
Regional Cities Development Project (RCDP)
-  Detailed engineering studies                    1.1         1.5        2.6
-  Special studies                                 -           0.1        0.1
-  Technical assistance                            0.2         0.1        0.3
-  Staff services, and maintenance and
operating expenses                           1.5         -          1.5
Total base cost RCDP                    2.8         1.7        4.5
-  Contingencies (price only)                      0.3         0.2        0.5
Total cost RCDP                         3.1         1.9        5.0
Central Visayas Urban Project (CVUP)
-  Feasibility studies                             0.8         1.1        1.9
-  Detailed engineering studies                    0.8         0.8        1.6
-  Special studies                                 -           0.1        0.1
-  Equipment                                       -           0.1        0.1
-  Technical assistance                            0.1         0.1        0.2
-  Staff services, a.- maintenance and
operating expenses                           1.6         -          1.6
Total base cost CVUP                    3.3         2.2        5.5
-  Contingencies (price only)                      0.5         0.3        0.8
Total cost CVUWP                        3.8         2.5        6.3
Training                                           -           0.2        0.2
Total project cost                      6.9         4.6       11.5
Financing Plan:
Bank loan                                    3.4         4.6        8.0
Government                                   3.5         -          3.5
Total                                        6.9         4.6       11.5
Estimated Disbursements:    Bark FY:  1982          1983        1984       1985
---------- (US$ million) --------
Annual                             1.0       5.0         1.7        0.3
Cumulative                        1.0        6.0         7.7        8.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:   No separate report.
/1 Excluding identifiable duties and taxes from which the project is
exempt.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR AN URBAN ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $8.0 million to help
finance an urban engineering project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum. The loan could
be refinanced under any subsequent loan or credit the Bank Group may provide
to implement a proposed Regional Cities Development Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic report, entitled "The Philippines:  Domestic and Exter-
nal Resources for Development" (No. 2674-PH), was distributed to the Executive
Directors under SecM79-822, dated November 16, 1979. A special report,
"Aspects of Poverty in the Philippines: A Review and Assessment" (No.
2984-PH), was distributed to the Executive Directors on December 1, 1980 under
SecM80-919. An economic mission visited the Philippines in September 1981 and
is now preparing its report. Country data are given in Annex 1.
Performance in the 1970s
3.        During the 1970s, economic performance improved considerably,
raising the trend GNP growth rate to 6% at the end of the decade. The ratio
of fixed investment to GNP rose from 16% to 24% during this period. Half of
the increase in investment was in the public sector; the ratio of public
investment to GNP rose from 1.5% to 5.5% during the decade, reflecting
substantially expanded revenues and improved implementation capacity. Export
growth was accelerated, particularly in nontraditional manufactures, while
growth in imports of oil and consumer goods was restrained. Overall, expan-
sion in agricultural production was quite rapid, and foodgrain deficits were
eliminated in the second half of the decade. Population growth was also
slowed in the 1970s. However, the economy still has a number of structural
problems. Most importantly, the efficiency of investment has been low,
particularly in manufacturing industry producing for the domestic market;
industrial employment has not expanded rapidly enough; and poverty is still
widespread.
4.         The economy-s structural problems are reflected in its balance of
payments. Improvements achieved in the early 1970s were more than offset
by a sharp deterioration of the Philippines' terms of trade since 1975,
stemming from the oil price increases, accelerated international inflation,
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Agricultural Support Services Project (R81-187)
which was approved by the Executive Directors on July 14, 1981.



and depressed prices for major export commodities.  Consequently, the
Philippines has had to rely heavily on foreign borrowings to finance the
imports needed to maintain growth and investment levels. To hold the
external deficit at a sustainable level in the coming years, additional
structural adjustments in the balance of payments will have to be achieved
through reduced dependence on imported oil, increased efficiency of
investment, and improved performance of the industrial sector.
Development Strategy
5.        The Government's Development Plan for 1978-82 has as objectives the
rapid expansion of productive employment; improvements in economic, social and
regional equity; and provision for the basic needs of the population. The
agricultural strategy emphasizes food production, crop diversification, and
stronger linkages with processing industries. The industrial strategy calls
for promotion of export industries, development of small- and medium-scale
industries, regional dispersion of industrial growth, increased efficiency
of investment, and selected large-scale projects. The Plan includes social
development targets in education, housing, health, and family planning. In
addition, the Plan outlines development strategies for each of the country's
13 regions. A recently completed Food and Nutrition Plan, which complements
the Development Plan, aims at eliminating malnutrition by 1990 through
increased food production and nutrition programs.
6.        The Development Plan elaborates the policy directions pursued by
the Government in recent years and is broadly in line with the Bank's
assessment of the country s development priorities. In view of changes in
the international economy, the Government has recently revised the Plan,
reducing the target of GNP growth for 1981-82 from 8% to 6%.
Macro Issues for the 1980s
7.        As noted above, the Philippines faces several fundamental long-
standing development problems which will need increased attention during the
1980s. The four most important of these are reduction of population growth,
poverty alleviation, employment generation, and increased efficiency of
investment.
8.        Population Growth.  The Philippines has achieved an impressive
reduction in population growth from 3% in 1970 to about 2.4% in 1980./1
Nevertheless, rapid population growth is still straining available land
resources, aggravating already serious employment and poverty problems, and
burdening the public budget with a high growth in demand for basic public
services. Further reduction of population growth is, therefore, vital for
the country's development. The Philippines has an active family planning
program which has expanded rapidly during the 1970s. However, participation
in the family planning program is still low by East Asian standards, and the
/1 This figure is based on a more recent survey than the Annex I data.



- 3 -
number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program has faced the
increasingly difficult problem of extending into rural areas.
9.        Poverty Alleviation.  Despite satisfactory economic growth during
the 1970s, the incidence of poverty remains high at 40-45%. Income distri-
bution continues to be very skewed, and there is a small elite which is
conspicuously wealthy. Regional disparities remain pronounced, with the
incidence of poverty reaching 60-70% in the least developed regions. Large
numbers of people, especially in the rural areas, which account for about 80%
of the poor, still suffer from malnutrition and lack safe water, basic
education and health facilities. An increasingly unfavorable man/land ratio,
the resulting expansion of cultivation into marginal lands, limited employment
opportunities in the industrial sector, and the sharp deterioration in the
external terms of trade have put downward pressure on real incomes. Although
the Government instituted several programs during the 1970s that should
directly improve the lives of the poor, most of these were implemented on a
large scale only toward the end of the decade and will require several years
to achieve a marked impact. Key steps needed to alleviate poverty will be the
development of rainfed agriculture, more balanced regional development, rapid
expansion of manufacturing employment, continued improvement in basic public
services, and further reduction of population growth.
10.       Employment Generation.  Growth of productive employment, partic-
ularly in the industrial sector, has lagged behind the rapid expansion of the
labor force, and considerable underemployment exists. During the 1970s, the
agriculture and service sectors had to absorb an excessively high proportion
of new entrants to the labor force. Manufacturing employment stagnated in the
first half of the decade, and picked up only slightly thereafter as
labor-intensive export production grew. Overseas employment, especially in
the Middle East, increased rapidly, providing a temporary income opportunity.
As the absorption capacity of the agricultural sector is limited, employment
generation in manufacturing will have to increase considerably in the 1980s.
11.       Efficiency of Investment.  While private and public investment rose
sharply during the last decade and have reached reasonable levels, the
accompanying expansion of the economy's real output has been relatively low.
In addition, the low rate of industrial job creation indicates that, on
average, investment has not been labor-intensive enough. The low efficiency
and labor-intensity of investment have been caused by the distortive effects
of past trade, industrial, and financial policies on the allocation of
capital. In view of tight resource constraints to be faced in the 1980s, the
efficiency and labor-intensity of investment will be critical determinants of
future growth in output and employment.
Sectoral Issues
12.       The Philippines' macro-economic performance reflects achievements
and problems at the sectoral level. The more important of these are
summarized below for the agricultural, industrial, and energy sectors.



- 4 -
13.       Agriculture and Rural Development.  Although there has been con-
siderable variation among subsectors, the trend growth rate of the
agriculture, fishery, and forestry sector was about 5% during the 1970s,
which is quite high by international standards. The Philippines, once a
chronic importer of rice, began to export modest quantities in 1977, and
rice self-sufficiency appears assured for the 1980s. Production of fish and
nontraditional export crops, such as bananas and coffee, has also expanded
rapidly. However, the development of rainfed agriculture, which is of
critical importance for raising the incomes of the rural poor, has lagged
behind. Technologies to increase yields of corn and feedgrains are still
under development, as are multiple cropping systems. Productivity in the
important coconut export sector is low because of a large number of overage
trees, although a major coconut replanting program is scheduled for the early
1980s. Furthermore, population pressure on the arable land is steadily
increasing, and soil erosion in hilly areas that have been logged over or
settled is a serious problem.
14.       The Government has provided substantial support for rural develop-
ment. Agricultural production has benefitted from the introduction of high-
yielding varieties, improved credit, extension, and irrigation programs.
Rural infrastructure programs in water supply, electrification and health
services have also been expanded significantly. An agrarian reform of rice
and corn land, instituted in 1972, is well advanced.
15.       While these programs have achieved considerable improvements, the
gains have been uneven among regions, crops, and farming systems. Difficult
issues remain to be addressed if the living conditions of the rural poor are
to be improved. Solutions to the interrelated problems of low incomes and
poor soils in marginal settlements will require the development of tree
cropping and mixed farming technologies, resolution of land tenure questions,
and substantial upgrading of the administrative capability of the agencies
concerned. Steps are also needed to reduce the incidence of poverty among
subsistence fishermen, coconut farmers, and sugar cane workers.
16.       Industry.  Although industrial and trade policies were improved in
the early 1970s, manufacturing industry grew only at about the same rate as
GDP, and its growth pattern remained unsatisfactory during the decade.
Excessive protection and artificially low cost of capital have led to low
efficiency of investment and stagnation of manufacturing employment in
industries producing for the domestic market. The introduction of export
promotion measures in the early 1970s did lead to extremely rapid growth in
exports of nontraditional manufactures, which rose from about $50 million in
1970 to $2.1 billion in 1980. Nontraditional manufactures now account for
one-third of the country's total exports. However, the export expansion has
been concentrated on a few items, and backward linkages with the rest of the
economy have been limited due to the high cost and low quality of domestic
inputs. Consequently, nontraditional manufacturing export industries have
developed as an outward-looking enclave in an otherwise heavily protected
economy.



- 5 -
17.        The objectives of the Government's industrial pdlicy are to
accelerate growth of output and employment, sustain the high growth of manu-
factured exports, reduce import dependence of domestic industry, improve the
efficiency of investment, and promote industrial development outside the
Manila area. Since industries producing for the domestic market still
account for more than 80% of manufacturing investment, output, and employ-
ment, restructuring of home industries as well as continued export expansion
are needed to achieve these objectives. In 1979, the Government initiated a
series of fundamental policy reforms designed to improve the performance of
the industrial sector.   The first phase of the reform program, which is
currently being implemented, focuses on strengthening of export incentives
and reduction of protection through tariff reform and liberalization of
import licensing. The Government is preparing a second phase of reforms that
will address shortcomings in the investment incentives and promotion system as
well as restructuring of industries which have to adjust to a more
competitive environment.
18.       Energy.  Another sector critical for the success of the Philippines'
structural adjustment effort is the energy sector. Since the 1973-74 oil
price increase, the Philippines has made a considerable effort to reduce its
dependency on imported oil. Demand restraint - largely through pricing and
taxing measures - held the growth rate of energy consumption one percentage
point below that of GDP. Steps to increase and diversify domestic energy
supply have included the development of hydroelectric, geothermal, coal, and
nuclear energy. Limited domestic petroleum production also began in 1979.
However, due to the long gestation period of energy projects, domestic
energy production still constituted only 18% of total commercial energy
consumption in 1980. In response to the "second oil crisis", the Government
is accelerating its program for domestic energy production but further
taxing and pricing initiatives will also be needed to restrain demand.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and Allocation
19.       Domestic Savings and the Financial Sector.  During the 1970s, gross
domestic savings expanded considerably, reaching 24% of GNP and financing
about 80% of total investment. However, the savings ratio needs to rise by
another 2-3% of GNP in order to maintain investment levels while simultan-
eously limiting the current account deficit and the country's reliance on
foreign savings.  In addition, interest rates and other financial incentives
affecting the labor-intensity and efficiency of investment, the flexibility
and competitiveness of the financial system, and the maturity of lending all
needed to be increased. Hence, in 1980-81 the Government introduced a
comprehensive set of financial reforms. Interest rates are being substan-
tially decontrolled and revised monetary, fiscal, and rediscount policies are
being introduced. Legislation to encourage multipurpose banking has also
been adopted to reduce the present excessive specialization and fragmentation
of the financial system and to increase competition.
20.        Public Finance.  During the 1970s, the Government has raised the
overall level of public expenditures by 5% of GNP and has increased the shares



- 6 -
going to economic services and investment. Toward the end of the decade,
total government expenditures reached an estimated 17% of GNP, with public
investment equalling about 5.5% of GNP. The expansion of public expenditures
has made possible improvements in basic infrastructure, particularly in
transportation, power and irrigation, as well as expanded programs in urban
development, health and family planning. At present, the size of the public
investment program is appropriate, and its composition is, with a few
exceptions, broadly consistent with the country-s development priorities.
21.       In the last few years, however, public investment has been cons-
trained by the availability of resources, outdated contracting regulations
and rigid budget execution procedures which were introduced in anticipation
of a tight revenue situation. Problems were particularly acute during the
period of high inflation in 1979 and 1980, and they caused the Government
actually to underspend its capital budget. As resource constraints are likely
to remain tight during the next decade, further strengthening of investment
programming and budgeting procedures will be needed to concentrate resources
on the highest priority projects.
22.       The rapid expansion of public expenditures has been made possible
by a program of systematic tax reform. The proportion of revenue coming from
domestic taxes has been raised through increases in indirect taxes and
improved collection, thus reducing dependence on cyclically volatile taxes on
international trade. The tax ratio was raised by two percentage points to
13.6% of GNP during the decade but has remained about constant in the last few
years. Continuation of a strong revenue effort, both by the Government and
government corporations, will be necessary to finance further expansion in
infrastructure and social services. Further tax reforms are needed to raise
the elasticity of the revenue system, to improve its equity by increasing
the proportion of revenue coming from direct taxes, and to eliminate
remaining distortions in economic incentives.
Balance of Payments Adjustment and External Capital Requirements
23.       The 1979-80 oil price increase has considerably tightened the long-
term balance of payments constraints for the Philippines.  The share of oil
in total merchandise imports increased from under 12% in the early 1970s to
over 25% in 1980. The current account deficit widened to $2.1 billion in
1980, equivalent to 5.8% of GNP. If growth and investment rates are to be
maintained, accelerated structural adjustments in the economy and the balance
of payments have become essential to hold the external deficit at a
sustainable level. Considerable reforms have already been introduced with
respect to trade, industrial, and financial policies (see paras. 17 and 19),
and improvements are under consideration in energy policy. Additional policy
measures will be needed in these areas as well as resource mobilization and
investment programming. Implementation of necessary adjustment measures
should make it possible to sustain economic growth at 6.0-6.5%, mainly through
improved performance of the industrial sector. However, policy measures will
require a number of years to effect the needed structural improvement in the



- 7 -
balance of payments. The current account deficit, therefore, is expected to
widen further in nominal terms while declining in relative terms to about 4%
of GNP in the mid-1980s.
24.       The Philippines raised its external borrowing sharply to finance the
balance of payments deficits incurred after the 1973-74 oil price increase.
During the second half of the 1970s, net disbursements from medium- and long-
term loans doubled to an estimated $1.1 billion in 1980. Despite substantial
borrowing, the debt service ratio stood at only 17% in 1980, largely because
of the rapid expansion in export earnings. Substantial additional foreign
capital will be needed during the period of adjustment to the 1979-80 oil
price increase, and net disbursements from medium- and long-term loans will
have to double again in the next five years. If the Philippines can sustain
the strong export performance of the recent past, the debt service ratio would
still remain in the range of 18%-20% in the mid-1980s.
25.       Official sources are expected to provide about 40% of the
Philippines' gross external capital in the early 1980s. The last Consultative
Group Meeting, held in January 1981, agreed that it would be reasonable for
the Philippines to seek official development assistance (ODA) of about $1.2
billion during 1981, a slight increase over the ODA commitments it received in
1980.
26.       As noted above, progress has been made in domestic resource
mobilization. However, because the deterioration in the terms of trade has
increased the Philippines- external financing requirements, and many projects
planned for ODA have low foreign exchange costs, the necessary resource
transfer can be achieved only through some financing of local costs of
projects and non-project lending.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
27.       As of September 30, 1981 the Philippines had received 77 Bank
loans (of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $2,960.7 million
and six IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. IFC investments totalled
$143.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed and
outstanding is currently about 11%, and its share in total debt service is
about 8%. These ratios are expected to be about 18% and 12%, respectively, by
1985. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans, and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1981 as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
/1 This section is substantially the same as that contained in the
President's Report for the Agricultural Support Services Project (R81-187)
which was approved by the Executive Directors on July 14, 1981.



- 8 -
28.       The volume of annual World Bank lending to the Philippines has
increased substantially from an average of about $90 million in FY71-75 to an
average of $420 million in FY77-81. Although the Bank has financed projects
in virtually all sectors of the economy, particular emphasis has been given to
agriculture, which has accounted for more than one-third of total Bank/IDA
lending. Another fifth of Bank lending has been for the transportation sec-
tor. Lending for power, industry, and social sectors followed in declining
order of size. The sectoral allocation of Bank lending remained fairly stable
throughout the 1970s. Pronounced changes took place only within infrastruc-
ture as lending for transportation and power declined in the second half of
the 1970s, while lending for water supply and urban development was initiated
during this period.
29.       Within sectors, however, considerable changes have taken place in
Bank lending. In agriculture, lending initially focused on expanding the
irrigation system, credit programs, and other services to support rice
production. More recently, efforts have been made to diversify agricultural
production through loans for treecrops, livestock, and fisheries, and to
assist low-income areas through integrated rural development projects. In the
industrial and financial sectors, the Bank initially concentrated on streng-
thening individual development finance institutions and on providing for the
credit needs of small and medium industries.  In the last two years, however,
industrial and financial lending has been broadened to support the
implementation of needed policy reforms. A structural adjustment loan was
made in September 1980 in support of trade and industrial reforms.
Improvements in financial sector policies were the basis for the May 1981
Industrial Finance Loan, which also introduced a new institutional concept to
broaden the reach of Bank lending by channelling loans through an "apex" unit
in the Central Bank.
30.       While overall implementation of Bank-financed projects in the
Philippines has been satisfactory, disbursements have been slower than antici-
pated, and implementation problems increased in the late 1970s. These diffi-
culties, in part, reflect administrative problems caused by high inflation and
tight budget constraints (para. 21). They also result from the changes in the
scope of the Bank's lending operations: a substantial increase in the number
of projects, new areas of lending, an emphasis on institution-building, and
efforts to reach specific target groups and deprived regions have all made
implementation a more demanding task than in the past.  A project
implementation review was held in May 1980, and steps have subsequently been
taken to correct some of the administrative problems. Another implementation
review is planned for early 1982.
31.       The Bank's future lending program has been designed to assist in
achieving the major objectives of the Government's Development Plan (para. 5).
Particular emphasis is being given to supporting poverty alleviation efforts
and to bringing about needed structural adjustments in the economy. Economic
and sector work is being closely integrated with lending operations. Future
project, sector, and structural adjustment loans will be designed to address



- 9 -
the wide variety of technical, institutional, and policy issues facing the
Philippines. Additional structural adjustment loans are planned to support
further reforms in trade, industry, and other key policy areas. In sectoral
terms, agriculture and rural development will continue to account for the
largest share of lending, with emphasis on food production and programs to
increase the incomes of the rural poor. Substantial assistance will be given
to industry through subsector loans aimed at restructuring or developing
specific subsectors; through increased financial and technical assistance to
small and medium industries, particularly outside the Metro-Manila area; and
through continued industrial finance projects utilizing the recently
introduced "apex" concept. Increased effort is also planned over the next
several years to develop domestic energy resources and to strengthen the
institutions responsible for developing and managing energy supplies. The
Bank-s support for projects in education, health, family planning, and urban
development will aim at improving basic services and supporting employment
creation, particularly in less advanced areas of the country.
32.       This is the second loan to the Philippines to be presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year. Loans for national fisheries develop-
ment, textile sector restructuring and communal irrigation have been
appraised and are scheduled for Board presentation later in the fiscal year.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Urban Structure and Growth
33.       The Philippines' urban population in 1980 was estimated at 17.5 mil-
lion, or approximately 36% of the country's total population of 48 million.
Some 12% of the country-s population, or 33% of its urban population, live in
Metropolitan Manila itself. There are only seven urban areas, including
Metro Manila, which have populations greater than 200,000 and a further 20
centers with population from 100,000 to 200,000./l
34.       The urban population is presently (1975-1980) growing at about 3.3%.
Within the next twenty years the total population of the Philippines will have
grown to approximately 80 million people, and up to two-thirds of the added
population may have to be absorbed in urban areas even under optimistic
projections of rural employment.  Based on present trends Metro Manila would
have a population of 16 million by the year 2000.
/1 Many of these cities include extensive rural areas which are not truly
urban; all figures are preliminary 1980 census figures.



- 10 -
Urban Poverty and Employment
35.       The urban poverty threshold for the Philippines in 1980 is estimated
at P 175 ($22) per capita/month based on minimum food and nonfood needs.
Although available data are not precise, they indicate that 32% of families in
urban areas and at least 80% of families in typical slum areas of major cities
have per capita incomes below that level. High levels of underemployment are
indicated by the high proportion of part-time work by heads of households.
Because of continuing pressure of labor supply, the wages of unskilled labor
have also remained relatively low and are estimated to have fallen in real
terms since 1970. A number of national programs exist to promote employment-
generating enterprises with focus on small-scale industry to absorb the
growing labor force. However, the lack of an integrated system for assisting
small business, weak coordination and duplication of functions have prevented
the programs from becoming fully effective.
Urban Public Services and Shelter
36.       Most of the country-s cities and municipalities have not kept pace
with expanding demands for provision of basic infrastructure, partly because
of financial constraints at the local level and partly due to other national
priorities. As a result, municipal infrastructure is generally inadequate to
service the basic needs of large segments of the urban population. Almost
25% of all urban households in the Philippines, and over 30% in Metro Manila,
live in squatter and slum settlements without secure tenure and lacking safe
water supply, drainage, human waste disposal and clean access. Available
studies indicate disease rates and infant mortality from 3 to 8 times worse
than for nonslum areas of the city and a level of disease and malnutrition
higher than their low-income counterparts in rural areas.
37.       Metro Manila has traditionally absorbed a disproportionately high
share of national investment resources and has provided employment oppor-
tunities which have accentuated its increasing dominance. Almost three-
quarters of national industrial output is presently located in Luzon (mostly
within or near to Metro Manila). Intermediate and smaller cities and their
needs for infrastructure and industry have, in the past, been neglected as a
focus of national policy, and there are striking disparities in the provision
of economic and social infrastructures in different urban areas.
38.       With a view to redressing the present imbalance, the Government is
placing greater emphasis on regional inputs to the national investment
planning process. Principal regional cities play a key role in regional
development which, however, is restrained by a lack of adequate infrastructure
for industrialization, such as serviced land for industries, roads, water
supply, power, as well as complementary municipal services.



- 11 -
Urban Institutions
39.       A number of important new institutions have recently been estab-
lished and are beginning to have a significant effect on the development of
national urbanization policies. In July 1975, the National Housing Authority
(NHA) was established to consolidate government housing efforts, previously
dispersed among six separate bodies.  The Ministry of Human Settlements (MHS)
was established in July 1978, with responsibilities for national human settle-
ments planning, especially land use planning and environmental management,
technical assistance and regulation. The Ministry of Public Works (MPW)/1 has
established a process for investment planning and for identification of
service deficiencies which is already being implemented in Metro Manila and in
major regional cities within the framework of regional development planning
now being introduced by the National Economic and Development Authority
(NEDA). In 1978, the Government established the National Home Mortgage
Finance Corporation (NHMFC) to provide a secondary market for home mortgages.
In 1979, the Ministry of Transportation and Communications (MTC) was estab-
lished to coordinate national and urban transport policy.
Urban Issues
40.       Among the numerous urban issues facing policy-makers in the
Philippines four are of paramount importance on which the Bank's urban lending
strategy is increasingly being focussed. These issues are employment
generation and increasing productivity, provision of basic shelter, analyzing
urban investment,.and regionalization and decentralization.
41.       Employment and Productivity.  The Government's efforts to increase
employment and productivity will help (a) to improve the skewed income
distribution by stimulating expansion and higher productivity among small
business; and (b) to expand the production of labor-intensive manufactured
exports. The relatively high level of education and low comparative wages of
the Philippine labor force will assist in both of these government objectives,
which will become increasingly important as urbanization absorbs the rural
work force. A twin strategy is needed which would encourage the expansion of
larger employment-generating enterprises on the one hand and stimulate links
with small businesses in the regional cities and within Metro Manila to
encourage higher productivity in small businesses on the other.
42.       Provision of Basic Services.  Secondary and tertiary infrastructure,
especially in low income areas, has been badly neglected in the past and the
need to expand these services and improve their distribution to the poor, in
conjunction with regularization of tenure, is particularly important. The
Government's recent initiatives in slum upgrading and expansion of low-cost
sites and services provides the legislative basis and the national support
necessary to begin dealing with these problems. Projects which demonstrate
this approach were assisted through the Bank's first three urban loans.
/1 Since July 1981, the Ministry of Public Works and Highways (MPWH).



- 12 -
43.       Urban Investment Planning and Resource Generation.  Public invest-
ments in the past have been geared toward primary infrastructure and
large-scale industry. There has been no system to regularly review
priorities and monitor the impact of investment programs. The Capital
Investment Folio review conducted by MPWH for Metro Manila and financed
through the Bank-s first urban project (Loans 1272-T/1282-PH) is the first
effort to make a comprehensive analysis of investments in a major Philippine
city and is proving a useful tool for generating discussion and providing a
basis for decision-making among agencies. In general, local governments-
financial and administrative resources require strengthening in order to
minimize reliance on the central government and to improve planning capabi-
lities.
44.        Regional Development and Urbanization Strategy.  In the past, the
intermediate and small cities and their needs for infrastructure and industry
have been neglected as a focus of policy. There is also a need to develop
smaller urban centers to support rural development. These measures are
important in order to (a) improve the distribution of incomes across regions,
(b) improve the level of services, incomes and living environment in rural
areas and small towns and thus minimize migration, and (c) direct surplus
migration to intermediate and smaller urban centers. More recently, NEDA and
MHS have directed their attention toward regional planning and adminis-
tration; a UNDP-financed regional development study has been prepared for one
region (Region VII - Central Visayas). These efforts are expected to lead to
more effective planning on a regional basis. However, strong support at the
national level for budgeting and investment programming by regional bodies
and local governments remains a high priority need.
Bank Lending in the Urban and Water Supply Sector to Date
45.        Bank lending in the urban and water supply sector since 1976/1 has
been in three basic groupings as follows: (a) three projects with loans
totalling $136 million to provide basic needs and employment opportunities
for the urban poor through slum upgrading, sites and services, and tertiary
infrastructure in Metro Manila. (In addition, a modest slum improvement
program was instituted in Cebu, Cagayan de Oro, and Davao in the second of
these projects.); (b) a water supply and sanitation project and a sanitary
sewerage project for Manila totalling $151 million; and (c) two provincial
cities water supply projects covering over 50 cities (and 1,000 rural
communities) with two loans and one credit totalling $61 million. While all
these projects are still ongoing, the Government and the Bank have benefitted
from the experience in the implementation of the earlier projects in each
group. The main implementation difficulties, which are largely being
overcome, are institutional and organizational, including budgetary
allocation problems.
/1 Only one loan for water supply in Manila (Loan 386-PH) was made prior
to this date, in July 1964.



- 13 -
Bank Strategy for Future Urban and Water Supply Lending
46.       The Bank's urban and water supply lending strategy is to focus
increasingly on cities and regions outside Metro Manila to develop them as
viable economic alternatives to the capital city. Future lending within Metro
Manila will focus on basic services and on increasing the efficiency of urban
management.
47.       This urban strategy entails focusing first on major cities over
200,000 persons (which offer the greatest potential for economic take-off) and
then gradually addressing the needs of a number of smaller cities which
require investments for both economic development and poverty alleviation
purposes. Investments will be aimed principally at infrastructure and
services which will directly enhance job creation (regular and mini industrial
estates, small business loans), increase municipal efficiency (markets, roads,
water supply) and improve the condition of urban poor (shelter, sanitation and
drainage). A major effort will be made to increase the administrative and
financial management capabilities of the nation's secondary cities. Urban
linkages with rural regional development will be explicitly addressed as will
the relationship of urban projects with other supporting sectors among which
the following are important: industrial development finance including small
and medium industries, electric power, telecommunications, ports and
inter-city highways.
PART IV - THE URBAN ENGINEERING PROJECT
Background
48.       In 1976/77, a UNDP-financed regional planning assistance project,
for which the Bank was the executing agency, formulated macro-investment plans
for each of the nation's thirteen regions. This was followed by a Bank review
of possibilities to assist the Government in developing integrated development
plans in selected regions. Given the status of regional economic development
planning, the Government and the Bank concluded that such huge efforts would
be premature. In the meantime, the Government continued to promote decen-
tralization objectives in general and regionalization objectives in
particular.
49.       In order to maintain the momentum of developing the regional infra-
structure plans, the Ministry of Public Works undertook, in 1977, Bank-
financed studies to identify a possible secondary city project that would
provide needed infrastructure in critical urban centers. These studies
focused on five of the nation's larger cities with populations of over
200,000 other than Metro Manila: Metro Cebu (nearly 1,000,000 persons),
Davao (611,000), Bacolod (267,000), Iloilo (244,000) and Cagayan de Oro
(228,000). All but Bacolod /1 are the capitals of their respective regions.
/1 Bacolod and Iloilo are in the same region but are the principal cities
in their respective islands.



- 14 -
50.       To support development of regional cities, the Government adopted
a two-pronged strategy, encompassing two different approaches; a project
centering on four regional cities (para. 51) and another on Metro Cebu
(para. 54) and two provincial capital cities which fall within its economic
orbit. The regional cities project was developed first in the absence of a
strong regional plan in any of the nation's regions. Subsequently, the
Government requested the Bank to consider a regional focus in Central Visayas
(including Metro Cebu) where the regional planning effort has been largely
concentrated. Such a dual strategy is flexible enough to set the pace for
future urban development.
The Regional Cities Development Project (RCDP)
51.       This multi-sectoral project would, in the four selected cities
(Davao, Bacolod, Iloilo and Cagayan de Oro): (a) support investments in basic
infrastructure to remove bottlenecks to economic development and employment
potential; (b) improve urban management in areas of planning, budgeting and
finance, maintenance of public investments, and delivery of municipal ser-
vices; and (c) provide basic sanitation and shelter, particularly to
low-income groups. The thrust of investments would be on industrial estates,
transport (roads, traffic management, road maintenance), shelter (sites and
services, slum upgrading) and municipal facilities (solid waste management,
sanitation, markets, fire protection, slaughterhouses).
52.       The total estimated cost of the RCDP is about $120-150 million
equivalent. The project, which is scheduled for appraisal in April 1982,
would be implemented in the four-year period 1983-1986. Implementation
responsibility would be shared by the cities and central government agencies.
53.       Preparation of the RCDP so far, under the overall direction and
guidance of NEDA (para. 66), includes project identification, feasibility
studies, preliminary engineering, aerial photography and mapping, municipal
financial management studies, and other specialized studies. The cost for
these activities has been jointly financed by the Government and the Bank.
The Bank has financed related consultants- services - foreign and local -
totalling about $5.1 million equivalent, under Loan 1647-PH ($0.5 million) and
Loan 1821-PH ($4.6 million)./l However, necessary detailed engineering
activities remain unfunded.
/1 Second and Third Urban Development Projects of January 26, 1979 and
and June 2, 1980, respectively. In addition, preinvestment studies and
detailed engineering for industrial estates and export processing zones
under RCDP are being financed under a UNDP grant for which the Bank
is the executing agency.



- 15 -
The Central Visayas Urban Project (CVUP)
54.       The Central Visayas (Region VII) is a predominantly underdeveloped
rural region with limited agricultural prospects and over 3.5 million people
spread over four islands and provinces. Metro Cebu, the regional capital, has
a strong economic influence on the three Visayas regions, and acts as a major
transportation and communications center between the Visayas and Manila.
However, high rates of rural-urban migration cause considerable strain on the
infrastructure and urban services of the metropolitan area.
55.       Metropolitan Cebu is the nation's second largest urban area, with a
population of nearly 1,000,000 persons. The metropolitan area consists of the
city of Cebu (population 489,000), Mandaue (population 111,000), Lapu-Lapu
(population 99,000), and seven growing municipalities (Talisay, Liloan,
Consolacion, Cordoba, Mingalanilla, Naga, and Compostela) with a combined
population of approximately 246,000 persons.
56.       The CVUP would include Metro Cebu as well as the capitals of two
provinces, the cities of Tagbilaran and Dumaguete. As presently designed, it
would (a) strengthen the key municipal governments' development planning,
finance and project implementation capabilities; (b) accommodate urban
population growth accentuated by rural-urban migration; (c) provide urban
employment by spurring industrial growth; and (d) promote linkages with the
rural economy. The last objective is being addressed through a separate but
complementary agro-forestry project, which is being proposed for Bank
financing and is being prepared using Project Preparation Facility funds.
57.       The above objectives would be achieved through investments in
transport (roads, traffic management, maintenance, bus terminals); urban
services (drainage and sanitation, solid waste management, markets); shelter
and livelihood (sites and services, slum upgrading, mini industrial estates);
and industry (industrial development studies, industrial estates). In
addition, consultants services and technical assistance would be provided
to strengthen local governments- urban service delivery, improve existing
revenue-generating programs and provide related training activities.
58.       The total cost of CVUP has yet to be determined, but preliminary
estimates indicate a base cost - in June 1981 prices - of about $120 million
equivalent. The project, which is scheduled for appraisal in August 1983,
would be implemented in the four-year period 1984-1987. Implementation
responsibility would be shared by local governments and central government
agencies.
59.       Project preparation is in an early stage.  Activities undertaken so
far include project identification, aerial photography and mapping, and
special studies. These activities have been jointly financed by the



- 16 -
Government and the Bank (about $0.83 million, under Loan 1647-PH./1) With the
presently constrained government financing and budgetary allocations, no other
funds are readily available to complete CVUP project preparation.
The Proposed Engineering Project
60.       The proposed Urban Engineering Project is in response to a Govern-
ment request for Bank assistance in completing preparation of the RCDP and
CVUP. Funding available for this purpose under Loans 1647-PH and 1821-PH is
fully committed; other alternatives for financing the engineering works were
considered, but prospective funds were inadequate and would have unduly
delayed the completion of the work. Negotiations were held in Washington,
D.C. from October 19 through 23, 1981. The Philippine negotiating team was
led by The Honorable Eduardo Z. Romualdez, Philippine Ambassador to the United
States. Supplementary data are provided in Annex III. There is no separate
appraisal report for this project.
Project Objectives and Description
61.       The objectives of the proposed Urban Engineering Project would be to
assist the Government, through NEDA as the Executing Agency, in financing
(a) detailed engineering and related activities for the RCDP during the period
January 1982 through March 1983, and (b) feasibility studies, detailed
engineering and related activities for the CVUP in the period January 1982
through May 1984. The project would sustain the existing good momentum in
project preparation, and would - in the time periods indicated - generate
sufficient detailed engineering to firm up cost estimates and expedite
start-up of project implementation under the RCDP and CVUP. In addition, the
proposed project would support the Government's efforts in upgrading the
quality of transport specialists in the fields of planning and economic
analysis and would also assist in strengthening the planning and implementa-
tion capabilities of local governments.
62.       The proposed project would comprise:
1.   RCDP
(a) detailed engineering, including preparation of tender documents
for urban investment components in Iloilo, Bacolod, Cagayan de Oro,
and Davao to be agreed between the Government and the Bank following
review of ongoing feasibility studies;
(b) special studies, such as municipal financial management, that may be
required to support feasibility studies; and
(c) provision of the following technical assistance:
/1 In addition, preinvestment studies and detailed engineering for indus-
trial estates and export processing zones under CVUP are being financed
under a UNDP grant for which the Bank is the executing agency.



- 17 -
(i) about 75 man-months of project management assistance in support
of RCDP project preparation activities; and
(ii) one specialist (6 man-months) to assist the RCDP Project
Director in general management, planning, and consultancy
contracting.
2.   CVUP
(a) feasibility studies for such urban investment components in
Metropolitan Cebu, Tagbilaran, and Dumaguete as may be agreed
between the Government and the Bank;
(b) detailed engineering, including preparation of tender documents
for such urban investment components in Metropolitan Cebu,
Tagbilaran, and Dumaguete as may be agreed between the Govern-
ment and the Bank following review of the above feasibility
studies;
(c) special studies, such as municipal financial management, that may be
required to support feasibility studies;
(d) provision of surveying and other equipment for the immediate needs
of the project office; and
(e) provision of the following technical assistance:
(i) about 60 man-months of project management assistance in
support of CVUP project preparation activities; and
(ii) one specialist (9 man-months) to assist the CVUP Project
Director in general management, planning, and consultancy
contracting.
3.   Training
(a) a training program to upgrade the quality of government urban
transport specialists mainly in the fields of planning and
economic analysis; and
(b) a training program to strengthen the project planning and imple-
mentation capabilities of municipal governments, with emphasis
on management, finance, engineering, the operation and mainte-
nance of municipal facilities and infrastructure and the general
administration of public works, together with technical assistance
in the design and establishment of such a training program.



- 18 -
63.       The proposed project is expected to provide part of the detailed
engineering for all components of the RCDP and CVUP, up to a total of at
least 30% of all detailed engineering required for the former, and 25% for
the latter. This would be sufficient to establish final design criteria and
firm up cost estimates to appraise all the principal components of the RCDP
and CVUP. The experience gained from the preparation of the detailed
engineering by foreign consultants under this project is expected to be of
valuable assistance to the local consultants and local staff who are expected
to be responsible for preparing the balance of the detailed engineering to be
financed under the main projects.
Project Costs and Financing
64.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at $11.5 mil-
lion, of which $8 million is for consultant services (foreign and local),
technical assistance, training and equipment. The balance of $3.5 million
equivalent is for government direct costs, including staff services, and
maintenance and operating costs for the Project Offices (para. 66). The
estimated foreign exchange cost is $4.6 million (40% of total cost). The cost
of overseas training of transport specialists and the total cost of the
training program for local government staff would be about $0.15 million. The
proposed engineering loan of $8.0 million equivalent would finance about 70%
of total project costs. Estimates are based on June 1981 prices and price
contingencies are based on a projected 8% inflation rate for foreign exchange
costs and 10% for local costs. The proceeds of the loan would be channelled
through NEDA (para. 66) to the various entities involved in the project./l The
proposed loan could be refinanced under any subsequent loan or credit the Bank
Group may provide for the implementation of a proposed RCDP.
65.       Detailed engineering, related studies and technical assistance for
the RCDP are estimated to require 560 consultant man-months. Feasibility
studies, detailed engineering, related studies and technical assistance for
the CVUP are estimated to require 800 consultant man-months. The guiding
principle for consultants services is optimum use of Filipino staff and
consultants. It is recognized, however, that expatriate consultants (about
40% of total consultant man-months) will be required to supplement local
skills and provide on-the-job training in certain disciplines during the
start-up of feasibility studies and detailed engineering. It is expected
that, as detailed engineering proceeds beyond the scope of the proposed
project, expatriate consultants will be largely replaced by local consultants,
and eventually by local professional staff. Contracts with expatriate
consultants would emphasize on-the-job training as one of their major
/1 CVUP: Metro Cebu, including three cities and seven municipalities; the
cities of Dumaguete and Tabilaran; the National Housing Authority (NHA);
RCDP: The cities of Iloilo, Bacolod, Cagayan de Oro, Davao; and NHA.



- 19 -
responsibilities. The cost per man-month /1 for consultants' services and
experts is estimated at about $3,600 equivalent for local consultants and
about $11,000 for foreign consultants.
Project Execution
66.       The proposed project would be implemented between January 1982 and
December 1984. NEDA would have overall responsibility for project execution,
through the RCDP Steering Committee for the RCDP components, by virtue of
Executive Order No. 605 dated July 25, 1980, and through the Director General
of NEDA, by virtue of Executive Order No. 694 dated May 21, 1981 for the CVUP
components. These Executive Orders also established Project Offices for the
RCDP and CVUP, each headed by a Project Director. The Project Offices are
generally empowered to conduct feasibility studies and detailed engineering,
recommend projects that are feasible for external financing, and recommend
appropriate mechanisms for project implementation. The Project Offices are
also empowered to call upon any ministry and government corporation that may
be required to assist in project preparation. Coordination of project
preparation activities would be by Memoranda of Agreement between NEDA, the
line agency (government corporation) and the city/municipality concerned, to
assure satisfactory input of local professional staff and other necessary
resources. These Memoranda of Agreement were reviewed during negotiations and
found to be satisfactory.
67.       Feasibility studies and detailed engineering would be carried out by
experienced and qualified local and foreign consulting firms, under joint
venture arrangements as appropriate. Other technical assistance would be
provided by individual experts specifically recruited for the purpose.
Consultants would be employed in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants" (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
consultants' and individual experts' reports on studies, designs and tender
documents would be submitted in draft by the Project Offices for review by
NFDA and the Bank prior to their finalization (Section 3.02(c) of the draft
Loan Agreement). It is expected that most of the contracts for detailed
engineering (RCDP) and feasibility studies (CVUP) would be signed by February
1982. A project implementation program, acceptable to the Bank, has been
agreed upon, which envisages appraisal of the RCDP in April, 1982, and of the
CVUP in August, 1983. Upon completion of the engineering services, the
Government would consult with the Bank on the recommendations and conclusions
relating to the proposed project (Section 3.02(d) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
/1 Including salaries, fees, travel and subsistence.



- 20 -
Procurement and Disbursements
68.       The total cost of contracts for surveying and other equipment is
estimated at about $100,000 equivalent. These contracts would be awarded
in accordance with the Government's current procurement procedures which are
satisfactory to the Bank.
69.       Disbursements would be on the basis of:  (a) 100% of expenditures on
consultants services and training for municipal government staff; and
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures on contracts for equipment and training of
urban transport specialists. All withdrawal claims would be fully documented.
Accounts, Auditing and Reporting
70.       NEDA would maintain records adequate to identify project-related
transactions with the entities involved in the proposed project reflecting the
cost of goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the loan for each
entity (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
71.       The RCDP and CVUP Project Offices would prepare quarterly reports
on the progress of the proposed project, and submit these reports through
NEDA to the Bank within one month of the expiration of each quarter.
Project Justification and Risks
72.       The proposed urban engineering project would represent a first
important step in the Government's efforts to resolve some of the institu-
tional issues associated with decentralization and to provide for urban
economic growth through multi-sectoral projects outside the Metro Manila
area. The project would also assist local governments in programming and
planning for improvements in urban service delivery and related urban fiscal
policy.
73.       The risks associated with the proposed engineering project are mini-
mal as the terms of reference and short-list of consultants for most of the
studies are now in an advanced stage of preparation; no major implementation
delay is therefore anticipated. However, assured access to identified par-
cels of land is a necessary prerequisite for meaningful detailed engineering
activities. Also, the cost of land acquisition determines the economic
feasibility of urban components such as shelter, industrial development, and
markets. Land acquisition procedures are complicated, and cities and muni-
cipalities may have considerable problems in raising the initial capital for
land acquisition, and the interest on that capital.  To minimize possible
project delays due to land acquisition problems, the Government and the Bank
have agreed that progress on land acquisition be closely monitored by NEDA,
with a view to proper planning of engineering activities in step with actual
access to land by the various agencies involved. The Government will
implement a mutually acceptable plan of action for securing right of access to
land for which detailed engineering would be undertaken under the project
(Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines and
the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are
listed in Section III of Annex III.
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 11, 1981



- 22 -                                           ANE I
Page 1 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGNTED AVE5AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            300.0                                  MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      90.8               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          ASIA 6 PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
UhP PER CAPITA (US$)                  150.0        240.0     600.0                 1136.1                  1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGhAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      159.1       292.9      355.9                 1150.6                  1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 27372.0      36852.0   46748.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 30.3          32.9      35.8                   40.8                    64.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 20U0 (MILLIONS)                        75.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         125.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. K1M.                       91.2       122.3      155.8                  373.1                    34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    360.0        472.0      502.6                 2382.8                    94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.6        45.5       44.3                   39.8                    40.7
15-b4 YRS.                          52.4        51.6       52.6                   56.7                    55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.0         2.9        3.1                    3.5                     4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.7         3.0        2.6                    2.3                     2.4
URBAN                               3.8         3.8        3.6                    3.8                     3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      45.7        39.2       34.4                   29.7                    31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      15.6        10.8        8.2                    7.5                     8.4
GROSS YEPRODUCTION RATE               3.3         2.8        2.3                    1.9                     2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTURS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       191.7      650.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARIED WOMEN)    ..           2.0       37.0                   44.1
.00D AND NUTRITiON
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          102.0       101.0      114.0                  123.7                   108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
KEQUIRENTS)                     97.0       102.5      107.7                  112.6                   107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER MAY)           45.0        50.0       53.0                   62.5                    65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.0        20.0       21.0                   19.7                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      15.6         9.6        6.3                    4.8                     7.6
HEALTh
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    51.0         57.3       61.6                   64.0                    64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            98.0        80.0       65.0                   50.2                    70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TUTAL                                *-        36.0       43.0                   45.9                    65.7
URAN                                 ..           ..      66.0                   68.0                    79.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      33.0                   34.4                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
O POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-        57.0       59.0                   53.4                    59.9
URBAN                                ..           ..      76.0                   71.0                    75.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      44.0                   42.4                    30.4
POPUIATION PER PHYSICIAN               ..           ..    2758.2                 4428.7                  1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      3840.0    3115.3                  2229.7                  1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1134.1       821.8      558.0                  588.5                   471.2
URBAN                             536.2       392.7         ..                  579.6                   558.0
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                 1138.5
ALMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        30.0         ..                   36.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF NOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.8         5.9
URBAN                                ..         6.2
RURAL                                ..         5.8
AVERAGE NUKBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..         2.3
URBAN                                ..         2.1
RURAL                                ..         2.4
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DiELLINGS)
TOTAL                              16.5.       23.2       36.0
URBJAN                               *-        60.4       82.0
RURAL                                ..         6.8       10.0



AMNN I
- 23 -                                      Pag. 2 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE6AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)La
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 95.0       114.0     105.0                   99.8                    101.7
HALE                 98.0        115.0     102.0                  100.6                    103.0
FEMALE               93.0        113.0     107.0                   98.8                    101.5
SbCONDARY:   TOTAL                 26.0        50.0      56.0                   53.5                     35.3
MALE                 28.0         59.0      65.0                   58.4                     34.9
FEMALE               25.0         42.0      47.0                   48.6                    35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  15.0           ..      34.0                   21.1                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACbER RATIO
PRIMARY                            3b.0        29.0      31.0                   34.2                     29.6
SECONDARY                          27.0        33.0      36.0                   31.7                     15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        71.9        82.6      88.4                   86.5                     80.0
CONSUhPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         7.6       8.9                   12.7                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         21.9        46.6      43.5                  174.1                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.4        10.9      19.1                   50.6                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  17.0        13.6      21.2                  106.8                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6            .       7.6                    4.3                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10893.2      13478.1   16608.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   34.4        33.1      32.3                   37.4                     22.6
AGRICULTUKE (PERCENT)              61.0        53.0      46.7                   50.2                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 15.2        16.0      16.9                   21.9                     23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                39.8        36.6      35.5                   40.2                     31.8
MALE                                 52.1        48.6      47.6                   49.8                     49.0
FEMALE                               27.4        24.4      23.2                   31.1                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.2         1.3       1.3                    1.1                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        25.1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         54.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         5.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        14.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOtE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     260.0/c
RURAL                               ..           ..     i95.0o7;               193.7                   187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     266.0/c                   *-                   513.9
RURAL                               ..           ..     200.d7                 234.3                   362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..      32.0/c
RURAL                               ..           ..      41.067                 32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-eighted aritbetie mans. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of date and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refor to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
Ic   1980.
Revised
Jne, 1981



ANNE I
-24 -                                                                 Page 3 of 5 pages
DEINIOITIONS Of SOCLAL INDICATORLS
N.0..;  Although lh   .0.Al. do.., 000.  --or. o.-lly judgd oh. -.0t .thli-i-l.oodr.li.bl., 10  boould -1.0o 000.  0t.0 th.y 007 00  h b.  or--
.otl. ...l bpool. b.O..-. of th. l.ck of  t.tnudaod.d d.fOttioa.04 Iod or...pt. onod by diffo.l.-              it, 1.11-til,Ou  Lh. dt0..  Th. d4. .00-
toni .... u...f.l to d..clih. 004.l. of o.gi-Od., iudi.t. trod., .d4rhr. c.O . ct.io soj- diff.                   hat. ....  ontt.
Tb.             I'lr.o.grup  I0 ('1) 'h.  -  country gr.Pofp0  tk. *ub(0ot coogor  .0d (2) I  -tout   Sroop with .u.o.hdt high-r i0roo   00     thou Ob. roootry group
of toohooouor   oop    u  "Coptool Surpo  Oi1 loport.t" Sroop ohor  "Ki1441. 2.00..  oth Lflic. .0d K01441. Mtot  i. chu.oo ho-. of I0l0l.
.urt-ouloru  off1. I0..) to ho . ooc   roup dot. oh. owru.. or. pooutowlho    rti0tl  -Ot  fr  ouh itdi-uor .0d oh-..1 y  h-o
Wnoipo   h   oor.  A     ru   o   aofrO. 001.00 I                       oc. Oh.Irvog f oouu Ir..0.go ohI Oodi-OO... dop.od. or tho  -i blality of 4.0
sod  o 00  ouO or. coclo  n.obo ..roood  o rL Ito   w.o     of 00   o         .-trt   nthar,  Tbh..0 00-0050 ..... roly. oof.1 to coooog th. -0100 of
000 dc1.000 or I 01..    o  Oh. coun.try  .d4 l.f.ro.  gop..
LAND ARIDA (thouso  oqA)PpobOoro    o001  0      001                                                                                    o, .0d ctl.l - Popol.tiuo (000.1,
T-O1 -  otl ur.. or. I,l.pllog 1000  -0  .0d iol.d roo..lb.o., Imp rurol) drd0  hy   hl.r..pocOi-. nooho  of huopilhd
u.iutrl-ftioot. uf ogioluturl  or   oo.  tporrl-   or ro.o.Otly                      -rilohlo it, puhiir .d prOv-t. Sg.oo.1 .0d  "pc LIio0d h.Pitto  .d4 ro-
forco-       poOuo       ktoro  .04 kittOhno*udfu     o1. folow   1978 duo..                toltoto .too..  Houpit.l. or. .-tbli.oo-  p.o.-1Otl  I0*ffd
GOp PER CAPITA (USO) - alp P p.r  pita..lo o Ir Iorr.oc .00100 pli c... .ol                     diAl0000 00iocldd.   -1ra  h ..pOOt1.; howoo, bldj. b-olob
uultoood  y 0o  rooo.i.o o.thod .t W-014 Uoo A0100 (1977-79 hooi.); 1.60,                      0 .OdOoL Ic.t. nu  poo-o.oi  otoffod hI  phyot".A (hut hr 
1970. .4179 4.0                                                                                .dioo1lu.t.0ot .ou.... ItdVif., Ill.) ohib uffoo ':-P.uo
d.000. .4pun. 11.1i.4 roug. of-.ditr    fzolttt.I.  00.0.0-
001007 CON5IR0PTIO. PU CAPITA - Oooul  co.ptoof                                                    '.rIl1nry(oo  io  P000,... rh.   b'opitol.  0lold. 400. poAOolgoro   Opiol.,
I.04lgl.d      poo. is00001Sg. nod hydro-, -00.0  .0d go_thor_o  .l.c-.4rrlhpOIglclorrlhupo..0.dil.4  tOOy
Ortoloy) to hiuo.  f co  .q         "lo   ptcoPilc; 1960, 1970, .0d 1979                     c.tO.Sofo104h.Oa.-0 0144ooyodr001
POOSLATIOI AM0 0VITAL STATISTICS                                                                                     I   yt-- --   I.
t00   oulto.Od-ot(ho.o.   AI of JoIY 1; 1960, 1970. 00d 1979                            HOUSlING
"Ir" Pooulottu  (r."t of total) - 90000 of orhoo to 000.1 pupuott.~o.;                      AI R  Sio..h of 000,1.0. f   gouof tdirl4uul  .to  ho1.0   -utr
dufs ouOoo;  90f        90,.417   A..                                                       h-..huohld  for otoiattdol  urpu1n-
P000100000 Proiocdo1979 dAt.r fo tshori                                                             f  nr-i-   ro  too.A .- -I001.d _ry.0   rur    i- Arro.d ots
Porl.tuotoroo  200- 00000  OplOlOop0700000  00  ..4 0190hot of ..r. hold               r  u f  . 01 pth.,p._4rolurpo    o.to
log  10. opoo.uc  00  Irt   it'coo -lg   ith cuuoo,Y'. pot capitr  i00oA 1.00000. ti1.rOrtlOt (O              ot of d_1woElua)-tol.rb,   drul-
1.01f..  fol.t-  100  biuphct.o  -.I.OtOgo   75yo.    b   00                             OO.to.   wlln   Ih000007  100..4                      ott  0    octg
.00~o fo  f.o011y to. .10 hwI -lto      i 0 t..; h0.14  010 1                   of00.1  0th.P. 04 u-ly  4.-1100. I       .otI.y
f.olltyooudl                 t bc.. Ioo t.bii4 . pu t   77.5l y010.03ptocuo
.t04  fotlty 00.04Y. furPouoto    up.                           Th.o.0p   Orollaut  0000
fh.hith00  1..010   h   othrt... 1-04 .1.  O. 50i                toot  00-                  ..riooC-    f d11 aoa. at  h.1poicry i.0   0prots. qf tttottV
0.0.h00                 I=rh  hof o   oh h 0070000   oharoO i_otOc _ oh.  _-pulttu           00   .    .Pl  r   oo  0  hy   h   f  ru   001a
Id1.  h  ot  200,.0 Iod   oh.00   f40100frlly00  toJIi-Plo                            EDUCA. SoTIdON ,.ho      00.01   o          1.-Cuo   010.   .04
0000  0001.00,   '-a ltiu  t. ruhd -h Tb.t you .1- wbo   rolouy o- lt-onpro,tdu 3.00l   roootuoo.d f00  -.00 G00.0..                         Ott tOfo   n  p
at.h.h.L ouhd                                                                               .ul    of 12o17 pou.   o   g;oropnoo    oo.  r   oni
PtOulottO  -DIII0,                                                                            0I0104-4.
noly  190, 170 04 17104.0.  -Fuo-h...OIftthop  0001.o - b -I- n Id--- .0  .00                                                      -      -Tt1.04.0  .ld 100
1.0.0  19 0.090, oo  17  40.                                                            400LItoo   Pion It. 0.0 L-   ,000.0  odLt.1c (oh . onroEudA            In
por Io.lTla0n P 1910-ti 0,i 196-7.d- Thd 1y7-7h9.o.,-4 t-I.-t   A    -;- d
Fntco.o  Gowh do .                                                                                         Itoto-It-.01f...uool  roob  otafofurh. pr..  t4 1
IIoitOo   1960, 1970,  od 1979 dot..01.0vhOb.
p F0000;  190   90,1717940.hnoo.0On3000poltto  h.o0  of pnpoltoo                                                                                         lodna .0
10   uolr.OdrO. 204I4o.op                      Ioupo..ag-pofr  o-00  .00   fct;40   o  ro.pu.oyfth  orho~f
Ad",P100. $- t00000. 400.01  Ct1.nldt.) -1 A-.ol  , o Ik0 of ouonnnr                  TiUTZl.r    n Ooo0  .0000100               by             I=000000   fo  0t 00
ofIohot, 4.ou040ooptuo6.051   nOyp...  p0..                                          nu0  polI. P0 dho...        p9.0.10.        104. 0ltd0   00.
lolS n.1.. -Sn7 . ootot  f dIII o1                       of00g  00 ._r1_ 0.o_.-AAootg.:041  p.,01.  o11.0000o  070b                             0   o . of  f.
P.11.0.04    o1to           *opop                                                             010    of  doll t. y III.r10000          pp0,.00400p0.01
FOal AID 307017100                                                                    On-,    10 t" ofIdto i-  PIly"W of O   ppu.-tL0 mot. fwr 1 (I.b. t.0k.
Iodmof lnd Podoo19o50-6100. 1    196 9-17-,Ad1970)-79..  nOt0 air   muI                Ib .Am                        Id~5 -r  Po.00.N tjM-  Sod  no y... =or u
prn.l 0n f   .1  food6    rdOt70   .  P0000 h. .nctodo  00.         lb-.0  .0                110   n1 p0g00p00   .ld.g0.00.  0  0,-.0
out 1ou 9ov 0ag  p970,000  po7o H1.ht.; 191-1  1970, .0  197  4ld0..                 ToAlt0o.o P.00      10.u.1                 _ oo4llp _ .0Oopr      - .1
70.0100,1  o   oloo.(c0e   f .oln.1-C.0   f.                                          o.dnSo   04ml,d  o                                               IIIg 0a5IOo   t_mn.n.
0.07  91,10d0.0  on  Dl..00th t                       .00.0700  000                          o.r. populotmo   1   50   fo o0.u0  00..Ooro   0
wt          011  004001.wrltltnttno*bdytm1o.ot .                IFj   -010   or.1   01-4. -m0000t00.                                                      i00000
10..114  .01   f 94-S,1970  Oo  1977  J..                                            1970 nod 19799 4.00.
P.000  .ol   0  000 uy   P0.o.-P000   00.0o   .001.                                        Frlo.00Sonfcml     .0.A-. 1n     ot.go0m0
.omlprtn.  .0   000800 r  10.014  popon  b  FA1 0. 01. ThrY~.m .kj-ln00-h-                                                       of.000   TVr 15    at45 0w
Sotd  oo  3     AN.7;194-6,  97   'A. 197  4.0bf                                          0000   010t000
d            i 095 .00. to.Or.nll V- ..   0.-po .awyofon4-
UALUt ofoood. rtt:io n-ot -
Of noo P00h ODmfl01 15.019700                        197,                        N     o   poworty 0.o    100        0    loom. y -il..  P- ,.. .I.oL 0
huoaoo,~.o~ura. o   09106000001  .0.L                       00.                       .0OlgloIl ..00.0 400  10    .001,1     00- cd0.                 o   00 0.Il.0
0.000 owo     t o0.10   f -m d nt p.10.11.. .9.0.4..  0.  0.0.  .1.  .                   o S 0.1ii          - p...0  00.0 lo i 1.to.-  J1   0O-O-   -0
p0 t00.  nO 01000.  L.nptrOk. popuCApplo..  -Il0. _010f0.0d.   _d.                       prmSto.o   10oiO,   .001.10   00mO.                                  .0
=totii,.     -AL.fd         p-0440010. ,0.00 d1 000.00. 1.10d0t.ib -0 0001 .0-                                     Lb I..     -           -                    
1   0-i.t.to P.P00 t000 o d ooo.a1... - 0 0.00. o0t f.l mp.r It-6t    MCt                         b                          6'1?    d17   .
F =    1pntrt u                70uro. o0d 19007 M-y.  by    rotod-Plapt4o..tbou1b-f-; %0
Al.q       l      W-df.   f.0 t9.1 on1t.l. n  "Y0000d 10S.01.      -NfW160   to    dtt.   1    dt.    .VUi                                         l   0
In.100      905.    0P..-FplOn  40,04.4 by 9Al. 00 .9 Ip-.000.0.4t
P.l ~ ~   ~    ~ ~        0000  000.m   50.00                 0.



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
PHILIPPINES - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                                 Annual growth rates (%)
current prices)                       Actual                                        Projected
Indicator                            1979            1976    1977    1978    1979    1980/a   1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product            28,854            7.1      6.2      5.9     5.9      4.7       5.8      6.3      6.3      6.3      7.1     8.3
Agriculture                      6,991            8.6      5.0     4.8      5.3      4.3       5.2      5.2      5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0
Industry                        10,174          10.0      7.7      6.4      6.7      5.8       6.5      7.2      7.5     7.5      8.5    10.0
Services                        11,689           3.7      5.7      6.3      5.5      5.0       5.6      6.2      6.0     6.0      7.0      8.5
Consumption                       21,860            4.3      5.2      4.6     4.8      4.2       5.4.    5.2       4.9      5.1      5.8     7.0
Gross investment                   8,576            8.0      0.7    13.3       7.4     4.8       6.3      6.3      6.3      6.3      7.1     8.3
Exports of GNFS /b                 5,528           19.9    17.6       1.6      7.4    11.3      10.2    10.7    11.2    10.6    10.8    10.5
Imports of GNFS                    7,110            1.3      5.3    13.2    10.3       5.2       6.6      6.7      6.5      6.6     6.8      7.2
Gross national savings             6,665           -2.0    11.3       8.3     7.7      3.1       -        -        -        -       -
PRICES
GDP deflator (1972 - 100)                         183.6   198.8   210.6   250.8    296.9         -        -        -       -        -        -
Exchange rate (US$1 -)                             7.45     7.41    7.38     7.39      7.52      -        -        -        -       -        -
Export price index (1978 = 100)                    92.6    95.8   100.0   124.6    140.3   149.9   160.0   170.5   183.3   195.7   258.7
Import price index (1978 = 100)                    91.6    94.2   100.0   117.4    142.2   157.0   170.8   185.2   197.1   210.6   289.3
Terms of trade index (1978 - 100)                 101.1   101.7   100.0   106.1        98.7    95.5    93.7    92.6    93.0    92.9    89.4
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                        Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices) Ic                                  (at constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990          1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product             100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0              5.1        6.1        5.9        6.3        7.6
Agriculture                       28.1    27.8    29.0    26.8    25.0    22.0              4.3        4.3        4.8        5.0        5.0
Industry                          25.8    29.6    33.5    35.5    37.7    40.6             6.0        8.6         7.6        7.5        9.1
Services                          46.1    42.6    37.5    37.7    37.3    37.4             5.2        5.4         5.7        6.1        7.7
Consumption                       85.3    79.2    75.8    74.5    72.4    68.7             4.8         5.5        5.2        5.2        6.5
Gross investment                  16.3    21.5    31.0    30.1    29.2    30.5              8.2       11.5        6.5        6.8        7.6
Exports of GNFS                   10.8    19.4    18.5    19.4    24.7    27.5              5.8        3.2       10.0       10.7       10.0
Imports of GNFS                   10.6    19.7    25.3    24.0    26.2    25.4             6.8        6.8         8.0        6.6        6.9
Gross national savings            16.2    20.5    25.3    23.1    25.4    29.2             7.4         9.7        -         -           -
As % of GDP
1960       1970       1975       1980         Labor Force in 1978           Millions    (x)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                Agriculture                  7.4       44.4
Current revenues                            9.8        9.5       13.9       12.8            Industry                     2.7       16.2
Current expenditures                        9.6       10.9       12.3        9.6            Services                     5.6       33.0
Current surplus                             0.2       -1.4        1.6        4.1           Unemployed                    1.1        6.4
Capital expenditure                         2.3        1.9        3.2        3.2
Foreign financing                           -          0.1        0.3        1.5                Total Labor Force       16.8      100.0
1960-70          1970-75           1975-80           1980-85          1985-90
*   OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                                   5.1              5.6               5.9               6.3              7.7
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (Y)                        2.0              2.7               3.2               3.6              5.1
Annual energy consumption growth rate (%)                    7.4              6.2               4.2               4.7              4.6
ICOR                                                         4.5              4.7               4.6              4.5               4.1
Marginal savings rate                                     0.285             0.330              0.26             0.32              0.35
Import elasticity                                           1.33             1.12              1.20             1.05              0.90
/a  Preliminary estimate.
7b  Historical figures are official estimates based on 1972 weights.  In relation to the composition of Philippine exports
in the late 1970s these estimates give undue weight to stable or declining exports of raw commodities such as copra,
sugar, and logs, and insufficient weight to rapidly growing exports such as nontraditional manufactures and coconut oil.
Bank staff estimates of export volume based on 1978 weights are shown on Attachment 3b.
/c Projected years of constant prices.
East Aaia & Pacific Regional Office
llev, r 1981



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(US$ million, at current Prices)
Actual                Est.               Projected
1977   1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Summary of Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services              4,161   4,838   6,177   7,863   9,084  10,710  12,830  15,360  18,370
Of which:  exports of goods             3,151   3,425   4,602   5,788   6,518   7,890   9,630  11,710  14,220
Imports of goods and services             5,248   6,323   8,108  10,348  12,076  13,680  15,620  17,820  20,210
Of which:  imports of goods             3,915   4,732   6,142   7,727   8,810  10,050  11,510  13,170  15,100
Transfers (net)                              260      312     355      434      500      550      610      660      730
Current Account Balance                  -827  -1,173  -1,576  -2,051  -2,490  -2,420  -2,180  -1,800  -1,110
Direct investment (net)                      216      171       99      45      290      320      350      390     420
MLT loans (net)                              662      891   1,091   1,032   1,370   1,600   1,540   1,310          920
official-source loans (net)               332      333      449      375      851      940   1,050   1,120   1,150
Private-source loans (net)                 330     501      642      657      519      660      490       90    -230
Other capital (net) /a                       113       56    -193      593      455      300      300      300     300
Overall Balance /b                        164      -54    -579    -381    -375    -200            -     200      530
International reserves (end-year) /c   1,525   1,883   2,423   3,155
Reserve as months of imports                 3.5      3.6     3.6      3.7
External Capital and Debt
Gross Disbursements                       1,376   1,968   2,385   2,047
Concessional Loans                          88     120      183      178
Bilateral                                62       56      113      101
IDA                                       2        1        3        2
other multilateral                       24       63       67       75
Nonconcessional Loans                   1287   1,848   2,202   1,869
Official export credits                 123      121      152        8
IBRD                                     99      160      204      221
Other multilateral                       30       47       81       83
Private sources                       1,035   1,520   1,765   1,557
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed          5,003   6,199   7,137   8,554
Official-source                       1,423   1,895   2,265   2,710
Private-source                        3,580   4,304   4,872   5,844
Undisbursed debt                        2,601   4,017   4,305   5,476
Debt Service
Total service payments                    762      910   1,028   1,259
Of which:  interest                     183      270      486      659
Payments as % of exports of goods
and services                           18.3    18.8    16.6    16.0
Average interest rate on new loans
Official-source                           7.5      5.5      5.5      6.9
Private-source (DRS)                      8.4      9.0    10.5    14.7
Average maturity of new loans
Official-source                          18.6    22.8    23.3    21.2
Private-source (DRS)                      9.0    10.2    11.1        9.9
/a  Short-term capital, monetization of gold, allocation of SDRs, and errors and omissions.
7F  Equals change in net international reserves.
7T  cross reserves of the Central Bank ("International reserves," IFS).
East Asia and Pacific Region
November 1981



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 19 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of September 30, 1981
Loan or
Credit                                                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Number      FY    Borrower                Purpose                          Bank      IDA  Undisbursed
Twenty-three Loans and three credits fully disbursed                       416.18  32.20
984-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation           9.50             0.56
998-PH   1974                            DBP I                             50.00              3.30
1034-PH   1974  National Power Corp.   Power                                61.00              0.56
1035-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Population                           25.00              8.57
1048-PH   1974                            Shipping                          20.00             0.64
1052-PH   1974  Philip. National Bank  PDCP IV                              30.00              0.21
1080-PH   1975  Rep. of the Philip.    Tarlac Irrigation                    17.00              3.67
1102-PH   1975                            Rural Development                 25.00             6.71
1154-PH   1976                            Magat Irrigation                  42.00            10.80
1190-PH   1976                            DBP II                            75.00              3.22
1224-T-PH 1976                            Education III                     25.00             4.14
1225-PH   1976                            Livestock II                      20.50             0.02
1227-PH   1976                            Chico Irrigation                  50.00            30.13
1272-T-PH 1976                            Manila Urban                      10.00              3.74
1282-PH   1976                            Manila Urban                      22.00              8.23
1269-PH   1977                            Second Grain Processing           11.50             5.71
1353-PH   1977                            Third Highways                    95.00            55.91
1367-PH   1977                            Jalaur Irrigation                 15.00             6.69
1374-PH   1977                            Fourth Education                  25.00              8.30
1399-PH   1977 Central Bank of the        Fourth Rural Credit
Philippines                                                36.50            14.87
1414-PH   1977 Rep. of the Philip.        Nat. Irrig. Syst. Improvmt.    50.00               32.00
1415-PH   1977                            Provincial Cities Water Sup.   23.00               12.75
1421-PH   1977                            Rural Dev. Land Stlmt. II         15.00              8.04
1460-PH   1978 National Power Corp.    Seventh Power                        58.00            35.61
1506-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Smallholder Tree Farming           8.00             6.18
1514-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   PDCP V                               30.00             9.25
1526-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Nat. Irrig. Syst. Improvmt. II 65.00               48.96
790-PH   1978                            Rural Infrastructure                     28.00    23.51
S.8-PH   1978                            Education                          2.00              1.16
1547-PH   1978 Nat. Electrif. Admin.   Rural Electrification                60.00             3.77
1555-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   PISO                                 15.00             1.47
1567-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Magat II                         150.00            37.38
1572-PH   1978                            Industrial Investment III         80.00            34.13
1615-PH   1979                            Manila Water Supply II            88.00            81.98
1626-PH   1979                            National Extension                35.00            32.39
1639-PH   1979                            Magat River Multipurpose          21.00            17.26
1646-PH   1979                            Small Farmer Dev. (Land Bank)  16.50               10.61
1647-PH   1979                            Second Urban Development          32.00            23.73
1661-PH   1979                            Highways IV                      100.00            98.40
1710-PH   1979                            Water Supply II                   16.00            16.00
920-PH   1979                            Water Supply II                          22.00    20.43
1727-PH   1979                            Small & Medium Industry II        25.00             2.77
923-PH   1979                            Population II                            40.00    39.62
1772-PH   1980                            Samar Island Rural Devel.         27.00            25.07
1786-PH   1980                            Fisheries Trng. (Educ. VI)        38.00            37.55
1809-PH   1980                            Medium-Scale Irrigation           71.00            70.72
1814-PH   1980                            Manila Sewerage & Sanitation   63.00               60.68
1815-PH   1980                            Rainfed Agric. Dev. (Iloilo)   12.00               11.86
1821-PH   1980                            Third Urban                       72.00            65.33
1855-PH   1980                            Third Ports                       67.00            66.73
1860-PH   1980                            Rural Roads Improvement           62.00            60.10
1890-PH   1981                            Watershed Management              38.00            37.64
1894-PH   1981                            Third Livestock & Fisheries    45.00               37.97
1903-PH   1981                            Structural Adjustment            200.00             4.54
1984-PFi   1981  Central Bank of the    Industrial Finance (Apex)          150.00           150.00
Philippines
2030-PH/a 1981  Rep. of the Philip.    Elem. Educ. Sector Loan             100.00           100.00
2040-PHT  1982  Rep. of the Philip.    Ag. Support Services                 45.00            45.00
Total                                                               2,960.68 122.20 1,546.57
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                            212.85
Total now outstanding                                               2,747.83 122.20
Amount sold                                             24.34
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                       21.31           3.03   -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                              2,744,80 122.20
Total undisbursed                                                   1,463.01  83.56 1,546.57
/a Not yet effective.



- 28 -                 ANNEX II
Page 2 of 19 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of September 30, 1981
Fiscal                                                        Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                           Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the          15.0     4.4    19.4
Philippines
1967          Manila Electric Company                         8.0     -        8.0
1967          Meralco Securities Corporation                  -       4.0      4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance Telephone              3.7       .8     4.5
Company
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                     0.8     0.4      1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the              -      2.2      2.2
Philippines
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                 6.2     2.1      8.3
1972          Marinduque Mining and Industrial               15.0     -       15.0
Corporation
1973          Victorias Chemical Corporation                  1.9     0.3      2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation           1.5     -        1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.   1.5          0.7      2.2
1974          Republic Flour Mills Corporation                1.2     -        1.2
1975          Philippine Polyamide Industrial                 7.0     -        7.0
Corporation
1976/1980    Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                       2.6     0.2      2.8
1977          Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                      2.3     1.2      3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                      3.5     -        3.5
1978          Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.   2.1         -        2.1
1979          General Milling Corporation                     4.0     1.1      5.1.
1980          PISO Leasing Corporation                        5.0     0.1      5.1
1980          Ventures in Industry and Business               -       0.3      0.3
Enterprises, Inc.
1980          Consolidated Industrial Gases, Inc.             4.5     -        4.5
1981          Loans to Seven Corp. for SMSE                  18.5      .7    19.2
1981          Philippine Assoc. Smelting & Refining Corp. -           5.0      5.0
1981          Davao Union Cement Corp.                       16.0     -       16.0
Total gross commitments                      120.3    23.5   143.8
Less sold, acquired by others,              50.7    12.6    63.3
repaid or cancelled
Total commitments now held by IFC             69.6    10.9    80.5
Total Undisbursed                             34.5      4.8    39.3



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 19
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
as of September 30, 1981
Agricultural Sector
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is about 98% complete. Work on the Canili and Diayo
dams and the transbasin channel was completed in 1975, about one year ahead
of the appraisal schedule. Difficulties in the award of construction con-
tracts delayed the start of improvement works in the Penaranda service areas
which were further hampered by severe typhoon damages in 1978 and 1980. The
project will be completed in 1981, three years behind the appraisal schedule.
Due to cost increases, delayed construction and a reduced cropping intensity
the internal rate of return is expected to be about 12%, compared to the
appraisal estimate of 17%.
Loan No. 1080 Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is now about 91% complete. Full completion is expected
by December 1982, a two-year delay in the original schedule, caused mainly by
managerial problems and late preparation of the designs for the drainage
works.  The closing date has already been extended by one and a half years to
June 30, 1982, and it is expected that the Government will request a further
extension to complete the project works.  The area developed is likely to be
some 20% less than originally planned mainly because of flooding from the
Chico, Camiling and Agno rivers.  Costs are higher, partly due to the delays
referred to above, and the economic rate of return is now likely to be close
to 10% compared with an appraisal estimate of 15%.
Loan No. 1102 Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project is about 85% complete. The irrigation works are
substantially completed, except for two communal systems which are planned
for completion by the end of 1981. After initial delays in the award of
construction contracts for the roads component, progress has now improved
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 19
with the mobilization of contractors on three national and one provincial
road contracts. Completion of the roads component is now planned for mid-
1983, about three years behind the appraisal schedule.  The closing date has
therefore been extended to December 1983.
Loan No. 1154 Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Civil works by local contract and force acount for rehabilitation
and new construction of canals, drains and access roads are progressing well,
and the project is about 89% complete. All contracts have now been awarded
but some of the work has been postponed until the end of the rainy season.
The water management training is continuing satisfactorily. Due to earlier
delays in contract award, budgetary constraints and typhoon damage in 1980,
project completion is expected to be delayed by about two years over the
original schedule.
Loan No. 1225 Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by October 1981. The
project program was completed one year before the closing date (June 30,
1982) as a result of significant subloan demand in piggery and poultry
subsectors. Further support to livestock development in the Philippines is
being provided under the ongoing Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project
(Loan 1894-PH).
Loan No. 1227 Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Although the project was due for completion by June 1980, it is now
only about 54% complete. Work started slowly due to late procurement of
equipment for force account work.  Further delays have been caused by changes
in design resulting in rebidding the three major contracts for the diversion
dam, the main canal and the river siphon; severe and repeated typhoon damage;
problems of right-of-way acquisition and the recent suspension of work on the
diversion dam because of security problems. The project is now expected to be
completed in June 1984, a four-year delay over the appraisal estimate. The
closing date has therefore been extended to December 31, 1984.
Loan No. 1269 Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan
of July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 4,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Following Bank approval (expected shortly) of about $1 million from
the loan to help finance a $12 million port facility of the National Food
Authority for importing soybeans in Batangas Harbor, this loan will be fully



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 19
committed. The loan has disbursed rapidly since the end of 1980 after a
slow beginning which led to a two-year postponement of the closing date to
June 30, 1983. The current post-harvest study on grain losses is expected
to be completed in early 1982.
Loan No. 1367 Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is about 70% complete. Force account work is proceeding
satisfactorily, but contract works have been delayed by the poor performance
of some of the contractors. The National Irrigation Administration has now
taken action to improve the situation, but two contracts remain seriously
behind schedule. Completion is likely to be about one year behind schedule.
Loan No. 1399 Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The escalation in fuel and machinery costs during 1978 and 1979,
accompanied by a sharp fall in sugar prices, substantially reduced the subloan
demand, particularly for four-wheel tractors, power tillers and light trucks.
Another major problem has been the growing arrears of several rural banks
resulting in many of them being ineligible for project lending. In view of
this, in November 1979, the project-s scope was broadened to include new
categories of investments and new lending channels (private development
banks). The related regulations became operative in April 1980 but their
impact on the disbursement rate has so far been modest. The Central Bank has
recently reassessed the project's implementation and has proposed measures for
further widening the institutional arrangements, including the induction of
private investment corporations to lend, on a selective basis, for project-
supported investments and rationalization of lending terms. The Central Bank
considers these measures essential to achieve the project program within the
extended closing date of December 31, 1982. The Central Bank-s proposals are
under review.
Loan No. 1414 National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project;
$50 Million Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
August 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress in project implementation has been slow, initially because
of staffing and design problems, and more recently because of delays in the
review of design and contractual arrangements for the Abulog diversion dam.
Shortages of fuel and construction materials, which have been a major cause of
delay, have now been overcome. The project is now expected to be completed in
1983, two years later than originally estimated. Implementation improved
during the 1980 and 1981 construction seasons, mainly because of better plan-
ning and organization, less complicated contract procedures, and completion of
designs. Final project costs and benefits are expected to be in line with
original estimates.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 19
Loan No. 1421 Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
progress continues to be satisfactory. After earlier delays, the
Government is now moving towards the formulation of a public land policy as a
framework for future development of the land settlement program. An inter-
agency workshop on this subject held in August identified priority issues,
and recommendations are expected to be made to the Government by November.
Road construction has accelerated, but is still behind schedule in two
provinces. The planned credit program through rural banks has been slow in
getting under way, so full realization of planned increases in productivity
and income has been further delayed. Issuance of land certificates and
titles is still only about 30% complete; however, the Government has announced
a plan to issue 8,000 Certificates of Land Allocation by June 1982.
Loan No. 1506 Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million
Loan of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 11,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
physical progress on the DBP treefarming component continues to be
satisfactory, and area commitments have now reached 50% of the project-s
target. Due to slow initial implementation and the incidence of an insect
pest, annual planting targets for BFD-s Abra plantation component have been
reduced, and BFD is embarking on pest control measures. The PCARR forestry
research component is progressing well and the nationwide Wood Industries
Development Study by MNR and consultants is near completion. Disbursements
are behind schedule for all components because of the delays in the project's
first years, but are now picking up. Slow procurement of vehicles remains a
problem due to excessive bureaucratic regulations; this will be addressed in
the forthcoming Project Implementation Review with the Government.
Loan No. 1526  Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:
$65 Million Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Topographic surveys, project planning and design have been completed
for most of the systems, and construction is fully under way. Overall
progress is somewhat behind schedule due to delays in contract awards,
however, the project is expected to be completed as scheduled.
Credit No. 790 Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Construction of rural water supply schemes, health stations and
ports is proceeding satisfactorily. About 300 village water supply schemes
have been completed, 48 health stations have been commissioned and construct-
ion of San Jose Port is well under way, while work has recently been started



- 33 -                       ANNEX II
page 7 of 19
at the ports of Culasi and Dumaguit. Construction of the irrigation component
fell behind schedule due to inadequate transportation facilities and shortage
of surveying instruments; however, remedial measures have now improved the
situation. Under the roads component, about 35 km (15%) of roads have been
constructed by administrative forces, construction contracts have been awarded
for 300 km (30%) of the roads to be built under contract and the detailed
design of the remaining roads is well under way. Project completion is now
planned for December 1983, about one year behind the appraisal schedule.
Loan No. 1567 Magat River Multipurpose Project - Stage II;
$150 Million Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness;
August 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress is good. The first stage of river diversion has been
successfully achieved and excavation is substantially complete. Construction
of the main dam is making excellent progress. Concrete work for the spillway
started slowly and suffered from interruptions due to breakdown of the cranes,
but the contractor has made up for lost time and is once more nearly on sche-
dule. Work on resettlement of the population to be displaced by the reservo&r
is excellent, with work on one of the three new villages nearly complete.
Loan No. 1626 National Extension Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 26, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Ministry of Agriculture, through its Bureau of Agricultural
Extension, aims to introduce the training and visit (T and V) system to the
national extension service over a four year period. A Project Management
Committee has been created under the Deputy Minister's Chairmanship, and
appropriate subcommittees and operational units established. Regional
reorganization was effected on March 24, 1980 with the appointment of 12
Regional Directors and 24 Assistant Directors, followed by 75 Provincial
Executive Officers on March 28. The first year-s incremental staff
appointments have been made but the second year's allotment was delayed by
queries on staff deployment following reorganization. Construction of the 167
extension centers is under way. The purchase and distribution of motorcycles
is on schedule, but the purchase of utility vehicles has been delayed pending
bid approval by the President-s Office. The purchase of equipment, consultan-
cies and training are proceeding as scheduled. Pilot areas for introducing
the T and V system of extension have been extended to 75 districts, one for
almost every province of the country.
Loan No. 1639-PH Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: April 25, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Implementation started early in 1980 and progress is satisfactory.
The project is about 25% complete. All major contracts have already been
awarded and some are ahead of schedule. All construction equipment has been
procured and delivered to site. Completion is expected by mid-1983 as



- 34 -
ANNEX II
page 8 of 19
scheduled aL appraisal.  The only problem to be foreseen is an overall
financial constraint which is being carefully considered by the Government.
Loan No. 1646  Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cumulative disbursements up to September 1981 amounted to $5.9
million, lower than the appraisal estimate of $9.8 million. However, taking
into account the backlog in loan withdrawals, the disbursements are by and
large in accordance with the revised estimate ($7 million). The procedural
difficulties which held up withdrawals under the infrastructure component
have now been resolved and the disbursements under this component are expected
to start in February 1982. LBP has reorganized its field offices and initi-
ated other institutional measures to improve smallholder coverage and subloan
collection performance. The loan is expected to be fully drawn down by
December 31, 1983, compared to the appraisal estimate of June 30, 1983. LBP
has initiated preparation of a follow-up project for Bank assistance.
Loan No. 1772 Samar Island Rural Development Project; $27.0 million
Loan of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Procurement of services, materials and equipment for the project is
well under way, and the first phase of the Catubig valley studies has been
completed. Prequalification of contractors for the road component has been
completed, and bidding for the roads began in June 1981. The contract for the
rehabilitation of the Catbalogan port has been awarded. NIA has been experi-
encing difficulties attracting bidders for construction of communal irrigation
systems, and the Bank has therefore recently agreed to the construction of
three systems by force account in order to avoid losing the 1981 construction
season.
Loan No. 1809 Medium-Scale Irrigation; $71.0 million Loan of March 28,
1980. Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Detailed engineering design of the diversion dams is behind schedule
due to unavailability of drilling rigs to conduct subsurface investigations.
Force account works have been started. Construction contracts have been
awarded for three of the 12 major contract works. Difficult working condi-
tions in the project areas and inadequate communications facilities have
resulted in poor response to invitations for competitive bidding from pros-
pective contractors, which is likely to cause delays in the project completion
schedule.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 19
Loan No. 1815 Rainfed Agriculture (Iloilo); $12.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
After experiencing initial start-up problems in the first year,
mainly because of the complexity of the project, the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) is making good progress. The same accounts for those project compo-
nents which have to be carried out by other agencies.  To simplify the task
of project management in monitoring the progress of the different components,
the Ministry of Budget has agreed to channel all fund allocations through MOA
and to accept budget requests only for the project components approved by MOA.
However, the problem of releasing the funds for transportation for the pro-
ject officers and extension staff remains, although it has been discussed with
MOB and the Prime Minister. Until MOA is given approval to purchase vehicles
for the National Extension Project (Loan 1626-PH) by the Presidential Office,
the procurement of vehicles for the Iloilo Project will remain shelved for the
time being.
Loan No. 1890 Watershed Management and Erosion Control Project;
$38.0 Million Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness: October 30, 1980, Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
Progress is good in the nurseries, plantation establishment and
management. Prevention of damage from grass fires through the construction of
fire breaks, provision of lookout towers, prompt intervention by NIA fire-
fighters and assistance of the local population has been excellent. The pro-
ject continues to be adversely affected by difficulties with the Bureau of
Forest Development in defining project area boundaries and drastically cur-
tailed budgets. Procurement of vehicles and equipment has been slow, while
the engagement and mobilization of the various types of consultant assistance
have been efficient and expeditious. Terms of reference for the Magat Water-
shed Feasibility Study have been prepared and approved, and the Government has
entered into negotiations with a local firm of consultants to assist with the
study. The local consultants will join with a foreign firm to provide for
expertise not available in the Philippines.
Loan No. 1894 Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project; $45.0 Million
Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: November 5,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The pace of DBP's subloan commitments and releases is satisfactory;
as of September 30, 1981, disbursements stood at $7.1 million, slightly above
the appraisal estimate. The consultants work on DBP's computerization needs
and agricultural staff training programs has been completed under the tech-
nical assistance component, and follow-up proposals are under review by DBP.
BAI-s sectoral development and research programs are expected to commence
shortly. FIDC will finalize a consultancy outline on marine regulations in
the near future.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 19
Loan 2040 Agricultural Support Services; $45.0 million Loan of August 25,
1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: November 25 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1988
This loan was signed on August 25, 1981 and is not yet effective.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 1048      Inter-Island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Closing Date was extended to June 30, 1981 to allow for the
completion of training programs and for ship construction guarantee payments.
Following the transfer of unused project funds to technical assistance
activities, most of the loan funds have now been disbursed and the loan is
closed.
Loan No. 1353      Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
overall, the project is about 60% completed and two and half years
behind schedule because of slow procurement, poor performance of many
contractors, and inadequate planning for the use of local funds. The
Ministry of Public Highways was poorly managed; recently, it was merged with
the Ministry of Public Works and its operations started to improve; further
efforts are, however, required to strengthen its management. A short-term
action program was agreed in detail with the Ministry of Public Works and
Highways (MPWH) in order to tighten the project implementation.  In road
construction and improvement, works on 14 national and 8 minor road contracts
are now progressing satisfactorily. The road maintenance and restoration
programs have been reviewed and are now making some progress. Of the 28
workshop contracts, 11 are now under construction, 13 are up for rebid and 4
have been renegotiated. There is a significant cost overrun on the workshop
contract, caused by changes in the design and price escalation.  Procurement
of road maintenance equipment, tools and other machinery has been completed.
Consultants for supervision of construction of roads and workshops are in
place and the road and ferry feasibility studies have been completed.  The
technical assistance advisors to MPWH completed their assignment in November
1979 and training advisors to MPWH completed their work in March 1980.
Overall, the project completion is likely to be delayed until mid-1983, and
the closing date has therefore been extended accordingly.
Loan No. 1661      Fourth Highway Project; $100 Million Loan of March 9,
1979 ; Date of Effectiveness: June 15, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After an initial delay of several months the implementation of this
project has proceeded slowly, mainly because of time-consuming prequalifica-
tion procedures for contractors and slow selection of consultants for



- 37 -
ANNEX I I
Page 11 of 19
technical assistance. The overall delay now amounts to at least a year, and
the progress in implementing the project continues to be slow. MPWH carried
out international competitive bidding for all ten national road contracts
in the project; so far five contracts have been awarded and the construction
or improvement works will start shortly. Bids for the remaining five
contracts are now being evaluated. A consulting firm for the design and
construction supervision of workshops has started the design work. Land
acquisition for road construction and workshops is under way and preparatory
work has begun for the continuation of the road maintenance and road
restoration programs begun under the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH).
Prequalification for equipment suppliers has begun, but bids will be invited
only after completion of workshop construction.
Loan No. 1855      Third Ports Project; $67 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Proposed Date of Effectiveness: September 11, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Bids for almost all project components have been received and
evaluated. In all cases, the Government has decided to award the contracts
to the lowest evaluated bidders. Some mobilization work has begun. Other
preconstruction activities are well under way and will be completed before the
main contractors start work. Arrangements for construction supervision are
being revised in the light of the last supervision mission comments. Con-
sultants have been selected for the assignment.
Loan No. 1860      Rural Roads Improvement Project; $62 Million Loan of
June 13, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: September 8,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Initial progress in preparing the 1981 rural roads program has been
slow due mainly to a delay in providing technical assistance services to the
implementing agency. Due to delays in preparing and reviewing detailed
engineering for rural roads, no construction contracts started in the 1981
dry season, putting the project about nine months behind schedule. Recently,
the Ministry of Local Government received contractors- bids for the 1981
program packages, and is now evaluating them. Consulting services for the
technical assistance component are now under way.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224-T   Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The central part of the project, which is the development of primary
and secondary textbooks and teachers manuals in five subject areas, proceeded
as planned. The project has met its goal of producing and distributing to
schools 75 titles, amounting to 30 million copies, and providing for about



- 38 -                      ANNEX II
Page 12 of 19
250,000 teachers, by the middle of 1981. Disbursements are about 80% of
appraisal estimates for June 30, 1981, the original closing date, reflecting a
delay of about 36 months in the completion of a central facility for the
Textbook Secretariat, which resulted from change orders and price escalation.
To allow time for the completion of this facility, the closing date has been
postponed by one year to June 1982 and agreement was reached that a revised
contract would be signed by October 31, 1981. The overall project costs are
close to appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1374      Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of March 25,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is now some 18 months behind schedule.
Rapid price escalation and high credit costs in the 1978-80 period resulted
in a slow-down in building activity, the rescinding of an important contract
and renegotiation of others, thus delaying implementation of the project's
other physical components and dependent educational objectives. The problem
is being resolved, and in the process EDPITAF has devolved implementation
responsibilities to recipient institutions. An extension of the closing date
is to be sought once a revised financial plan has been elaborated with the
Finance and Budget Ministries. Overall project utilization of Technical
Assistance Specialists is only 20%, while over 80% of Fellowship time has been
committed. Enrolments are about on target and other educational developments
at UPLB and VISCA are proceeding satisfactorily. There is some tendency to
proliferate fields of specialized study and the National Governing Board of
the PTC-RD system has not functioned as planned in reviewing important changes
in policies and programs.
Loan No. S-8       Educational Radio Technical Assistance:  $2 Million Loan
of April 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is being implemented by an Educational Communications
Office (ECO), established for this purpose within EDPITAF. ECO is functioning
smoothly and is successfully preparing and distributing radio programs and
printed materials for the two major project subcomponents - Radio Assisted
Teaching in Elementary Schools (RATES), and Continuing Education for Teachers
(CET). These programs have been implemented efficiently. The report on the
project summative evaluation,which has been completed by the University of the
Philippines Institute of Mass Communication, contains informative data on the
use of radio for the improvement of education. The Educational Communications
Office is now formulating follow-up plans incorporating this data into the
recently approved, Bank-supported Elementary Education project. A separate
evaluation of the Communication Technology for Rural Education will be
completed towards the end of 1981.



- 39 -                    ANNEX II
Page 13 of 19
Loan No. 1786 Fisheries Training Project; $38.0 Million Loan
of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 19, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Civil works have started at two sites. Tender documents for fish-
ing and equipment lists are being prepared. Overall physical implementation
is behind schedule by about six months mainly due to the transfer of detailed
implementing responsibility to the respective project institutions, and to
delays in Presidential approval of civil works contracts (P 2.0 million
each). The Fellowship program is being implemented on schedule, but the
recruitment of consultants has been slow, also affected by the transfer of
implementing responsibility and the delay in the release of the Obligation
Authority for project funds to recipient institutions. This release is
expected shortly.
Loan No. 2030 Elementary Education Sector Loan; $100.0 Million Loan of
August 25, 1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: November
25, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This loan was signed on August 25, 1981, and is not yet
effective.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272-T   Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282      $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Infrastructure improvements are about 80% complete. Community
facilities are complete and await equipment and staffing, and small business
and house building materials loans programs are being revised in light of
client demand. The Tondo sewer outfall recently contracted should be
completed by late 1982 and the two contract packages for the R.10 major road
works are about to be re-awarded with probable completion in 1984.
Loan 1415       Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Overall project implementation is about one year behind schedule.
Major contracts have been awarded; however, due to unforeseen delays in well
drilling and late deliveries of pipes, progress has been slow. All major
contracts have been let, and better progress is expected through 1982. Work
has started in four of the six project cities, and contractors are mobilizing
in the remaining two. The construction cost is expected to be close to
appraisal estimates; however, project completion is expected to be delayed by
about one year.



- 40 -                       ANNEX II
Page 14 of 19
Loan 1615       Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:  December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project suffered a late start because of initial delays in
approvals of contracts in source development which delayed the construction
of the Bank-financed distribution system component.  Nearly all the major
contracts have now been let and no further slippage is expected. However
because of the high cost of money, many contractors have delayed mobilization
on their contracts.  A water rate increase of P 0.25 plus a 10% waste water
disposal charge were implemented on July 1, 1981.
Loan No. 1647      Second Urban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan
of January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
With most components now experiencing considerable cost overruns due
primarily to higher levels of inflation than allowed for at appraisal, initial
funding problems, delays resulting from difficult on-site conditions and poor
coordination between executing agencies, overall project costs are now esti-
mated at about $106 million (50% over appraisal estimates). Disbursement
performance has deteriorated recently due to delays in completing off-site
works and physical works are now expected to be completed by end 1983, some
12-15 months behind schedule.  Now that some of the sites are completed and
ready for handover, a stronger interest is likely and progress is expected to
improve.
Credit 920      Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $22 Million
Loan 1710       Credit and $16 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: November 30, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
The 50 Water Districts required under the project have been formed.
Work is under way on the development of a financial planning and control
system, and consultants have started the preparation of a comprehensive
management assistance and training proposal. A new institution, the Rural
Water Supply Development Corporation, has been created, and is now preparing a
list of materials to be procured for rural water supply.
Loan 1814      Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Project:  $63.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 10, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project is proceeding well, with no major problems. Detailed
designs for the Tondo Pumping Station have been completed, and tenders for
sanitary sewers in Dagupan and Pandacan awarded. The organization for the
combined sewer program is in place; staffing and training plans are being
prepared; and equipment for the water quality monitoring program has been
approved for procurement.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 19
Loan 1821      Third Urban Development Project; $72 Million Loan of
June 2, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 25, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Despite some slowdown in 1981, physical progress is satisfactory
(except for the sites and services components). Although Bank disbursements
are only 48% of estimates, this is mainly due to slow application procedures,
since the volume of contracting and the pace of physical implementation are
as projected. Progress in implementation of policies for ZIP, clarification
of the role of local governments and establishment of estate management
operations has, however, been slow. Preparation of the future program for
ZIP and MMINUTE sites for funding under a proposed fifth urban project is
progressing well. The Management Coordination Board (MCB) and the Technical
Secretariat continue to operate well but will need to take a mor2 active
role to resolve some of the policy and management problems refer;ed to
above. The MCB should be expanded shortly to undertake the review function
for the Capital Investment Folio which is now receiving more intEnsive
preparation.
Power Sector
Loan No. 1034      Sixth Power; $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The Pantabangan generating plant was commissioned in April 1977, and
the transmission facilities are now expected to be completed by the end of
1981, four years behind schedule. The main delays in the execution of the
transmission system are due to the slow pace of engineering design and prepa-
ration of tender documents, and delays in procurement. The revised project
cost estimate is 53% higher than the appraisal estimate. The closing date of
the loan has been postponed from June 30, 1981 to March 31, 1982 to allow
additional time for payment of retention monies to contractors.
Loan No. 1460      Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
&                               Closing Date:  December 31, 1983
Project implementation is now one year behind schedule, mainly due
to the slow construction of the load dispatching center. The revised project
cost is now estimated at $89 million (including additional works), 4% lower
than the original estimate. Surplus funds will be used to expand substations
to increase the reliability of the system.  Due to delays in procurement and
because of additional works authorized by the Bank, the closing date of the
loan has been extended to December 1983. NPC has still been unable to meet
the 8% rate of return target provided in the Loan Agreement and the Government
has yet to provide specific assurances that appropriate action will be taken
to remedy this. This problem is being followed up by the Bank.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 19
Loan No. 1547      Rural Electrification; $60.0 Million Loan of May 10,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
After earlier improvements in implementation, the project is now
behind schedule. About 300,000 house connections were made in 1980, compared
with NEA's target of 487,000. NEA's financial performance in 1979 was good,
but adjustments to the audited accounts for 1978 resulted in a net loss of
P10.3 million ($1.4 million). The Bank has now made a number of recommenda-
tions to improve the audit reports prepared by the Commission on Audit. NEA
is making efforts to monitor the financial performance of the cooperatives and
for the first time has published the financial results of the cooperatives as
a supplement to its 1979 report. However, the quality of financial informa-
tion on the cooperatives is poor, and NEA has been asked to take action to
improve this information and to improve the financial performance of the
cooperatives.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998       Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
September 9, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million) has been almost
fully drawn down by DBP to finance medium and relatively large industrial
projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance about 1,300
smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao; this part of the
loan is also substantially disbursed.
Loan No. 1052      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
After some slowdown in commitments and disbursements experienced in
1976 and 1977 the loan has now been almost fully disbursed. The small unuti-
lized balance of $211,000 is being cancelled.
Loan No. 1190      Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of January 28,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Commitments of funds, which were initially much slower than expected
due to a slowdown of investment in the industrial sector as a whole, have
improved since 1978. The loan has now been fully committed by DBP for
subprojects and will be closed shortly.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 19
Loan No. 1514      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Million Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: June 23, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982
As of September 30, 1981 commitments under the loan amounted to
$28.0 million and disbursements $20.7 million. The project progress is
satisfactory.
Loan No. 1555      Philippines Investments Systems Organization (PISO);
$15 Million Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 12, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan is now fully committed and disbursements ($13.5 million as
of September 30, 1981) are proceeding at a satisfactory rate.
Loan No. 1572      Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines: $80 Million Loan
of June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
DBP-s SMI program is operating satisfactorily; the loan allocation
of $29.7 million for this component has been fully committed and disbursements
as of September 30, 1981 amounted to $14.7 million. However, cancellation/
withdrawal of some subloans earlier committed under the loan has left an
uncommitted balance of $3.4 million under the loan allocation ($50 million)
for medium/large industry financing. The rate of disbursement of this loan
component is slower than expected at appraisal.
Loan No. 1727      Second Small and Medium Industries Development Project;
$25 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
November 9, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
After the introduction of policy changes in IGLF in late 1979,
IGLF's loan commitment rate has accelerated and the IGLF component ($24.5
million) has now been fully committed.  Disbursements under this component
amounted to $22.2 million as of September 30, 1981 and are expected to be
completed before the loan closing date. The reorganization within the
Ministry of Industry has considerably slowed down disbursements under the
MASICAP component ($500,000). Overall progress of the project is, however,
satisfactory.
Loan No. 1984      Industrial Finance Project; $150 million Loan of May 28,
1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Satisfactory progress is being made in achieving the main objectives
of the project. The Apex Development Finance Unit of the Central Bank has
been successful in: obtaining co-financing (the Commercial Loan Agreement for



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 19
$100 million was signed on August 7, 1981); dealing with those issues discus-
sed during negotiations relating to individual participating financial insti-
tutions (PFIs); and negotiating and finalizing subsidiary loan agreements with
individual PFIs (after due consultation with the Bank). Good progress is also
being made in identifying and appraising new PFIs. Progress made so far is
well in keeping with expectations.
Structural Adjustment Lending
Loan No. 1903      Structural Adjustment Loan; $200.0 million Loan of
September 25, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: November 14,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Considerable progress has been made in implementing the Government-s
industrial development program in support of which the loan was made. The
first stage of the Government's five year program of tariff reform and trade
liberalization became effective on January 1, 1981; studies are under way to
review and improve the Government's industrial incentives and promotion
system; and subsector development programs are under preparation to assist
domestic industries to adjust to the tariff reform and trade liberalization
measures. The two requirements for the release of the second tranche of the
loan were met by the Government in July 1981. The second tranche was
subsequently released and, with the exception of the $5 million technical
assistance component, the $200 million loan has been fully disbursed.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1035      Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
As of June 1981, 204 of the 219 regional training centers and rural
health units and over 90% of all construction work had been completed. Pro-
curement of all furniture and vehicles and most of the equipment has been
completed. Problems associated with the phasing out of the old Project
Management Staff and the resultant loss of continuity and coordination, and
with continuing delays in budget release and austerity measures had severely
restricted project activities, with the result that the closing date was
extended to December 31, 1982. However, a recent reorganization within the
Ministry of Health (MOH) and the special provision of budget funds have
alleviated the problem. Outstanding civil works have been resumed under a
contracted arrangement between MOH and the Ministry of Public works and the
Ministry for Moslem Affairs.
Credit No. 923    Second Population Project; $40.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The earlier slow pace of implementation is now improving with the
Ministry of Budget's advance release of funds to cover the carryover



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 19 of 19
activites of CY1980 and those scheduled for 1981. All sites required for
scheduled civil works have been acquired and surveyed, arrangements for
construction management and monitoring are being finalized and the procedures
designed to encourage community participation for Barangay Health Station
development under the first project are being applied to those under the
second project. Implementation of the Primary Health Care component has
L          attained notable momentum; however, activities in training, IEC and pro-
curement lag far behind the appraisal schedule. Greater decentralization of
the implementation responsibilities at regional, provincial and municipal
levels in recent months is expected to accelerate the pace of project
implementation.



- 46 -
ANNEX III
PHILIPPINES
URBAN ENGINEERING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:   6 months
(b)  Project prepared by:               Project Offices of RCDP and CVUP,
assisted by consultants
(c)  First presentation to Bank:        April 1981
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  June/July 1981
(e)  Completion of Negotiation:         October 23, 1981
(f)  Planned date of Effectiveness:   March 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Upon completion of the engineering services, the Government would
consult with the Bank on the recommendations and conclusions relat-
ing to-the project (para. 67);
(b)  The Government would implement a mutually acceptable plan of action              A
for securing right of access to land for which detailed engineering
would be undertaken under the project (para. 73).



IBRD 16098
f 16'    CLASSIF ICATLION Ot' PROVINCES                    S20                                                        124                                                    OCT06ER 1981
Bt Y/EOGRAPHICAL RFG[ONS
NCR NAT iONAL CAPITAL REGION                                                                                                              PHILIPPINES
I IlOoS                  Ylorte  37 AksTRNV1SAAS                                                          URBAN  ENGINEERING   PROJECT
2 Abra                    38 Capiz t
3  locos Su               39 Antique                                                                                                                                               20
20'o     4 Mountain                 40 lilo                                                 820b
52 a Unitn                41 Negros Orcidental                                      _t* C                                         Ut,esnder Proposed Regional Cities Development
5 lanuestr            V- CNRAVSAA                                                                                            Pro.eotIRCDP)
7pangeti Va  42 CNebuS A                                                                                          OA        C;tiesUnderProposed Cen3ra VisayasUrbanProjectiCVUp)
rian                  43 Negros Oriental
|| CAGAYAN VALLt'r'   44 Bohol                                                                                     -            Roads
8 Batanes                 45 Scquior                                      Q                                            -    Railways
9 Cagayan            VIII EASTERN VISAYAS
10 Kalinia-Apayao          46 Northarn6armar                               Ban O/Nenrl                                      Airports
11 Isabela                  47 Sarmar                                                                           -----        Prouincial Boundaries
12 Ifugao                  48 Eastern Smar                                                                                   Regionalundares
13 Nueva Viscaya           49 Leylle                                         ,l           <io- nteetal Boundaries
'14 Cuirinr            J        50 Southern Leyte             LaooQgG 9                                                           lrInternat',onal Boundaries i
It CE,NTIRAL LUZON          IX WESTEKN MINOANAO                      / _
15 NuevaEcija              51 Zaryboanga del Norte
16 Tarlac                   52 Zamboanga del Sur                    2                                                                                                N
17 Zasnoales               53 Balsan
18 Parnpaurga              54 Sulu                               '              /
19 Baulacan                55 Twitaas                              6 (    4
20 Bataan                X NORIIlkRNMiND)ANA0                     31
TVSOU riTERN TAGALOG    57 CandiNure                                         1    
21 QueTzoFn57C ign                                  Fernando   5'                                                                                            5      0
21 Ruezan                  58 Aguatuodel Nosrte/                       
59 Misarisoncrial           a      3l  ~                                            0         100    150   2~00    2         0
23 Cavite                                                        1B                                         KIOMETER$
'22 Ritaidlq             X   iS-Elg illm.sNLANAO         X                     14                                    ie-             O         10          5           0              160
16'  24 ErigaoOcca da       60 Surganrda  ur is Occidental 
25 Batangas                61   Ldnon                       7
26 Mairdadque               62 Lanao del Sur                                                                            0          50          100        150        200
27 Mm6 ro Oriental    Xi FAS RN MsINDANAO                               Jo
29 M inororOccidental       63 Sarlgasrdel S/ur             g
29 RompoMnn                 64 Davao Oriental                                   tujOb  r00
-30 Palawran                65 DauaoAreS                           16     9
66 Dlavao del Su,
V      oCuL    r   n           67 Sor o             Obangap >
32 CamnorresSon        XII LENt RAL MINDIANAO
33 CatanduanaS              68 1euno del Norte
34 Albay                    69 Leatdel Su                                        
35 Sorisogton               70 Nr"th Cutanata          5                         P0
36 Manholte                 7 1 Mamdainoaoo 
72 Sultan Kucararrtp
sourH   CH IV A                                            IV   28S L'EUYAVIS
)>5f         A                                                                                                               46 t ,--!
VI$                                                 A9le
-.   tzorta                      X                                 f IL4Sflr b   sSxl f                         T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a 
Puerto                                          cv
30Prmntaso
0,150 N   D
vietn   I,           ON
SEA
/       >         ..                                         >               <                > t ............    c          42' / C I3E  '7CA
I  ,S N   s Sees prepaed bn thl Word Bas ataff eci/,ety fer .e rta
/1 tha rabders oftlhn reparl to we/oh -,r, arach*d. The dnnn-mantsi-s -ad and ltha
1  '7                                     Saunllarura~~~~~-&.i, ala -r,- thIe  ep' /50     no t -mply a -a hearl o ath.I War/r  -an -ed Is
,ifdte/a5s tar lbdqwert en thre lag/ ualn tat-o asy lerritley Sr A/Iy elrIaal
120'     acote f3,C                                            124'                                                           128]



