LOAN NUMBER 2067 PH
Loan Agreement
(Urban Engineering Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                 , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2067 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   r           2             , 1982, between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (hqeinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement (hereinafter called the Project);
(B) any financing provided by the Bank would be refunded, if
the Bank so requests, out of the proceeds of any Credit by the
International Development Association or Loan by the Bank which
may later be granted to the Borrower for the construction of the
facilities to be engineered under the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank is willing, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth


﻿-2-
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eight million dollars ($8,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from 0he Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
equipment to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be
procured in accordance with the Borrower's procurement procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest *at the rate
of eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its National Economic and Development Authority with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall


﻿-3-
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such employment to be made
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency",
published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) The Borrower shall cooperate fully with such consultants
in the performance of their services for the Project and shall
make available to them all information relevant to the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall cause such consultants promptly to
furnish to the Bank copies of the documents prepared by them for
the Project, including reports and drafts thereof, plans, designs,
specifications, work schedules and estimates of costs, in such
number as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(d) With respect to the evaluation and implementation of
the recommendations and other conclusions contained in the docu-
ments referred to in the preceding paragraph:
(i) during the carrying out of the Project, the Bank
and the Borrower shall from time to time exchange
views on said recommendations and conclusions;
and
(ii) upon completion of the Project, the Borrower
shall consult with the Bank on the recommendations
and conclusions derived therefrom, and shall, in
the light of such recommendations and conclusions,
initiate appropriate implementation programs.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall implement a plan of action
satisfactory to the Bank, to acquire all rights of access in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project.
Section "04. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to reflect, in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices, the


﻿-4-
expenditures incurred by the Borrower for the Project and the use
of the proceeds of the Loan therefor and shall enable the Bank's
representatives to inspect any relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenant
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any government assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank; and (ii) undertakes
that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien
shall be created, it will ipso facto, equally and ratably, and at
no cost to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan and in the creation of
any such lien express provision will be made to that effect. The
Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any
such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall
not apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date.
(d) As used in this Section, the term "government assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower
including the Central Bank of the Philippines or any institution
performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.
(e) The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits
of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the fore-
going undertaking effective with respect to liens on the assets of
its political subdivisions and their agencies, and to the extent
that the Borrower is unable within the limits of the laws in force
in its territories to make this undertaking effective, the Bor-
rower will give to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to the
Bank.


﻿-5
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date  /   19, /       -2 ,is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section rd.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Manila
Philippines
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFIN                              7550  CBP-PH
Manila                              40268 CB-CONF
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-6 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By S
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Consultants services:                          100%
(a) under Part A of          3,000,000
the Project
(b) under Part B of          3,900,000
the Project
(2) Equipment under                 100,000        100% of foreign
Part B of the                                 expenditures
Project
(3) Training
(a) Urban transport             75,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) Municipal operations        75,000        100%
(4) Unallocated                     850,000
TOTAL         8,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.


﻿.8- -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Preparation of urban development projects in the cities
of Ilbilo, Bacolod, Cagayan de Oro and Davao, including:
(1) provision of detailed engineering;
(2) special studies in support of feasibility studies;
and
(3) provision of:
(a) management assistance in project preparation,
and
(b) assistance in management, planning and
contracting
Part B:   Preparation of urban development projects in Metro-
politan Cebu, and in the cities of Tagbilaran and
Dumaguete, including:
(1) feasibility studies, and special studies in support
thereof;
(2) provision of detailed engineering;
(3) provision of equipment; and
(4) provision of:
(a) management assistance in project preparation,
and
(b) assistance in management, planning and
contracting
Part C:   Training related to the urban sector.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿-- 010 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning September 1, 1987
through   September 1, 2001                 265,000
On March 1, 2002                                 315,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  1.75%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                                  3.50%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                  6.40%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                  9.30%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                 10.45%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                 11.60%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this c2       day of       , 198 o.
FOR SECRETARY


