 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14643

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 04/13/2015

               Country: Tanzania
             Project ID: P099231                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Financial Sector             Project Costs (US$M):                       22.0                 22.6
                         Support Project
  L/C Number:            C4191                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                       15.0                 15.0
      Sector Board:                                   Cofinancing (US$M):                        5.0                  5.0

          Cofinanciers: UK DFID                        Board Approval Date :                               06/15/2006
                                                               Closing Date:          07/31/2011           06/30/2013
          Sector(s):      Banking (41%); Micro- and SME finance (19%); Central government administration (15%);
                          Capital markets (13%); Non-compulsory pensions and insurance (12%)
         Theme(s):        International financial standards and systems (29% - P); Regulation and competition policy
                          (29% - P); Rural markets (14% - S); Other urban development (14% - S); Micro; Small and
                          Medium Enterprise support (14% - S)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Chad Leechor              Clay Wescott            Lourdes N. Pagaran          IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Financing Agreement, “the objective of the Project is to support the Recipient’s effort to promote
    increased household and firm access to financial services, facilitate efficient financial intermediation, and support
    financial stability and integrity.” (Schedule 1, page 5; dated Aug 30, 2006.) The statement of objective in the
    project appraisal document (PAD, page 5) is essentially the same.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

    At appraisal, the project envisaged the following components:

    Component 1: Strengthening the Banking Sector (Estimated at appraisal US$7.7 million; actual US$9.8 million).
    This component aimed to enhance the soundness and efficiency of the banking sector. Activities were to include:
    strengthening the capacity of banking supervision; strengthening the capacity of selected banks; review of
    banking regulations; improvement of risk management programs for small banks; establishment of the framework
    for operation of credit reference bureaus; review of the deposit insurance framework; development of reporting
    systems for anti-money laundering; and strengthening the financial reporting framework.
    Component 2: Developing Financial Markets (US$2.6 million; actual US$4.0 million). This component focused on
    creating vibrant primary and secondary markets, supported by an appropriate and secure settlements system
    and robust oversight. Activities were to involve: strengthening the regulatory and supervision function of the
    Capital Markets and Securities Authority; development of the secondary market for money and government
    securities markets; development of the framework for corporate and municipal bond markets; promotion of good
   corporate governance; and improving public awareness of financial markets.
   Component 3: Reforming the Pension Sector (US$2.5 million; actual US$2.4 million). This component intended
   to promote an efficient and competitive pension sector supported by appropriate legal and regulatory structures.
   Activities were to include: strengthening the regulatory framework; establishment and operationalization of a
   pension regulator; improving the investment capacity of pension funds to manage investments and undertake
   actuarial analysis; outreach to the informal sector; and strengthening capacity for formulating and implementing
   pension policies.
   Component 4: Strengthening the Insurance Industry (US$1.1 million; actual US$1.1 million). This component
   sought to promote an efficient, sound, and competitive insurance industry with wider outreach and market-based
   investment policies. Activities were to involve: strengthening the capacity of the Insurance Supervisory
   Department in risk-based supervision and actuarial analysis; acquiring insurance supervision software;
   development of the bank assurance framework; review of investment policies; and review of the life assurance
   framework.
   Component 5: Facilitating the Provision of Long-Term Development Finance (US$3.4 million; actual US$2.5
   million). This component was meant to support improvement in the availability of and access to long-term
   financing for enterprises, infrastructure, and housing. Activities were to encompass: establishment of a policy
   framework for provision of long-term financing; setting up a development finance guarantee scheme and
   long-term finance facility; development of an infrastructure financing framework; establishment of a development
   finance institution; strengthening the small and medium enterprise guarantee scheme; establishment of a
   framework for leasing and mortgage financing, and strengthening the capacity for formulating and implementing
   long-term finance policies.
   Component 6: Strengthening Micro and Rural Finance (US$1.9 million; actual US$1.1 million). As a complement
   to the then existing initiatives under the multi-donor Financial Sector Deepening Trust and the Bank-financed
   Private Sector Competitiveness Project (FY05; US$95 million) this component was to focus on promoting a
   viable and sustainable microfinance industry with wide outreach operating under an enabling legal and regulatory
   framework. Activities were to involve: strengthening the regulatory framework for microfinance institutions (MFIs)
   and savings and credit cooperative societies (SACCOs); enhancing the capacity of the supervisors; supporting
   transformation of MFI and SACCO umbrella organizations; and the creation of networks and apex institutions for
   SACCOs.



d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   The cost of the project was estimated at appraisal to be US$ 22 million equivalent; actual cost was US$ 22.6
   million. It was financed by an International Development Agency credit of US$ 15 million, a grant of US$ 5 million
   from the United Kingdom Department for International Development (UK DFID) and a borrower contribution of
   US$ 2 million. The difference between actual and estimated cost appears to be due to the fluctuations of the
   exchange rate between the SDR and US$ during the life of the project.

   The differences between estimated and actual component costs, according to the ICR, were due to three factors:
   (i) price increases for equipment resulting from delays in implementation; (ii) changes in project activities as
   some of them found new funding sources, including the review and development of financing lease and Islamic
   finance; (iii) the mainstreaming of project activities within the Bank of Tanzania which made it difficult to estimate
   project management cost at the time of appraisal. A reallocation of the remaining funds among project
   components was under taken in 2011 to reflect the changes. Funding for component 5 (long-term development
   finance) and component 6 (micro and rural finance) was reduced by about $1.7 million while that for component 1
   (banking sector), component 2 (financial markets) and project management were increased correspondingly.

   The project closing date was extended twice, first in the restructuring of June 2011 and again in January 2013.
   The original closing date of the Agreement was July 31, 2011. The project actually closed on June 30, 2013 –
   about two years later than planned.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   The objectives of the project – to improve access to financial services, upgrade intermediation, and increase
   stability -- were substantially relevant to Tanzania and consistent with the priorities of the Government. A
   well-functioning financial sector was seen as instrumental to achieving growth and poverty reduction. In 2003, a
   financial sector appraisal program, conducted by the Bank and International Monetary Fund, identified shortages
   of formal credit and a dearth of term finance for much of the economy. The Government prepared an action plan
   – the Second Generation Financial Sector Reforms – to address the issues and requested the Bank’s assistance
   to help implement the program envisaged. This project was formulated in collaboration with external partners to
   assist the Government. More recent priorities of the Government, including the current strategy for growth and
   poverty reduction (2011-2015), continue to reflect the importance the project’s objectives.

   The objectives were also consistent with the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS 2000 which was
   applicable through 2007) when the project was approved in 2006. The focus of the Bank was on facilitating
   growth and institutional reforms to help reduce poverty. Better access of the private sector to formal credit and
   more stable financial system were seen as a key element to promote growth. The current CAS (FY2012-2015)
   continues to highlight the role of private sector growth and efficient financial intermediation.

b. Relevance of Design:

   The statement of objectives was reasonably clear, although some of the outcomes (efficient financial
   intermediation and financial stability and integrity) were framed at a high level and therefore subject to a wide
   range of interpretation. The results framework, was weak and implementation arrangements complex. The
   results framework could have been better designed to establish clearer causal relationships between project
   activities and the underlying objectives, making it easier to track progress. In addition, the chosen key outcome
   indicators did not capture the range and depth of the objectives.

   Project activities and outputs were necessary for the achievement of objectives, but they were not sufficient. The
   entire program supported by the project served to enhance the regulatory framework and the capacity of
   regulators and financial institutions. They did not adequately address other critical issues endemic in a nascent
   financial system, including: (a) limited infrastructure for market information, including credit records, credit
   bureaus and credit rating services, which constrained the analysis of credit risks; (b) inadequate savings, which
   restricted the ability of lenders to expand credit and increase intermediation; (c) inadequate creditor protection
   (from costly disputes and defaults) due to conditions of the judiciary. The relevance of design is rated modest.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):


   IEG assesses the efficacy of achievement by considering three sub-objectives:

   Sub-Objective 1 Promote increased household and firm access to financial services .

   Major outputs: Project activities provided a new framework for financial reporting and deposit insurance to
   improve public confidence of the banking system. The project also supported capacity building to the regulators
   and participating banks in risk management and business services. In addition, public awareness of financial
   services was raised through a media campaign supported by the project.

   Outcomes: The sub-objective appeared to be largely achieved, as indicated by the substantial increase in the
   private sector credit to GDP ratio and in the percentage of population with access to credit. Credit extended to
   the private sector rose significantly, from a baseline of 10% of GDP to 25% as the project closed (versus a target
   of 24%). The proportion of adults using formal and semi-formal financial institutions also increased, from 11% to
   17% during the project’s duration (versus a target of 22%). Although this indicator did not meet the target, the
   progress made was significant since Tanzania remained largely rural, with less than 30% urban population.
   Nonetheless, it is not clear if the access improved as much for private firms, as it did for private households or
   individuals. On balance, the achievement of this sub-objective is rated substantial.

   Sub-Objective 2 Facilitate efficient financial intermediation .

   Key outputs: The project provided capacity building to a broad range of regulators in the financial sector including
   200 banking supervisor at the Bank of Tanzania and upgraded prudential standards for financial institutions,
   especially banks. Secondary markets for stocks and bonds were revived through new business practices and the
   use of new IT equipment. The project also supported new regulations and capacity building for a broad range of
   non-banking financial services, including pension, insurance, mortgage and micro-finance.

   Outcomes: The cost of intermediation appeared to have been reduced, as indicated by the drop of the interest
    rate spread from 12% in 2006 to 2.7% in 2013, which exceeded the target. However, the reported 2013 spread
    was exceptional, according to the ICR, and not representative. Independent sources show that the spread has
    risen (not declined as depicted in the chart) from 8.5% in 2010 to 9.6% in 2012. [See IMF Staff Report on
    Tanzania’s Request for Three-Year Policy Support Instrument (July 2014), Table 5, page 25.]

    In addition, this indicator does not provide adequate description of financial intermediation. Other indicators,
    including the share of non-performing loans of banks, which showed a deterioration over the period, did not
    corroborate the result. In short, there is no clear evidence that financial intermediation has become more
    efficient. The efficacy of this sub-objective is rated modest.

    Sub-Objective 3 Support financial stability and integrity .

    Key outputs: Most of the activities supported by this project were meant to contribute to this sub-objective
    financial stability and integrity. Of particular importance were the modernization of regulatory frameworks
    governing the financial sector, including capital adequacy norms, and the capacity of the regulators. In addition,
    financial institutions were supported through capacity building and the use of new financial reporting standards.
    Consumers were given public education, as well as protection through deposit insurance.

    Outcomes: This sub-objective is more difficult to assess as the result is captured only partially by the indicators
    and no direct evidence is provided in the ICR. The target for compliance with capital adequacy ratio was not met
    by banks or insurance companies. However, there was significant improvement in bank compliance rate, 85%
    compared to the baseline value of 56%. Insurance companies seemed to be deteriorating, but in fact the capital
    adequacy standards for insurers have become much more stringent. If the standards were to have remained
    unchanged, the insurers would also have shown improvements.

    Additional evidence provided by the task team after the release of the ICR suggests that some progress has been
    made. The banking system has become better capitalized, more liquid and more profitable, which contributes to
    stability. These outcomes have also been observed by independent sources, including the IMF. Furthermore,
    financial integrity has also been enhanced. According to the team, the Bank of Tanzania and the Financial
    Intelligence Unit of the Ministry of Finance are now more vigilant in addressing money laundering issues, as
    demonstrated by the prompt corrective action taken in July 2014 against the FBME Bank which was suspected of
    money laundering. The financial authorities are also continuing to upgrade the regulatory framework for
    anti-money laundering laws and countering finance for terrorists (AML/CFT).

    However, the Basel Core Principles compliance assessment based on the 2010 Financial Sector Assessment
    Program (FSAP) suggests that 21 of the 30 principles were complied with by BOT; but four of the 21 indicators
    are materially non-compliant, which are critically important aspects of banking supervision. The 2010 FSAP
    findings suggest that there are shortcomings in the methodology of banking supervision, significant weaknesses
    in enforcement of know your customer prudential rules among others. On balance, the objective is rated
    substantial on the low end, given the issue of attribution and unverified assertions on the overall progress on
    financial stability and integrity.


5. Efficiency:

    Neither the PAD nor ICR provides a cost-benefit analysis with economic or financial rates of return.
    While most of the outputs envisaged were delivered, available information points to limited efficiency in the use of
    project resources. Among them:
       Delays in implementation: Until 2011, there was little progress in implementation. As a result, the closing
         date was extended twice, with two years added to the duration of the project;
       Increases in the cost of procurement: Due to the delays, many ICT equipment purchases were made at a
         higher cost than originally projected;
       High cost of project management: Project management cost turned out to be 356% of the estimate made at
         appraisal, although the cost estimate may have been difficult to make due to the use of BOT as the
         implementing agency;
       Staff turnover was relatively high, as reflected in the large number of task team members, including three
         task team leaders over the life of the project.

    On balance, efficiency is rated modest.


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
  re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

   Appraisal                                                                   %                                     %

   ICR estimate                                                                %                                     %
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   This project sought to achieve substantially relevant objectives, but the design, while logical, was only modestly
   relevant. Two sub-objectives, to promote household and firm access to finance and to support financial stability
   and integrity, were substantially achieved, while one sub-objective, to facilitate efficient financial intermediation,
   was only modestly achieved. Efficiency in the use of project resources was modest. Thus, the project
   development objective was mostly achieved but with some shortcomings.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   One concern is in the implementation of the Risk Management Framework developed for the Bank of Tanzania
   that commercial banks are using as a template for developing their own frameworks. While the large banks are
   slowly doing this on their own, it is often beyond the resources and capacity of the smaller banks to do it without
   assistance. The same concern applies to building on the nascent capacity in areas of anti-money laundering and
   know-your-client and the challenges faced by the smaller banks in these areas.

   A different risk factor arises because Interbank, Treasury bill and other key interest rates have risen substantially
   in real terms with declining inflation. For example, current Treasury bill rates of close to 14% (inflation is 6%)
   makes credit very costly (IMF Article IV Consultation Report, 2014). While credit to the private sector as a share
   of GDP has almost converged to the median for comparator countries, banks may find it more profitable in the
   future to invest in Treasury securities rather than more challenging commercial credits or mortgages. However,
   the support of external partners and the Government’s track record of cooperation help mitigate these risks.




  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The project was well aligned with Government priorities and harmonized with those of development partners.
   In addition, the Bank was able to leverage the IDA credit by pooling resources with other external partners,
   mainly DFID and mainstreaming the project with funded activities of the Government. Furthermore, this
   project paved the way for a continuation of financial sector reforms which formed the basis for additional Bank
   operations.

   However, the results framework was not convincing, as the project did not address a variety of key issues
   common to a nascent financial system, as discussed in Section 3 above. The design of M&E system was
   also inadequate, as discussed in Section 10 below.

   In addition, the implementation arrangement was complex. The number of project activities (more than 250
   outputs spread across 6 agencies and many more committees) and their technical nature, both in terms of
   procurement and industry specific skill requirements, created a challenge for local capacity.
  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   Although all of the task mangers were located outside the country and occasionally operational travel was
   disallowed, the task team provided regular implementation support as expected. It also remedied some of the
   shortfalls in the results framework in 2008 and convinced the Government to revise to procedures and
   organization for project management in 2011. However, the solution came in 2011 – after five years of
   extremely slow disbursement, as highlighted in the ICR (p. 9).

   The delay was attributable to many reasons. First, many activities could not proceed without a legal and
   policy framework; delays in the latter led to delays in the former. Secondly, the use of country systems was
   complicated by inadequate incentives and technical capacity to Bank of Tanzania staff, who considered
   project work to go beyond their normal responsibilities. The implementation of the project took the back seat.
   Thirdly, the delay was attributable in part to the basket funding arrangement in which priority was given to the
   disbursement of the grant fund provided by DFID. This rule was in the Borrower’s interest, but it also reduced
   IDA disbursement when implementation was slow.

   Nonetheless, with the arrival of a new task team leader in 2011 and a renewed focus on achieving the
   objectives, implementation accelerated. Most of the activities were completed and output delivered. In the
   final year and a half, the remaining three quarters of the credit was fully disbursed.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The leadership of the country, especially the Bank of Tanzania, consistently demonstrated strong
   commitment to the project. This was reflected in the high level support for the project across the public sector
   and in the establishment of new procurement procedures and a new project management unit in 2010/2011 to
   expedite implementation.


  Government Performance Rating                               Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   While the Bank of Tanzania was generally competent, the capacity of other beneficiary agencies was uneven.
   In addition, the mainstreaming of the project within the Bank of Tanzania was initially a challenge, resulting in
   very modest disbursement in the first five years. The implementation of the M&E system was uneven, with
   poor documentation of changes in system and inadequate communication with the task team when statistical
   issues arose.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:
   While the indicators are aligned with the stated objectives, they do not adequately reflect the necessary range
   and depth. The four key indicators provide little or no information about the relative access of firms and
   households, about efficiency of intermediation (change in interest spread could be replaced by fees), or about
   financial integrity. The definition and sources of data were not clear in some cases and the assignment of
   responsibility was partial. For example, the estimate of credit extended to the private sector in 2013 as a
   percentage of GDP (24.65%) in the ICR is different from the subsequent 2013 estimate in the 2014 IMF Article IV
   report (17.6%). It would be helpful for the ICR to have explained the basis for its estimate so that this discrepancy
   could be understood.


b. M&E Implementation:

   The implementation of the M&E system was initially haphazard, but improved somewhat during the duration of
   the project. Some indicators lacked a clear definition (e.g. “credit information index”); some data tracking
   methods and sources were not clearly specified, and one source – FinScope – was discontinued; some baseline
   values were not available and some targets were not meaningful. For instance, the interest rate spread was
   expected go down, but the target was set higher than the baseline.




c. M&E Utilization:

   In spite of its limitations, the M&E system was used regularly by the task team from the Bank. However,
   mistakes were found in the Implementation Status and Results Reports of visiting missions as changes made to
   the targets were not always recorded (ICR para 37, page 10). A Mid-Term Review was conducted in December,
   2009. It led to a decision to extend the closing date of the project by 18 months.


M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The ICR confirmed that no safeguards issues arose; and the project was classified as Category C.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   The project was generally in compliance with Bank fiduciary (procurement, financial management and
   disbursement) guidelines, with one exception. In March 2009, the project holding account at Bank of Tanzania
   was erroneously debited in excess of $18 million. It took the Borrower 18 months to rectify the mistake, resulting
   in an unsatisfactory rating for financial management in the June 2009 Implementation Status Report.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

   The ICR argues that the project promoted a viable and sustainable microfinance industry with wide outreach,
   which would imply a positive impact for the poor who have no access to financial services delivered by regulated
   financial institutions.


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                            ICR                 IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately              Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Moderate            New regulatory capacity remains
                     Outcome:                                                   untested. Adoption of reforms is
                                                                                constrained by low capacity in smaller
                                                                                banks.
           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Unsatisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The ICR offers a few lessons, which IEG supports. The Borrower highlights the importance of early
    involvement of implementing agencies, starting from the time of appraisal and negotiations. The Borrower also
    stresses the value of getting the results framework right from the beginning, including documenting the sources
    and ensuring availability of data to be collected.

    In addition, when a fundamental reform (of the oversight framework and approach to supervision) is being
    undertaken, it is likely that some of the smaller financial intermediaries in the system may face challenges in
    adapting to the new requirements. There is an opportunity to involve the IFC in the provision of advisory
    services, if the client so desire, to help those institutions adapt more effectively to a new environment. Such
    process would support a more effective implementation of the new oversight framework by strengthening
    financial intermediaries, buttressing system resiliency, and potentially market competition which in turn could
    lead to tighter spreads.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No

Why?

    To validate the results reported in the ICR and learn lessons from the experience of this operation.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR is clear, concise and well written. The analysis, including the evidence presented, broadly c explains the
    recent implementation experience and offers a candid assessment of some of the project’s weaknesses,
    including the slow disbursement.

    However, there were shortcomings. For example, the section on relevance of design in the ICR does not take into
    account the quality of the results framework. The ICR states that the objectives and indicators were poorly
    formulated and the outcome targets were ambitious. However, these weaknesses are not reflected in the rating
    to the project's relevance or outcome.

    In addition, Bank guidelines for ICRs state that ratings for relevance, efficacy and efficiency should serve as
    constituent elements of the outcome rating. This is not the case in the ICR. Specifically, the ICR gives
    “Significant” ratings to the relevance, efficacy and efficiency of the project, which implies that the outcome is
    “Satisfactory”. However, the ICR rates the outcome “Moderately Satisfactory”, creating an internal
    inconsistency.

    Additional information was provided by the task team after the ICR Review, some of which was available and
    should have been included during ICR preparation. The analysis on the interest spread is flawed and not
    consistent with the data provided.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Unsatisfactory
