Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16742
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN No. 3467-POL)
June 16, 1997
Country Operations Division
Central Europe Departmenlt
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 31, 1996)
Cuirency UJnit  =    Zloty
I Zloty        US$
UIS$1        Zloty 2.83
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1990      1991       1992      1993    1994    1995    1996
US$/zloty    1.052      0.909      0.632    0.469    0.409    0.404    0.349
zloty/US$     0.95       1.10      1.58      2 13     2.44     2.47    2.86
(The zloty was redenominated as of I Januarv 1995- I1).0() old zloty - I new zloty (PIlN)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
POLAND - FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CMEA         -      Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
EBRD         -      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC           -      European Community
EFSAL        -      Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
EIB          -      European Investment Bank
FIDL         -      Financial Institutions Development Loan
IFC          -      International Finance Corporation
NBP          -      National Bank of Poland
PDB          -      Polish Development Bank
IBRD         -      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Phare -             Poland, Hungary Assistance for Economic Reconstruction
PEDP         -      Private Enterprise l)evelopment Project
SCL          -      Single Currency I (an
SME          -      Small and Medium Size Enterprise
USAID        -      United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:       Johaniies f I.inn
Acting Director:      Hans Apitz
Division Chief:       Michel Noel
Task Manager:         (eorLc I'ark



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN 3467-POL
Contents
Preface .............................. 
Evaluation Summary .............................   ii
EmrIl - Project Implementation Assessment .............................              I
Introduction .............................                                   I
A. Project Objectives                           ..2
B. Evaluation of Objectives                        ..2
C. Achievement of Objectives:                       ..3
- Credit Line Utilization and the Demand for Credit      .      .      4
- PDB and the Banking Sector's Role                .         .          5
- Institutional Development Objectives              ..7
D.  Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation           .       .       7
- Implementation Record .............               .7
- Factors Generally Subject to Government Control        .      .      9
- Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control      .     .     9
- Factors Subject to Implementing Agency Control         .      .      9
E. Project Sustainability          ..10
F. Bank Performance    ..10
G. Borrower's Performance            ..12
H. Assessment of Outcome    ..13
1. Lessons Learned    ..13
J.    Recommendations for Future Operations in the Private Sector . .14
Part 11- Statistical Tables:
Table I. Summary of Assessment.                                                     15
Table 2. Related Bank Loans .16
Table 3. Project Timetable .18
Table 4.    Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .18
Table 5.    Key Indicators for Project Implementation .19
Table 6A. Project Costs .19
Table 6B. Project Financing .19
Table 7 . Status of Legal Covenants .20
Table 8    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .23
Table 9.  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .23
Table 10. Bank Resources: Missions .23
Appendixes*
A. Borrower contribution to the ICR ........................ 24
B. Guarantor contribution to the ICR ........................ 28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN No. 3467 - POL)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Private Enterprise Development
Project (PEDP) in Poland, for which Loan 3467-POL in the amount of US$60 million equivalent was
approved on May 7, 1992 and made effective on December 18, 1992.
The last disbursement for the only sub-loan financed under the project was made on March 31,
1995. Given the lack of demand for utilizing the credit line, the bulk of the loan (US$47 million) was
canceled in 1995, and the remaining balance (US$1I million) on May 20, 1996, at the request of the
borrower. The loan was thus effectively closed on May 20, 1996, compared with the original closing
date of end June 1999.
The ICR was prepared by George Park, Senior Operations Officer, EC2PL, and Monika Rajska,
Operations Officer, EC2PL. The Borrower's contribution is included as an appendix to the ICR. The
ICR was reviewed by Franz Kaps, Project Advisor, EC2DR; Jlham Zurayk, Acting Division Chief,
EC2CO; and Kathleen McCollom. Senior Country Officer.
Preparation of this ICR was carried out at the Resident Mission starting in mid-January 1997, based
primarily on materials in the project file. The Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by
preparing its own evaluation of the project and commenting on the draft ICR.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN No. 3467 - POL)
Evaluation Summary
I     Introduction.  Bank assistance to Poland during the early years of its economic restructuring
program concentrated on adjustment lending to build macroeconomic stability and support policy
reforms and lines of credit to provide investment resources to a wide range of enterprises. Altogether,
six credit lines for a total commitment of US$1.0 billion (US$823 million for credit and US$177 million
for technical assistance and structural reform) were approved between 1990 and 1992. The main
purpose of these credit lines was to provide a large and relatively rapid transfer of resources, both to
demonstrate strong Bank support for Poland's adjustment efforts, as well as to help build or restore
productive capacity, including production for export to earn badly needed foreign exchange. As
development of a strong private sector was an overriding goal of the transition effort, the Private
Enterprise Development Project (PEDP) was designed to support financial and institutional development
of new private businesses, especially small and medium enterprises (SMEs). It therefore complemented
the other credit operations providing support for industrial restructuring, the agricultural sector and
housing.
2.    Project Objectives. The principal objective of PEDP was to support the development of new
private businesses through providing financing for their investment needs. In addition, the project
provided support for further developing a variety of institutions aimed at promoting business
development and training of entrepreneurs. The project included two related components:
i. Investment Financing of US$58 million equivalent to be on-lent by the Polish Development
Bank (PDB) through participating banks to private enterprises, mainly SMEs, and;
ii. Institutional Support of US$2 million to support business promotion activities through on-
lending by PDB to the Government which in turn was to pass the funds on to the Office of the
Undersecretary for Business Promotion and the Project Support Unit of the Cooperation Fund in
the Ministry of Industry and Trade.
3.    Implementation Experience and Results. Project implementation was highly unsatisfactory as
the credit line was only marginally utilized for one sub-project, with a sub-loan of US$2.04 million
equivalent. Although one other intermediary bank was made eligible, it never actually utilized the credit
line, and PDB remained the only participating bank under the project (following Bank agreement
permitting direct lending by PDB) and it was unable to build up a pipeline of sub-loans or attract other
commercial banks to participate in the project. This resulted mainly from changes in the focus of PDB's
own development strategy, its limited contacts with the banking system as a very new institution, and
other external factors, including the availability of other cheaper sources of funding from international
and domestic sources and lower demand for foreign currency credit than initially projected. In addition,



iii
with the collapse of CMEA trade in 1991, the portfolios of most commercial banks came under very
heavy pressure as major borrowers (mainly industrial enterprises) became heavy loss makers. This
made it more difficult for many banks to meet the criteria established for participating banks.
4.     As a newly established institution PDB had only begun to operate in the first part of 1991 and
was just beginning to develop its strategy and institutional capacity at the time of loan approval. While
its initial development strategy emphasized investment in SMEs, in fact, it moved away from this
emphasis quite early on, preferring instead to concentrate on financing larger enterprises where it could
earn a better return. The expected pro-active role of PDB in fostering SME development, therefore, did
not materialize. Moreover, with its growing emphasis on financing larger enterprises, PDB was
increasingly seen by potential participating banks as a direct competitor. The banks therefore became
more and more reluctant to provide PDB with the financial and operational information needed to qualify
as participating banks. This further handicapped PDB efforts to attract participating banks and market
the line of credit. Implementation was also affected by the complexity and risks of the Bank's currency
pool system, particularly since Polish banks, including PDB, had no experience in hedging against the
Japanese Yen and thus the actual dollar cost of borrowing from the Bank was expected to be higher than
the contractual variable rate.
5.     Finally, the attractiveness of and demand for credit was also undermined by: (i) the lack of
experience of banks and potential sub-borrowers in meeting the sub-project appraisal and sub-borrower
financial and other requirements which were seen as unduly complex and difficult to fulfill, especially
given the existence of other sources of funding with simpler lending criteria; ii) the preference of banks
for what they saw as less risky short term lending as opposed to medium and longer term lending,
especially to SMEs; and iii) the fact that SMEs traditionally demonstrated substantial resistance to
borrowing from the banking system, given the high degree of uncertainty during the early years of the
transition, the difficulty of meeting collateral and guarantee requirements, and the generally poor client
orientation of the banking system.
6.     The institutional support component was not utilized at all, due mainly to successive changes in
the Government's institutional structure for business promotion, as each Government tried to develop its
own approach and framework for providing business support services, coupled with the existence of
substantial grant funds from other donors for business support activities. In this context, the planned on-
lending of funds by PDB to the Government to help finance these services clearly failed to achieve its
objective.  Nevertheless, progress was made in developing and expanding support for business
development, albeit using grant funding rather than the funds included in the Bank project. The
Government's increasing reluctance to borrow for technical assistance, especially when alternative grant
funding was available, as well as the Government's reluctance to pass on borrowed funds in grant form
to local and other business support institutions for such services, further reduced interest in utilizing the
institutional development funds included in the loan.
7.     Bank Performance. Prior to an during appraisal of the PEDP, the Bank carried out substantial
preparatory analysis of policy, institutional support and financing needs in the emerging and rapidly
growing private sector, including an SME sector study. As a result of this analysis most potential
implementation constraints and project risks were identified, including questions related to the demand
and supply of credit to SMEs, SME resistance to borrowing, possible delays owing to the complexity and
scale of the proposed program and institutional and credit market related constraints stemming in part
from the limited experience and interest of banks in undertaking SME lending. In most cases the
possible impact on the project of these risks was either not fully understood or was believed to be
relatively limited. As a result most of the institutional development and market risks were not reflected



iv
in the final SAR, which highlighted mainly the risk of a weaker overall investment climate on the
demand for funds, in the event the Government's economic and structural reform program ran into
difficulties, which in fact did not occur.  With hindsight, it is conceivable that a more in-depth
assessment of market risks and demand for credit at the level of both participating banks and SMEs,
including an assessment of the initial experience of the SME support funds that were already operating,
might have provided a clearer picture of the SME environment as well as a fuller understanding of
potential implementation risks and constraints. Given the rapidly changing business and banking
environment, some elements of such an analysis might have become out-of-date quickly, but additional
work on SME characteristics and their capacity and willingness to borrow might have pointed to the need
for changes in project design and in the Bank's standard credit line approach. A simpler and more
straight forward design which minimized loan application requirements, reduced the final cost to the
borrower as much as possible, and provided more direct technical assistance to SMEs, might have
resulted in a more effective SME support effort. Alternatively, such additional analysis might have led
to the conclusion that a standard SME line of credit operation would be premature pending further
changes in the operational environment of Polish banks, including improvements in guarantee and
collateral arrangements and the development of a greater commitment to and interest in working with
smaller borrowers.
8.     With a full time task manager from headquarters based at the Resident Mission from 1992 to
1995 (for four credit lines), the level of supervision was adequate. However, the quality of back-to-
office reporting was mixed and more frequent formal reporting would have been helpful, particularly
since the joint supervision reviews of four credit lines did not always focus adequately on individual
project specific issues. As serious implementation problems developed quite early on, the Bank moved
too slowly to amend the project and introduce increased flexibility for the borrower. Subsequently, the
Bank could have moved more quickly to cancel the loan, once it became clear that the revisions were
not working.
9.     Borrower Performance. PDB cooperated closely with the Bank, the National Bank of Poland,
the Ministry of Finance and other institutions concerned with private sector and SME development and
its performance during project identification, preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. During the
implementation phase of the project, PDB's interest in SME lending became much more limited as it
concentrated more on lending to larger borrowers and on preparing for listing on the stock exchange. As
such its performance during implementation was ineffective. A more pro-active approach in developing
relationships with retail banks and carrying out project promotion, including developing support
mechanisms for assisting SMEs in project preparation, might have helped overcome some of the
implementation constraints.
10.   Summary of Findings, Future Options, and Key Lessons Learned. Although private enterprise
development in Poland has made enormous progress, the project's contribution to this development was
marginal. Most of the factors that impacted negatively on implementation of the Bank's other credit
lines in Poland, also affected implementation of the PEDP. These generic problems included, inter alia,
the high liquidity of the Polish banks and their bias for doing primarily short-term lending; the
availability of other sources of funding for private investment, including foreign exchange at lower
overall cost; and the complexity of the Bank's credit application and procurement procedures which
discouraged potential clients. Utilization of the PEDP credit line was also undermined by several
constraints affecting mainly the SME sector, namely the high degree of resistance to and difficulty of
borrowing from the banking system by SMEs and the lack of interest in the banking system itself in
pursuing SME lending which was seen as costly and more risky.



v
11.    As a result, of these institutional, structural and market development constraints, only about
one-third of the original US$1.0 billion has been disbursed and all of the credit lines have either been
restructured or are being restructured, with a little over US$500 million canceled. Less than 20 percent
of the US$823 million initially committed for credit has actually been disbursed for this purpose.
12.    Based on the Bank's experience, several key lessons can be flagged: (i) assessing private sector
financing needs and demand for credit is never an exact science, but is even more difficult during a
period of intense economic transformation; (ii) given this uncertainty it might have been better to have
either: (a) gone with a pilot type of approach to SME lending, using a small loan to test the situation and
get a better understanding of credit demand and capacity of the banking system, or (b) demonstrated a
much more flexible supervision approach, retrofitting or canceling the operation when it became evident
that serious problems were developing; (iii) lending through an apex institution can be less effective than
lending directly to banks, since direct lending creates competition, reduces layers (and consequently the
final cost of funds) and increases ownership; and (iv) when working with new borrowers and
intermediaries, especially in a transition economy where practical experience with modern credit
development  and appraisal techniques is very limited, procedures and requirements need to be
streamlined as much as possible. Equally important, a number of different options to provide enhanced
support in sub-loan development and appraisal need to be provided. Institutional arrangements for
providing business support services to SMEs should also be closely coordinated with the credit facility or
even linked directly to provide maximum assistance in developing management skills, preparing
business plans and completing loan application requirements.
13.    Any future credit operations in Poland, such supporting the development of a new market for
municipal finance or the expansion of regional investment funds, would need to be carefully targeted to
counter market imperfections and distortions. The recently negotiated Municipal Finance Project, which
entails lending to Polish banks for on-lending to municipalities, takes into account lessons learned from
earlier credit lines, providing for inter alia, direct lending to banking intermediaries, lower and more
competitive financing through single currency lending, and a closely linked technical assistance support
facility.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN No. 3467 - POL
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
INTRODUCTION
1.    After the first free elections in June 1989, the newly elected democratic government initiated a
far-reaching economic transformation program that combined the use of standard macroeconomic
monetary and fiscal policy tools to stabilize the economy, with price liberalization and rapid
transformation of the ownership structure of the economy, including the state enterprise and financial
sectors. The fundamental goal of this program or "so-called shock therapy" was to rapidly establish a
market based economy in place of Poland's centrally managed one, thus opening the way for dynamic
private sector expansion and development. To support this reform program, Bank assistance to Poland in
the early 1990s concentrated on: i) adjustment lending to build macroeconomic stability and support
policy reforms while providing essential budget and balance of payments support; and ii) lines of credit
to provide a further large and relatively rapid transfer of resources to more directly support industrial
restructuring and private sector development.
2.     Altogether, the Bank approved six credit line operations during the 1990-1992 period, including
the Private Enterprise Development Project (PEDP), for a total commitment of US$1.0 billion. Of this
amount, US$823.0 million was initially allocated for credit, with the remaining US$177.0 million
allocated mainly for technical assistance and fast disbursing support to help finance urgently needed
imports in the agriculture sector and support policy reform  and institutional restructuring.  More
specifically, the lines of credit provided financial support for privatization and restructuring of
enterprises, agriculture development,  housing  and private enterprises development'.  Their main
objectives were to demonstrate support for the transition to a market economy; help restore and expand
productive capacity, both for domestic as well as export markets; and provide investment resources to
finance rehabilitation and expansion programs for private enterprises or enterprises being privatized.
3.     Given the major structural and institutional changes which the Polish economy was undergoing
at the time and the resulting economic uncertainty and serious institutional, legal and policy limitations,
all of the credit lines faced major implementation constraints. As a result only about one-third of the
original US$1.0 billion has been disbursed and all of the credit lines have either been restructured or are
in the process of being restructured, with a little over US$500 million canceled. In terms of actual
Apart from the PEDP (US$60.0 million), the Bank approved the following credit operations: Feb. 22,1990
Industrial Export Development Project (3166-POL) US$ 260m; Feb. 22, 1990 Agroindustries Export
Development (3167-POL) USS100m; July 10, 1991 Privatization and Restructuring (3342-POL) US$ 280m
July 10, 1991 Agricultural Development Project (3343-POL) US$100m; Dec. 21, 1992 Housing Project
(3499-POL) US$ 200m.



2
disbursement for credit purposes, less than 20 percent of the US$823 million has been utilized for sub-
loans. This report provides an analysis of the key constraints which prevented satisfactory utilization of
the PEDP line of credit. However, many of the implementation issues which affected the PEDP also
apply to the other credit lines as well.
A.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.     PEDP's principal objective was to support the development and expansion of new private
businesses through providing financing for investment needs of the private sector, particularly small and
medium enterprises (SMEs). A second objective was to strengthen govemment institutions and local
business promotion agencies in developing programs to improve private business practices and expand
support services for private enterprise development. The project should also be seen in the context of
the Bank's overall strategy for developing the banking and financial sector during the early years of the
transition. This strategy included significant support for strengthening banking supervision, technical
assistance to banks (using twinning arrangements) to modernize operations and introduce new banking
techniques under the Financial Institutions Development Project (FIDL) approved in 1991 as well as
assistance in tackling bank portfolio problems and resolving the debt overhang of state owned enterprises
under the Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL) approved in 1993.
5.     The project was appraised in April 1991, approved in May 1992 and made effective in December
1992, with the objective of financing the investment needs of SMEs over a six year period through end-
December 1998. More specifically, the project supported the following activities:
Investment Component.  The project provided investment financing of US$58 million
equivalent to be on-lent by the Polish Development Bank (PDB) through participating banks
(PBs) to a wide range of private enterprises, especially SMEs. Under the classification adopted
by the Government in early 1991, small enterprises were characterized as having less than 50
employees and medium-sized enterprises from 50 to 500 employees. The credit component
aimed at financing the procurement of machinery and equipment for modernization of plants and
working capital needs. Sub-loan amounts were envisaged to range from less than US$50,000 to
a maximum of US$2.0 million.
Institutional Support Component: This component of US$2 million was intended to support a
variety of business support programs to provide entrepreneurs with better access to market and
other information and to assist them in improving business practices. The funds were to be on-
lent by PDB to the Government (represented by the Ministry of Finance) which in turn was to
pass the funds on to the Office of the Undersecretary for Business Promotion and the Project
Support Unit of the Cooperation Fund in the Ministry of Industry and Trade to support their own
activities as well as make available grant financing to local institutions (chambers of commerce
and business support centers) to finance eligible business promotion activities.
B.    EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
6.     At the time the project was appraised in April 1991, Poland's macroeconomic situation was
beginning to show some small signs of improvement, although considerable constraints and uncertainties
remained. Inflation had been reduced from a high of over 600 percent in 1990 to some 80 percent in
1991. Most prices had been liberalized and were now freely determined. And the private sector, once



3
licensing requirements and other restrictions had been abolished2, was beginning to expand rapidly.
Indeed, by early 1991, about 1.3 million private businesses had already been registered, with these
businesses already accounting for 18 percent of employment and 15 percent of GDP. Nevertheless,
major structural problems persisted, and GDP growth (which was still falling by some 12 percent in
1991), did not begin to turn around until mid-1992.
7.     Given the importance and need of rapidly building up Poland's private sector as the main engine
for restoring and then ensuring sustained economic growth, the project's objectives did match Poland's
development requirements at that time. Based on market analysis carried out by leading banks, future
demand for term credit in foreign currency by private enterprises to finance new business start-ups and
expand existing small and medium sized businesses was judged to be substantial. By helping to fill a
part of this gap, the project was expected to make an important contribution to SME development. At
the same time, the Government was actively expanding a number of business support programs to help
provide an adequate information base for monitoring private sector development, provide technical and
economic information to support private enterprises, and strengthen management skills at the enterprise
level. While considerable grant funding (from EU Phare and bilateral programs) was available, it was
felt that additional funding could be utilized, especially given the rapid growth in business support
institutions at the local level. In this context, the project's institutional component was also well
justified.
8.    In addition to the project's primary objective of financing and promoting private business, the
project had a secondary aim of supporting the institutional development of the banking sector. It was felt
that a loan directly to PDB (rather than through the National Bank of Poland or the Government) would
give PDB an additional boost as an apex lender and help strengthen PDB's capacity to assist SME
development, which at that time was one of PDB's primary goals. At the same time PDB's role as an
apex institution in selecting and on-lending to participating banks was thought to be a further vehicle for
introducing and strengthening the capacity of banks to use improved project evaluation and financial
appraisal techniques as a basis for term lending.
9.     However, as explained in more detail below, market and institutional development risks,
although recognized at appraisal, turned out to have been very much understated and not adequately
understood. As a result, the project failed to achieve the desired results. Only one sub-project was
approved, and the business support component remained untouched.
C.    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
10.    Since the credit line was only marginally utilized, the project failed to achieve its main objective.
PDB was unable to build up a pipeline of sub-loans or attract other commercial banks to participate,
despite a number of modifications to the Loan Agreement to simplify sub-loan processing, increase the
scope of activities to be financed under the credit, and permit direct lending by PDB. The one sub-loan
that was made was successfully implemented, however, it remained the only disbursement under the
project. The Government was also unable to utilize the technical assistance component of the loan,
partly because of shifting institutional responsibilities for such support and partly because available grant
funding turned out to be adequate. However, the Government did in the end achieve a large part of its
business promotion objectives, albeit using resources independent of the Bank supported project. With
2   Pursuant to the 1989 Law on Economic Activity



4
respect to the institutional development objectives in the banking sector, given the lack of activity on the
credit side, there was little, if any, transfer of knowledge in terms of improving term lending appraisal
techniques within the banking system.
I.    In assessing what went wrong, there are three main areas of project development and risk that
need to be looked into. These include: (a) the overall demand for term credit and financing options for
SMEs; (b) the role of PDB and the banking system in terms of its readiness or capacity to do term
lending and support SMEs; and (c) the way in which the institutional support component was
structured.
Credit Line Utilization and the Demandfor Credit
12.    One of the main risks recognized at the appraisal was the uncertainty of macroeconomic
developments and Sustainability of Government policy, which it was felt could weaken the investment
climate and slow down demand for project funds. This particular risk did not in fact materialize, as
Poland continued to keep in place strong macroeconomic policies,  despite several changes in
Government. Nevertheless, demand for medium and long term credit did turn out to be much lower than
expected at appraisal but for other reasons.
13.    First of all, appraisal estimates that SME demand for medium and long term lending  far
exceeded supply turned out to be overstated. There was probably no one single factor at work here.
One element was that the availability of other sources for medium and longer term investment by SMEs
turned out to be higher than originally estimated. Indeed in 1991 some US$200 million from grants and
loans, including from EU Phare and the Polish American Enterprise Fund, was already available.
However, additional resources for term lending, also became available in subsequent years, including
additional competing resources which PDB had access to itself. As a result, by the time the loan was
made effective and by the time PDB was ready to begin actively marketing the loan (which took even
longer), potential demand for the Bank's credit line was considerably less than initially projected. At the
same time, the Bank funds were seen to be much less attractive. This was partly because of cost, since
some of the competing lines of credit were less expensive, but also because of the complexity of the
application process and sub-loan appraisal requirements. The Bank project's two tier approach, the
relatively high margins that participating banks required for what they considered more risky SME
lending (3.5 percent to 5 percent), as well as the additional costs expected to be imposed for managing
the risks of the currency pool system, added to the cost of the Bank operation and in some cases made
the line of credit less competitive with other sources of funding. In 1993, PDB estimated lending rates to
the final borrower in a range of 12.5 percent to 14 percent. Competing SME assistance was expected to
range from II percent to as high as 16 percent depending on the nature of collateral or guarantee
arrangements made by the sub-borrower.
14.   Another aspect, which in hindsight deserved more attention, was the willingness of entrepreneurs
to borrow in a period of rapid economic transition, when business prospects remained difficult to judge.
As indicated earlier, while the Government's "shock therapy" was beginning to have results, many SMEs
were newly established companies with limited experience. They remained uncertain about the outlook
for the economy, prospects for their products and services and how well they would do in the export
market. At the same time, high collateral requirements (often difficult to meet) and high interest rates
(particularly for borrowing in local currency) further reduced demand. Borrowing in foreign currency
and limited experience in managing the foreign exchange risk may have been an additional complicating
factor, although interest rates on foreign currency lending (as provided under the project) would have
been substantially lower than borrowing in local currency. Given this context as well as the limited and



5
often negative experience which entrepreneurs may have had with the traditional banking system, many
private firms were reluctant to borrow, except for working capital and on a short term basis if absolutely
necessary. The bulk of enterprises preferred to operate on a cash basis and to rely mainly on personal
and family savings for investment purposes.
15.   This very high degree of credit resistance was recognized clearly during preparation of the
project and analyzed in some depth in a sector study on SMEs completed in February 1991. However, it
was not mentioned as a risk in the SAR, perhaps because it was felt that the extraordinary degree of
credit resistance found in Poland was a relatively temporary phenomenon which would start to disappear
quite quickly as the transition progressed, banking modernization went ahead, and the private sector
continued to grow rapidly. Although this has in fact happened over time, the growth in demand for
credit never caught up with supply and thus there was no serious interest in borrowing from the Bank
credit line to PDB. In any case, it appears that access to credit or the amount of financing available
never posed a major constraint on private sector development which continued to grow rapidly. Indeed,
by end 1995, the number of private businesses had increased by some 60 percent over 1991. More
importantly, the private sector's contribution to GDP had grown from 15 to about 50 percent, with the
sector accounting for about 60 percent of total employment.
16.    There were also a number of more procedural reasons why enterprises did not find the line of
credit attractive. Potential borrowers who were to be final beneficiaries were not used to the kind of
financial and technical analysis needed to meet sub-project appraisal requirements and thus found them
difficult to comply with or cumbersome (especially since other simpler financing options were
available3). The procurement requirements (commercial practice for amounts up to US$1.0 million and
international shopping for amounts over US$1.0 million up to US$2.0 million, later amended to up to
US$5.0 million) should not have been particularly difficult, but lack of experience made them more of an
obstacle than they should have been.  Potential borrowers also found the capital adequacy ratio
requirement difficult to meet, especially given high inflation (this requirement was later dropped). It is
instructive that the only sub-project that was approved was for a joint venture. The foreign partner in
this case was well acquainted with what were quite standard sub-loan criteria and therefore had no
difficulty in meeting requirements. Finally, there were also serious problems with obtaining guarantees
and providing collateral, as required by the banking system.
PDB and the Banking Sector's Role
17.    As the borrower, and as the bank responsible for evaluating and bringing in other participating
banks who would utilize the financing, the Polish Development Bank's capacity to carry out this role was
clearly crucial. Nevertheless, there was considerable risk attached to this approach. As a newly
established institution (founded by the Government in 1990), PDB had only begun to operate in the first
part of 1991 and was only just beginning to develop its strategy and institutional capacity. Although the
risk of lending to a virtually brand new banking institution was recognized during project preparation
and appraisal, the Bank was convinced that PDP had a very sound nucleus of staff and management upon
which to build, including experienced foreign expatriate staff and support from its foreign shareholders
(Credit National of France, Invest Kredit of Austria, and Instituto Mobiliare Italiano of Italy). Moreover,
Bank staff worked closely with PDB in designing the internal institutional structure and operational
3  At a meeting in March 1994 with banks and potential borrowers, called specifically to discuss World Bank
credit lines, a representative of the Convention of Polish Entrepreneurs, pointed out that instructions for
applying for an SME credit were 20 pages long.



6
procedures required to manage the loan. The Bank therefore felt that the institutional risks were
acceptable. The decision to lend directly to PDB rather than to the Government for on-lending to PDB
(as initially recommended during pre-appraisal) was taken explicitly with the aim of strengthening
PDB's position in the banking system and facilitating its role as an apex institution charged with
promoting SME lending by other banks.
18.   PDB's expected role as an apex institution for providing support to the SME sector was
undermined almost from the start by changes in its owIn goals which downplayed SME development.
More specifically, while its initial development strategy emphasized investment in SMEs, in fact it
moved away from this emphasis quite early on, given the higher risks and costs involved, preferring
instead to concentrate on financing the larger enterprises where it could earn a better return. This
development also made it much more difficult for PDB to develop as an apex institution, since potential
participating banks viewed PDB as a direct competitor and were therefore reluctant to share with PDB
their own financial data as required from participating banks under the project. Finally, PDB's access to
EIB resources and co-financing opportunities through IFC and EBRD gave PDB relatively easy lending
opportunities which further limited its interest in undertaking SME lending.
19.   In addition to the difficulties PDB faced in establishing itself as an apex institution for the SME
sector, PDB faced other difficulties in trying to find participating banks and in trying to market the
funds. One problem stemmed simply from the fact that PDB was a new institution, with limited contacts
on a day to day basis with the commercial banks it undertook to bring into the project as participating
banks. PDB also did not build a network outside Warsaw, as recommended by the Bank, which further
hampered efforts to develop contacts with other banks or locate direct lending possibilities once that
option was made available. At the same time it may have underestimated the difficulty of finding
participating banks, as well as the extent of the effort required to carry out the marketing and other
promotional activities needed to utilize the loan funds. A stronger marketing effort might have had some
impact, especially early on, but became increasingly difficult as other more attractive financing sources
became available. In fact, in early 1995, PDB did take a more pro-active approach and came up with six
potential subprojects. However, none of these subprojects were ultimately financed out of the Bank loan,
as PDB decided to fund the sub-projects from other resources (i.e., sources other than the Bank line of
credit).
20.    Another major constraint for PDB was the existence of substantial alternative sources of funding
for SME development coupled with the traditional reluctance and lack of interest of most Polish banks in
doing term lending. First of all there were the competing lines of credit, including those using grant
funds under EU Phare supported programs and lower cost funding from EIB and the Polish American
Enterprise Fund as well as foreign exchange resources available to the commercial banks themselves.
Second, by the time the loans funds could be made available, virtually all large commercial banks had
sufficient liquidity and saw no need to borrow from PDB, especially given the added costs involved.
Third, most banks were traditionally interested only in short term lending and preferred not to get into
medium term lending, especially given their lack of experience in working with SMEs, the low
profitability of many SMEs, the need to meet additional appraisal and other sub-loan requirements, and
the need to follow the Bank's procurement rules. One final problem with the product is linked to the
complexity and risks of the currency pool system, especially since banks, including PDB, had no
experience in hedging against the Japanese Yen. and thus the actual dollar cost of borrowing from the
Bank was expected to be higher than the contractual, variable rate.
21.    Many of the potential PBs also faced their own problems which made it difficult for them to
meet the participation conditions laid down in the Loan Agreement, including compliance with: all



7
legal and regulatory requirements; lending policies and procedures including appropriate management of
foreign exchange transactions; sound financial performance and organizational structure; establishment
of a credit committee and regular financial reporting to the Bank. This turned out to be a further
limitation on PDB's ability to get other banks into the project. At the same time, many, if not most of
the commercial banks (which had been created when the old central bank was broken up in the late
1980s) were themselves undergoing major restructuring and faced serious problems with their own
portfolios. These problems made most banks very hesitant to take on SME lending, with its additional
complexities and risks. At the same time, as indicated earlier, even if potential participating institutions
had been more interested in borrowing from PDB for SME lending, they may have been increasingly
reluctant to provide PDB with the financial data required as PDB was viewed as a direct competitor.
Institutional Development Objectives
22.   The project was also unsuccessful in providing financing and technical assistance to institutions
responsible for improving the business environment and promoting private sector enterprise
development. During the loan negotiations it was envisaged that this component would provide support
to the Office of the Undersecretary for Business Promotion in the Ministry of Industry and Trade and to
the Project Support Unit of the Cooperation Fund (established in 1990 to coordinate EU Phare financing
and implement other donor supported programs). Although both institutions had developed detailed
assistance programs, the former one was phased out and its responsibilities shifted to other institutions,
as each Government tried to develop their own approach and framework for providing business support
services. Meanwhile, the Cooperation Fund received adequate grant financing and did not require
support as envisaged under the Bank's loan. Without an effective sponsor in Government and with
sufficient grant funding available to provide business support services, the financing provided under the
Bank's loan could not be utilized. The Government has, however, continued to support a variety of
business development activities, including establishment of a Polish Foundation for the Promotion of
Small and Medium Enterprises. In this context, the business support objectives included in the project
were largely achieved, albeit with financing from other sources than the loan.
23.   One implementation risk which may not have been fully understood, was the willingness of
Government to utilize loan funds on-lent by PDB for technical assistance activities. In the end this
turned out to be unworkable, not only because of the change in the institutional structure for handling the
funds, but also because the Government was apparently not interested in signing a subsidiary loan
agreement for this purpose with PDB mainly because other grant funding was available for private sector
support activities (including grants from EU Phare, the British Know-How Fund, USAID and other
bilateral assistance). In addition, the Government was reluctant to use borrowed funds for technical
assistance in cases where it would have to pass these funds on as grants to entities outside government,
as would have been the case under this project.
D.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Implementation Record
24.   The project was appraised in April 1991 and negotiated in December 1991. The loan was
approved by the Board in May 1992 and signed in July 1992. The project was made effective about six
months later after a delay of several months, owing to difficulties in meeting one of the conditions of
effectiveness, namely signing of a Subsidiary Financing Agreement between PDB and the Government
for utilization of the funds in the institutional component. Ultimately, signature of such an agreement



8
was waived, since it could not be signed as planned given the changes made in the Government's
institutional structure for business promotion activities and since it did not in any case impact directly on
the main credit component.
25.   Implementation constraints surfaced very early on in the project. PDB was slow to agree on how
to deal with credit and currency risks, including hedging against the currency pool Bank loan - despite
substantial assistance from Bank staff - and thus found it difficult to decide what its margins should be
for onlending. Additionally, PDB also ran into serious problems early on in identifying and bringing on
board participating banks. As a consequence, and following a request from PDB, the Bank agreed to
amend the Loan Agreement (in September 1993) to provide PDB with the option of direct lending. At
the same time, PDB was also given the option of on-lending the funds at the same interest rate paid the
Bank (given the difficulties it was having in hedging against the currency pool loan). The scope of
eligible investments was also expanded to cover purchases by leasing companies. Taking into account
these initial constraints as well as the increasingly poor utilization record of other Bank financed credit
lines, the Bank undertook a major review of all the credit lines during 1993. As a result, a series of
amendments were introduced in all of the lines of credit, including the PEDP, and a headquarters staff
member was placed in the Field Office to supervise the credit lines more intensively. These amendments
expanded the scope of eligible investments that could be financed under the Bank's credit lines and
simplified procurement requirements. The PEDP loan agreement was amended accordingly in May 1994
to: (i) increase the maximum size of sub-loans to US$5.0 million, with the limit for procurement using
international shopping also increasing from US$2.0 million to US$5.0 million; and (ii) drop the
requirement calling for maintenance of a debt-equity ratio of not more than 60:40 and a debt service
coverage of at least 1.5 for sub-loans over US$300,000 (with the financing bank to be responsible for
assessing sub-borrower creditworthiness using its own guidelines).
26.    As a result of these modifications, several requests for funding were prepared, however none of
them were finaiized and in the end the only sub-project to be approved was a sub-loan of DM 3.3
million to a margarine factory joint venture (approved by the Bank in April 1994). One final effort to
find a way to increase the attractiveness of the credit line was made in late 1994, namely to convert the
loan into single currency loan (SCL) terms, with a view to reducing the cost of funds. However such a
conversion turned out not to be feasible since the SCL pilot program was limited to new commitments.
In addition, even if it had been possible, it might not have been workable on cost grounds, since an
additional 2 percent guarantee fee would have been imposed by the Government. Following the Country
Strategy and Implementation Review (CSIR) discussions in mid-1995, PDB requested that the bulk of
the line of credit (US$47 million) be canceled, leaving about US$11 million available for one last effort
to utilize the remaining funds. However, when this effort failed, the remaining undisbursed balance was
canceled in May 1996 and the loan was effectively closed.
27.   Implementation of the institutional component was affected almost immediately after project
start up by the Government's decision to abolish the Office of the Undersecretary for Business
Promotion at the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which was replaced initially by the Minister for Small
Business Promotion at the Council of Ministers level. Subsequently a new Department in the Ministry of
Industry and Trade was created and this Department in turn formed the basis for the establishment of a
Foundation for the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises. Sometime after the Foundation was
established, one final effort was made to see if the institutional development component could be utilized
to provide funding for the new foundation. However, although agreement in principie was reached with
the Foundation on a technical assistance program to be financed out of the loan, the required approval by
the Ministry of Industry and Trade was never obtained, and the proposal was subsequently dropped, in
part because the Foundation had alternative sources of grant funding.



9
Faictors Generally Subject to Government Control
28.    With the exception of the institutional component, where Government actions directly affected
prospects for implementation as originally planned, there was no direct Government involvement
affecting utilization of the credit line. There were however a number of factors relating to the overall
investment climate and the status of banking sector reform that may have indirectly affected the project.
First, despite generally good progress in improving the macroeconomic environment, inflation remained
high resulting in high interest rates and continued uncertaintx which impacted negatively on credit
demanid. Second, finanicial sector reforms continued to move f'orward rather slowly, with the banking
system still suffering from serious institutional constraints as well as from the poor regulatory and legal
tramework. Moreover, as domestic and external markets collapsed during the early 1990s, Polish banks
founid their portfolios deteriorating rapidly. Given these developments, plus the constraints imposed by
mnajor interinal restructuring, the banks were not particularly interested in providing what was seen as
more risky tern credit. especially for SMEs. At the same time, given their owIn relatively high liquidity.
and their contilnued access to substantial specialized credit, as well as NBP refinancing credit, the banks
had little incentive or need to utilize financing from the Bank loan.
29.    With respect to the institutional component, the frequent changes in the structure of business
support institutions, which the Government introduced, clearly had a major direct impact on
implementation of the component as originally designed. Subsequently, when a revised institutional
structure for supporting business development was finally put in place, it became clear that the
Government was hesitant to utilize loan funds for technical assistance, particularly if the funds were to
be passed on all or in part in a subsidized form, while other grant financing was available.
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
30.    One significant development which indirectly affected the interest of Polish banks to utilize the
credit line was the collapse of the CMEA market in the early 1990s. Since a large number of public and
increasinlgly private enterprises depended on exports to CMEA countries, company earnings dropped
sharply, which in turn had a negative impact on their debt serx icing capacity. As a result, many banks
sutffered increased losses and a major jump in the size of their bad loan portfolio. This situation affected
the banks' ability to meet the criteria established for acceptance as participatory banks.
Factors Subject to Implementing Agency Control
31.    Although PDB's lack of success in using the credit liie resulted in part from external factors
outside its control, one very important factor was the commitment which PDB had for SME lending.
Unfortunately, as it turned out, the initial very strong commitment to strengthening support for SME's
did not continue as PDB refocused its operations and concentrated on becoming an investment bank for
the larger enterprises. In part this resulted from PDB's need to establish a strong revenue base to support
its decision to be listed on the Stock Exchange. Given the variety of external factors affecting demand
for credit, it is difficult to assess the extent to which the credit Iine could have been more effectively used
if PDB had maintained and indeed increased its interest in and commitment to SME lending. A more
proactive approach in searching for PBs, establishing day-to-day relations wvith retail banks, and carrying
out more intensive promotion activities and marketing of the credit line might have made some
difference. At the same time, to the extent that PDB was increasingly seen as a competitor, potential
participating banks saw little reason to provide PDB with the finanicial data it required from participating
banks, especially since they did not face funding constraints of their own and did not need access to the
PDB-managed Bank loan.



10
E.     PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
32.    In the case of a credit line, project sustainability can be assessed both in terms of the on-lending
institution's development and in terms of the sustainability of the sub-projects financed. In terms of
institutional development, the borrower, PDB. has continued to grow and has progressively improved its
investment fiianicing capacity. albeit not for financing SME development.  Given its record of
participation under the project, it would be hard to attribute much of this success in institution building to
the project itself. Nevertheless, contact with the Bank and with other exteriial agencies most likely did
contribute to PDB's overall development as a banking institution. With respect to sub-projects, only one
was financed and thus any assessment of sustainability on the project side is of limited value. However,
the investments financed by the sub-loan were carried out successfully and the enterprise remains in
operation, although it has since been sold.
F.  BANK PERFORMANCE
Appraisal and Role of Credit Lines in General
33.    PEDP was appraised as a standard line of credit using an apex institution for on-lenlding to
second tier participating banks. Sub-project appraisal requirements, participating bank requirements, and
other implementation arrangements were transplanted virtually wholesale based on long years of
supporting development financing institutions around the world. Looking back (and with the benefit of
hindsight) it appears, that in the rush to quickly put resources into the private sector in Poland during the
early days of the transition, the complexities and risks of the micro and macro environmenit for credit in a
country undergoling suchl a massive and rapid transition to a market economy were not fully understood
or insufficienltly analyzed.  Moreover, the financial, business and institutional environment was
constantly evolving, which made it even more difficult to assess the supply and demand for credit and
the strengths and weaknesses of the institutional arrangements for delivering credit to private
entreprenieurs. As a consequence, all of the six credit lines faced serious problems to varying degrees.
These generic problems included, inter alia. the increasing availability of other sources of funding,
including foreigin exchange at lower overall cost: the high liquidity of Polish banks arid their reluctance
to do term lending; borrower resistance to credit and the lack of borrower experience in dealing with
banks and meeting the appraisal and other sub-project criteria whichi werc seeii as unduly complex,
coupled with high collateral requirements and the difficulty of obtaining needed guarantees; and the need
for and the lack of familiarity with and complexity of Bank procuremilenit procedures (althoughi in the
case of the PEDP, procurement should not have beenl a major constraint as sub-loanis would have been
relatively small and either internationial shopping or stand(ard commercial practice would have been
applicable).
Appraisal and Risk Assessment
34.    Prior to appraising the PEDP, the Bank carried out substantial preparatory analysis of the private
sector and banking system, including a sector study on SME; development. This preparatory work clearly
identified specific risks, includinlg the very strong resistance to credit among entrepreneurs. During
preappraisal and appraisal, Bank staff focused correctly on: i) identifying the projected supply of credit
resources; ii) assessing the demand for term investment funds by commercial banks while also looking at
related institutional and managemenlt development issues affecting the banking system and on-lending to
SMEs; iii) looking at the role of the apex institution Pl)B. including institutional development matters,
on-lending costs and margins, and the risks and costs to DI)B if the loan were made directly to PDB



rather than to the Government; and iv) reviewing technical assistance requirements and institutional
arrangements for providing support to SMEs. The green cover SAR also highlighted a number of
implementation risks, including: potential delays owing to the scale and complexity of the proposed
program and to the entrepreneurs' willingness to invest; the country's limited implementation capability;
difficulties in building up new institutions; the lack of management skills in the enterprises; and a slower
than expected pace for new private investmenit owing to delays in carrying out the Governmenit's
transformation program. However, the potential impact of most of these risks was subsequently assessed
as minimal and in the final SAR only the macro-policy risk was cited as a potential problem which could
affect the project.
35.    As indicated above, a large number of potential implementation constraints and risks were
known at the time of appraisal.  However, their impact on the project appears to have been
underestimated, reflecting in part the difficulty of evaluating the ins and outs of a very complex and
comprehensive change process. At the same time, several areas of risk or potential implementation
constraints appear not to have been sufficiently assessed or fully taken into account. One issue is the
question of credit resistance, or unwillingness to take on deht, which was highlighted in the SME sector
study. This was not cited as a potential risk in the SAR, perhaps because it was thought that such
resistance would be quickly overcome as the SMIE sector developed and as the overall busilness and
banking environment improved. A second problem area is the difficulty and risk of using a brand new
bank (i.e. PDB) as an apex institution. While PDB was clearly capable of playing such a role, the fact
that it was new and had yet to build up its contacts with already well-established banks made this task a
very difficult one and one which PDB ultimately was not able to carry out. However, this risk was not
flagged explicitly in the SAR. A third area of risk had to do with estimating the potential supply of term
credit. Although the Bank was aware, for example, of alternative sources of funding for SMEs, Bank
staff believed that the very rapid growth of SMEs would ultimately generate increased demand for
credit, thus avoiding any problems with oversupply. The possibility that there would either be too few
interested borrowers or an oversupply of term credit was therefore not considered to be a signilficant risk
and was also not cited in the risk section of the final SAR. Nevertheless, while low demanld or
oversupply was not considered to be a concern, the Bank did sharply lower the size of the proposed loan
from US$100 million at the white cover stage to US$60( million at appraisal. with a view to minimizing
any risk of insufficient demand.
36.   It is conceivable that a more in-depth assessment of market risks and demand for credit at the
level of both participating banks and SMEs, including an assessment of the iitial experience of the SME
support funds that were already operating.  might hase provided a clearer picture of the SME
environment as well as a clearer understanding of potentiai risks and constraints and their likely impact
on the project. Given the rapidly changing environmenit, some elements of such an analysis would have
been quickly out-of-date, but additional work on SME characteristics and their capacity and willingiless
to borrow might have been instructive and might have led to changes in the design ol the project. Given
the lack of experience at all levels in the banking system  with SME lending, including the newly
established apex institution, a more straightforward and simpler project design, which minimized loan
application requirements and reduced the final cost of the credit as much as possible, might have been
helpful. Equally important, a more focused technical assistance capacity would have been needed to
provide enhanced support in sub-loan development and appraisal to SMEs. Institutional arrangements
for providing business support services to SMEs should also be closely coordinated with the credit
facility or even linked directly to it to provide maximum support. One possible approach would have
involved direct lending to participating banks without the use of an apex institution, with an in-house
mechanism for providing direct technical assistance to potential SME borrowers for the development of
sub-projects. Alternatively, the additional analysis outlincd above mighit have led to the conclusion that



12
a standard SME line of credit operation would be premature pending further changes in the operational
environment of Polish banks, including improvements in guarantee and collateral arrangements and the
development of a greater commitment to and interest in working with smaller borrowers.
Supervision
37.    With a full time task manager based at the Resident Mission from 1992 to 1995 (for all the credit
lines), the bulk of' project supervision was handled by the Resident Mission through frequent contacts
with project counterparts. Althoughi the 25 weeks of supers ision recorded for the project is not
particularly high, it may not fully reflect the continuous, informal contacts with implementing agencies
whicih were possible given the task manager's location in the field. At the same time, given the lack of
activity on the part of PDB and lack of subprojects, supervision requirements were much less than would
normally have been required. Only one supervision mission solely for the PEDP was carried out (in
September 1992 prior to effectiveness), however the project was formally supervised during the
implementation period as part o' joint supervision missions covering all of the Bank funded credit lines.
38.    The 1992 mission urged PDB to develop more aggressively its capacity of building up a network
of participating banks, and recommended that PDB appoint a consultant to carry out periodic reviews of
Its sub-loan development process.  It also recommended dropping signature of a subsidiary loan
agreement for the technical assistance component as a condition of effectiveness (subsequently agreed)
since this was no longer possible given changes in the Government structure for handling the technical
assistance program. Subsequent supervision of the PEDP after effectiveness, including joint supervision
with other credit lines resulted in a series of recommendations to improve utilization of the credit,
including several amendments to the Loan Agreement.  In addition to these missions and frequent
contacts through the Resident Mission, the Bank also organized several seminars and meetings to help
PDB understand procurement rules and design a scheme to manage exchange and interest rate risks
under the project. In the circumstances, the level of supervision was adequate, especially given the
presence of the task manager in Warsaw. However, the quality of back-to-office reporting was mixed
and more frequent formal reporting would have been helpful, particularly since the joint supervision
reviews of all credit lines did not focus adequately on individual project specific issues. Since it was
clear from an early stage that the project was not working, a more pro-active approach to addressing
implementation problems would have been appropriate. Overall, the Bank may have moved too slowly
to amend the project and introduce increased flexibility for the borrower. At the same time, once it
became clear that these revisions were not doing the job, the Bank could have moved more quickly to
cancel the loan.
G.  BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
39.    PDB was established on the basis of the Council of Ministers' decision of July 2, 1990 as a joint
stock company, with the equity participation of the State Treasury. Industrial Development Agency, and
three Western European banks: Credit National of France, Invest Kredit of Austria and Instituto
Mobiliario Italiano. PDB was designed to be an apex bank for medium and long term (MLT) lending to
privatized or restructured enterprises, as well as to SMEs, using commercial aiid specialized banks as
intermediaries. It was envisaged that PDB would initially play a catalytic role in assisting these banks in
developing their MLT lending, but that over the medium term, PDB would no longer need to play this
role and would evolve into a more conventional financial institution. Since appraisal of the project,
PDB's role has evolved considerably, as it moved more quickly than anticipated to change from an apex
institution to an investment bank. Since 1995 PDB has been listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange. The



13
Treasury's share in PDB has declined from an initial 62 percent to 29.5 percent in 1996, when 32.5
percent of the Treasury shares were taken up by PBK Warsaw, one of the state commercial banks and
which is expected to be privatized in 1997. PDB's standing on the international capital markets has also
strengthened considerably over time. In 1996 it launched a US$50 million Eurobond issue and is
currently rated BBB minus by Standard and Poor. Despite its strong institutional growth record, neither
of the Bank credit lines with which PDB has been associated have been effectively used. In addition to
the Private Enterprise Development Project, PDB was also designated to manage the credit component of
the Privatization and Restructuring Project (Loan 3342-POL). However these funds were not utilized
and were subsequently reallocated to help finance the Mass Privatization Program, with the remaining
unused credit line canceled.
40.   In general, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory during the identification, preparation
and appraisal of the project. PDB also cooperated closely with other institutions concerned with the
implementation of credit lines, including the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank of Poland and the
Ministry of Industry and Trade. However, the performance of the Borrower during the implementation
phase was ineffective. In particular, a more proactive approach in developing relationships with retail
banks and carrying out project promotion, including developing support mechanisms for assisting SMEs
in project preparation, might have helped overcome some of the implementation constraints. In short,
despite the agreements reached during negotiations, PDB's commitment to SME financing was in fact
very limited, especially as it moved to attract larger borrowers and concentrated on preparing for listing
on the Stock Exchange.
H.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
41.    Although private enterprise development in Poland has made enormous progress, with the
private sector nlow dominating GDP growth and output, the project's contribution to this development
was very limited as only one sub-loan was financed. As such the outcome of the project was highly
unsatisfactory. Similarly, implementation of the business support component was also unsatisfactory, as
no funds for this component were disbursed and the institutions the project initially set out to support
were either disbanded or had adequate financing in grant form from other sources. Nevertheless,
although effective Bank assistance to SMEs under the project did not materialize, considerable financial
and technical assistance support from other donors for SME development was made available, including
assistance from EU Phare, the British Know-How Fund, and UISAID.
I.     LESSONS LEARNED
42.    Based on the Bank's experience with the PEDP and other credit lines in Poland, several key
lessons, which in hindsight, appear obvious, can be flagged: (i) during a period of very intense, in-
depth economic restructuring, where significant economic distortions exist and have yet to be worked
out, it is very difficult to effectively assess private sector financing needs and demand for credit: (ii)
given this uncertainty and rapidly changing environment, it might have been better to have either: (a)
gone with a pilot type of approach to SME lending, using a small loan to test the situation and get a
better understanding of credit demand and capacity of the banking system or (b) demonstrated a much
more flexible supervision approach, retrofitting or canceling the operation as soon as it became evident
that there were serious problems; (iii) lending through an apex institution can be less effective than
'lending directly to banks, which creates competition, reduces layers (and consequently the final cost of
funds) and increases ownership, and (iv) when working with new borrowers and intermediaries,



14
especially in a transition economy where practical experience with modern credit development and
appraisal techniques is very limited, one needs to streamline procedures and requirements as much as
possible and put in place a number of different options for providing enhanced support in sub-loan
development and appraisal. Although there were a number of bilateral technical assistance programs
which could have provided support to potential SME clients, these were never effectively coordinated or
focused to provide added support for the project.
43.    The unsuccessful outcome of the project underscores the importance of having in place an
adequate support framework and/or incentive structure which will offset some of the risks for
participating banks and potential SME borrowers and thus facilitate or make SME lending more
attractive for all parties concerned. This is particularly important in country situations where the
business environment faces considerable uncertainty and where there is only very limited experience in
providing support to SMEs' From the perspective of the banks, more active involvement of the
government in supporting the development of SME lending would also seem to be essential. This could
have involved covering, for example, the foreign exchange risk and/or providing a mechanism to reduce
the need for high collateral and high guarantees from SME clients. Such an approach would have
reduced risks and costs and most likely would have made it more attractive for the banks to take on SME
lending. From the perspective the SME borrower, a more attractive package would likely have included
more easily accessible technical assistance for business plan and project development linked to the credit
program, with lending costs kept as low as possible (most likely by minimizing the number of
intermediaries and keeping margins as low as possible).
J.   RECOMMENDATIONS FOR FUTURE OPERATIONS IN THE PRIVATE SECTOR
44.    As the credit line was not effectively utilized and has since been canceled and closed, no
provision for its continuation is needed or expected. The Private Enterprise Development Project, like
all other credit lines which the Bank provided during the initial years of Poland's economic reform
program, aimed at providing additional financial support to enterprises at a critical time when Poland
was struggling to regain macroeconomic stability and prepare the way for renewed, sustained growth.
Any future credit operations in Poland would need to be better targeted to counter market imperfections
and distortions, such as supporting development of a new market for municipal finance, or supporting
growth of regional development funds to help the needs of the private sector in regions where, because
of risk perceptions and the segmentation of the banking market, there is insufficient access to long-term
credit. The recently negotiated Municipal Finance Project, which would provide separate loans to two
Polish banks for on-lending to municipalities for urban infrastructure projects takes into account key
lessons learned from past credit lines. It offers, inter alia, lower cost and more competitive financing
through single currency lending, direct lending to intermediaries to minimize layers, and a closely linked
technical assistance support entity.



15
Part II: Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial         Partial        Negligible       Not applicable
Macro Policies                      [I               [i                0                  ,
Sector Policies                                                                           E
Financial Objectives                 D                                 /
Institutional Development                                                                  l a  [
Physical Objectives                                  fj
Poverty Reduction                                      I a             o
Gender Issues                       E                I                 II
Other Social Objectives
Environmental Objectives                               I                 I
Public Sector Management
Private Sector Development                                             /                 LI
Other (specify)                       l               l                 I                I
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                    Unlikely                   Uncertain
El1                        V                         E
Highly
C. Bank Perfornance                  satisfactory              Satisfactory                Deficient
Identification
Preparation Assistance
Appraisal                                cl                                                   /
Supervision                                                        Eli                        /
Highly
D. Borrower Performance              satisfactory              Satisfactory                Deficient
Preparation                              [l                        /                          E
Implementation                           E                         El                         /
Covenant Compliance                      L
Operation (if applicable)                LI                        LI                         L
Hihv                                                  Hl
E. Assessment of Outcome            satisfactory      Satisfactorv    Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactorv
OI               C]              OL



16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan title            Purpose               Year of approval       Status
Preceding operations
1. US$ 260.0 million    Line of Credit      1990                   Project is being
Industrial Export     (US$245.0 m) to                              restructured. Only
Development Loan      finance export-oriented                      US$66.8 million
investments in selected                     disbursed as credit to
industrial exporting                        enterprises (27 percent)
enterprises; technical                      and; US$127 million
assistance (US$15.0 m)                      canceled at borrower's
to strengthen banking                       request; remaining loan
system.                                     being restructured to
provide up to US$ 58.0
million to finance
automation equipment
for Polish commercial
banks which could not
be financed under the
FIDL operation (see
below)
2. US$280.0 million   Support enterprise     1991                  Policy component fully
Privatization and     privatization program,                       disbursed. Credit
Restructuring Loan    including fast                               component used only
disbursing policy                           marginally and was
component (US$75                            restructured to help
million); US$65 million                     finance initial start-up
technical assistance                        management fees of the
component; and                              Mass Privatization
US$140 million credit                        Program (MPP), witl
component for on-                           the remaining unused
lending to finance                          credit allocation
restructuring and pre-                      (US$47 million)
privatization                               canceled. MPP
investments.                                implementation is
satisfactory.
Implementation of the
Technical Assistance
component is also
satisfactory, but is
much slower than
initially planned.



17
Loan title            Purpose               Year of approval       Status
3. US$200.0 million   Operation included:    1991                  Implementation is
Financial Institutions    US$150 million fast                      satisfactory. Policy
Development Project    disbursing policy                           component fully
component to support                        disbursed. Twinning
banking sector reform,                      program implemented
and US$50 million                           successfully. Closing
technical assistance                        date extended to June
component to support                        30, 1998, to permit
operational and                             completion of
management                                  automation investments
improvements in state                       by the two commercial
owned commercial                             banks being financed
banks being privatized,                     under the project.
including twinning                          Installation of
arrangement with                            automation equipment
foreign banks and                           in one bank is well
financing of                                advanced; procurement
automation.                                 for other bank being
completed.
Following operations
1. US$450 million     Loan supported        1993                   Program implemented
Enterprise and        Government's                                 satisfactorily and First
Financial Sector      Enterprise and Bank                          and Second tranches
Adjustment Loan       Restructuring and                            fully disbursed. Third
(EFSAL)               Privatization Program                        Tranche was canceled
to deal simultaneously                      at the request of the
with: i) debt overhang                      Government.
of SOEs, thus helping
them restructure and
prepare for
privatization, and ii)
portfolio problems of
banking system to
facilitate financial
sector reform.



18
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                       Date Planned                   Date Actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                    April 1990
Preparation                                                                   14 months
Appraisal                                            June 1991                July 1991
Negotiations                                      October 1991         December 9, 1991
Board Presentation                              December 1991               May 7, 1992
Signing                                                                    July 17, 1992
Effectiveness                                        June 1992        December 18, 1992
Loan Closing                                      June 30, 1999            May20, 1996
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$millions)
FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96    FY97    FY98
Appraisal estimate        0.5      3.8      18.7    36.0    48.9       56.3     60.0
Actual                                      1.7      2.04    2.04      2.04     2.04
Actual as percent of      0.0%     0.0%     9.4%     5.7%    4.2%     3.6%      3.4%
estimate
Date of final disbursement                           3/95
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
(No Implementation Indicators were included in the Appraisal Report)



19
Table 6A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                (US$ million)
Item                             Local  Foreign    Total       Local   Foreign   Total
costs   costs                 costs    costs
Investment Financing Component
- Civil works                     9.0      6.0     15.0        -        -        -
- Machinery & equipment          36.0     97.0    133.0        -         2.04     2.04
- Working capital                12.0      8.0    20.0         -
- Consulting services            10.0      7.0     17.0        -
55.0   110.0    165.0         -        2.04     2.04
Institutional Support Component
- Ministry of Industry            0.4      2.0      2.4         (Not implemented)
- Project Support Unit            2.0      3.4      5.4
- Local initiatives               4.7      9.7     14.4
7.1    15.1     22.2
Total                              62.1   125.1    187.2
Table 6B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                (US$ million)
Item                             Local  Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total
costs   costs                 costs    costs
1. IBRD                            -        60.0      60.0       -         2.04     2.04
2. Enterprises                      45.0    10.0      55.0        -        -       -
3. Other Commercial Sources         10.0    42.0      52.0        -        -       -
4. Local Institutions                2.0    -          2.0        -        -       -
5. Other Donors                      5.1    13.1      18.2        -        -       -
Total                               62.1   125.1     187.2        -        2.04     2.04



20
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Section    Covenant  Status        Original         Revised       Description of Covenant  Comments
Type               Fulfillment      Fulfillment
Date            Date
Guarantee    3.01       5           NA                                        The Guarantor shall carry  The Guarantor did
Agreement                                                                     out and cause to be      not comply with this
carried out Part B of the    covenant as the
Project with due         agencies responsible
diligence and shall      for implementing
provide or cause to      Part B of the project
provide the funds and    were restructured
facilities required for this  and other alternative
purpose                  financing for the
same purpose was
available.
4.01(a)    I          NA                                        The Guarantor shall
maintain or cause to
maintain records and
accounts adequate to
reflect the operations,
resources and
expenditures in respect of
l__________  _____ __  __ ___  _____ _____   __Part  B   on   the  Project
4.01 (b)   I          NA                                        The Guarantor shall have
the records and accounts
in relation to Part B of
the Project, including
those to the Special
Account B for each fiscal
year audited by auditors
acceptable to the Bank.
The Guarantor shall
furnish the Bank with
such audits within 6
months of the end of each
year.
Loan         3.01 (a)   5           C                                        PDB shall conduct its
Agreement                                                                    operations, coordinate
and monitor the
execution of the project
in accordance with
policies and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.



21
Agreement   Section    Covenant  Status          Original         Revised       Description of Covenant  Comments
Type                Fulfillment      Fulfillment
Date            Date
3.01 (b)   5           C                                          PDB shall carry out Part   The Loan
A of the Project in       Agreement was
accordance with policies   amended to expand
and procedures            what could be
satisfactory to the Bank.   financed under the
loan, simplify the
loan application
process, and enable
direct lending by
PDB. Despite these
changes PDB was
unable to generate
sufficient interest in
the loan leading to
the cancellation of
the entire credit line
with the exception of
the one sub loan that
was made.
4.01 (a)   3           NA                                         For the purpose of        Subsidiary
carrying out part B of the   Financing
Project, PDB shall make    Agreement with the
available to the Guarantor  Government's
proceeds of the Loan      Agency responsible
allocated from time to    for the promotion of
time to Category 2.       private SMEs was
never signed as Part
B was not
____________  __________                     implemented.
C                                         PDB's shall maintain
procedures and records
adequate to monitor and
record progress of Part A
of the Project and of sub-
projects in accordance
with sound accounting
practices
4.01 (b)   I           C                                          PDB shall have its
records, accounts and
financial statements
including those of the
Special Account A.
audited on an annual
basis in accordance with
appropriate auditing
principles by auditors
acceptable to the Bank.
Audit report is to be
submitted to the Bank
within 6 months of the
end of each year.__________



22
Agreement   Section        Covenant  Status        Original          Revised       Description of             Comments
Type                Fulfillment      Fulfillment    Covenant
Date             Date
4.02         2           NA                                         PDB shall utilize debt     PDB failed to
service payment s from    develop a network
participating banks to the  of participating
extent they are not       banks under the
required to service the   project.
Bank loan for financing
investments to expand
exports.
4.03         2           NA                                         PDB shall take such        The Bank assisted
steps satisfactory to the    PDB in designing a
Bank as shall be          scheme to address
necessary to protect itself  both types of risks.
against exchange rate
risks arising from its
operations under the
Project.
Sched. 5     I           NA                                         Participating banks shall   PDB failed to
Annex A                                                             submit to the Bank         develop a network
within 6 months of the    of participating
end of each year audit    banks under the
reports on their financial   project.
statements.
Status:   C - Complied with
CD - Complied with after delay
CP - Complied with Partially
NC - Not complied with
NA - Not applicable as Part B of the project was never utilized.
Covenants Types:
I - Accounts/audits 8 - Indigenous people
2 - Financial performance/rev. generation from beneficiaries 9 - Monitoring, review and reporting
3 - Flow and Utilization of Project Funds 10- Proj. implementation not covered by categories 1-9
4 - Counterpart Funding 11- Sector or cross - sector budgetary or other resources allocation action
5 - Mgt. aspects of the project or executing agency 12- Sector or cross - sector policy/regulatory/institutional
6 - Environmental covenants 13- Other 7 - Involuntary resettlement



23
Table 8: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title          Describe and comment on lack of compliance
Not applicable
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                   Revised                      Actual
Stage of project cycle   Weeks     US$          Weeks          US$'000        Weeks       US$'000
Preparation to appraisal                                                           55.2         156.7
Appraisal                                                                          36.3         108.2
Negotiations through Board   (Not available)                                        13.9         43.4
approval
Supervision                                                                        25.5          87.4
Completion                                                                          6.0           7.0
Total                                                                             136.9         402.7
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating      Types of
Stage of project cycle  Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization   Implem. Developm. status  Problems3
Year   Persons  Field                           objectives
Through appraisal        5/1990   7        18"     F, E, N, 0
12/1990  3       5       E, O
4/1991    8      15      F,E,N,O
Appraisal through Board   7/1991    7      15      F, E, L, N,O
approval
Supervision5:            2/1993   2        10                      S             S
6/1993                                    U             U
6/1994                                    HU            U           M
5/1995                                    HU            U           M
3/1996                                    HU            U           M
6/1996                                    HU            U           M, D, C
Completion
Total                              NA     NA
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - S: Satisfactory, U: Unsatisfactory, HU: 3 - Key to Types of Problems: M: Project
E: Economist; F: Financial; L: Legal; N:  Highly unsatisfactory       Management, D: Design; C: Borrower
Industry; 0: Other                                                    Commitment
4. Length of mission. Total days spent by each member not available
5. Starting from mid-1993, this project has been supervised from the field so no missions have been recorded. Ratings are
taking from Updating supervision summaries.



24
Appendix A
Private Enterprise Development Project. Loan 3467-POL
Implementation Completion Report
Contribution of the Polish Development Bank
On 17 July 1992, Polish Development bank concluded Loan Agreement 3467-POL (Private Enterprise
Development Project), with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the amount
of USD 60 million. The principal objective of the PEDP project was to support the creation of new
private businesses in the early years of the Polish economic transformation, to provide financing for
efficient investment in private enterprises, particularly in SME's. According to the Loan Agreement,
PDB, acting as the lead Apex institution had at its disposal two related components:
-  an investment component of USD 58 million, namely a credit line channeled through eligible
commercial banks to finance SME projects, and
-  an institutional support component of USD 2 million for financing eligible projects of
governmental institutions.
Until May 1996, only a small part of the investment component was used. The institutional support
component was canceled by PDB as a result of a negative decision of the Minister of Finance as the
Guarantor, concerning utilization of the above mentioned component. This event was preceded by long-
term negotiations between PDB and the Ministry of Industry and Trade as the final borrower.
When making an assessment of the PEDP project, it is worthwhile to consider why utilization of the
Loan was much lower than expected and why demand for funding from private enterprises was limited.
This report attempts to answer these questions from the perspective of the Polish Development Bank
taking into consideration the internal and external limitations of absorption of available foreign credits.
The radical changes and restructuring of the economy exert an influence on the changes and functioning
of the banking system.  Conditions such as inflation, level and rate of economic development,
unemployment, zloty exchange rate fluctuations, the market structure of interest rates, money supply and
other factors are beyond the control of the bank and may influence its activity on the market. That is
why it is necessary to mark out several stages in the "life" of the project and describe the environmental
factors.
1. First period, from the date of signing of the Loan Agreement to the date of signing the firsi
Amendment (17.07.1992 - 28.09.1993).
During this period, PDB was playing a very active role in establishing the network of the intermediary,
eligible banks, which could distribute loan sources to the SME enterprises as final borrowers. After a
long qualification process, only one Polish bank was accepted by the World Bank as the participating
bank. At the same time PDB prepared a very detailed credit offer and organized many meetings and



25
seminars for potential borrowers to present the PEDP project. Despite the strong promotion activities
and close cooperation with the World Bank, the results were not satisfying. The main reasons were
strictly connected with several criteria imposed on participating banks, which in most cases, failed to
meet all of them. These banks were interested in financing investment projects from their own sources,
using their own credit lines. In this situation PDB was treated not as an Apex lending institution, but as a
potential competitor on the credit market. On the other hand, the slight demand of the SME's was
observed.  The potential borrowers were not in position to fulfill procedural and commercial
requirements mainly because of the capital weakness of the enterprises. Many of them were eliminated
by such factors as: the borrower's participation in the project at the required level (20-50 percent), or
maintaining the appropriate debt-capital ratio in the feasibility study. At the high level of inflation only
enterprises which had significant export sales were able to compensate the cost of servicing of a foreign
currency credit with proceeds from export. PDB was constantly monitoring the demand situation and in
1993 decided to send to the World Bank a proposal to amend the Loan Agreement.
2. S9econd period, from the date of signing the first Amendment to the Loan Agreement to the date of
signing the second Amendment (28.09.1993-06.05.1994)
This first amendment provided PDB with the option of on-lending proceeds of the Loan directly to final
borrowers. The other advantage vAas concerning the possibility of financing leasing companies. Under
new arrangements the line started to be used. Several projects were presented to the World Bank and one
obtained the World Bank's approval in the no-objection letter. PDB expected to accelerate the use of the
line of credit by introducing a Single Currency Loans Program. However, unfortunately the PEDP
project was not eligible for consideration under the SCL scheme. This new proposal would have been in
conformity with borrowers' customs and expectations and offered the possibility to gain new customers.
LIBOR-based loans were always preferred by Polish borrowers. As a result of a further adjustment of
the PEDP project to market requirements, the second amendment to the Loan Agreement was signed.
3. Third period, from the date of signing the second Amendment to the date of cancellation of USD 47
million (06.05.1994 - 13.07.1995).
This amendment simplified procurement procedures by introducing commercial practices instead of
international shopping. PDB continued its strong promotion of PEDP project, informed the World Bank
about several projects under evaluation, which were expected to be financed by credit line sources.
Unfortunately, this tendency changed, at the beginning of September 1994, as a result of a decision of
Polish authorities to withdraw the privilege for World Bank's borrowers of an import tax exemption.
This exemption had considerable influence on the choice of sources of financing, especially for SME
projects. There was also a factor of unstable legislation background. Also the price of the World Bank's
funds was not so competitive as it used to be. PDB's credit portfolio structure also changed, adjusting to
the changing credit market and existing strong competition between banks. PDB had at its disposal other
credit lines, which constituted alternative sources of (re)financing for investment projects. Without the
prospect for effectively using of the PDEP project, PDB decided to cancel USD 47 million. This
decision was caused by the increasing cost of servicing the credit line (incurring further commitment
fees), the low level of utilization, as well as limited demand. Summing up the above mentioned issues,
the factors limiting absorption of foreign loans in general are as follows:



26
a) External limitation
-  additional conditions for disbursement of credit Iines
- credit application procedure
-  time-consuming negotiations of terms and conditions of a credit agreement
-  different approaches of a foreign lender and a Polish bank
b) Internal limitation
Macroeconomics factors:
- political and economic conditions
-  slow rate of ownership transformation
-  institutional factors
-  information gap caused by low activity of government agencies
Microeconomicfactors on the banks 'part:
- solvency ratio
-  undercapitalisation of banks which limits the extent of credit operation
-  banks' overliquidity in foreign currencies
-  insufficient qualifications of bank employees
Microeconomic factors on the enterprises 'part.
-  competition with other forms of credit and financing
-  lack of knowledge of how to develop a credit application
-  cost of preparing feasibility study
-  lack of an adequate level of (the entrepreneur's) own capital in enterprises and lack of an
adequate debt-capital ratio
-  lack of the mechanism of financial leverage in Polish enterprises and the adequate rate of
return on net capital
-  limited demand for foreign credits
-  foreign exchange and interest rate risks incurred by borrowers in dealing with the World
Bank's currency pool
Elimination of the above mentioned obstacles should contribute to a significant increase in the level of
absorption of foreign credits.
4. Fourth period, from the date of cancellation of USD 47 million to the date of the final cancellation
(13.07.1995 - 14.05.1996).
During the years of co-operation with the World Bank, PDB went through difficult times, changing its
profile from an apex bank to an investment bank. Capital market and restructuring operations now
occupy important positions in the bank's strategy. The key event of 1995 was PDB's introduction to
public trading and its listing on the stock exchange. The flotation of its stock on the Warsaw Stock
Exchange provided PDB with access to new sources of capital including both strategic and portfolio
investors.



27
The banking sector in Poland is in the process of a thorough transformation. As a result of the process of
consolidation of Polish banks initiated in 1995, considerable changes in the structure of PDB's capital
took place. In 1996, the capital stock held by the State Treasury declined from 62.48 percent to 29.54
percent and this process is still continuing in the right and desirable direction. The positive changes in
Polish banking system are appreciated by foreign partners and international banking organization.
Standard & Poor's has raised its rating on Poland's long-term foreign currency-denominated debt from
BB to BBB-minus (investment category). PDB also holds the second position after Bank Handlowy in
the rating of Polish banks (long-term rate - BBB-plus) from Thompson Bank Watch BREE. In 1996,
PDB issued with success its first pool of Eurobonds for an amount of USD 50 million, continuing the
policy of diversification of financing sources. PDB's Board of Directors believes that the high quality of
the services offered by the PDB together with its innovation and good financial conditions shall enable
PDB to compete effectively, operating in selected market segments. The breadth of PDB's line of
products and services will be determined by its well-established position on the credit, money and capital
markets.
To conclude, PDB would once again stress that we found the PEDP credit line extremely useful at the
time it was granted, and the fact that it was no longer at "market" prices and did not meet demand should
not obscure this. In this context, PDB hopes to continue a strong relationship between our institutions,
participating in new World Bank ventures and projects in the future.
Polish Development Bank
Warsaw, November 28, 1996



28
Appendix B
Private Enterprise Development Proiect, Loan 3467 - POL
Implementation Completion Report
Guarantor Contribution to the ICR
The Ministry of Finance
Under Secretary of State
ZG2/233/97
Warsaw, I I June 1997
To: Mr. Pauil Knotter
Resident World Bank Mission
in Warsaw
Dear Mr. KnottWer
In reference to the final report sent in by the World Bank and concerning the
execution of the project Private Enterprise Development (Loan - 3467 PL), I wouild like
to inform that tho Ministy of Finance submits no rcservations oncerming this dociumcnt.
The rcport gives an accurate analysis of the process of prject execution and the reasons
for its failure.
At the same time I would like to emphasize that the report aptly perceives that
one of the main reasons for the lack of demand on the part of Polish small and meclium
sizcd enterprises for financial resources made available tinder the credit line administered
by Polski Dank Rozwoju SA was their high cost. Another factor that infltienced the
absorption of theso resources was the appearance of other, alternative financing sources
in the course of project execution that were more attractive for the potential borrowers.
Both of those factors also contributed to the moderato interest in World Bank resources
distributed under othcr credit lines remaining under e.g. the National Bank of Poland.
Sincerely,
(P)
[Pawel SameckiJ






IMAGING
Report No.:          16742
Type:      ICR



