Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.  9812--POL Type: (SAR)                       Report No. 9812-POL
REYES-VIDA/ X32588 / H12101/ EM4AI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
POLAND
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 3, 1992
Country and Financial Sector Operations Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
I This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oIffcial dutes. Its contents may not oterwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY KOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Zloty (Zl)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Zloty. per US$)
1986   1987  1988  1989  1990   1991
(Dec)
US$1.00 - Zi              175   265   430  4,000 9,500 10,957
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BISE        -     Bank of Socic-Economic Initiatives
BRE         -     Export Development Bank
CMEA        -     Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
DM          -     Deutsche Mark
EBRD        -     European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC          -     European Community
EIB         -     European Investment Bank
FIBOR       -     Frankfurt Interbank Offered Rate
GDP         -     Gross Domestic Product
IFC         -     International Finance Corporation
IMF         -     International Monetary Fund
LIBOR       -     London Interbank Offered Rate
MIGA        -     Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MoP         -     Ministry of Privatization
NBP         -     National Bank of Poland
PAEF        -     Polish-American Enterprise Fund
PDB         -     Polish Development Bank
PBs         -     Participating Banks
PHARE       -     Poland-Hungary Assistance for Economic Reconstruction
PKO BP      -     PKO State Savings Bank
PSDU        -     Private Sector Development Unit
PSU         -     Project Support Unit
SAL         -     Structural Adjustment Loan
SME         -     Small and Medium Size Enterprise
POLAND - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
POLAND
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .............. .                                       i-iii
I.     INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
II.    RECENT DEVELOPMENT OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
A.  The Economic Environment ...  .           .  .  .    . .      .. .  2
B. The Private Sector.. . .. . 4
1. Overview ....................... . 4
2.  Structure   .5...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  S
C.  Impact of Economic Transformation Program on
Private Sector    ....  .         .  .  .  .    ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  6
1.  Stabilization and Structural Reform  . . . . . . . . . . .  6
2.  The Privatization Program  . .  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  8
3. The Institutional Framework for Private Sector
Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
D. Constraints on the Private Sector Supply Response to the
Reform Program              .............. . 10
E.  Bank Group Strategy for Assistance to the Private Sector . . . . 11
III.  FINANCING OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
A. The Banking Sector .12
B. Financial Sector Reform .13
C.  Facilities for Private Sector Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
D. The Polish Development Bank .17
IV. THE PROJECT .20
A.  Objectives and Scope of the Proposed Project . . . . . . . . . . 20
B. Project Description .20
C. Investment Financing Component .20
D.  The Institutional Support Component   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
1.  Office of the Undersecretary for Business Promotion. . . . 21
2.  Project Support Unit of the Cooperation Fund . . . . . . . 22
3.  Funding for Local Assistance Initiatives . . . . . . . . . 24
E.     Project Cost and Financing Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
F. Environmental Impact    ..28
This report was prepared by Messrs./Mmes. M. Reyes-Vidal (Task Manager), (EC2CO), A. Ewing (EMTIE); U. Rao
(Young Professional); S. Goldmark (LA3TF); R. Lalkaka, J. Levitaky, M. Stoller (Consultants). The
responsible Division Chief is Mr. A. Sood (EC2CO), and Director, Mr. K. Dervis (EC2DR).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND ON-LENDING ARRANGEMENTS . . . . . . . . . 29
A.  Lending Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
B.  Implementation Arrangements for the Investment Financing
Component   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .30
1.  The Participating Banks  ... .  .   .....  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 31
2. On-Lending Arrangements  ... .  .   .....  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 32
C.  Implementation Arrangements for Institutional
Support  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .....  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 33
D.    Procurement    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  34
E.  Disbursements  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ......  .  .  .  .  .   . 36
F.  Auditing and Reporting Requirements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
G. Bank Supervision         .............. . 38
VI.  BENEFITS AND RISK ........................ . 39
A.  Benefits   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  39
B.  Risks  .   .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .   .  .  .  .  39
VII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION  ... .  .  .   ..... .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 39
A. Agreements Reached ...................... . 39
B.    Recommendation  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 40
ANNEXES
Annex 1          Documents in Project File
Annex 2-1        Profile of the Private Sector Enterprises
Annex 2-2        Technology and Business Incubators in Poland
Annex 3-1        Structure of Banking Credit
Annex 3-2        Summary Credit Portfolio Activity of Selected Banks
Annex 3-3        The Polish Development Bank
Annex 3-4        Statement of Policy and Operating Guidelines of the Private
Sector Development Unit
Annex 4-1        Terms of Reference for a Long-term Advisor and Short-term
Specialist Staff to the Office of the Plenipotentiary
Annex 4-2        Terms of Reference for Subsector Studies
Annex 4-3        Terms of Reference for a Monitoring and Evaluation System
Annex 5          Estimated Disbursement Profile



-                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~POIAND
PIVATE    RISE DEVEPENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT S Y
BorIroyAr:               Polish Development Bank (PDB)
Guarantor,:              Republic of Poland
Beneficiaries:           Emerging private enterprises, PDB, Office of the
Undersecretary for Business Promotion at the Ministry
of Industry and Trade, Project Support Unit (PSU) of
the Cooperation Fund responsible to the Ministry of
European Integration and Foreign Aid Coordination, and
non-government organizations (NGOs).
Amount:                  US$60.0 million.
Terms:                   Seventeen year maturity with a five year grace period,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:         The funds for the investment financing component
(US$58.0 million) will be on-lent by PDB to
participating banks, and by them to enterprises at
variable or fixed interest rates in any currency
included in the Bank currency pool at the option of
the enterprise. Given current trade patterns in
Poland, the bulk of on-lending is expected to be in
US$ or in DM. Interest rates to be charged by PDB to
participating banks will be set with reference to
market indices, and will provide for covering its
costs of funds, the foreign exchange risk and the
interest rate risk associated with the Bank's currency
pool and interest rate policies, as well as PDB's
administration and intermediation costs, and a
reasonable profit margin. PDB's margin will be
reviewed with the Bank regularly, at least semi-
annually. Participating banks will on-lend to
enterprises according to prevailing market interest
rates; sub-loans will ba for up to seven years
maturity with up to three years grace.
The funds for the institutional support component
(US$2 million) will be on-lent by PDB to the Guarantor
under terms and conditions (maturity, interest rate
and other charges) similar to those of the Bank loan.
The Guarantor will provide these funds on a non-
reimbursable basis (under a cost sharing scheme) to
finance eligible activities.
Project Objectives:      The principal objective of the proposed project is to
support the creation of new private businessee, which



- ii -
has emerged as one of the centerpieces of the
Government's program to transform the Polish economy.
To meet this objective, the project provides financing
for efficient investment in private enterprites,
particularly in SMEs, and for a program aimed at
overcoming deficiencies of business practices and
building sup,ort services for private enterprise
development.
Project Description:    The proposed project includes two related components:
(i) investment financing under which PDB will act as
the second-tier institution responsible for channeling
Bank resources through participating banks to a wide
range of SME.; and (ii) institutional strengthening of
the Office of the Undersecretary for Business
Promotion, the PSU, and local business promotion
agencies.
Benefits and Risks:      The proposed project will assist Poland's economic
transformation program by stimulating the creation and
growth of new, privately-owned enterprises, and by
helping to foster an environment in which they can
flourish. The growth of this segment of the economy
is expected to contribute to: addressing a fundamental
imbalance in the ownership and size structure of the
enterprise sector; strengthening the culture of
entrepreneurship and improved enterprise management;
enhancing competition and related improvements in
productivity; and, critically, generating the much
needed supply response and growth, including of
exports. Additionally, the project would support
activities which would help absorb labor shed by the
restructuring of state enterprises; and promote
regional economic development with direct and indirect
employment generation. The main risk is related to
the uncertainty of macroeconomic developments and
sustainability of current policies, which may weaken
the investment climate and slow down the
implementation of the proposed project. The
commitment indicated by the new Government to
continuing the reform program, however, lessens this
risk. Additionally, the Bank's on-going economic and
sector dialogue would assist in identifying and
helping to overcome weaknesses of the program.
Another risk relates to the recent changes in
Government structure and personnel, which could affect
the management and coordination of programs to support
the private sector. The strong commitment of, and
overall consensus in the Government on the need to
promote private sector development, however, minimizes
this risk. Additional risks are related to the



- iii -
limited experience of institutions supporting private
ent3rprises and the limited managerial and marketing
experience of entrepreneurs. The technical assistance
to be provided under the institutional support
component, which complements technical assistance
provided under other Bank operations, is designed to
minimize these risks.
Proijct Cost:
Local      Foreign       Total
------  (US$ million)  -
Investment Component                           55.0        11.0.0       165.0
Institutional Support Component                 7.1         15.1         22.2
Total Project Cost                           62.1                     187.2
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign       Total
------  (US$ million)  ------
IBRD                                             -          60.0         60.0
Enterprises                                    45.0         10.0         55.0
Other Commercial Sources                       10.0         42.0         52.0
Local institutions                              2.0           -           2.0
Other donors a/                                 5,1         13.1         18.2
Total Financing                              62.1        125.1        187.
A/    Including EC-PHARE, USAID, UK Know-How Fund.
Estimated
Disbursements:   IBRD FY    1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998
-----------------(US$ million)----------------
Annual                0.5    3.3   14.9   17.3   12.9        7.4    3.7
Cumulative            0.5    3.8   18.7   36.0   48.9    56.3   60.0
Economic Rate of
Return:                  Not applicable
Nag:                    IBRD 23243R



POLAND
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        The far-reaching reform program now being implemented in Poland is
designed to break the country out of a vicious circle of slow growth,
inefficient investments and low productivity. Its main target is to stabilize
the macroeconomic situation, and to move the country rapidly towards an
efficient market economy. An integral part of this program is the creation of
a strong private sector. To this end the Government has initiated the
privatization of state-owned enterprises and the promotion of creation of
private small and medium size enterprises (SME.). The Government program
calls for the privatization of 50% of its 9,000 state-owned enterprises by
mid-1994. The Government has also adopted comprehensive policy and regulatory
measures which have created a substantially improved business environment for
the creation and growth of private enterprises.
1.02        Results to date have been encouraging.  While the private
sectoril (excluding private agriculture) contributed only 9% of GDP in 1989,
its share had increased to an estimated 13.3% by end-1990, and currently is
estimated to amount to over 15%, the latter being a conservative estimate due
to a significant part of private sector activities being unrecorded. In 1990,
while the GDP of the socialized sector fell by 19.6%, the GDP of the private
sector increased by 17.5%. Approximately 1.3 million private sector
enterprises have been established, providing about 18% of total employment.
In mid-1990 the Bank conducted a review of the private SHE sector with a view
to assisting the Polish Government to identify and formulate a strategy for
the expansion of the sector. Through the proposed Private Enterprise
Development Project, the Bank will assist in the implementation of programs
now being put in place to further develop and support private enterprises.
1.03        The Bank loan of US$60 million equivalent would finance two
related components including: (i) an investment component of US$58 million
equivalent which would provide loan financing through the banking system for
efficient investment in private enterprises, particularly in SMEs; and (ii) an
institutional suDport comoonent for which US$2 million equivalent would be
provided to support a program aimed at overcoming deficiencies of business
practices and building support services for private enterprise development.
The proposed Bank loan will finance only a fraction of the total investment
needs of Poland's growing private sector, but will have a greater impact by
mobilizing and helping to direct cofinancing from bilateral donors and
financing agencies, domestic and foreign private sources, the country's own
specialized development institutions, local commercial banks, and the
enterprises themselves.
1/    Since early 1991, cooperativee and foundations, which were formerly
considered part of the socialized sector have been reclassified as
private sector entities. Discussion of the private sector in this
report focuses on the emerging private enterprises and does not cover
the cooperatives and foundations.



-2-
1.04        The proposed project was pre-appraised in April 1991 and appraised
in July 1991 by missions compriming Bank staff and consultants. A post-
appraisal mission was conducted in October 1991. Jocuments concerning the
sector and the project are listed in Annex 1 are available in the Project
File.
II. RECENT DEVELOPMENT OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR
A. The Economic Environment
2.01        Poland's Economic Transformation Program (ETP) was launched in
January 1990. The collapse of the previous system was evidenced by the
emergence of hyperinflation, fuelled by increasing budget deficits that were
monetized while demand for money was falling. Inflation rose to over 39% in
August, 55% in October 1989, and remained very high through the end of the
year. The gap between the official and the parallel exchange rates reached a
peak of over 100% by the end -of the third quarter of 1989. Faced with this
dramatic situation, the new Solidarity-led Government adopted the ETP that
combined the ua- of standard macroeconomic tools of monetm-- and fiscal policy
with far-reaching structural adjustment, based on price liberalization, the
rapid transformation of the property structure in the state-owned enterprise
sector, financial sector reform, and the establishment of a social safety net.
2.02        The stabilization program, supported by an IMF stand-by credit
came into effect on January 1, 1990. The program called for a strong
turnaround in the fiscal accounts, a monetary policy based on positive real
interest rates and the provision of credit to the non-government sector in a
way compatible with moderate growth in monetary aggregates. In addition,
elements of heterodox policies were introduced: pegging the exchange rate at
Zl 9,500 to the dollar, after a substantial devaluation, and in limiting wage
increases in the state sector to fractions of the expected price increases
each month. The devaluation was accompanied by a complete overhaul of the
exchange system, establishing the internal convertibility of the zloty for
most current account transactions. These policies were combined with a number
of additional reforms at the microeconomic and societal level, amounting to
the elimination of the residual vestiges of the "soft budget constraint"
economy: abolition of almost all remaining price controls; rapid privatization
of the state enterprises; redefinition of the legal and regulatory
environment, to adapt it to the new, market-oriented conditions; reform and
modernization of the financial system; and the creation of a modern and
efficient social safety net, to help cushion the inevitable costs of the
transition.
2.03        The efforts to reduce the level of inflation have partially
succeeded. Following levels of over 240% in 1989 and 600% in 1990, average
inflation for 1991 amounted to less than 80%. Prices are now freely
determined and most barriers to international trade have been removed.
However, major structural problems remain to be resolved and the economy has
not performed well. GDP is estimated to have dropped by a further 9-10% in
1991, following the 12% drop in 1990.  Production in the state sector, which



-3-
dropped by 25% in 1990, fell by an estimated additional 25% during 1991.
Unemployment, which amounted to lese than 2% of the total work force in early
1990, has grown at a rate of around 100,000 per month since then, and reached
about 2.1 million (over 1 of the total work force) by end 1991.
2.04        Developments in the external sector have added to these
difficulties, at variance with earlier projections and in spite of the
reduction of Paris Club debt obligations early in 1991. From the virtual
balance axpected at the beginning of the year, the trade balance is estimated
at a deficit of around US$1.6 billion, largely on account of the docline in
exports to the former CMEA countries, the strong growth of imports, and
despite the rapid growth in exports to EC countries. For 1991, the current
account of the balance of payments deteriorated from the previous year's
surplus of US$0.6 billion to a deficit of US$1.6 billion.
2.05        As inflation continued at relatively high levels for most of 1990
and the first months of 1991, the fixed parity began to erode competitiveness,
and to affect enterprises profitability and exports. Following sustained
reserve losses amounting to about US$1.5 billion in the first half of 1991,
the fixed peg to the US dollar was abandoned when the zloty was devalued by
14.5% in May and shifted to a basket peg (US dollar, German mark, British
pound, Swiss franc and French franc). In October 1991, the Government adopted
a policy of pre-announced devaluations of the zloty in relation to the US
dollar. The targets under the program supported by an IMF EFF had to be
abandoned in the face of the decline in enterprise sales and profits, which
led to a collapse in budgetary revenue collections and consequently to
excessive growth of domestic credit of the banking system.
2.06        The medium-term prospects for Poland point to the need for an
accelerated pace of structural reforms and continued macroeconomic policy
restraint.  The public accounts are under considerable stress, as expenditure
commitments rise and the reform of revenues is encountering political and
implementation difficulties. The drive for privatization must continue and
quicken its pace, and be accompanied by measures to provide the enterprises
that temporarily remain within the public domain with incentives for their
efficient restructuring. In addition, privatization and recapitalization of
the financial sector, badly hit by the recession and the inherited
inefficiencies, must be pursued. Persisting in the policies begun under the
ETP can give Poland the possibility to return to sustainable growth during the
1990.. On the external front, projections conditioned on satisfactory
execution of these policies, which would result in continued vigorous export
growth and moderate increase in ^onsumption, show that Poland can sustain a
moderate current account deficit into the late 1990., which would be financed
by a modest inflow of capital, mostly from official sources. Export growth,
however, is crucial to cope with the rising interest burden starting in 1994-
1995.



4
B.  The Privat  Sector'
1. Overvie
2.07        Important characteristics of Poland's private enterprise sector
ares (i) the relatively small size of private sector enterprisesl (ii) the
limited contribution of the private sector to the economy; and (iii) the rapid
recent development of the sector in roeponse to changes in policy.
2.08        With respect to size, the average employment in the private sector
(excluding agriculture) is only around five employees per enterprise. This is
in part due to the fact that, until 1989, private sector enterprises were
limited as to the number of employees (up to 50), and the sectors and
activities they were allowed to enter. Thus, although there ar- a few large
private enterprises which employ several hundred employees, the private sector
is virtually synonymous with the SHE sector.
2.09        In terms of production, the private sector increased its share in
GDP from about 9% in 1989, to an estimated 13.3% by the end of 1990, and to
more than 15% in 1991. Private industrial production now is estimated to
account for at least 13% of total industrial production (up from 8% in 1989);
private construction is about 25% of the total (21% in 1989); and private
trade is 26% of the total (4.8% in 1989). Private enterprises are
concentrated in trade (about 36% of the total), manufacturing (34%), and
construction (13%).
2.10        The sector has shown remarkable dynamism and resilience,
particularly as a result of policy and regulatory changes introduced in
January 1989 by the "Law on Economic Activity". This Law gave business a
freer hand, as it removed restrictive licensing and registration requirements
for the private sector, eliminated limits on the number of employees private
firms could hire and opened up to the private sector activities formerly
restricted to the socialized sector. Subsequent legislation, including the
"Foreign Investment Law", the "Anti-Monopoly Act", the "Cooperative Law",
amendments to the "Law on Premises", the "Law on Privatization of State-owned
Enterprises" (the "Privatization Law") and amendments to the "Law on Land
Economy and Real Estate" reinforced the foundations for the creation of a
competitive economy. As a result, the number of private enterprises
experienced an explosive growth (Table 2.1), by about 165,000 new enterprises
during 1989, an increase of 25% over the previous year. During 1990 and the
first half of 1991, the number of enterprises continued to grow at a rate of
about 60%, to reach a total number of enterprises of about 1.3 million by mid-
1991. This rapid evolution suggests that despite its limited role today, the
sector will be a major source of growth in the near future. However, if this
growth is to be achieved and sustained in an efficient manner, the service
infrastructure supporting private sector development will have to be expanded
2/    Further information on the performance and structure of the private
sector is available in a Work Bank report: POLAND - Review of the
Private Small and Medium Scale Enterprises Sector, Report No 8991-POL,
June 12, 1991; an updated summary is contained its Annex 2-1.



-5-
and strengthened, and major firm-level constraints to the capacity of private
enterprises to adjust to market conditions (para 2.30) will have to be
addressed.
2. Structure
2.11        Until recently, private sector enterprises were legally classified
into three categories: (i) unincorDorated firms--sole proprietorships and
partnerships--also known as "natural persons"; (ii) incor2orated firms, which
are joint stock and limited liability companies; and (iii) ioint ventures,
enterprises involving foreign investment under the "Foreign Investment
Law"l". A new classification for enterprises, based upon the number of
employees, was adopted in January 1991. Small enterprises are enterprises
with less than 50 employees, mediu -simed enterprises are enterprises with
more than 50 but less than 500 emplnyees. Currently, all statistics reflect
this legal classification.
2.12        Most private sector firms are unincorporated proprietorships or
partnerships because prior to 1986 this was the only legal form of ownership
genera'ly available to private Polish businessmen. Such enterprises include
craftsmen, trade and service enterprises and some small manufacturing
enterprises. After 1986, as a result of the adoption of the Privatization
Law, the "Foreign Investment Law", the amended "Commercial Code" and
subsequent changes in the tax and labor legislation, jot-c stock and limited
liability companies and foreign joint ventures began tr be established by
private entrepreneurs.
2.13        When limitations on enterprise size and field of activity were
abolished in January 1989, there was a rapid growth in all types of private
enterprises. Table 2.1 shows the number of private sector enterprises for the
1988-1991 (June) period. The number of unincorporated firms increased by over
20% in 1989 and by over 55% during 1990 and the first half of 1991. This
growth, however, has been accompanied by a high degree of olatility, with
many new entrants and a large number of exits.  On averlg%, about 40,000 new
enterprises were established each month during 1990, while approximately
16,500 per month were closed. The growth of incorp-orated firms was equally
dynamic. During 1989, their number increased nine-fold, and tripled during
1990 and the first half of 1991. About 33% of the incorporated enterprises
are in trade, 20% are in manufacturing, 19% in construction, and about 27% in
"other branches of material production". Incorporated enterprises tend to be
the larger private sector enterprises, but even there employment averages only
about 14 employees.
3/    Since January 1990, this category also includes "Polonia" firms, which
are SMEs owned by non-residents.



-6-
Table 2.1 - Pace of Development of the Private Sector
Number of EnterRrises
Enterprises                     1988          1989          1990     June 1991
Unincorporated                659,556       813,500    1,135,500    1,272,407
Incorporated                    1,275        11,693        29,650       38,516
Foreign Participation              32           429         1,645         2,840
Polonia                           689           841           862           856
TOTAL                         6615        1826.463    1.167.657    1,314.612
Source:  Central Statistical Office, Warsaw.
2.14        By the end of 1989, over 840 Polonia firms, with an average
employment of about 140 employees per enterprise, had been established. The
majority (75%) of these are in the food processing, chemicals and plastics,
wood products, electronic equipment and footwear industries. Since January
1990, these enterprises are being regulated under the "Foreign Investment
Law", as are ioint ventures involving foreign capital. The growth of joint
ventures has been more recent and rapid. During 1990 and the first half of
1991, about 2,400 joint ventures were licensed. The size of these firms, with
an average total capital of US$315,000 per enterprise, is significantly larger
than the other categories of enterprises in the private sector. The majority
(74%) of the joint venture firms are in the manufacturing sector, and are
principally located in the Warsaw, Gdansk, Poznan and Katowice areas.
C. Impact of the Economic Transformation Program on the Private Sector
2.15        Poland's economic transformation program aims, inter alia, at a
rapid liberalization of markets and the establishment of a "level playing
field" with regard to policy and incentives for all agents in the economy.
This is a strong move away from the tradition of the last forty years, where
direct and discriminatory intervention was the rule.  The program is designed
to stabilize the economy rapidly, to deepen structural changes as a means of
improving resource allocation and elicit strong supply responses. The
development of the private sector is considered one of the pillars of this
process. The main elements of the reform program directly affecting private
sector performance include: (i) stabilization and structural reform; (ii) the
privatization program; and (iii) the institutional network created to execute
and monitor implementation of the new legislative and regulatory framework.
1. Stabilization and Structural Reform
2.16        The main elements of the stabilization component are price
liberalization, unification of foreign exchange rates along with adoption of a
new foreign exchange regime, temporary restrictions on wage increases in the
state sector to a fraction of price increases, fiscal balance, tighter credit
policy and positive real interest rates. The main elements of the structural
reform are enterprise reform and restructuring with increased private



-7-
ownership, overhaul of the banking system, trade liberalization and the
establishment of a social safety net outside the enterprises.
2.17        To implement the economic transformation program, the Government
hax introduced a comprehensive and consistent package of legislation, which
has laid the foundation for a competitive environment by removing restrictive
licensing and recistration requirements for private firms, establishing a
"level playing field" for economic actors of different scale and ownership,
opening the economy to foreign trade, demonopolizing and breaking up large
state enterprises and cooperatives, and privatizing large sectors of the
economy. These measures, jointly with price deregulation and tax reforms,
have created a substantially improved business environment for private sector
initiatives.
2.18        Price dereaulation, for example, eliminated the administrative
allocation of inputs and facilitated the access to raw materials and inputs
for private enterprises. With the introduction of adjustable nominal interest
rates, in spite of the tradition of private enterprises drawing funds from
personal savings and profits for investment financing, overall banking credit
to private enterprises has increased at least fifteen-fold since early 1989,
albeit from a very small base. One of the boldest and most important reforms
in foreion exchange and trade policies was the introduction of "internal
convertibility" of the zloty, which replaced the multiple rates of exchange
with a uniform rate at which foreign exchange could be freely traded. At
present, firms and individuals can acquire foreign exchange within three to
five days--a dramatic improvement over the past. Foreign exchange
availability, import and export permits and trade duties no longer pose any
barriers to the flow of goods and services of private sector enterprises.
Furthermore, all firms are permitted to import and export directly, a freedom
which has increased the competition faced by local producers. Important tax
reforms include the unification of income tax treatment vis-a-vis state-owned
companies by reducing the maximum rate on income tax for legal persons from an
upper limit of 85% to a uniform tax rate of 40% (for natural persons the tax
rate was reduced from 75% to 50%); some simplification of procedures for the
smallest firms that pay on a lump-sum basis; the unification of sales taxes
for socialized and private firms; the elimination of the turnover tax on
inputs of private firms; one to two year income tax holidays for new small
private ventures in selected fields; and the exemption from the "excessive"
wage tax for unincorporated firms (natural persons). As a result of these tax
reforms, taxation procedures for private firms in Poland have been greatly
simplified. The planned introduction of the value added and personal income
tax is expected to overcome most of the remaining shortcomings of the current
tax system, thus having an additional important impact on private enterprise
development.
2.19        As described above (para 2.10), the time lag between the
introduction of reforms and the boom in the registration of new private
enterprises has proved remarkably short. However, in spite of the ease with
which new businesses can be registered and brought into being, a number of
flaws remain in the business environment which militate against sustained and
efficient operation. In particular: (i) the legal framework is still
inadequate, particularly in areas such as property rights and commercial



- 8 -
law; (ii) the network of supporting services providing business information,
training in specific business-related areas and business infrastructure lacks
the capacity to support effective growth; (iii) distribution mechanisms are
inadequate as monopolies have been broken up but alternative means have been
slow to emerge; and (iv) the private sector's access to credit and other
needed financial services is still constrained by banks' inexperience in
servicing this market.
2. The Privatization Pograom
2.20        The Government expects that rapid privatization of the bulk of
state property will contribute to increased efficiency of the enterprise
sector. The "Anti-Monopoly Act" enacted in February 1990 provides for
divestiture of large monopolistic enterprises prior to privatization. The
Privatization Law enacted in July 1990 provides a legal basis for privatizing
enterprises. A multi-track privatization program was developed and
implemented with a view to speeding up and reinforcing efficiency of the
overall program. Initially two main mechanisms were adopted to implement the
privatization program: (i) corporatization into joint stock companies or
limited liability companies owned by the State Treasury, followed by partial
or complete sale to domestic or foreign investors on a case-by-case basis or
through mass privatization; or (ii) liquidation of an enterprise and sale or
lease of its assets to private owners. Substantial progress has been achieved
under these two mechanisms. The number of state-owned enterprises privatized
through liquidation reached 556 by August 1991, and rose to 650 by mid-October
1991. In addition, 20 large enterprises have been privatized through a
combination of public offerings and trade deals involving foreign investors.
2.21        In June 1991, the Government announced the main features of its
mass privatization program, which envisages the establishment of investment
"groups" (National Wealth Management Funds), each of which will manage about
20 companies to be privatized under the program. The first phase would
involve some 200 companies, which represent only about 10% of industrial
sales. Another scheme, the "Quick Privatization" scheme, which involves the
simultaneous offering of a group of small or medium scale enterprises to
domestic buyers in the local market, has been tested with the successful
privatization of about 25 enterprises as of end of September 1991.
2.22        As a further step towards privatization, the Government is
introducing additional mechanisms such as the "Restructuring Privatization".
Under this innovative approach commercialized enterprises will be controlled
by new boards, and managed and restructured under a managing contract during a
period of three years. Specific arrangements will provide for effective
transfer of these enterprises to private owners within this three year period.
The "Sectorial Privatization" involves the preparation of comprehensive
studies on specific sectors while transactions for individual enterprises of
those sectors are being prepared or completed in parallel with the preparation
of the study. Further acceleration of the privatization program for medium
and large enterprises remains a key reform priority.
2.23        Significant progress has been achieved in the area of "small
Privatization", or privatization of small- and medium-sized retail and



-9-
wholesale shops as well an services, most of which were municipal proparty.
By mid-1991, more than 80% of these businesses had been privatized,
principally through leasing. A number of them had been formed from the break-
up of regional trade enterprises founded by local authorities or woiewodas,
the urban-based cooperatives operating engaged in the distribution of food
products, and trade cooperatives operating in rural areas.
3. The Institutional Framework for Private Sector Develooment
2.24        Government agencies have been created to execute and monitor the
implementation of the new legislative and regulatory framework. The Agency
for Foreign Investment is responsible for both the administration and approval
of foreign investment as well as for the promotion of foreign investment. The
Anti-Monopoly Office is responsible for initiating demonopolization efforts,
counteracting monopoly practices and promoting competition. The Ministry of
Privatization (MoP) was established in August 1990, and is responsible for
privatization of state property, and thus for promoting the development of the
private sector.
2.25        In late 1990, the Office of the Government Plenipotentiary for
Business Promotion (since August 1991, renamed the Office of the
Undersecretary for Business Promotion), headed by an Undersecretary of the
Ministry of Industry and Trade, was established and is responsible for the
advocacy of policies, and initiating and coordinating specific support
programs for the development of the private sector, with special emphasis on
the development of small and medium size enterprises. In addition, other
major institutions established to promote the private sector at the national
level include the Cooperation Fund, and national headquarters of the chambers
of commerce, crafts associations and other advocacy groups. At the regional
level, new institutions are being formed at a rapid pace, including regional
development agencies, chambers of commerce, business schools and other
training institutes.
2.26        The Office of the Undersecretary for Business Promotion has
prepared an impressive agenda of support activities, including: (i) developing
appropriate policies and a regulatory framework to promote the sector;
(ii) designing and maintaining information on private sector development
activities throughout the country; (iii) coordinating and publicizing these
activities to avoid duplication; (iv) maintaining a data bank on statistics
required to assist the formulation of sound policies; (v) promoting and
assisting with the establishment of a number of business/technology incubation
centers (Annex 2-2); and (vi) informing the Government and donors of programs
needed to stimulate the private sector. Its fifteen-member staff is charged
with policy-formulation and coordination rather than the actual implementation
of programs.
2.27        In 1990, the Government established the Cooperation Fund to
coordinate donor financing, implement programs financed from foreign aid, and
administer counterpart funds. The Cooperation Fund is supervised by a board
chaired by the Undersecretary for European Integration and Foreign Aid
Coordination. The Undersecretary for Business Promotion and representatives
from the Min.stry of Finance, the National Bank of Poland, a member of



- 10 -
Parliament and a representative of private sector organizations serve on the
Cooperation Fund's board of directors to facilitate coordination of private
sector development activities. The Project Support Unit (PSU) within this
Fund was created in collaboration with the EC to implement a program aimed at
strengthening the capacity of local SME development agencies and financial
institutions as well as to channel ECU 19 million through financial
institutions to small and medium enterprises. The PSU is headed by a Deputy
Director General of the Cooperation Fund. Its six-person staff, including two
foreign consultants, hau established a comprehensive work plan and begun to
organize activities in Gdansk, Lodz, Siedlce, Plock, Olsztyn, and Wroclaw.
2.28        During the past year, regional chambers of commerce, economic
societies, employers' associations and craft associations have expanded their
activities. Initiatives are being prepared by these institutions as well as
universities, industrial economic societies, foundations, research centers and
other organizations. Regional development agencies are being established by
the authorities in some areas to coordinate such development activities and,
in some cases, to initiate specific private sector support programs.
2.29        While the capacity and resources of all of these central and local
institutions vary widely, all require strengthening to: (i) represent the
interest of private sector development, and small and medium enterprises in
particular; (ii) improve the information available to Government to formulate
policies; (iii) provide technical and economic information to support private
business; (iv) strengthen management skills at the enterprise level;
(v) provide better technical services and physical infrastructure to support
smaller private enterprises; and (vi) assist smaller enterprises to adopt
practices that conform to Polish environmental regulations.
D. Constraints on Private Sector Enterorises to the Reform Program
2.30        The adjustment program has clearly raised productive efficiency by
introducing effective competition into the private sector. Despite of
constraints in the access to finance and the provisions of financial services
for private enterprises (Chapter III), many firms have responded with the
dynamism and flexibility expected from the private sector, particularly from
SHEs. With the legalization of private enterprises and the opening up of the
economy, opportunities for the entrepreneur have expanded dramatically. Many
firms have expanded exports to both the EC market and the former CMEA
countries, sometimes in response to the fall in domestic demand. Others have
changed their product-mix and the introduction of new products is now
widespread. However, a close assessment of enterprises current capabilities
reveals considerable firm-level constraints to the capacity to adjust to
market conditions. The following are among the most critical:
(a)   Established business practices and expectations are not compatible
with the new market-oriented economy. The broad set of cultural
and behavioral norms, the internal practices of management and
labor, and the ways of servicing customers require change;
(b)   Existing management and entrepreneurial skills are those that were
developed to serve a shortage economy where quality control,



- 11l  -
financial management, pricing, and marketing were not major
concerns. In a market economy the needs are dramatically
different, and the management skills and information systems
required are correspondingly different,
(C)   Productivity in SMEs appears to be low, a situation related to
historically low labor costs, work practices stemming from labor
hoarding and the limited acces to modern technology. Some SMEs
report that productivity has increased recently as a result of
lower absenteeism. Major increases, however, will depend upon the
introduction of "best practices" in management and improved
technologies; and
(d)   Technology used by most private sector enterprises, particularly
by SNEs, is outmoded. SMEs are ill-equipped for quality and
design of products for external markets, and for the domestic
market, as Poles begin to demand quality from their homegrown
products. Internal cash flow alone will not be a sufficient
source of finance for the investments required in technology
upgrading.
2.31        The institutional support component of the proposed project is
designed to accelerate the development of supportive services addressing the
constraints indicated above. As an effective service sector evolves, Polish
entrepreneurs will have access to the management tools, information and advice
needed to overcome these deficiencies.
E. Bank Grouo Strategy for Assistance to the Private Sector
2.32        The Bank assistance strategy for Poland is geared to support the
Government's economic transformation program towards a private sector-based
market economy by assisting to improve efficiency and productivity of the
economy and upgrade the socio-economic conditions of the population. The Bank
is thus assisting the Government to implement its program of: (i)
macroeconomic stability; (ii) restructuring of the productive base; and (iii)
improving growth performance. Since the initiation of lending in 1990, the
World Bank has provided loans for 13 projects totalling US$2,217.8 million.
2.33        The Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL), approved in July 1990,
supported the objectives of financial sector development, enterprise reform
with a focus on privatization and private sector development, and enhancement
of the social safety net. The actions initiated under the SAL have-broadened
under subsequent operations: the Privatization and Restructuring Project
(Report No 9483-POL), supports the acceleration of privatization, reform, and
restructuring of state-owned enterprises to promote an active supply response;
the Financial Institutions Development Loan (Report No P-5535-POL), supports a
program of financial system development which is critical to the development
of a modern institutional base required for the success of the overall
economic transformation; and the Employment Promotion and Services Project
(Report No 9408-POL) which strengthens the social safety net including
programs to alleviate poverty for the unemployed.



- 12 -
2.34        The Bank's sector work at the policy and institutional levels has
also addressed the development of the private sector. In mid-1990 the Bank
conducted a review of the private SHE sector (para 1.02), assist"d the Polish
Government to identify and formulate a strategy for the expansion of the
sector and provided important elements for the design of the proposed project.
In mid-1991, during the preparation of this project, the Bank also initiated
an assessment of the legal framework for private sector activities with a view
to assisting the Government in its efforts to create a favorable business
environment. The recommendations of this assessment will provide further
elements for improving the enabling environment for private sector
development. The Bank is also looking to support innovative approaches to
foster private investment and joint ventures--possibly seed capital funds and
a free-standing operation for private initiatives in energy, manufacturing,
and environment investments. Such work is still at an early stage, and is
being developed in close collaboration with IFC, MIGA, and other potential
cofinanciers, including EBRD, EIB, and the EC.
2.35        IFC has played an important complementary role in the reform of
the Polish economy. IFC has assisted with the development of the regulatory
framework for commercial banks and securities markets. In addition, IFC has
promoted a joint venture commercial bank and is actively considering the
establishment of a venture capital fund. It also plans to help establish
other non-bank financial intermediaries such as mutual funds and insurance
companies. IFC has also advised the Government on the conceptual framework
for privatization and on specific legislative initiatives, most recently, on
amendments to the foreign investment and banking laws. IFC initiated a
proposal and helped secure EC funding for financing the establishment and
organization of the Privatizatlon Agency, which was later expanded into the
MoP. It is also assisting and undertaking individual privatization
transactions. More recently, IFC with the EBRD as co-sponsor, supported the
establishment of the Polish Business Advisory Service (PBAS). PBAS started
operations in September 1991, and provides technical advisory services for
emerging businesses and entrepreneurs with assets ranging between US$1 million
and US$5 million equivalent. The services provided by PBAS include the
preparation of business plans and investment proposals, technical advisory
work, investment implementation, and operational support. As such, the PBAS
will complement the proposed project in achieving its objectives.
III. FINANCING OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR
A. The Banking Sector4/
3.01        The banking sector is comprised of the central bank, the National
Bank of Poland (NBP); six specialized banks; nine commercial banks; some 80
newly-licensed private banks (including representative offices and branches of
4/    A detailed description of Poland's banking system is contained in the
Staff Appraisal Report for the Financial Institutions Development Loan
(Report No. P-5535-POL).



- 13 -
foreign banks) of which some 35-40 are in operation; and approximately 1,600
cooperative banks. The specialized banks are Bank Handlowy (the country's
largest bank in terms of assetu and the foreign trade bank), Bank PKO S.A.
(which manages foreign exchange deposits of household.); PKO BP (a savings
bank with a portfolio of housing loans through an extensive branch network);
BGZ (which is specialized in agricultural lending and until recently served as
the main apex institution for the cooperative banking system); the Export
Development Bank; and the Bank of Socio-Economic Initiatives (BISE, which was
sponsored and established by the Ministry of Labor in August 1990, with the
specific objective of providing direct term finance to the self-employed and
private micro-enterprises). The nine commercial banks were established in
January 1989 out of the NBP, which retained its central banking functions and
transferred its corporate lending activities to the commercial banks. PDB was
established in 1990, principally as a second tier financial institution
mobilizing term resources, and channelling such funds through the banking
system.
3.02        Given its previously limited function in a centrally planned
economy, the current Polish banking system needs critical reforms in its
institutions, skills and practices in order to play an effective role in a
market-based economy. Despite significant progress to date, the banking
system continues to be characterized by an ineffective institutional,
regulatory, and legal framework, lack of banking skills, and lack of real
competition. In addition, the crisis in the state-owned enterprise sector has
led to a dramatic deterioration of the state-owned commercial banks'
portfolio.
B. Financial Sector Reform
3.03        Imperfections in, and the underdevelopment of, the financial
sector have been and continue to be a major barrier to the efficient
transformation of the economy. Since early 1989, Poland has started a program
aimed at restructuring the financial sector and its policy framework as
required to consolidate the introduction of a market-based economy and the
development of an efficient private sector. The requirements of the banking
system and some of the fundamental policy revisions are supported under the
World Bank Financial Institutions Development Loan (para 2.33). Key elements
of this reform program are presented below:
(a)   Strengthenina banking caRacities.  The Government has adopted as a
priority the rapid development of a national banking network
offering services to, and meeting the financial requirements of,
economic entities which were previously serviced through the
centralized allocation process. For this purpose, the Government
is promoting the establishment of viable new private banks, and
the strengthening and privatization of existing state-owned banks
to assist their efforts to provide core banking services.
(b)   Financial volicv reform.  A number of actions are being taken to
develop a coherent policy framework addressing, inter-alia : (i)
monitoring and curtailment of specialized credits; (ii) full



- 14 -
liberalization of interest rate.; and (iii) management of the
liquidity of the banking system.
(C)   Development of Bankina Leoislation.  An active process is in place
aimed at harmonizing the Polish legal framework with that of the
European Community. Reforms currently being undertaken include:
(i) a comprehensive revision of the Banking Law and the Act on the
Central Bank; (ii) the strengthening of banking supervision
capacities and enhancement of prudential regulations; (iii) the
introduction of a law on collateral security; (iv) draft
legislation for deposit insurance; and (v) a legal framework for
capital market activities. A key element of this process has been
the adoption of an enabling framework for the corporatization and
privatization of state-owned banks. In October 1991 all nine
state commercial banks were transformed into joint-stock status
(corporatization), and the process of privatization of two of them
(in addition to one of the formerly specialized banks) was
initiated.
(d)   Institutional Strenathenina of Banks.  This program, jointly
supported with IFC, involves: (i) the development of banke'
institutional capabilities through measures such as reclassifying
bank portfolios, undertaking sound financial audits, and training
staff; and (ii) the financial restructuring of existing
institutions, with a view to eventual privatization. A key
measure to promote institutional development is the program of
"twinning" arrangements with reputable Western banks, to ensure
the rapid transfer of banking know-how.
C. Facilities for Private Sector Financing
3.04        Banking sector credits (including loans from specialized financial
institutions) and international donor or credit agencies are currently the two
main facilities to finance private sector investments.
3.05        Bank Credits.  A clear increasing trend in private sector
operations with the banking system is evident since early 1990. As of October
31, 1991, the outstanding credit in domestic currency extended by the banking
sector to the private enterprises amounted to Zl 24,924 billion (about US$2.2
billion equivalent), a twenty-fold increase over the Zl 434 billion (about
US$108 million) in credit at the end of 1989 (Annex 3-1). Credit to private
enterprises (excluding agriculture) from the banking system increased from
1.3% of total credit as of December 31, 1989, to about 16% as of October 31,
1991. The significant expansion of bank credits to private enterprises
reflects the sustained growth of the private sector and deliberate efforts of
the banking system to diversify its portfolio in view of the deterioration of
the state-owned corporate sector. Lending to the private sector has expanded
in spite of the banks' perception of private enterprises as high risk. This
attitude has led to the practice of requesting extensive collateral and
guarantees from private-sector customers, which together with the lack of a
credit record for almost all private entrepreneurs, has restricted access to
credit for a large segment of the private sector.



- 15 -
3.06        Credit to private enterprises from the banking system is
essentially short-term (up to one year) and in domestic currency. Of the
total credit to private enterprises as of October 31, 1991, about 88% is
short-term credit. The remainder is medium and long-term of up to four years
maturity; normal practice however, is to grant term credit with maturity of up
to two years. This practice reflects a deep tradition in the system of
focusing on short-term financing, which has resulted in a lack of capability
in the system to handle term operations. The specialized banks continue to be
the main source--although of decreasing importance, as the new private banks
continue to expand--of credit for private sector enterprises. As of October
31, 1991 the specialized banks accounted for 44% of total outstanding credit
to private enterprises, the state-owned commercial banks accounted for about
25%, and the new private sector banks for about 31% (up from 7% as of June 30,
1990, and about 11% as of December 31, 1990).
3.07        Outstanding credit in foreign currency from the banking system to
the overall private sector (including agricultural and households) amounted to
about US$325 million (about 9% of total credit outstanding to the private
sector as of October 31, 1991), most of which is short-term credit to finance
trade in consumer goods. The volume of this credit is limited by the
capability of the banking system to mobilize foreign currency, both in Poland
and abroad. Furthermore, the banking system lacks the capacity to deal in
foreign currency; the application of current regulations limits the licensing
for conducting foreign currency operations to a small number of banks,
including only a few of the new private banks.
3.08        Credit from International Donors or Credit Aaencies.  Starting
mostly in the second part of 1990, credit facilities from international
agencies and bilateral sources became available for lending through the
banking system mainly to manufacturing, agroindustry, and private sector
activities. Current estimates indicate that as of end-1991, approximately
US$250 million is available from existing and new grants/loans from
international donors and financial institutions (including inter alia, the
Bank, IFC, the European Investment Bank, the Polish American Enterprise Fund,
and the EC's PHARE). Of this amount, approximately US$85 million is earmarked
for small and medium private enterprise development. In addition, 22
substantially-tied bilateral facilities are currently supporting the financing
of private sector commercial operations and investments by Western European
countries, the United States and Japan. Because they are tied, only those
lines of credit made available by countries which have developed strong trade
relations in the past with Poland (such as Germany, Austria and France) have
shown any significant utilization.
3.09        Initially, the overall use of these resources was slow due mainly
to: (i) the lack of practical experience of the banking system in relation to
required policies and procedures (project appraisal, completion of loan
agreements, disbursement formalities) to access and channel these funds;
(ii) the lack of in-house capabilities of enterprises and in the economy to
prepare and present bankable projects; (iii) the high credit guarantees and
securities required by banks; and (iv) the high level of concentration of
these facilities in a small number of banks, due either to design features of
the credit line (for example, where resources made available by the foreign



- 16 -
agency were channeled only through one Polish bank), or due to the licensing
system which has restricted the banks which can deal in foreign currency.
During 1991, commitments of foreign currency resources accelerated as banks
became more familiar with investment project financing practices required by
international donors and credit institutions, the private sector continued to
grow and consolidate its presence, and the number of banks licensed to deal in
foreign exchange increased.
3.10        During the fall of 1990, the Polish-American Enterprise Fund
(PAEF)I1 with the cooperation of the Southshore Bank of Chicago, established
the Enterprise Credit Corporation (ECC). The ECC operates through eight
commercial banks, is managed by US-trained bankers under the supervision of
Southshore Bank executives and finances private small and medium enterprises
and joint ventures. Maximum sub-loan amounts were initially limited to
US$20,000 but the limit was increased to US$50,000 in view of the rapid growth
of private enterprises. Sub-loans are denominated in USs and their interest
rate is fixed at 12%, with maturity periods of up three years, including a 5-
month grace period. To carry out its lending operations, the PAEF has
established a network of "windows" within the commercial banks, which identify
the projects and undertake the first review. This function has assisted
participating banks in developing their credit and project appraisal
capability. Final screening and approval of sub-projects is undertaken by
PAEF. Credit risk is shared by the commercial bank and PAEF. To date, PAEF
has accepted as bankable about 20% of the applications presented for loans,
and has disbursed about 40% of its total available credit of US$19 million. A
new allocation of US$15 million has been added to this program. In addition,
in view of the rapid development of the private sector and the demand for
larger credit amounts, the PAEF has started a new facility with a total
allocation of US$20 million, which will provide sub-loans of up to US$500,000
to be lent under similar terms and conditions as the previous scheme.
3.11        Demand and Supolv of Credit.  As indicated above (para 3.06)
supply of medium and long term credit, both in domestic and foreign currency,
has been restricted by the historically low propensity for term lending that
characterizes Polish banks. This characteristic has been reinforced by other
factors, which include, inter alia: (i) the limited institutional capability
of the new banking system to prepare and appraise term credit projects;
(ii) credit ceilings that have been imposed as part of the anti-inflationary
program, and which have resulted in credit rationing; and (iii) the relatively
low demand for term credit in domestic currency due to high nominal interest
rates (currently in the range 45-55%; although until recently were up to 75%).
3.12        Leading banks in Poland believe that the future demand for term
credit in foreign currency by private enterprise to finance new business
start-ups or expansion programs is substantial. According to estimates
prepared by a sample of banks (Gdansk, Katowice, Lodz, Poznan, Krakow and
Warsaw, Annex 3-2, and selected leading private banks), the demand for term
5/    The Polish-American Enterprise Fund is funded by the United States
Congress in accordance with the provisions of the Support for East
European Democracy Act of 1989 (the SEED Act).



- 17 -
credit by small and medium enterprises could substantially exceed supply
during the next 18 months. Demand for credit (both in local and foreign
cutrrency) for a longer period, say 1992-1995, is expected to continue to grow
strongly, particularly in view of the continuing expansion of the private
sector. This demand will increase even further if inflationary forces are
contained and local currency term lending offered at lower interest rates.
3.13        According to these estimates, which represent bankers' judgements
regarding the future credit requirements of their clients and the expected
capacity of their institutions to handle project financing, annual demand for
foreign currency term credits from private sector clients will amount to some
US$300-US$350 million by the end of 1992. Estimates for the demand at
individual banks range from US$3 million to US$80 million!'.   PDB forecasts
its demand for term credit in foreign currency through the end of 1992 to
amount to about US$140 million. This estimate is based only on credit to be
channeled to SMEs mostly through a group of expected participating banks,
composed mainly of small private, foreign, and cooperative banks. These
estimates are expected to increase significantly as selected state-owned banks
become participating banks under the project.
3.14        The above estimates provide a clear demonstration of the optimism
of the banking system regarding the demand for term resources by the private
sector. Should these expectations materialize, term credit demand by the
private sector up to the end of 1992 (e.g. during the first year of the
proposed project implementation) could exceed by US$50-US$100 million the
estimated US$250 million available. There is, thus, expected to be a
comfortable demand for project funds.
D. The Polish Development Bank (PDB)
3.15          PDB was established on the basis of the Council of Minister's
decision of July 2, 1990, and started operations in the second quarter of
1991. It is currently the main apex institution for the provision of term
credit mobilized from external sources, including those of the Bank, and has
released NBP from further administrative responsibilities related to such
activities. By statute, PDB is an autonomous financial institution, subject
to Polish banking regulation and supervision, established as a joint stock
company, with equity participation of the Government (about US$70 million
equivalent) as the major shareholder, the Industrial Development Agency (about
US$17 million), and three West European banks: Credit National of France,
CreditInvest of Austria, and Instituto Mobiliare Italiano of Italy (US$2
million equivalent each). A further appraisal of PDB, including a review of
its financial performance and projections, is contained in Annex 3-3.
6/    Credit estimates presented by private banks are smaller than those
presented by state-owned banks due to their considerably smaller capital
base. However, as plans for increasing their capital materialize in the
next two or three years, their capabilities for dealing with credit
operations will expand accordingly.



- is -
3.16        As detailed above, the Polish financial system has not provided
adequate medium- and long-term financing for viable investment or
restructuring projects in the industrial sector. More importantly, the system
has not had national financial institutions to provide term financing and
venture capital to the enterprise sector. To fill this gap, PDB was
established as an apex institution to provide term lending to privatized or
restructured companies as well as to SMEs, using commercial and specialized
banks as intermediaries. Initially PDB is expected to play a catalytic role
in guiding and assisting these banks in the provision of term financing. By
the end of 1993, PDB will undertake a review of its role in light of the
progress achieved in the modernization and development of the financial sector
ir Poland, and will accordingly elaborate a plan on the next phase of its
activities. Such a plan would be implemented after conoulting with the
international and bilateral institutions providing funding to PDB. By that
time, PDB will prepare and begin to implement a program to increase private
participation in its capital.
3.17        PDB's mandate is to (i) promote and facilitate the privatization
and restructuring of existing state-owned enterprises, and (ii) develop the
private sector. PDB will provide financing to the manufacturing, industrial,
agro-industrial, construction, tourism and mining sectors, and associated
services including trade, transport and repair. PDB will not generally
finance the development of agriculture or housing, for which other banks
exist, nor will it normally finance basic infrastructure such as railways or
power.
3.18        PDB will augment the banking system's capacity to finance
privatization programs and restructuring operations and hasten the pace of
productive sector investment in new or expansion projects. PDB will act
principally as a wholesale bank, channelling the majority of its lending to
final borrowers through eligible financial institutions. However, due to the
small size of most private banks and the slow pace and low volume of their
large-scale/term lending activities, it is anticipated that to accelerate the
process of privatization and restructuring of enterprises during the next
several years, PDB will need to participate in larger scale direct lending
operations. PDB's direct lending operations of this type will be limited by
its policies to 15% of it. total operations during the next three years. PDB
may also occasionally channel funds provided by the Government and earmarked
for specific uses such as the restructuring of enterprises in priority
sectors. For such operations, mainly involving budgetary transfers, PDB will
serve on a fee basis as an agent of the Government that would assume all of
the credit risk. PDB's main sources of term funds in the first few years will
be capital, loans from external banks (including multilateral and regional
development institutions), bilateral lending arrangements, medium-term
deposits and bonds issued in the Polish financial markets, and possible loans
from the Government.
3.19        PDB's management is well qualified and is strongly supported by a
substantial cadre of highly experienced expatriate bankers. This will allow
PDB to administer a substantial technical assistance program designed to raise
the skills and the productivity of the banking system, especially with regard



- 19 -
to financial management, term lending operations and non-traditional banking
activities such as financial leasing operations.
3.20        PDB has adopted a satisfactory organizational structure.  To
adminieter its diverse activities, PDB has established three operational
departmentas Credit, Capital Investments and Economics. The Credit department
is comprised of three units which: (i) finance investments in privatized and
restructured companies, large-scale private companies and joint ventures;
(ii) finance smaller and medium-sized private enterprises through the Private
Sector Development Unit (PSDU); and (iii) provide technical analysis to credit
applications and project supervision (technical unit). The proposed loan
under this project would be managed by the Credit Department's PSDU.
Consistent with PDB's policy, the two credit units will be expected to return
a profit and are therefore being organized as profit centers, with appropriate
financial accounting and control systems.
3.21        PDB management has adopted a satisfactory statement of policy and
guidelines for its restructuring and privatization credit operations and has
approved a Statement of Policy and Operating Guidelines which outlines the
objectives, functions and policies of the PSDU (annex 3-4). It has also
approved an organizational structure for the PSDU. In addition, PDB
management has developed operational procedures for each of its proposed areas
of activity. These provide for satisfactory preparation, appraisal and
supervision of sub-projects, and appropriate procurement practices.
3.22        PDB is adopting an aggressive program of staff training and
assistance from expatriate experts, thus rapidly developing its capacity to
operate as a financial institution. To this end, the Privatization and
Restructuring Project (para 2.33) includes US$3 million for financing training
as well as general support in establishing and starting up PDB, such as
financing of technical assistance to improve PDB's policies, procedures and
operations. In addition, the EC's PHARE program is providing ECU 500,000
specifically for financing training programs, which will include financing for
a team of foreign/local experts to assist PDB in upgrading the ability of the
banking system to effectively prepare and appraise loans to the private
sector.
3.23        Under the proposed project the Bank will lend directly to PDB,
instead of to the Government or the Central Bank (NBP) as in previous Bank
loans. While PDB has been recently established, it has quickly built up a
strong management team, a skilled staff complement and sound policies. Within
the Polish banking system, PDB has developed as the main apex institution for
the provision of term credit. PDB has also started direct operations with the
European Investment Bank (EIB). A direct loan to PDB will help to refocus the
role of NBP as a central bank, and will further strengthen the on-going
relationship with the Bank, initiated under the Privatization and
Restructuring Project, for which PDB is the apex institution. During the
preparation of the proposed project, for example, the Bank assisted PDB to
enhance its capabilities to manage risks associated with foreign currency
operations, in particular in dealing with the risks related to the Bank's
currency pool.



- 20 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives and Scoy2 of the Proposed Prolect
4.01        The principal objective of the proposed project is to support the
creation of new private businesses, which has emerged as one of the
centerpieces of the Government's program to transform the Polish economy. To
meet this objective, the project provides financing for efficient investment
in private enterprises, particularly in SMEs, and for a program aimed at
overcoming deficiencies of business practices and building support services
for private enterprise development.
B. Proiect Description
4.02        The proposed project, supported by a US$60 million Bank loan,
includes two related components:
(a)   An investment financing component which will provide sub-loans
(channelled through PDB to eligible commercial banks) to finance
efficient investments in private enterprises; and
(b)   An institutional suDDort component which will provide financing
for technical assistance to the key agencies responsible for
stimulating private sector development, and through these
agencies, to local institutions to finance eligible promotion
activities.
C. Investment Financina Comoonent
4.03        The proposed investment financing component will provide a line of
credit of US$58 million through PDB (as an apex institution) to eligible
commercial banks to finance efficient private enterprise projects. Private
enterprises (para 5.17) engaged in & broad range of economic activity,
including all forms of production (inter-alia, industrial, agro-industrial,
fishery, tourism) as well as in the provision of services will be eligible for
loan funds. Specifically, the investment financing component will finance the
procurement of new and used machinery a d equipment, spare parts and permanent
working capital and the construction or rehabilitation of plants, buildings or
storage facilities associated with start-up or expansion projects. This
component will also assist in financing the technical assistance services
required to address and resolve production, marketing, and financial
management needs of individual private sector enterprises.
D. The Institutional Support Component
4.04        Deficiencies in the business environment and supporting services
for private sector development in Poland have been described in detail in
Chapter II. The proposed institutional support component will provide US$2
million of Bank funds to assist in financing a program aimed at overcoming
these deficiencies, primarily by providing help to local initiatives to
stimulate and assist private sector development, particularly among small and
medium enterprises. This will be accomplished bys (i) direct technical



- 21 -
assistance to the Office of the Undersecretary for Business Promotion in the
Ministry of Industry and Trade; (ii) similar assistance to the Project Support
Unit of the Cooperation Fund; and (iii) local-level initiatives by chambers of
commerce, craft associations, regional development authorities, business
schools, etc., which aim at stimulating and assisting private sector
development. The activities proposed would directly stimulate demand for the
associated Bank-financed investment component described above; they will also
have a much wider impact in terms of assisting the efficient expansion of the
private sector in Poland, and will be assisted by a variety of multilateral
and bilateral grant agencies (the EC, USAID and the British Know-How Fund) as
well as other financing institutions EIB, EBRD, IFC and others, and NGOs.
4.05        The proposed program of institutional support is summarized
graphically in the following chart (page 23). Details of the program as it
pertains to each of the two beneficiary groups are described in the following
paragraphs.
1. Office of the Undersecretary for Business Promotion
4.06        The office of the Undersecretary for Bueiness Promotion has
clearly defined responsibilities and objectives and has prepared an ambitious
program of support activities (para 2.26). However, it has been unable to
recruit personnel with previous experience in these fields, and lacks many of
the other tools essential for performing the envisaged tasks satisfactorily.
To overcome these deficiencies, the Project, primarily utilizing EC-PHARE
finance, but also supported by World Bank funding will:
(a)   Strenathen institutional capacitv by: (i) providing one
experienced specialist to work within the Office of the
Undersecretary for three years as an advisor to the Undersecretary
and his staff7/; (ii) funding 16 work-months of technical
assistance which would provide specialists on a short-term basis
to help design and implement the entire program and to provide
internal staff training; (iii) providing office technology
equipment to support data collection and other activities of the
office of the Undersecretary; and (iv) providing appropriate
short-term overseas training for key staff. The terms of
reference for the long-term advisor and short term specialists are
provided in Annex 4-1.
(b)   Conduct studies of selected key sub-sectors to identify
opportunities for private investment and to determine policies and
programs aimed at establishing an enabling environment to
stimulate such investments, particularly in small and medium
enterprises. In particular, as well as the normal coverage of
markets, technology and comparative advantage, these studies will:
7/    USAID is also funding one advisor in the Undersecretary for Business
Promotion. The tasks and responsibilities of these two advisors have
been developed, and Terms of Reference elaborated, in a coordinated
fashion in cooperation with the Undersecretary and USAID.



- 22 -
(i) &ssess the potential for private sector growth in the sub-
sector through new start-ups, product development, expansions and
links with foreign technologies; (ii) explor, the potential for
domestic and international subcontracting; and (iii) identify
Government actions and the enabling environment necessary to
stimulate appropriate development in these areas. Initial topics
to be investigated could include the potential for expanded
private sector production in agro-industries, electronics,
footwear and other leather goods; subcontracting relationships
primarily in the metalworking and machinery industries; and
marketing and distribution activities. These studies, as
appropriate, will build upon results of related but more general
reviews conducted under other operations. Draft outline terms of
reference are provided in Annex 4-2.
(c)   Initiate and maintain a monitorina and evaluation system on the
performance and impact of the variety of programs being undertaken
to support rapid growth of the private sector. The monitoring and
evaluation, to be undertaken by external consultants financed
under the project, will provide vital information to avoid
duplication and enable the timely introduction of necessary
adjustments. Terms of reference are provided in Annex 4-3
2. Project Support Unit of the CooDeration Fund (PSUI
4.07        The PSU (para 2.27) has the mandate to establish small business
support centers and provide financial and technical assistance to other local
private sector development initiatives. The PSU evaluates these activities on
the basis of market demand, and minimal bureaucratic procedures. Assisted by
EC-PHARE funding, the PSU is already initiating activities in six regions of
the country (Wroclaw, Siedlce, Lodz, Plock, Gdansk and Olsztyn). Additional
technical assistance will, first, further strengthen the PSU's own internal
organization and, second, extend these activities to provide extension
services to local agencies supporting private sector development in areas of
Poland where such services are now deficient, including the Warsaw region and
other priority locations, primarily in the eastern part of the country
(Lublin, Bialystok, Kielce, Radom, Rzeszow, Ostroleka, Przemysl, Suwalki).
Specifically, this program, primarily financed by EC-PHARE but also supported
with the proceeds of the loan, will be used tos
(a)   Strenathen institutional caoacitv by: (i) providing one foreign
specialist in SME development for one year and four Polish experts
for three years8/ to work as advisors within the Unit;
(ii) providing office technology equipment to support the data
collection, promotional and other activities of the Unit; and
(iii) providing internal seminars and appropriate short-term
overseas training for key staff.
S/    Two EC-PHARE financed advisors are already supporting the operations of
the PSU but additional assistance is required in view of the envisaged
expansion in the scope of the Unit's activities.



- 23 -
Proposed Program of Institutional SuoDO2t
inglitutional Sucoort for Central Agaencie
Undersecretary for Business                                   Project Support Unit
Promotion.
- General support for the                                  - General support for the Unit
Office including staff                                     including staff support and
support, training, specialist                              training
TA and office technology
equipment                                                - Design and supervision of
programs of extension services
- Studies of potential for                                   to local institutions providing
small business development in                              services to private businessmen
specific subsectors                                        in investment promotion,
business incubators, business
- establishment and maintenance                              training, and development of
of a monitoring and                                        information data bases
evaluation system for SME
support activities
Funding for Local Assistance Initiatives
Kev Criteria
Advisory Board comprising representatives of the Government                      - financial plan, which shows
and the private sector which reviews applications for funding                      sources and applications of
by eligible local agencies for activities which meet agreed                        all funds, identifies need
criteria                                                                           for financing with proposed
project funds, with a
minimum 25X funding from
own sources, and demonstrates
Eligible Activities                      Eliicble Local Agencies                    long-term financial self-
sufficiency
- development and dissemination          - Chambers of Commerce and
of information and advisory              Chambers of Crafts                     - staffina plan, which ident-
services to private businesses                                                    ifies key qualified staff to
- economic foundations, regional           implement the program
- business training                        development agencies, and
other societies working to             - cost-benefit analysis, which
promote private business                 identifies beneficiaries and
overall cost-effectiveness of
- business schools                         proposed program
(b)   Provide financing for extension services to local acencies which
are working to promote and assist private sector development. In
response to a sufficient demand for a particular extension
service, a team of Polish consultants will be selected, trained
and assisted by foreign consultants to provide the necessary
service. Areas of activity for which demand is envisaged include
the: (i) design and implementation of regional investment



- 24 -
promotion programs; (ii) support to business schools; and
(iii) provision of other types of business training at the local
level for managers and entrepreneurs. The teams for each of these
activities will not only provide assistance to local agencies in
the design of such programs, but will also assist them to apply
for funds allocated for financing local initiatives as further
described below. Over the three-year life of the project, a total
of 60 work-months of Polish consultants and 27 work-months of
foreign consultants are envisaged.
3. Fundina for Local Assistance Initiatives
4.08        As noted in Chapter II (para 2.28), many organizations are being
developed throughout Poland to help foster private business. The Government
has decided to make grant funds available to help to finance some of the
activities of these organizations, provided that both the organization and the
activity meet certain pre-established criteria. The grant funds will be
managed by the PSU, although decisions concerning which organizations and
activities are to be financed will be made by an Advisory Board comprising
representatives of the Government and the private sector (para 5.24).
4.09        Insofar as the organizations to be funded are concerned, proposals
for funding will be accepted only from legally constituted, non-Government,
non-profit agencies with demonstrated management capacity and audited and up-
to-date accounts.  Specific additional criteria have also been developed for
the three main types of institutions that would qualify for direct support
including: (i) chambers of commerce, economic societies and chambers of
crafts, which represent and provide services to businesses at the local level;
(ii) small business support centers; and (iii) business trainina institutions.
Chambers of commerce are being established throughout Poland but
most have been in existence only for a few months and have
attracted a very small portion of their potential membership.
Economic societies also aim at business promotion but include
members from academia and other non-business organizations.
Chambers of crafts include many small private enterprises as well
as true craft activities. Membership was compulsory under the
previous regime and in the case of some chambers, has dropped
rapidly, now that it is no longer obligatory. These institutions
wish to serve as lobbying agencies as well as to provide key
services to members on: regulations, legal requirements for
business, taxation and tariffs; domestic and export markets; sub-
contracting opportunities; lists of consultants and potential
sources of advice and help on technical, financial, management,
taxation and legal problems; standards and import requirements of
different countries; available training courses and technical
assistance; and sources of finance such as credit lines and other
programs of assistance.  To be eligible for financial assistance
under the project, any chamber or other similar society must have:
- a clear private sector orientation in its activities;
- at least one professionally qualified manager; and



-25 -
- demonstrable local support by having at least 50 dues-paying
members.
*     Small business supoort centers are being established in selected
cities with the assistance of local authorities, technical
universities, the Solidarity Foundation and other public and
private groups. The services to be provided include: use of
communications and office equipment; access to consultants who
will provide advisory services on technical matters as well as
financial management and legal matters. To be considered for
financial assistance under the project, any such center must:
- be supported by the appropriate local government (municipal or
woiewoda) authority;
- have suitable physical facilities;
- have a satisfactory financial plan that projects sources and
applications of funds for a period of at least two years which
demonstrates progress towards self-financing;
- have at least one professionally qualified full-time manager;
- demonstrate demand, supported by studies or surveys, for the
services it proposes to provide.
*     By mid-1991, business training institutions including numerous
training centers as well as 28 business schools had been
established in Poland. These schools vary in quality of
instruction as well as scope of the curricula offered. To be
considered for financial assistance under the project, any
business school or training center must:
-be a legal education/training entity recognized/licensed by the
Ministry of Education;
- have demonstrated capacity to deliver quality courses to the
business community;
- have acceptable training facilities and materials;
- have at least one professionally qualified manager and a group
of adequately qualified instructors; and
- have a satisfactory business plan which projects demand, revenue
from fees, other sources of financing and costs.
4.10        The above list covers a wide range of organizations and
activities, but it is conceivable that other initiatives will emerge which
fully meet the objectives of the institutional support component of the
proposed project and provide effective stimulus to new private sector
development. For this reason, subject to approval by the Bank, other
appropriate activities which may from time to time be proposed may be
considered for financing under this component.
4.11        To be considered for financial assistance for specific activities
under the program, eligible organizations will, further to the requirements
listed above, have to provide a minimum of 25% of matching funds of which at
least 10% is derived from the agencies' own resources (from dues or fees for
services). In addition, the following will have to be submitted:



- 26 -
*     a financinc 2lan, which shows sourcea and applications of all
funds required for the proposed activity, demonstrates the need
for conces-ionary financing as proposed under the project, and
assesses the potential for self-financing of the proposed
activities within a reasonable period of time;
*     a staffina clan, which provides detailed information on the
qualifications and experience of the staff to implement the
proposed activity, proposals for recruiting and training
additional staff, and the levels of remuneration proposed; and
*     a cost-benefit analysit, which provides information on projected
revenues, operating costs and budgets, identifies the targeted
beneficiaries, quantifies the extent to which it is anticipated
they will use the service to be provided, and presents an overall
evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of the proposed program of
activities.
*     a primarily qualitative assessment of the economic benefits of the
program (employment, foreign exchange earnings, value added and
linkages).
4.12        Agreements concerning the above criteria for the organizations and
activities to be funded under this component were finalized during
negotiations. As described in Chapter V, applications for financial
assistance for any of these activities will be reviewed separately by the
Advisory Board and the ongoing performance of each activity will be monitored
by the team established under the Monitoring and Evaluation component.
E. Proiect Cost and Financina Plan
4.13        Total investments in Poland's private sector, even in small- and
medium-scale enterprises, will be far greater than the funds which will be
mobilized under the present project. Table 4.1 presents an estimate of the
total project cost associated with this specific operation.



- 27 -
Table 4.1 - Private Enterorise Develooment Proiect
Estimated Total Project Cogt
(US$ million equivalent)
Amount
Local     Foroign      Total
Investment Financing Component
- Civil works                                  9.0        6.0        15.0
- Machinery & equipment                       36.0       97.0       133.0
- Working capital                             12.0        8.0        20.0
- Consulting services                         10,O        7.0        17.0
55.0      110.0       165.0
Institutional Support Component
- Ministry of Industry                         0.4        2.0         2.4
- Project Support Unit                         2.0        3.4         5.4
- Local initiatives                            4.7        9      7   14.4
7.1       15.1        22.2
Total Financing Required                      62 1      ;3 ;        187.2
4.14        The cost for the investment financina comDonent is based on an
estimated pipeline of investment needs and viable projects, which has been
confirmed in discussions with a number of the Polish banks expected to be
financial intermediaries in the project (para 3.13). The break-down of the
estimate into civil works, machinery/equipment, working capital and consulting
services is based on analysis of a number of representative sub-projects. The
estimate for the institutional suioort component was developed by Bank staff
jointly with staff from the EC-PHARE and the Government institutions involved
in the project.
4.15        The proposed financing plan for the project is summarized below in
Table 4.2.



- 28 -
Table 4.2 - Private Enterorise Development Proisct
Propoged Financina Plan
(USS million equivalent)
Amount
Local     Foreign     Total
IBRD                                           -        60.0        60.0
Enterprises                                  45.0        10.0       55.0
Other Commercial Sources                     10.0       42.0        52.0
Local institutions                          2.0         -          2.0
Other donors                                5    .1   13..LiJ     18.2
Total Financing                          6.5.1                     187.2
a/    Including EC-PHARE program, USAID, UK Know-How Fund.
4.16        For the project as a whole, World Bank financing is expected to
cover US$60 million equivalent or 32% of the total cost (48% of the foreign
exchange requirement). The balance of foreign exchange requirements will come
from private commercial sources as well as other multilateral and bilateral
institutions (including IFC, which is already participating in private sector
investments). Local cost financing will come from investors and from local
financial institutions such as commercial banks and other financing
institutions, and local institutions supported under the institutional support
component. Based on current experience, it is assumed that the enterprises
themselves, on average, will be able to fund about one-third of the required
investment costs. The financing plan includes the EC-PHARE program to the
PSU, USAID funding to the Office of the Undersecretary and resources from
other donors (UK Know-How Fund) for these related activities. The financing
plan and cofinancing commitments were confirmed during negotiations.
F. Environmental Impact
4.17        Environmental degradation is a serious problem in Poland.  Air and
water pollution generated by urbanization, industrial activity, energy
production, etc., has reached alarming levels. The Government is very
conscious of the environmental issue, and is developing a strategy towards
environmental protection and conservation. The Bank-assisted environmental
technical assistance project under implementation is providing support to the
Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources to build-up the
capability and means to elaborate, monitor and enforce suitable environmental
protection policies and legislation.
4.18        While small- and medium-sized enterprises may not yet contribute
much to Poland's environmental problems, their very large number and the
difficulty of adequately monitoring their operations suggests some
considerable potential for future problems. For the present project, which
has been screened in category B, the following measures have been taken to
minimize any potential adverse environmental impact:



- 29 -
*     PDB and the participating bank. will ensure in their on-lending
agreements that all enterprise. which benefit from the proceed. of
the loan will build facilities and operate their plants according
to Polish regulations and in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
*     Training provided to PDB under the ongoing Privatization and
Restructuring Project will support the development of a capability
within PDB and the participating banks to ensure that
environmental reviews of loans are conducted on a routine basis.
*     The Bank's environmental review procedures for intermediate credit
projects will be used in screening lending activities.
*     No funding will be authorized for investments which would produce
or involve the use of hazardous or toxic materials without the
formal review and approval of the Bank.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND ON-LENDING ARRANGEMENTS
A. Lendinc Arrancements
5.01        The proposed Loan will be made to the Polish Development Bank
(PDB) for a period of seventeen years including five years of grace at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
5.02        For the investment financina component, on-lending by PDB to the
participating banks, and by them to eligible enterprises at variable or fixed
interest rates in any currency included in the Bank currency pool at the
option of the enterprise. Given current trade patterns in Poland, the bulk of
on-lending is expected to be in USS or in DM.
5.03        For sub-loans at fixed interest rates, the rate PDB will charge to
participating banks will be set with reference to market indices and provide
for covering the costs of funds (equal to the corresponding specific currency
costs embodied in the bank rate) plus a margin, and for a reasonable spread
for participating banks. The margin will be determined based on: (i)
estimated transaction and hedging costs (i.e., for converting Bank's currency
basket into the required denomination as specified by sub-loans; mainly
Japanese yen into US$ or DM); and (ii) PDB's estimated intermediation and
administrative costs, and a reasonable profit margin. Initially PDB's margin
is expected to range between 2.5% and 2.75%. PDB's margin will be reviewed
with the Bank regularly, at least semi-annually.
5.04        Variable interest rates to be charged by PDB to participating
banks will be market-based. The rate will be LIBOR-based for USS plus a
margin or FIBOR-based for DM plus a margin. The margins will be determined
based upon the same elements and considerations as the margins for fixed
interest rates described above, plus the cost of hedging for interest rate
risks between short-term variable rates and longer-term variable rates.



- 30 -
5.05        For both fixed rate and variable rate lending, participating banks
wlll on-lend to enterprises at rates equal to the rate charged to them by PDB,
plus a margin determined by prevailing market intereut rates. Sub-loans to
enterprisos will be for periods not exceeding .even years with grace periods
of up to three years. The loan will be supported by zloty counterpart funds
from PDB, as required, to ensure term financing for implementing sub-projects
to be financed under the proposed Loan. From its zloty resources, PDB will
lend to the participating banks at market rates.
5.06        PDB, as the borrower, and the Dank will consult at least semi-
annually, ons the adequacy of Lte policies and procedures to manage the
foreign exchange and interest rate risks in dealing with the Bank currency
pool; PDB's margin; and the appropriateness of the scheme to be used in
calculating PDB's margin, including an estimation of the margin that the
participating banks could charge to final borrowers considering prevailing
market conditions. These arrangements were confirmed during negotiations.
5.07        For the institutional suooort com2onent, funds will be on-lent by
PDB to the Guarantor under terms and conditions (maturity, interest rate, and
other charges) similar to those that the Guarantor could have received in the
case of being the direct borrower of a Bank loan. Funds designated for
technical assistance to the Office of the Undersecretary for Business
Promotion and the Project Support Unit (PSU) of the Cooperation Fund will be
passed directly to those agencies. As further elaborated below (para 5.25),
proposals for the use of funds designated for supporting local agencies and
initiatives will first require the approval of the Advisory Board. Once this
approval is received, funds for local initiatives will be passed on to those
organizations on a non-reimbursable, cost-sharing basis to finance eligible
expenses, and will be disbursed through the PSU. These arrangements were
confirmed during negotiations.
B. Implementation Arrangements for the Investment Financing Component
5.08        Term loans will be made available to private sector enterprises on
a nationwide basis by selecting the broadest possible network of qualified
banks. Initially, ten banks are expected to participate in the project, with
a view to ensuring that all geographic regions are adequately serviced and
that attention is paid to small as well as larger borrowers.
5.09        The Private Sector Development Unit (PSDU) will manage PDB's
financing operations with the small and medium scale enterprises. As
indicated in para 3.20, the PSDU, is a division within the Credit Department
of the PDB, and will refinance productive term credits granted to the private
SMEs by banks participating in the program. Such resources would provide
financing and technical assistance to eligible enterprises for setting up new
projects or modernizing or expanding existing productive facilities.
5.10        The PSDU has been staffed by a small number of qualified
professionals who will perform the core functions of project promotion, sub-
project review, and supervision with the support of PDB's technical unit (para
3.20). PSDU, as profit center, will maintain separate accounts.



- 31 -
1. The ParticiRatina Banks
5.11        Any duly constituted Polish bank can become eligible for access to
Bank resources under the project, provided it meets the eligibility criteria
detailed below (para 5.13). The participating banks wills (i) identify and
appraise investments sub-projects; (ii) administer their sub-loans; (iii)
supervise sub-project performance; and (iv) submit periodic report. on sub-
project performance to PDB.
5.12        Within each participating bank, the credit department will prepare
the appraisal of and supervise all sub-projects financed through the
respective institution. Sub-loans to be presented for financing through the
participating banks will be cleared by the respective Credit Committee.
5.13        To qualify as participating intermediaries under the proposed
project, banks must:
*     Be in good standing with the banking regulatory and supervision
agency (NBP);
*     Be financially profitable and have sound financial structure;
*     Have acceptable lending policies and procedures; including
policies and procedures for lending to SMEs, foreign exchange
management, securitization, collection procedures, and
provisioning;
*     Have competent management and an appropriate organization
structure, including a Credit Committee as an advisory body to the
bank's President on credit decisions. The Committee should
include adequate, qualified staff and should review all investment
projects and loans above the limits established for decision of
branch managers, as well as all major supervieion problems;
*     Have the capabilities for preparing, appraising and supervising
sub-projects;
*     Agree to undertake satisfactory external audits according to
international auditing standards, and to take any necessary
actions as a result of such audits; and
*     Negotiate a Subsidiary Finance Agreement with PDB that reflects
the acceptance of these conditions and include provision for
periodic reports on the portfolio financed by PDB, for reporting
to the Bank.
5.14        The direct evaluation of potential participating banks on their
capability to meet the agreed criteria for participation will be made by PDB.
PDB will then make a recommendation to the Bank, for its review and approval,
regarding the eligibility of potential participating banks. Seven banks which
have already been qualified to participate in other on-going Bank projects
could also qualify under the proposed project; however, considering the impact



- 32 -
of recent macroeconomic developments on portfolio of thesu banks, PDB and the
Bank would ensure --as needed-- that those banks are currently fully meeting
the agreed criteria before signing the subsidiary financing agreement under
the project. In addition, the participation of eligible new smaller private
banks as channels for Bank financing for small and medium scale enterprises
will be encouraged. A review of a number of such banks was conducted during
the preparation of the proposed project in order to evaluate their capacity;
as a result of this review at least two of these banks are expected to be
accepted by PDB as participating banks.
5.15        Compliance by the participating banks with the financial
conditions as included in the eligibility criteria will be monitored yearly as
on the basis of their annual audits. The annual audits would have to include
separate opinions by the external auditors that the respective bank is in
compliance with prudential regulations on loan loss provisioning, capital
adequacy a'id loan concentration, and have achieved a minimum collection ratio.
Should any participating bank violate theae participation conditions at any
time, PDB would suspend that bank's subsidiary financing agreement (para
5.16), unless the bank presents an action plan acceptable to PDB and the Bank
to recover its full adherence to the provisions of paragraph 5.12, within a
reasonable period. These arrangements were confirmed during negotiations.
2. On-Lending Arrangements
5.16        A number of legal agreements will be required in order to set out
the respective obligations of the various entities, and to regulate the flow
of funds from PDB to the beneficiaries. Formal loan documents associated with
the proposed Bank loan include a Loan Agreement between the Bank and PDB and a
Guarantee Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of Poland. A Subsidiary
Loan Aareement between PVn and the Government will be a condition of
effectiveness of the Bank loan. In addition, the conclusion of Subsidiary
Financina Agreement between PDB and an eligible bank will be a condition of
participation of that bank in the project. Finally, Sub-loan Aareements
between the banks and the enterprises must be of a form and content
satisfactory to the Bank. These arrangements were confirmed during
negotiations.
5.17        PDB will make Bank resources available to enterprises with
eligible sub-projects by on-lending these resources to the participating banks
for re-lending to enterprises. Eligible enterprises are any duly established
enterprises with up to 500 employees (definition of small and medium
enterprise adopted in Poland), with majority private ownership under the forms
such as those included in the "Commercial Code" (i.e. limited liability,
general partnership, and joint stock companies); companies with foreign
capital operating under the "Foreign Investment Law"; unincorporated
enterprises, and craftsman's businesses operating under the "Handicraft Law".
5.18        The size of sub-loans to finance sub-projects out of the resources
of the Loan presented by eligible enterprises will not exceed the equivalent
of US$2 million for each sub-project and the maximum amount of financing per
enterprise will not exceed the equivalent of US$4 million. The sub-loans may
finance up to 80% of an expansion/modernization project in the case of an



- 33 -
existing enterprise, or up to 50% of total investment in the caue of a new
enterprise. In addition, for all sub-loans above US$300,000 equivalent, the
following financial covenants would apply to borrowing enterprises: maximum
debt/equity ratio of 60:40 and minimum debt service coverage ratio of at least
1.5 for at least the maturity period of the sub-loan. Sub-projects above
US$300,000 must have a minimum financial rate of return of 15%. For sub-loans
of les than US$300,000 equivalent, the participating bank will review the
viability and financial soundness of the enterprise and its capacity to
service the sub-loan following its own procedures provided that these are
satisfactory to PDB. This practice is expected to be attractive and
appropriate for both the participating banks and the small businesses.
Current practices indicate that banks take into account the apparent lack of
credit history of most small firms, while ensuring adequate concern for
creditworthiness, collateral and profitability. These initial limits and
financial covenants were agreed during negotiations.
5.19        An initial free limit for sub-loans by banks has been established
at US$300,000 for PDB review, and at US$l million for Bank review. However,
based on the Bank's current experience with participating banks in on-going
projects and on visits to potential participating banks, a wide variation in
the capabilities of preparation, appraisal and supervision of sub-projects was
observed. Therefore, it was agreed that PDB will submit for Bank review a
draft free limit schedule that takes into account the variations in the
experience and skill levels among participating banks. The first three
appraisals undertaken by each participating bank will be submitted for prior
Bank review, irrespective of sub-loan size. These limits were agreed during
negotiations
5.20        The maximum amortization period will be established for each sub-
project loan in light of the repayment capacity of the sub-project and the
borrowing enterprise. Sub-loan amortization will not normally exceed seven
years, including up to a three-year grace period. Repayments by the banks to
PDB will match the repayment schedules of the borrowing enterprise. Should
the final sub-borrower prepay all or part of the sub-loan prior to maturity,
the participating bank will immediately repay the sum received to PDB. In
case of arrears in principal repayment, or in payment of interest on any due
date from a sub-borrower, the participating bank will nevertheless be liable
for repayment on the due date and will then be responsible for making
appropriate arranocments to get the account current from the enterprise
concerned.
5.21        PDB will establish a rollover fund with resources generated by
repayments of all sub-loans under the Project. Resources from the rollover
fund will be available to PDB for financing additional sub-projects which meet
the eligibility requirements.
C. ImRlementation Arranaements for the Institutional SumOort Comoonent
5.22        With the main focus being to support private sector development,
care has been taken to design the institutional support component of the
project in such a way as to ensure the integration of the diverse agencies



- 34 -
concerned with these activities, while at the same time building in sufficient
flexibility to adapt the structure to the evolving situation.
5.23        In this regard, the Office of the Undersecretary for Business
Promotion in the Ministry of Industry and Trade (para 2.25) will have prime
responsibility for the formulation of government policy for private sector
development. Its specific functions will include policy and program
development, information and data collection for private enterprise, support
for development of technology and business incubators, and monitoring and
evaluation of private sector development activities. At the same time, the
PSU of the Cooperation Fund (para 2.27) will focus on fostering private
business in Poland by granting funds to strengthen the capacity of local
business development organizations.
5.24        An Advisory Board has been established to ensure full coordination
of activities undertaken by the Office of the Undersecretary for Business
Promotion and the Project Support Unit. The Board is composed of
representatives of the Office of the Undersecretary, the Foreign Assistance
Office of the Council of Ministers plus three representatives of the private
sector. PDB also has a non-voting ex-officio representative to enhance
coordination between the credit line and technical assistance activities.
5.25        This Board will meet at least every three months or on an ad hoc
basis as needed. Its functions will consist of approving the selection of
regions/locations proposed for support under the institutional support
component; and assessing (i) criteria for the eligibility of organizations
applying for assistance and set guidelines for upper limits, time frames and
items to be covered; (ii) requests submitted by the Office of the
Undersecretary and the PSU for funding assistance to local organizations and
review progress reports; and (iii) work plans submitted by the Office of the
Undersecretary and the PSU.
5.26        At the beginning of each project year, the Advisory Board will
approve annual funding and technical assistance plans submitted by the Office
of the Undersecretary and PSU. Achievement of these plans will form the basis
for monitoring the project's progress. Streamlined procedures will be
developed for additional requests submitted throughout the year and for small
funding proposals. As detailed in Chapter IV (paras 4.08-4.11), the request
should demonstrate adherence to criteria by indicating all the relevant
aspects of the program for which finance is being sought, i.e., objectives,
timing, management, staffing, other funding, specific elements to be financed,
proposed method of procurement, the background and capacity of the institution
to undertake the activity in question as well as a brief assessment of demand
for the program.
D.  Procurement
5.27        The purchase of goods and services financed under the proposed
project will follow the procedures customary for the World Bank projects of
this type. For the investment financing component, PDB will be responsible
for supervising the project so that all participating banks have appropriate
procedures in place that will ensure the competitiveness in price and quality



- 35 -
of the items to be procured. For the institutional support component,
procurement will be managed by the beneficiary agencies.
5.28        For purchase contracts by investing enterprises for goods in
amounts over US$l million equivalent and up to the maximum loan size of US$2
million, international shopping procurement procedures will be utilized,
requiring at least three responsive price quotations, representing at least
two eligible countries, except for propriety items, where direct contracting
may be appropriate. The respective goods and directly-related services will
be purchased from the supplier offering the lowest evaluated price.
Determination of this lowest evaluated price may take into account such
relevant factors as efficiency, time of delivery, availability of maintenance
facilities and spare parts. For contracts for goods of under US$1 million,
and for civil works, procurement will be based upon normal Polish commercial
practice. Whether procured domestically or abroad, imported used machinery
may be purchased under the loan, provided that a satisfactory technical and
financial evaluation is prepared by an independent expert approved by the PDB,
and the equipment's capacity to perform is supported by an enforceable
guarantee (such as a valid guarantee from the manufacturer). Where the
proceeds of the Bank loan are to be used to finance consulting services, these
will be procured according to the World Bank Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants.  Each appraisa. report or summary will describe how the
enterprise proposes to procure goods and services. PDB will be expected to
review the procurement record-keeping practices of participating banks to
ensure that appropriate records are available during periodic supervision.
5.29        Under the institutional supDort comyonent, the procurement of
goods and services will be according to Bank guidelines. Normally, for
purchases of equipment, except for proprietary items, local shopping
procedures will be followed comparing price quotations from at least three
suppliers, and selecting the supplier offering the lowest evaluated price.
The procurement of consulting services will be according to the World Bank
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
5.30        Agreements on procurement arrangements and procedures were
finalized during negotiations. The amounts anticipated under the proposed
procurement methods are summarized in Table 5.1.



- 36 -
Table 5.1 - Private Enterrise Development Pgoiect
Prooosed ProcureMent M2thodsJ
(USS million)
International Shopping
and Direct Purchase    Otherb/        Total
Civil Works                                  -              15.0           15.0
-             (5.0)           (5.0)
Goode                                     100.0             49.2          149.2
(30.0)          (20.0)          (50.0)
Consultant services                          -              18.0           18.0
-             (5.0)           (5.0)
Otharls/                                                    5.0             5.0
Total                                100.0            87.2           187.2
(30.0)          (30.0)          (60.0)
a/    Figures in parentheses are for financing under the proposed Bank loan.
b/    Includes goods and services to be procured according commercial
practices of the private sector.
PI    Includes taxes, duties and other local components.
E. Disbursements
5.31        To facilitate disbursements of the investment financino component,
a special Account will be established and maintained in US dollars in a bank
acceptable to the Bank, and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
The account will have an authorized allocation of up to USS5 million, covering
an estimated four months' expenditures. Application for the replenishment of
the account will be submitted quarterly or sooner after 50% of the funds have
been disbursed. A second Special Account will similarly be established to
facilitate disbursements for the institutional support component, with an
authorized allocation of US$200,000.
5.32        Disbursement categories and the percent financing proposed are
presented below in Table 5.2.  The estimated disbursement schedule for the
Project, along with disbursement profiles of other Bank-financed industrial
projects in the EMENA Region and elsewhere, is contained in Annen 5 The
expected disbursement of the loan is based primarily on EMENA experience with
similar operations. Disbursements for the expenses under the loan will be
made against full documentation for contracts equal to or above US$500,000,
and against Statements of Expenditures for contracts below US$500,000.
Disbursement arrangements were confirmed during negotiations.



- 37 -
Table 5.2 - Private Enteroris. Development Proiect
Proposed Disbursement Catecories
Amount (USS
ComDonent           million)             % of expenditures financed
Investment Financina
Goods                 43.0     100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost); or 80% I/ of
local expenditures for other items procured
locally
Civil works            5.0     40% A/ of expenditures
Consultants' services 3.0      100% of expenditures
and training
Capitalized interest  4.0      Amounts capitalized financed with Bank resources
Institutional Support
Goods                  0.5     100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost); or 80% A/ of
local expenditures for other items procured
locally
Consultants' services 1.5      100% of expenditures
and training
Unallocated            3.0
TOTAL          60.0
a/    Estimates of the foreign exchange component therein.
5.33        The proposed closing date for the loan, is June 30, 1999.
F. Auditina and Reportina Requirements
5.34        All project accounts, the Special Accounts, the Statements of
Expenditure, the rollover funds, and the financial statements of the project
entities (participating banks, borrowing enterprises, as relevant, Office of
the Undersecretary for Business Promotion, and PSU) will be audited at the end
of each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Copies of
the audit reports for the participating banks will be forwarded to the Bank
within six months of the end of each reporting period; audit reports from
borrowing enterprises will be retained by the concerned bank and made
available to the Bank upon request. Arrangements for auditing have been
assessed. The training provided under previous projects as well as the
establishment of Polish joint ventures and subsidiaries by international
auditors will ensure audits acceptable to the Bank. Agreements concerning
auditing were confirmed during negotiations.



- 38 -
5.35        PDB will maintain adequate records to reflect its operations and
financial situation in accordance with mound accounting principles
consistently applied. PDB will also maintain a project information eystem
satisfactory to the Bank, that would provide its management with monthly
updates on disbursements, investment sectors, geographic regions of activity,
size of investments, size of enterprises as well as the ex-ante impact of
investment on employment and production. All of these data will be essential
to PDB's management in their guidance of program promotional and technical
assistance activity, especially to ensure that small and medium enterprises
are fully participating in the project.
5.36        To enable the Bank to monitor the progress of project
implementation, and to ensure conformity with project objectives, the Office
of the Undersecretary for Business Promotion and the PSU will furnish the Bank
with a series of reports detailing progress of their resp ctive project
components. In addition, these agencies, together with PDB will prepare a
Project Completion Report for the entire project six months after the
completion of disbursements, covering all related activities during project
implementation and describing the Project's costs and benefits. Reporting
formats and schedules were agreed during negotiations.
G. Bank Supervision
5.37        Considering that the proposed project is the first operation
focused exclusively on the financing and institutional framework to support
the private sector in Poland, implementation of the proposed project initially
will be supervised on semi-annual bases. Supervision during the first year of
implementation of the project would focus on: (i) assisting PDB in enhancing
capabilities on project processing and in implementing programs to enhance
capabilities on project processing of participating banks (in coordination
with eupervision under the P&RP); (ii) assessing progress on the
implementation of the institutional support component, with emphasis on the
assistance provided by the PSU and the Office of the Undersecretary for
Business Promotion to private sector local institutions. For this purpose,
the programs aimed at strengthening the institutional capacities of the Office
of the Undersecretary and the PSU, as well as the implementation of the
proposed monitoring and evaluation system (para 4.06 (c)) should be in place
early in the process of implementation of the proposed project. A joint Bank-
Government mid-term review of the inetitutional support component and the
technology and business incubation component will be conducted about 18 months
into the project as a basis for: (i) determining implementation progress and
for making mid-course adjustments, if and as necessary, in project procedures
as well as (ii) identifying possible follow-up operations to ensure continuity
in the Bank's involvement in the programs supporting the development of the
private sector.



- 39 -
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefite
6.01        The proposed project will assist Poland's economic transformation
program by stimulating the creation and growth of new, privately-owned
enterprises, and by helping to foster an environment in which they can
flourish. The growth of this segment of the economy is expected to contribute
to: addressing a fundamental imbalance in the ownership and size structure of
the enterprise sector; strengthening the culture of entrepreneurship and
improved enterprise management; enhancing competition and related improvements
in productivity; and, critically, generating the much needed supply response
and growth, including of exports. Additionally, the project would support
activities which would help absorb labor shed by the restructuring of state
enterprises; and promote regional economic development with direct and
indirect employment generation.
B. Risks
6.02        The main risk is related to the uncertainty of macroeconomic
developments and sustainability of current policies, which may weaken the
investment climate and slow down the implementation of the proposed project.
The commitment indicated by the new Government to continuing the reform
program, however, lessens this risk. Additionally, the Bank's on-going
economic and sector dialogue would assist in identifying and helping to
overcome weaknesses of the program. Another risk relates to the recent
changes in Government structure and personnel, which could affect the
management and coordination of programs to support the private sector. The
strong commitment of, and overall consensus in the Government on the need to
promote private development sector, however, minimizes this risk. Additional
risks are related to the limited experience of institutions supporting private
enterprises and the limited managerial and marketing experience of
entrepreneurs. The technical assistance to be provided under the
institutional support component, which complements technical assistance
provided under other Bank operations, is designed to minimize these risks.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECONMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached
7.01        The following agreements were reAched at negotiations:
(a)   the eligibility criteria for the organizations and activities to
be funded under the institutional support component (para 4.12);
(b)   the financing plan and cofinancing commitments for the project
(para 4.16);
(c)   the arrangements for PDB to manage the foreign exchange and
interest rate risks in dealing with the Bank currency pool, and
periodic review of PDB's on-lending rates (para 5.06);



- 40 -
(d)   the overall arrangements for implementation under the
institutional support component (para 5.07);
(e)   the conditions for eligible banks to participate under the
investment financing component (para 5.15);
(f)   the legal agreements required to formalize the obligations of the
various entities involved in the implementation of the proposed
project, and to regulate the flow of funds from PDB to the
beneficiaries (para 5.16);
(g)   the size of sub-loans to finance sub-projects, the maximum amount
of sub-loan financing per enterprise, and financial covenants for
eligible enterprises and sub-projects (para 5.18);
(h)   free limits for sub-loans (including the creation by PDB of a free
limit schedule that takes into account the variations in the
experience and skill levels among participating banks) (para
5.19);
(i)   procurement arrangements and procedures (para 5.30);
(j)   disbursement arrangements (para 5.32);
(k)   auditing requirements (para 5.34); and reporting formats and
schedules (para 5.36)
7.02        A condition of effectiveness of the loan is the conclusion of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the Guarantor with respect
to the institutional support component (para 5.16).
B. Recommendation
7.03        Having reached satisfactory agreement on the above, the project is
considered suitable for a Bank loan of US$60 million equivalent, for a period
of 17 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.



- 41 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 1
POLAND
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents in Proiect File
1.    Poland:  Review of the Private Small and Medium Scale
Enterprises Sector, June 12, 1991, Report No. 8991-POL,
World Bank.
2.    Investing in Human Capital:  Poland's Transition to a Market
Economy, July 1990, Development Alternatives, Inc.
3.    Proaram Assumptions of Efforts by Government Plenipotentiarv
for Support of Entreoreneurshic in DeveloRing and Bolsterina
Small and Middling Economic Entities, December 3, 1990,
Department for Entrepreneurship Promotion, Ministry of
Industry, Government of Poland.
4.    The Leaal Framework for Private Sector Development in
Poland, September 19, 1991, Draft, World Bank.
5.    Financing Proposal - Private Sector Development Programme
(SME) in Poland, October 10, 1991, Draft, Commission of the
European Communities.
6.    Poland - Small Business Report, March 1991, Draft, IRIS-
USAID.
7.    Survey of Credit Portfolio Activity of Selected Banks in
Poland.
8.    Alternative Sources of Financing through the Bankino System
from Multilateral and Bilateral Sources.



- 42 -
ANNEX 2- 1
Page 1 of 6
POLAND
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROFILE OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR ENTERPRISES
A. Qvervie
1.        Before the implementation of the Law on Economic Reform in January
1989, the private sector in Poland essentially consisted of small and medium-
scale enterprises. Average employment in these enterprises was until recently
approximately 5-10 employees per enterprise. The private sector as a whole is
still small in relation to the state sector, with production of this sector
approximately 13X of GDP and employment approximately 18X of total employment
in mid-1991.
2.        The majority of the private enterprises (outside the rural sector)
are in trade and the manufacturing industry. Other areas include
transportation, building engineering, catering services and other services
such as taxi services, education and tourism.
3.        In addition to the essentially small-scale nature of the private
sector, the other pertinent characteristic of the sector is its significant
growth. The number of private enterprises increased from about 350,000 in
1981 to over 800,000 in 1989, a growth rate of approximately llX per year.  In
the first half of 1991, the number of private enterprises increased to
approximately 1.3 million enterprises.
B. Structure
4.        The private sector comprises three categories of enterprises:
(i) Unincorgorated enterprises, that is, sole proprietorships and
partnerships, also known as "natural persons". This category
includes the "Polonia" firms which are private enterprises owned
by non-residents, also known as "private individuals".
(ii) Incorporated enterRrises, which are joint stock and limited
liability companies.
(iii)   Joint ventures, that is, enterprises involving foreign investment
as under the draft Foreign Investment Law. The Law treats all
firms with foreign participation equally, including the Polonia
firms referred to above.
5.        Prior to 1989, the only legal form of ownership generally available
to private Polish businessmen was the unincorporated enterprise or
proprietorship. Such enterprises included craftsmen, trade and service
enterprises and some small manufacturing enterprises. Since then, as a result
of changes in the tax and labor legislation, and the Foreign Investment Law, a



- 43 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 2 of 6
number of partnerships, joint stock and limited liability companies and
foreign joint ventures were established by private entrepreneurs. Table 1
shows the overall structure of the private sector enterprises since 1988.
Table 1
An Overview of the Private Sector Enterprises
Number of Firmsl/           Employment (000s)
Enterprises          1988     1989    1990  199'1/      1988     1989      1990
Unincorporated     659,556  813,500 1,135,500  1,272.4  1,190    1,500    1,923
Incorporated         1,275   11,693   29,650  38,516     NA      141       216
Foreign Participation  32      429   1,645   2,840       NA       29        85
Polonia               689      841     862    856        NA       NA        82
TOTAL          69552 82670167.656 4.670
Foreign Trade Institute, CentraL Statistical Office, Warsaw, WorLd Data
1/ As of June 30, 1991.
6.        Until recently, private sector enterprises were defined in terms of
their legal structure. A new classification, introduced in January 1991,
defines enterprises according to the number of employees1: (i) small-size
enterprises are those employing up to 50 employees; (ii) medium-size
enterprises are those employing over 50 employees up to 500 hundreds
employees.
7.        The majority of the private enterprises (approximately 80X) are in
trade, manufacturing, construction, and transport and communication industries
and employed on average 2-3 employees per enterprise. The larger units,
typically those with foreign participation employed an average of about 100
employees per enterprise. Table 2 presents the number of private enterprises
by industrial sector and employment:
Since early 1991, cooperatives and foundations, formerly considered
part of the "socialized sector" have been classified as private
sector entities. The analysis presented in this annex focuses on
emerging private enterprises, thereby excludes cooperatives and
foundations.



- 44 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 3 of 6
Tab(o 2
Sectorul Distribution Private Sector
by Number end Emoeloves (June. 1990)
Enterorises1/              Averaae Emtoymnentl/
Sector                       Number        X                 No. (000s)    X
Productive sector            1.049,485       79.8            1.975.        84.6
Manufacturing              349,163        26.6              902.2        38.6
Construction                172,731       13.1              425.1       18.2
Transport and Comunication  57,718        4.4                74.6        3.2
Trade                      464,873        35.7              573.8       24.6
Other                          265.12        2072              mu           15.4
TOTAL                      1.3146.12     100.0                          10.=0
Central Statistical Office, Warsaw
1/ As of June 30, 1991.
2/ As of December 30, 1990.
8.        Unincorporated Enterprises.  The growth of private enterprises until
1989 was restrained by the maximum number of employees permissible (50), and
by the sectors and activities they were allowed to enter. These limitations
were abolished in January 1989, resulting in a rapid growth of domestic
unincorporated firms. During 1990 and the first half of 1991, the number of
unincorporated firms increased by about 450,000. This growth is typically
accompanied by a high degree of volatility, with many new entrants and a large
number of rapid exits. On average, about 40,000 new enterprises were
established each month in early 1990, while approximately 16,500 per month
were closed. Table 3 shows the sectoral distribution of unicorporated
enterprises. The majority of the enterprises are located in the major cities
including Warsaw, Katowice, Lodz, Poznan and Gdansk. The majority of the
unincorporated enterprises are in the trade, manufacturing, and construction
sectors.



- 45 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 4 of 6
Table 3
Sectoral Distribution of Unincorporated Enterarises
by Nmwber and EmDlovees
Enterorfses1/                 Average EntoymentZ/
Sector                          Number         X                   No. (0008)    X
Productivg sctor                1.018.500        80 0              1,678.4
Manufacturing                  339,300        26.7                721.3         37.5
Construction                   165,400        13.0                350.8         18.2
Transport and Communications    57,000         4.5                 71.0          3.7
Trade                          456,800        35.9                535.3         27.9
OUher                            253.900         20.0                245.0         12.7
TOTAL                        1 272. 400       100.0                  4         100 00
Central Statistical Office, Warsaw
1/  As of June 30, 1991.
^/ As of December 30, 1990.
9.         Incorporated EnterDrises.  With the passing of the new Law on
Economic Activity in January 1989, the number of incorporated firms increased
five-fold by 1989 and by an additional three-fold during 1990 and the first
half of 1991. Table 4 shows the sectoral distribution of incorporated
enterprises. Similar to the sectoral distribution of unincorporated firms,
trade is the main activity, accounting for about 33% of the number of
incorporated enterprises, manufacturing accounts for only 20% of the
enterprises, construction, 19%, and "other", 27%. On average, each enterprise
employs about 15 employees.



- 46 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 5 of 6
Toble 4
Sectoral Distribution IncorDorated Enterprises
by Number and Emtlovees
EnterzJJsasl/              Avereae Efreotvm nt~/
Sector                      Nurber        X                 No. (000s)    X
Productive sector             28.047        7A                15.         70.1
Manufacturing                7,948       20.0               51.9       24.1
Construction                 7,164       18.6               61.2       28.3
Transport and Communication    587        1.5                2.5        1.2
Trade                       12,598       32.7               35.7       16.5
Other                         10.469        27.2              64.         29.9
TOTAL                      11.890       100.0             215.7       100.0
Centrat Statistical Office, Warsaw
I/ As of June 30, 1991.
ai As of December 30, 1990.
10.       Enterprises with Foreign Participation.  Between 1982 and 1986,
foreign investments were limited to those permitted under the Law on Economic
Activity of Foreign Small-Businesses Firms of 1982. By the end of 1989, over
800 Polonia firms, with an average employment of about 140 employees per
enterprise, were established. The majority (88X) of those are in the food
processing, chemicals and plastics, wood products, electronic equipment and
footwear industries. Since January 1, 1990 when the latest ammendments to the
Law on Foreign Investment were enforced (Act on Economic Activity with the
participation of Foreign Parties), all firms with foreign participation, (i.e.
Polonia firms and joint ventures) are treated equally. Polonia firms
operating under the previous law of 1982, were given the alternative of
continuing to do so until their current permits expire or being recognized as
companies operating under the new Act.
11.       The growth of joint ventures has been more recent, and more rapid.
Of the 2,840 joint ventures licensed as of the first half of 1991, 2,411 had
been created since January 1989. Table 5 shows the sectoral distribution of
enterprises with foreign particiaption. The total initial capital of these
enterprises was US$ 350 million a the time of licensing. The size of these
firms, with an average total capital of US$ 315,000 per enterprise is
significantly larger than the other categories of enterprises in the private
sector. The majority (74X) of the joint venture firms are in the
manufacturing sector, and are principally located in the Warsaw, Gdansk,
Poznan and Katowice areas.



- 47 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 6 of 6
12.       Investors from Western Europe (by size of investment, West Germany,
Sweden, Austria, Great Britain, France, Holland, Italy, Switzerland, Belgium,
Canada and Denmark) and the United States predominate among the foreign joint
venture partners. The majority of the joint ventures are small companies
established by local entrepreneurs with a foreign partner, typically of Polish
descent. Large joint ventures include the Kvaerner Gdynici Shipyard in Gdansk
(Norwegian investment of US$ 35 million), Intorcell (Swedish investment of USS
20 million), SIPMA (Italian investment of US$ 20 million) and more recently,
Polam Pila (Dutch investment of USS 15 million).
Table 5
Sectorat Distribution of Enterorieses Foreign Participation
by Number and EmPtoyees
Enterorises!'              Average Enotovment1'
Sector                      Number        X                 No. (000s)    X
Productive sector              2.938        79.5             145.1        86.8
Manufacturing                2,165        58.6             128.2       70.7
Construction                  167         4.5               13.0        7.8
Transport and Comnunication    131        3.5                1.0        0.6
Trade                         475         12.9               2.9        1.7
Other                            758        20.5              22.1        13.2
TOTAL                        3.696       100.0             167.2       100.0
Central Statistical Office, Warsaw
1/ As of June 30, 1991.
2/ As of December 30, 1990.
13.       The private sector has exhibited significant growth in the last two
years, a large extent due to more conducive policies and regulations. At
present, growth is particularly rapid in the types of private enterprises
(incorporated enterprises and joint ventures) which are larger than the
traditional proprietorships. The higher than average share of small and
medium-scale private enterprises in employment and exports suggest a
substantial role in the future in absorbing excess labor from the
privatization and restructuring of larger enterprises and in earning profits
denominated in convertible currencies.



- 48 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 1 of 5
POLAND
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technologv and Business Incubators in Poland
A.    Background
1.    The Polish authorities recognize that the start up and nurturing of
small businesses, particularly in technology-related goods and services, is a
process specific to the conditions and constraints at each location in Poland.
The incubator mechanism has therefore to be designed specially to fit the
local situation. First, the difficulty of raising finance from central and
local sources requires that investment costs be kept down to the minimum.
Second, the local sponsors recognize that the incubation center is, by itself,
not a profitable proposition but provides significant externalities in the
long-term. Third, the government authorities and the public, while committed
to an open market system, appreciate that, like technical education or
scientific research, support system for small business development requires
state assistance, in Poland as in the market economies. Finally, the
incubator arrangements require full training provisions for developing the
management skills (which do not presently exist) as well as the
entrepreneurial talent which has been suppressed in the past.
2.    The incubation program of the Office of the Undersecretary for Business
Promotion is designed to support small- and medium-sized businesses in the 5
to 500 employee range. These may enter the incubator with 5-10 staff,
graduate out of the center with 20-100 persons, and some of these could grow
thereafter to medium-scale businesses. Micro-enterprises in regions with
large unemployment are being supported by the Ministry of Labor and Social
Policy, while large industrial enterprises (over 500 personnel) are assisted
by a variety of privatization and other advisory services. The management and
operations of large combines have clearly to be turned around towards
profitability; at the same time, SMEs can provide the bulk of the new jobs, as
is the case in the OECD countries, and the business incubators can help create
a generation of new entrepreneurs, innovators, and managers more attuned to
the dynamics of the marketplace.
3.    Further, the Office of the Undersecretary's program has focused on
technology incubation programs and approximately half the local sponsors of
incubators are technical universities and technology-related agencies. In the
earlier regime, there was a clear (artificial) separation between basic
scientific research, applied technological development, and industry;
consequently, researchers, shop-floor innovators, university professors and
graduate students had no facilities to develop their concepts or research
results into saleable products or services. Now, the incubation process is
geared to serve as a bridge to the market place.
4.    The present stage of Poland's transition to a market economy, a
technology and business incubator program is expected to help create new



- 49 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 2 of 5
enterprises and provide activities. It would:
(a)   develop business management skills by providing practical
experience to entrepreneurs and researchers;
(b)   build upon Poland's strong technical human resources in special
technological fields;
(c)   bridge the gap between academic research and the real needs of
industry through more effective technology development and
transfer;
(d)   stimulate regional industrial development through creation of
self-owned indigenous businesses;
(e)   in this process, provide direct and indirect employment
opportunities, and help reduce the out-flow of Polish
professionals;
(f)   promote linkages with foreign technology, investment and export
markets.
B.    The Business Incubation Council
5.    The Ministry of Industry established the Business Incubation Council
(BIC) by special decree on 9 April 1991. Its main purposes are to promote the
healthy development of technology and business incubators in Poland and to
provide high-level technical advice to the Ministry. Presently, the Council
consists of 18 members drawn from regions all over the country, and provides a
platform for exchange of information and advice. It is also a means for the
government to assess the needs of a wide range of non-governmental business
and university leaders, in order to make informed decisions on policies and
plans.
6.    The Council meets once every two months and is supported by the
Department of Enterprise Promotion in the Ministry of Industry.
7.    Its current program of activities includes:
(a)   Advice to the Ministry on key issues and proposals regarding the
establishment of incubators, innovation centers, technology parks
and other support mechanisms for promoting SMEs and stimulating
entrepreneurship.
(b)   Publishing and distributing materials on design, organization and
operation of such facilities.
(c)   Assistance in preparing business plans for sponsors.
(d)   Preparing proposals on business incubation for international
organizations such as UNDP, World Bank, EBRD, EC.



- 50 -
AMNEX2-2
Page 3 of 5
(s)   Arranging training for incubator sponsors.
(f)   Participating in conferences abroad and assisting local groups in
funding foreign partners.
(g)   Presenting periodic reports on the state of business incubation to
concerned ministries and other institutions.
C.    Recent Progress on Establishing Incubators
8.    Over 30 towns and cities in all regions have taken initiatives to
install business incubation facilities - many vith a technological innovation
focus and others for mixed tenants. The more advanced of these are Poznan and
Celestynow, where incubator buildings are being completed and occupied.
Planning is underway in Gdansk, Torum, Krakow, Lodz, Szczecin and Wroclaw.
The Labor Ministry plans micro-enterprise support facilities in regions with
high unemployment.
9.    Poznana, in the Weilkopolska region has a favorable environment for
innovation: a concentration of scientific research centers, universities,
industrial plants and foreign enterprises; access to skilled technical
manpower; strong support from the local government, private banks, chambers of
industry and business associations and an annual international trade fair.
the Weilkopolska Business and Innovation Center (WIP) was founded as a
private-state consortium in January 1990, with a capital of US$50,000. It has
been effective in promoting the incubation concept in the region and all over
Poland through seminars and publications, assisted by a UNDP project.
Presently, BIC serves as a private consulting bureau, to organize mixed
business incubators in Konin, Zielone Gora and Kalisz, and a technology
incubator and technology park in Pozan.
10.   The Poznan Enterprise Center building has recently been completed (July
1991) at Polanki Street by the Poznan Technical University at a cost of
US$600,000. It is a well designed work-space of 1500 sq. m. with office
modules and research prototype manufacturing facilities. The initial tenants
are (a) the University's Center for Research, Development and Implementation,
which plans to commercialize research results and undertake small-production
runs of equipment developed by the University, (b) two private companies -
Polingosko and Termigosko - for promoting technological innovation and
prototype production of special tools and instruments, and (c) the
Weilkopolska Business and Innovation Center, which will provide technical
support, shared facilities and training to the incubator tenants as well as
consultancy services to build additional incubators in the region.
11.   Center for Emerging Technoloev Enterprises (CETE) has prepared a
business plan for major incubator facilities at both Warsaw and at Celestvnow.
The CETE project will be owned by the International Foundation for Science and
Technology, a non-profit foundation, formed by prominent scientists, including
the rectors of Warsaw Technical University and Warsaw University. The main
Durposes of CETE are to develop technical human resources in scientific fields
where Poland has basic competence, initially in advance materials,



- 51 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 4 of 5
environmental technologies and computer software. It plans to strengthen
linkages betveen technical universities, research academics and private
business. By providing high-value added jobs, it vill contribute to Poland's
economic development and reduce the out-flow of talented young professionals.
CETE will establish a Western Business Development Council in order to access
foreign technology, investment and markets. CETE has started operations at
temporary space (300 sq. m.) provided by the high Pressure Research Center
(UNIPRESS) at its Sokolowske Street laboratory in Warsaw.
12.   Celestvnow, 40 km southwest of Warsaw, is completing the construction of
a 1,300 sq. m. incubator building, adjacent to a premier vocational school of
the Ministry of Education. The Office of the Undersecretary for Business
Promotion of the Ministry of Industry has provided a grant of about US$600,000
towards the building construction. Half of the space is now completed and is
occupied by (a) CYNEL - which produces special-purpose copper alloy tubing by
a hydrostatic extrusion process, and (b) UNIPRESS, which continues its
prototype development work. It is planned to expand to 2,300 sq. m. space
(estimated cost $1.1 million) when 4 of 5 additional tenants are expected to
join, mainly based on research work done by UNIPRESS.
13.   The Celestynow incubator is an experiment in spreading economic
development to small towns. It has strong support from the local government
which has given 5 ha. of land for houses for incubator tenants, the Ministry
of Education which plans to use the incubator as an "entrepreneurship
laboratory" for students from the vocation school, and the Ministry of
Industry which has provided initial funding. The existing Celestynow space
will be expanded to 3,000 sq. m. in 1993. A dormitory for 25 Polish and
foreign scientists will be added.
14.   The Warsaw incubator is being planned on existing 5,000 sq. m. (or up to
8,000 sq. m.) building space to be renovated. Half the floor area is to be
leased to anchor tenants, who will pay high commercial rents and provide
consulting services to tenants. The building will also house extensive
CAD/CAM demonstration facilities and up-to-date telecommunication facilities.
While anchor tenants will pay $408/sq. m. annually for office space in Warsaw,
start-up tenants will pay about $100. Rates at Celestynow are about 15X
lower, grant 5-10X of equity to the Foundation; a third of this future value
would be given to sponsors who have provided sweat-equity in the early years.
15.   It is planned to induct 8 new start-up tenants each year initially,
reaching a level of 37 tenants in both CETEs. At the end of 10 years of
operation (2002), some 70 successful businesses are expected to be created,
with total employment of 3000-5000 and sales turnover of $150 to 250 million
annually. Collateral employment in supplies and services for these graduate
companies may be of the same order.
16.   The draft business plan is well prepared by CETE and its U.S.
collaborators. The Warsaw facility is, to a large extent, a real estate
development, where the anchor tenants pay a significant proportion of lease
income (over 80X) to help subsidize rentals for a few start-up enterprises.
Considerable reliance is placed on pro bono services from western countries in



- 52 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page S of 5
promoting and monitoring the tenants and in appraising their business plans.
More analysis is needed on the availability of anchor and start-up tenants for
this high-cost facility, as well as for the contract income expected from
CAD/CAM and other services.
17.   The Celestynow facility can be designed to perform a proper incubation
function and its successful operation could provide a demonstration effect.
The cost of completing the 2,300 sq. m. facility, training of incubator
management and prospective entrepreneurs, selection and appraisal of tenant
proposals, shared office equipment, and early operating deficits need to be
estimated separately for appraisal and possible funding by the Ministry of
Industry. At the same time, the Polish Development Bank, Polish-American
Enterprise Fund and other potential sources are being approached for the
larger financial requirements of the Warsaw facility.



- 53 -
ANNEX 3-1
POLAND
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Poland: Structure of Banking Credit
(Percentage of Total Credits)
1989    1990-I   1990-II  1990-III   1990-IV    1991-I   1991-I1    Oct 91
1)  Socialized Sector                  92.9        05.9       92.8       87.7       85.5       84.2       80.9       77.1
ZY typ
a)  Investment credits                 27.1        25.3       27.4       27.7       29.6       31.4       33.5       34.3
Centrally planned                   9.8        8.2         7.5        6.8        7.4        7.2        7.3        7.8
Coop. Resid.                        8.7        9.2       12.5        13.0       13.7       15.6       17.3       18.5
Enterprises                         8.6        7.8         7.5        7.8        8.5        8.7        9.0        8.0
b)  Working cap. cr.                    61.0       63.0       57.0       48.9       42.1       41.4       41.7        36.3
c)  Credits in for. cur.                 5.9        6.9        5.2        4.4        4.3        4.5         3.3        3.1
d)  Discount credit                      0.0        0.7        3.2        6.8        9.5        6.8         2.3        3.4
2)  Uon-Socialixed Sector                6.1        4.1        7.2       12.3       14.5       15.8       19.1       22.9
a)  Households                           3.3        1.8        3.0        5.5        5.0        4.4         4.5        4.9
b)  Enterprises                          1.3        1.2        2.3        4.4        7.5         9.2       10.4       15.7
c)  Farmers                              1.4        1.2        2.0        2.4        2.1        2.2        2.4         2.3
TOTAL NOW-GOVERNMENT CREDIT            100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0       100.0
Sow:  NdiamI B1 d Pded



- 54 -
ANNEX 4g9
Page 1 of 2
ITAMg             ePMOITO ,0M   ,OF %Qg                   AW
BY1ON&M OF LOA
Asof mW19911
a-  - '    ZlqC  -l
VA  6_MWW                         Pdh_ Er _                        I
wmhUurdan  Numn.   l                    Nuwbe       % lZey n.               I
_at NM                         12U  63.4%   5,0.261   440%            15.677   76.6%   2.112.244   62.
Medkm Wm                         2U    11.0%   1.336.767   11.0%       3.73    16.0%    401.3,   1.
Lengem                           127    6.0%   5.101.126   44.3%         374    1.0%      38.733    1.
TOTAL                         227  100.0%  11.I06.177  100.0%         20.0U  100.0%   2.52.306  100.0
Foreign -WN Credits
OM-Erwpdan                        pe  Beo     d
mIr~urdmn                   Number      q         qcty -.    le     N ber       % wcZotyn.   %
Uhntimn                           1S   60.0%      15.124  50.5%           61   48.7%      23.330   45.3%
Mebdkum n                         12   40.0%       7,416   27.7%          00   30.0%      10.663   21.1t
Long is..                          3   10.0%       4.221   165.6%         27   14.4%      17.308   33.0%
TOTAL                            30  100.0%      26.761  100.0%         137  100.0%      51,607  100.0
For 18 months till end-1992
Bkcty C,5db
aSEtepdm                          PdIinI Ente.de
80i )niiudian                Number      %       Zcty ma.   %        Nmber       %       Zkly ma.   %
short NM                           0    0.0%          0    0.0%            0    0.0%           0    0.0
MeMimAn                          356   74.5%   2.561.503   10.0%       11.796   04.0%   2,60.540   65.0
Lngo im                          132   26.5%  12.704.350  63.1%          671    5.4%    509.150   15.0
TOTAL                           51S  100.0%  15.265.609  100.0%       12.400  100.0%   3.386.050  100.0
Fore-gn Cumcy Credts
a- Entwpdes                       Pdvae Enop"
Numober     %      USDOOO      %        Number      %      USD 0005    %
amIteim                            0    0.0%          0    0.0%            0    0.0%           0    0.0%
Medkmn                           116   09.0A      45.344   43.7%         624   70.6%     120,102   48.60
Lgo                               53   31.0%      56.444   56.3%         361   26.2%     133200   51.4
TOTAL                           171  100.0%    103.78   100.0%         1.305  100.0%    256.482  100.0
Suwoe: Swvoy of sketed banks



- 55 -
ANNEX 3-2-
Page 2 of 2
SMMARY CT PORTFOLIO ACImIY OF SEECTED BAMS
BY ECONOMIC SECTOR
~~~~~~~l Cedits
As- gPdm--1-
_  Ip             Numbe               Zkl4y  .   %         Nui_r       %       D     n.   %
htdmby                64    45.6%   5,157.673   46.5%         4,460   34.7%      0.32   45.8
Agrb_ul                31    1.6%    176,140    1.6%          1,205    6.3%     72.231    3.
Tred*                 364   17.6%    11,652    1.0%          5,174   40.1%       7.564   3.
Uin*s                  137    6.6%    846,564    7.6%         1.3,   10.6%     180*5      0>
0__bud,,O              107   6.2%    2U.202    2.6%             13    1.6%       WU       1.
Olie                  46   23.5%   4,506.43   40.7%            46    3.5%    212,41t   10
TOTAL               2,066  100.0%  11,084.204  100.0%       12.907  100.0%   2.075,.12  100.
Foreign Cwuoey Credts
am" !S!Trpdm                             Pd- Bu _prse
Fksoia            Numbe       %      USD 000-e   %       *'Numbe       '      USDO 000     % %
hi  _y                 20  W6.7%       l6.332   61.0%           73   36.0%      15.622   30.3%
AgrIculture             2    6.7%         450    1.7%           10    5.3%       06.75   1.8
Trmb                     6   20.0%      0.764   36.5%            40   26.2%      11.3    22.1
Sose                     1    3.3%         34    0.1%           26   13.6%       7.3    14.3^
Ccumbusdon              0    0.0%           0    0.0%            7    3.7%       1.631    3.
Owter                    1    3.3%        175    0.7%            22   11.6%      S.A    10.
TOTAL                  30  100.0%     26,761  100.0%          1t7  100.0%      61.603  100.04
For 18 months till 2d-1992
Zloty Creddts
Sets&Mtrpem                              Private Entewprmec
B      uanWSsotor  Number     %       Zloty mn.   %        Numbe        %      Zkty mn.   %
bhduely               632   66.6%   3.482,228   21.3%         6.112   27.8%   1.966.771   28.0%
Agpkrlmirs            n37    3.3%    222.000    1.4%           7U      3.5%    175.565    2.6
Trad                   203   18.3%    772,'23    4.7%         5.046   26.7%   2,101.700   32.3
SevIc                  1t3    1.2%    508.WZ0    3.7%         2,088    6.4%     41 .361   13.
Comtrnusdan            66    6.1%    224.432    i.4%            491    2.2%    262.000    3.
OUthr                  156   14.2%  11,030,246   67.6%        6.740   30.3%   1,257.6$3   18.
TOTAL               1.111  100.0%  16,330.360  100.0%       22.234  100.0%   6,704,310  100.04
oFrign CuwnCy Creds                            '
3SuBepds                                 Pd6   fterpwe
EbUuiWEbor        Nuhber       %      USD 000s   %          Nunber      %      USD 0000 
kcduy                  108   69.7%     49.106   46.8%           on   51.1%       62,944   32.6%
AgrIcutur                7    3.9%      1.400    1.3%            66    6.6%     26.200   10.3
Trado                   17    6.4%      4.628    4.6%           203   15.5%      36.600   15.7
aSoI        '           11    6.1%      4,700    4.6%           173   13.2%     3526;3   13.
Cambucnuoln             17    0.4%      6.400    6.1%            4e    3.7%      8.400    3.
Otehr                   21   11.6%     38,652   36.7%           129    9.6%      61.455   24.2
TOTAL                11  100.0%    104.9J   100.0%         1,307  100.0%    254.062  100.0"
Source: Sur&y of selected banks



- 56 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 1 of 8
POLA^ND
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Polish Development Bank (PDB)
A.   Introduction
1.        The Polish Development Bank (PDB) was established on the basis of
the Council of Minister's decision of July 2, 1990. It was incorporated in
October 1990. By its statute, PDB is an autonomous financial institution, set
up as a Joint Stock Company. It is subject to regular banking regulation and
supervision by the National Bank of Poland (NBP).
2.        PDB was established to fill a major gap in the Polish financial
system, which does not currently provide medium and long term (MLT) financing
for investment or restructuring projects in the industrial sector, based on
sound technical, economic and financial analysis. In addition, the system
does not have national financial institutions to promote provision of term
financing and venture capital to enterprises. PDB is designed to be an apex
bank for MLT lending to privatized or restructured companies, as well as to
SMEs, using commercial and specialized banks as intermediaries. It is
expected to play a catalytic role in guiding and assisting these banks in the
provision of MLT financing. In the medium term, when there will be less of
need for an apex institution in Poland, PDB will evolve into a more
conventional financial institution and is expected to further open its capital
to private participation. Specifically, by the end of 1993, PDB will
undertake a review of its role in light of the progress achieved in the
modernization and development of the financial sector in Poland, and will
accordingly elaborate a plan on the appropriate reorientation of its
activities. Such reorientation would be implemented after consulting with the
international and bilateral institutions providing funding to PDB. By that
time, PDB would prepare and start implementing a program to increase private
participation in its capital.
3.        PDB will provide financing to the manufacturing, industrial, agro-
industrial, construction, tourism and mining sectors, and associated services
including trade, transport and repair. PDB will generally not finance the
development of agriculture or housing, for which other banks exist, nor will
it normally finance basic infrastructure sectors such as railways or power.
B. Share Capital
4.        The major shareholder is the Polish Government, which has subscribed
to Zl 800 billion (approximately US$70 million equivalent) of PDB's equity.
The Industrial Development Agency (IDA) has signed an agreement to subscribe
to approximately US$17 million equivalent in equity. In addition, Credit
National of France, Invest Kredit of Austria, and Instituto Mobiliario
Italiano (IMI) of Italy have subscribed to US$2 million each. PDB's total
equity is thus approximately US$90 million equivalent, indicating a strong



- 57 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 2 of 8
capital base, at least for the first years of operations. The three foreign
banks will appoint one voting member and two observers to the Supervisory
Board.
S.        The EC is considering making available to PDB quasi-equity of ECU 10
to 20 million, out of counterpart funds.
C.   Organization Structure
6.        An organization chart for PDB is shown in Attachment 1 which
indicates a structure comprised of a Supervisory Board, a Management Board and
eight Operating Departments: Credit, Capital Investment, Treasury, Economic,
Accounting, Legal, Personnel/Training and Administration.
7.        The Supervisory Board is appointed by shareholders.  Currently, it
comprises the Polish Government (GOP) and IDA. However, it is planned that in
early 1992 the number of shareholders will be increased with the addition of
Credit National of France, Invest Kredit of Austria, Instituto Mobiliario
Italiano (IMI) of Italy, who will be entitled to appoint one member and two
observers to the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board is chaired by Mr.
Szomburg, a well known economist who was an advisor to Mr. Walesa prior to his
election as President. Other Supervisory Board members include Mr. Dabrowski,
a prominent economist who served as Deputy Minister of Finance and Mr.
Skarsyneki, President of IDA.   The Supervisory Board takes an active interest
in the affairs of PDB and holds regular meetings with the Management Board.
8.        The Management Board consists of the President of PDB and three
Vice-Presidents.
D.   Range of Activities
9.        PDB's operations are to be focused on three types of activities: (i)
financing restructuring and investments of large private companies and state-
owned companies, primarily those being privatized or commercialized; (ii)
financing private SMEs; and (iii) some minority equity investments in
privatized companies.
10.       PDB's strategic plan proposes to undertake later several additional
activities, including the promotion of energy conservation and
environmentally-oriented projects; participation in the development of the
Polish capital markets by means of underwriting and asset trading; leasing and
other financial services.
11.       PDB's contention is that if it does not instigate these activities,
certain of them will be extremely slow to develop in the Polish market. While
this may be correct and PDB's objective in developing these activities may be
laudable, PDB's primary objectives are directed towards the provision of NLT
credit. As a consequence, PDB will ensure to focus its managerial and banking
knowledge on developing its skills in the area of credit delivery.



- 58 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 3 of 8
E.        Human Resources
12.       PDB currently has 100 employees, including 10 bankers with banking
experience gained abroad. To obtain the maximum benefit from the use of
consultants, PDB is endeavouring to integrate such personnel as closely as
possible into its structure. Overall, however, PDB's level of staffing is
considered adequate and, with the advent of a Director of Treasury in December
1991, all of the Bank's senior positions have been filled.
13.       PDB's staff are generally young (average age approximately 36
years), well educated and enthusiastic towards the development of PDB. PDB's
personnel policy is geared towards payment on results rather than seniority.
To recruit and retain good staff, PDB has pitched its renumeration package
towards the top end of that obtainable in banking in Poland.
14.       Where PDB staff are at a disadvantage is their lack of extensive,
practical experience of operating the range of PDB's existing and proposed
facilities in an open market economy. This disadvantage is being alleviated
by the use of consultants and bankers with experienced gained abroad and also
by training.
15.       PDB has structured an effective training program for staff, which is
to be closely monitored and provided in foreign banks as well as in local
institutions and through in-house training. About 50% of the staff of the
Credit Department have received further credit-processing related training at
programs being run in Poland and abroad, in addition to the training already
received over the past year which includes six courses abroad and fifteen
within Poland.
16.       At the request of PDB, the TA component of the Privatization and
Restructuring Project included financing of US$3 million for training and
experts. In addition, PDB has been granted ECU 500,000 from the EC's PHARE to
enhance its training program.
F.   Lending Policies and Procedures
17.       PDB has been designed to be an apex bank.  Some some direct lending
to SOEs, however, is expected to be made in the early stage of activities,
when commercial banks may still have to developed their capabilities to engage
in ZLT lending. As agreed under the Privatization and Restructuring Project,
direct lending by PDB will be limited to no more than 15% of total lending in
the next three years. Similarly, direct lending out of the Bank-financed
resources will not exceed 15% of the total of such resources.   PDB has also
agreed not to engage in direct lending to SMEs. These restrictions on direct
lending are stated in PDB's letter of operational policies.
18.       PDB will generally provide loans only to clearly creditworthy
companies. However, there is likely to be a need for credits to restructuring
companies, which may not yet be creditworthy, but which are expected to be



- 59 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 4 of 8
viable following restructuring. In such cases, PDB could uerve for a fee as
an agent for loans out of the Government budget. Such loans would be made at
Government risk, and would be recorded "below the line" in PDB's balance
sheet. Thus, "special credits" would be provided out of Government budget, in
a transparent manner.
19.       One of the conditions for state-owned enterprises to borrow out of
PDB resources would be their "commercialization", i.e., conversion into joint
stock companies (JSC), as a prelude to privatization. Also, as stated
earlier, PDB will provide credits through PB's to private SME.. Specific
arrangements with respect to SHE lending in general and to the related use of
World Bank resources in particular has been established under the proposed
project.
20.       The majority of PDB lending would be provided through PBs, which
will take the credit risk. Such PBs will have to be pre-gualified by PDB,
based on their capability of project appraisal and supervision, on their
financial soundness, and on their willingness to actively promote MLT lending.
For the use of World Bank resources, such banks --which will include selected
banks among the newly privately owned-- would have to meet criteria agreed
with the World Bank.
21.       PDB intends to syndicate some of its larger loans to other Polish
banks, as well as to subsidiaries of foreign banks being established in
Poland. Syndication would be useful in order to reduce PDB's own exposure,
which in any case will be subject to the limit of 15% of its risk asset
portfolio (para. 17).
22.       Within the Credit Department, PDB has established separate units
for the channelling of domestic and external resources through the domestic
banking system for both SMEs credit operations and for restructuring credit
operations; adequate procedures and forms for implementing lending operations
of both the SHE Unit and the Restructuring Unit have been developed. Also,
separate accounts for both units have been introduced, with the view of
managing both units as profit centers. PDB's credit units are divided into
two sections: (i) appraisal section; and (ii) implementation and c0htrol
section, whose main responsibility is the monitoring of subprojects
implementation. Overall the specific areas of responsibility for these two
sections have been clearly stated and appear consistent with the smooth
operation of the sections.
23.       PDB currently operates four different types of credit vis-a-vis its
PBs: (i) Anticipatory Lending: individual loan is for less than zl 300 million
(approximately $26,000); (ii) Refunding Type A: Individual loan is for less
than zl 30 billion (approximately $260,000); (iii) Refunding type B:
individual loan is for more than zl 300 billion (approximately $260,000); and
(iv) direct lending
24.       Credits for both direct and indirect lending will have to be
approved by credit committees, as follows:



- 60 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 5 of 8
(a) Up to US$0.5 million by a credit committee, composed of the manager
and the deputy manager of the credit department, and one member of
the managing board.
(b) Credits of US$0.5 million and US$10 million by all members of the
managing board.
(c) Credits of over US$10 million by a high level credit committee,
composed of all members of the managing board and at least two
members of the supervisory board, one representing the foreign
shareholders.  This committee will meet that least every three
months.
(d) Credits from US$5 million to US$10 million (a) for restructuring and
(b) for beneficiaries with less than 3 years experience in the
activity for which the funds are dedicated, will be consulted with
activity or sector specialists, respectively, of a foreign
shareholder institution.
25.       PDB plans to undertake the following special programs within the
framework of energy conservation and environment protection objectives:
(i) Promotion of energy efficient systems and utilization of insulating
materials and heat recovery systems. Energy conservation will be
introduced in the construction of family housing as well as in the
industrial sector. PDB will provide financing to PBs, which will
on-lend at market interest rates. In addition to providing
financing for energy conservation projects in enterprises, PDB
intends to encourage energy saving mechanisms for the entities in
which it purchases an equity stake.
(ii) Promotion of environmentally sound projects. PDB plans to
participate in the financing of environmentally-oriented projects in
the same manner, mainly by on-lending through PBs.
G.   Equity Investments
26.       PDB intends to make some equity investments, in order to help
promote privatization. Equity investments would be made only on the basis of
careful evaluation of prospects for capital gains. PDB will be generally
taking minority positions in privatizing or in private companies. PDB's total
equity investments will be limited to maximum 15% of PDB's equity.
27.       To carry out its equity investment operations PDB has established
the Capital Investment Department, currently employing 14 staff. PDB has
already acquired minority positions of US$3.6 million in two privatized
companies. PDB also intends to invest in a Privatization Fund together with
EBRD (40% each); management will be provided by a management company which
will subscribe 20% of the equity.



- 61 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 6 of 8
28.       The proposed levv  if involvement in equity, although relatively
small, could imply a significant amount of management time on PDB's part.
This would arise if PDB should become involved in the management of those
enterprises in which it has a shareholding. PDB has confirmed that until such
time as sufficient management resources have been developed, it will not
become actively involved in the management of companies in which it has
acquired an equity interest. PDB intends to finance half of its equity
investments out of its own resources and half from loans from external
sources, such as EIB or EBRD.
H.   Manasement of Risk Exposure
29.       PDB has established a Treasury Department and has developed basic
policies in relation to the management of its risk exposures, relative to its
own capital base and the capital base of the proposed PB's through which it
will operate. Where PDB is directly financing a client, its maximum exposure
to that client may not be greater than 10% of PDB's capital base.
30.       A PB using PDB's funds will not be allowed to provide a single
client credits, out of PDB's funds together with the PB's own funds, of more
than 10% of the PB's capital base. Total credits PDB can provide to a PB will
not exceed 25% of PDB's capital and 30% of the PB's capital.
T.   Sources of Financing
(i) Zloty Funds
31.       PDB intends take medium term deposits from large companies to meet
its zloty financing needs. Such operations will be limited to large amount
deposits from a limited number of enterprises, and PDB would not establish a
network of branches. It also intends to issue Zloty-denominated bonds
(unguaranteed by GOP), at interest rates slightly higher than the inflation
rate. Nevertheless, such interest might be attractive since interest on bonds
is not taxable under the present legislation. Such activities appear to be
consistent with PDB's objectives, and until other financial institutions are
ready to be active in this market, they will not compete with the commercial
banking system. PDB also plans to mobilize short term Zloty deposits from
large companies, but will take care not to compete for such deposits with
retail banking institutions.
(ii) Foreian Currency Funds
32.       PDB expeuts to mobilize most of its foreign currency funds from
external resources, including World Bank loans (such as the proposed project
and the investment component of the recently approve Privatization and
Restructuring Project), as well as from other sources, such as EIB (a loan of
ECU75 million was approved in August 1991) and EBRD. Most MLT loans are
expected to be in foreign currency and they are projected to amount US$45



- 62 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 7 of 8
million in 1991, an additional US$108 million in 1992, and US$148 million in
1993.
J.   Financial Performance and Proiections
33.       PDB has prepared income statements and balance sheets showing the
estimated outcome for the period as of September 30, 1991 and the projected
outcome for the years ending December 31, 1991 and December 31, 1992. A
number of different scenarios were prepared based on differing estimates for
inflation and devaluation during 1992. The financial projections under the
high devaluation scenario, which assumes an inflation and devaluation of the
zloty equals to 40% during 1992 (summarized in Attachment 2), are considered
more realistic as a basis for assessing PDB's financial performance.
a)   Growth  Rate.  PDB projections indicate a significant rate of growth
in risk asset portfolio (loans plus equity investments) from US$22.6
million at September 30, 1991 to US$54 million at December 31, 1991 to
$133.2 million at December 31, 1992. This growth is mainly based on
utilization of EIB and the Bank's facilities. There appears to be
sufficient demand to absorb this volume of foreign currency borrowing so,
provided the appropriate PB structure can be rapidly put in place, the
targets should be achievable.
b)   Margins and Profitabilitv.  For its apex lending activity, PDB's
projects gross spread for foreign currency loans is 2.5% on short term
and 1.5% for medium/long term; the projected spread for medium/long term
zloty loans is 3%. The projected return on equity (defined as profit
after tax divided by issue share capital plus reserves) is 16.2% in 1991
and 13.7% in 1992. This level of profitability is considered
satisfactory and achievable.
c)   Provision,.  PDB's proposed provisions amount to 5% of its
portfolio. Until PDB has established a track record for portfolio
performance, it is difficult to comment on the adequacy of the proposed
provisions level. However, on the basis that 85% of PDB's financing will
be provided to the final borrower via the apex mechanism, PDB's risk
exposure will mainly lies with PBs. As a consequence, careful vetting of
the PBs and their continue compliance with the Bank's criteria is
essential.
As an additional security safeguard, PDB proposes including in its
agreements with PBs a clause whereby in the event of failure by a PB, the
PDB would step into the PBs' s assets with regard to PDB-funded loans.
This should provide PDB with some additional comfort. Overall, the
proposed provisions level appears acceptable, but should be kept under
regular review as PDB develops a track record.
d)   Shareh 'ezrs' Funds and Capital Adectuacv.  PDD's capital adequacy
ratios (defined as issued share capital plus reserves divided by total
assets) is projected at 79% as of December 31, 1991 and 48% as of



- 63 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 8 of 8
December 31, 1992. These projected capital adequacy ratios are
considered very satisfactory by international banking norms where, for
example, the Basle Committee has set a minimum capital adequacy ratio of
8%. However, it is desirable for PDB to maintain high capital adequacy
ratios at this early stage in its development and in view of the
uncertain environment in which it is operating.
K.   Overall Assessment
32.       PDB has made considerable progress terms of putting in place the
necessary management, human resources, policies and procedures, financial
resources, and equipment to operate as an apex institution for the channelling
of credits to a wide range of economic activities of the Polish economy.
33.       While PDB's practical banking experience is limited, development and
control of its operations will be facilitated by the use of consultants and
expatriate experienced staff. The projected increase in volume of PDB's
activity will provide for developing and refining its policies, procedures and
systems in the light of experience gained in the marketplace.
34.       At this point in time, the major constraint on PDB achieving its
projected level of activity appears to be the availability of an adequate
system of PBs. However, PDB is conscious of the need to develop such a system
and appreciates that it will require considerable effort to do so.
Accordingly, PDB is focusing its attention on the selection of suitable PBs
and the training of relevant PB personnel in such areas as project appraisal
and monitoring, together with the Bank's procurement and general procedures.



ANNEX 3-3
Attachmentl
POLISIt DEVEtLOPMENT BBANK
Forelge ShareboMers (Credit NalsmUlMlIvestredl)
SUPERVISORY BOARD                          Szb.rg, R.st.wskl, Wardyeski, Sikora IGOP),
Rybcuesysl, Soarayaski (IDA), Dabrewksl
MANAGEMENT                 Kostirews, Olex Siczylowski, Anysakiewrica
Seuior Advisors (varLes)                BOARD (5)                             Aranowskl, Ciesba
|Public Communications ( I)|
(Overseen by:)
(Olex)                       (Aranowski)                          (Aranowski)          (Clesla)                 (Anyszkiewicz)
(llead contin)    CREDIT (24)                    CAPITAL I NVESTMENT                       TREASURY          LEGAL(8)                   ADMIN ISTRATION
r-(14)                              (7)                                             (13)
Isus~      *svaess v I                                                     E3 I c J ... | E  Money Markels  Amats is
(Auyskekwicx)                         (Amysakiewica)                                     (Ciesla)
ACCOUNTIN                              ECONOMICS                               [|    SONNRNiIJTRIIIIING
I  02?  1                  1       (~~~~~~~                                 ~~10)  1IO 
Aaal).sls Marketing
ta  OIe 
l~~~~dp4.drts."    |St151                        irtg                           Mottg



- 65 -
ANNEX 3-3
Aitachnwnt 2
Page I of 2
POLISH DEVELOPMENT BANK
SUMMARY PROJECTIONS
(US$ O0's, unes otherwis  ndcsed)
[   S ptember 1991          December 1991      |    Decmer 1992
A"ETS
Cash                                       5,636                    6,254                   6,248
Deposits                                  60,266                   76,054                 96,902
Net Loan                                  20.081                   60,000                 124,200
Equity Postions                            2,671                    4.000                   9.000
Net Rxed Assets                              232                     213                    2.818
Other Assets                              14,696                    2,500                   1.500
TOTAL ASSETS                             123,479                  138.021                 239.666
LIABILITIES
Zlolydemonimated deposits                  8,049                    9,196                  16,500
Extemal MLT Loans                              0                   20,000                 90.000
Bond isues                                     0                       0                  2D.000
Equny                                    115.430                  108.825                114,166
TOTAL LIABILmES AND EQUiTY  |            123,479                  138,021    |           239,66
INCOME STATEMENTS
September 1991         December 1991           December 1992
Interet Income                            38,348                   46.039                 64.432
Fe  and Didends                              494                     500                    1,250
Total Revenues                            38.840                   46,639                  55.682
Intere  Payments                           8,769                    9,046                  16,670
ove0was                 2,559                                       3,645                   3.539
DeprecIalon and Provisns                       0                    2260                    5,650
Totl ExpendItures                         11,318                   14,841                  24,669
hIcome Beforo Tax                         27,522                   31.696                 31,023
Taxes                                     11,360                   14.094                  15,381
[ NET INCOME                   |            16,162                   17,604                  16,642
KEY RATIOS In percnt_e)
CapNl Adequacy                                93.5                    76.6                    47.6
Retum on Mee                                  22.3                    23.0                    129
Retun on Equity                               14.0                    16.2                    13.7



- 66 -
ANNEX 3-3
tachrment 2
Page2 20 2
POLISH DEVELOPMENT BANK
NOTES
(1)      The abovo fnancal Informailon assumes devaluation of th zoty by 40% In 190Z
(2)      Ifilon Is aUMed to be 70% In 1991 and 40% for 1902
(3)      In 1992 the Clty of W uaw wIt contObute approxmately 62.6 mIion In CaplW In the form of real esate. Foreign shaeholders will
Coe*te  appt_Jdely   mon in she cplW in th begnp   d l9o
(4)      ReservOefns ae 2% of to  creits. with an additional 3% bult In from earnings after taxes In 1991 an 190.Z
(5)      11 Is asumed thal te gro  spread earned on short term las/deposIt Is 2Z5% and 1.5% on medium/long term loa. The gross
spretd on medIum/long term zloty loans is assumed to be 3.0%.
(6)      Salaries ar sasumed to her_e 10% In 1991 an 20% In 1962 in re terms. The POB wH fnene etA  fs ownt fssourcoe two
wnIor forgn policy expeht  199.Z
(7)      Incom  tax rat Is asumed to be 40% In 1991 and In 1992. EstImates for Tax o n Exco  Wage ao  also ndcluded.
Other
(1)      Capital adequay - tota equity/total assels
(2)      Retum on asts - Iom  before taxes/total assels
(3)      Retum on equity - nt Income/total equity
G:\pol\psd\aftta2



- 67 -
ANNEX 3-4
page 1 of 9
POLAND
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Statement of Policy and Operating Guidelines for the
Private Sector Development Unit
I.    GENERAL POLICY
A.    Definitions and Obiectives
1.          The Private Sector Development Unit (the "PSDU'), a second tier
facility, is an operational unit of the Polish Development Bank (PDB),
established for the purposes of channeling domestic and external resources
through the domestic banking system. Such resources would provide financing
and technical assistance to private sector enterprise in Poland for setting up
new projects or modernizing or expanding existing productive enterprise.
2.          The PSDU shall have the following objectives:
(a)   to foster the establishment, growth and modernization of
productive private sector enterprise in Poland, including
manufacturing, agro-industry, fisheries and related products,
tourism development, trade and services associated with these
activities, bearing in mind the need to promote proper energy
saving and environment protection mechanisms;
(b)   to establish itself as a permanent, profit-making mechanism for
providing timely and operationally efficient financial and
technical assistance to the domestic banking system, so that they
may finance economically productive medium- and long-term
investment projects;
(c)   to improve the distribution of credit on a regional basis, and
through existing Participating Banks (PBs), including private
banks, cooperative banks, craftsmens' banks and state-owned banks;
(d)   to promote the upgrading of Poland's industrial and
entrepreneurial capacity in line with the country's privatization
and restructuring program; and
B.    Financial and Credit Policy
1.          To achieve its objectives, the PSDU shall conserve and increase
its resources, invest its resources to achieve maximum financial results, use
sound financial practices and keep its financial resources separate and apart
and deployed solely for the accomplishment of its purposes and objectives.



- 68 -
ANNEX 3-4
page 2 of 9
2.          The PSDU's resources shall consist of:
(a)   PDB allocations from contributions by the Government and external
agencies;
(b)   proceeds of development credits and other loans; and
(c)   its operating earnings and reserves.
3.          The PSDU's resources shall be used for the following purposes:
(a)   to make medium- and long-term loans through the PBs;
(b)   to cover the PSDU's operating expenditures;
(C)   to finance technical assistance programs related to its
activities; and
(d)   any other relevant financial activities.
4.          The PSDU shall neither undertake direct lending operations nor
cover the exchange and credit risk arising out of on-lending activity.
S.          The PSDU shall maintain internal separate financial accounts for
its operations.
6.          Subprojects financed shall be appraised on the basis of their
technical, financial and economic viability. Credits may be granted to
finance fixed assets, permanent working capital and technical assistance
necessary for the establishment, expansion and modernization of productive
private enterprise. The PSDU shall not finance public sector projects.
7.          The interest rates and other financial charges to be paid by the
final beneficiaries to the PBs and by the latter to the PSDU shall be
determined in light of the country's monetary policy, banking laws and the
cost of money on the financial market, with the objective of conserving the
PSDU's capital base and creating a non-distortionary financial market
environment.
C.    Relationships with Participating Banks (PBs)
1.          PBs interested in participating in the activities of the PSDU
shall be qualified to enter into a Participation Agreement with PDB. The
Participation Agreement will set forth the terms and conditions established
for the use of the PSDU's resources, as well as the benefits to be derived by
the PBs.
2.          The PSDU shall seek wide participation by members of the domestic
banking and financial system, who shall obtain access to the resources on a



- 69 -
ANNEX 3-4
page 3 of 9
"first-come-first-serve" basis. The PBs shall comply with the provisions of
the PSDU, particularly:
(a)   in assisting and guiding enterprises in the preparatLon of
subprojects;
(b)   in performing proper subproject appraisals and taking prompt
credit decisions; and
(C)   in assuming the responsibility for adequate supervision of the
subprojects and maintaining the necessary documents in support of
procurement and disbursement regulations.
3.          The PSDU shall take measures to ensure that the PBs conduct
diligent supervision and administration of subprojects. The PSDU shall
require that the goods and services acquired using the resources provided by
the PSDU are compatible with technical requirements of the subproject and
procured in line with sound commercial and/or international procurement
standards.
4.          The PSDU shall analyze on a regular basis its degree of exposure
and risk to the PBs, keeping in mind the volume of operations, the amount of
resources committed and shall take appropriate measures to protect its
financial worth.
II.   OPERATING GUIDELINES
A.    ResRonsibilities of the PSDU
1.          The responsibilities of the PSDU will be the following:
(a)   To assist in financing subprojects generated by private sector
enterprise operating in the productive sectors.
(b)   To encourage and promote a broad geographical distribution of
credit, particularly to small and medium enterprise.
(C)   To encourage financially-sound and geographically-dispersed PBs to
participate in the program established by the PSDU.
(d)   To rapidly and efficiently process applications submitted by the
PBs for subproject loans.
(e)   To operate an efficient, low-cost and profitable financing
facility.



- 70 -
ANNEX 3-4
page 4 of 9
B.    Resgonsibilities of Participating Banks
1.          The PSDU's resources shall be channeled through the PBS who will
enter into a Subsidiary Financing Agreement with PDB setting forth the
following undertakings and conditions:
(a)   To fix responsibility for the administration of lending activity
under the program established by the PSDU and to appoint an
officer who shall be responsible for the coordination with the
PSDU in the processing of the loan applications and other
activities in line with the rules and procedures established by
the PSDU.
(b)   To present the subprojects to the PSDU for approval and
disbursement together with the supporting documents, including
evidence that the counterpart funds and contributions of capital
by the beneficiaries as defined in the financing plan for each
subproject is being furnished in the agreed proportions and
amounts.  Also, to ensure that the on-going requirements for
reporting on the status of subprojects is maintained.
(c)   To credit the payments of principal and interest for each loan to
the PSDU, in accordance with the payment timetable set forth in
each loan agreement, whether or not payment has been received from
the final beneficiary of the subproject loan. To that end, each
PB shall empower the PSDU to deduct from the PB's account with the
National Bank of Poland all charges corresponding to principal,
interest and commission payments due on loans on their respective
due dates.
(d)   To assume responsibility for compliance with the procurement
regulations of the PSDU and for supervising the subprojects
financed under the program with adequate frequency. To that end,
it shall empower the PSDU to review the documentation for each
subproject and the information pertaining to the supervision
thereof.
(e)   To maintain the conditions for qualification as an PB, which
include: (i) remaining in good standing with the regulatory and
supervisory agency (NBP); (ii) maintaining financial accounts in
line with acceptable accounting standards; and (iii) maintaining
the capability within the organization to appraise projects in
line with the regulations and standards of the PSDU.
C.    Lending Activities Eligible for Financing
1.          The resources administered by the PSDU shall be used to grant
medium- and long-term loans to private productive enterprise for: (a) the
procurement of fixed assets, including imported machinery and equipment; (b)
construction of civil works related to the implementation of the project; (c)



- 71 -
ANNEX 3-4
page 5 of 9
pollution control equipment; (d) energy-saving equipment; (e) permanent
working capital associated with new investments in fixed assets, as well as
permanent working capital intended to increase the utilization of existing
installed capacity; (f) cost of technical assistance designed to improve
productivity; and (g) the design and marketing of products.
D.    Loan Limits
1.          The size of loans granted by the PSDU shall be subject to the
following limits, which may be reviewed periodically by the PSDU and the
donors:
(a)   The size of loans to finance subprojects out of the resources of
the PSDU shall not exceed the equivalent of US$2 million.
(b)   The aggregate amount of credit that would be granted out of the
resources of the PSDU to a single enterprise (including subsidiary
entities or other closely related entities) shall not exceed the
equivalent of US$4 million.
(c)   The loans granted to finance subprojects may finance up to 80% of
an expansion/modernization project in the case of an existing
enterprise, or up to 50% in the case of new enterprises.
E.    Loan Terms and Conditions
1.          Loans to final beneficiaries shall be denominated in Zlotys,
Dollars or Deutsche Marks, or other currency as agreed with the beneficiaries,
at fixed or variable interest rate.
2.          The lending interest rate for Zloty loans from the PSDU to the PBs
(to be reset every six months) shall be related to market rates, by
considering, for example, the average cost of term deposits in the largest (in
terms of assets) banks, the refinancing rate of the National Bank of Poland,
and other elements as appropriate.
3.          In the case of Dollar or Deutsche Mark (or other currency)
denominated loans, the fixed lending interest rate will cover PSDU's costs of
funds plus a margin. The margin will be determined based on estimated
transaction and hedging costs, intermediation and administrative costs, and a
reasonable profit margin. The variable interest rate (to be reset every six
months) will be LIBOR-based for US$ plus a margin or FIBOR-based for DM plus
margin. The margins will be determined based upon the same elements as the
margin for fixed interest rates. For other loan denominated in other
currencies, the interest rate will be determined in accordance with market
financial conditions.
4.          The PBs shall pay commitment fees to the PSDU on the portion of
loans which have been committed but not disbursed.



- 72 -
ANNEX 3-4
page 6 of 9
5.          The lending rates to the final beneficiaries will be set by the
PBS based upon prevailing market conditions and their perception of project
risks.
6.          The maximum amortization period shall be established for each
*ubproject loan in light of the repayment capacity of the project and the
borrowing enterprise. The terms granted to the PBs by the PSDU shall be equal
to the repayment terms of the loan financing each subproject. Loan
amortization shall not exceed seven years, including a three-year grace
period. Exceptions may be granted for projects in sectors that have long
gestation periods.
F.    Loan Processing and Review
1.          The final beneficiaries shall submit loan applications to the PB
in the form prescribed by the latter, supported by other special information
which may be required on a case-by-case by the PSDU and/or the PB.  The PB
shall review all loan applications and appraise them in line with their
general credit review processes, and will apply the special appraisal
techniques appropriate to the review of medium- and long-term investment
projects that have been laid down in the Project Appraisal Review Manual
prepared by the PSDU. Simplified procedures will be applied to smaller
subproject loans (provisionally defined as being less than USS 300,000
equivalent).
G.    Disbursement of Loans
1.          Disbursement requests shall be sent by the PBs to the PSDU
together with the corresponding basic documentation. The projects will be
processed as follows:
(a)   For subproject loans of less than USS 50,000 (or its equivalent in
Zlotys or Deutsche Marks), the PSDU may approve and disburse funds
without prior approval of its Credit Committee. The PSDU would
review the subproject loans on an ex-post basis and would suspend
or reject the loans if they do not conform to the conditions of
the program.
(b)   For subproject loans between US$ 50,000 and US$ 300,000 (or their
equivalent in Zlotys or Deutsche Marks), prior review by the PSDU
of the project would be required, in terms of its financial rate
of return and the marketing and technical feasibility of the
project. The PSDU will submit the subproject to PDB's appropriate
Credit Committee. PSDU would promptly advise the PB as to the
status of the project upon receipt of the loan application and
supporting documents.
(c)   For subproject loans exceeding USS 300,000 (or its equivalent in
Zlotys or Deutsche Marks), more extensive documentation would be



- 73 -
ANNEX 3-4
page 7 of 9
prepared by the PB to be submitted to the PSDU for full review and
subsequent submission to its relevant Credit Committee.
(d)   For subproject loans above USS 1 million (or their equivalent in
Zlotys or Deutsche Marks) prior approval of donor agencies would
be required.
2.          The legal documentation relating to the formalization of the
subproject loans and the securities granted will normally be presented by the
PS. to the PSDU when applications for disbursements are made.
H.    Procurement of Goods and Services
1.          Each qualifying PB would be required to have a consistent policy
regarding procurement, including the maintenance of procurement records and
adequate supervision thereof. To that end, it is expected that sound
commercial practices be applied to procurement of goods and services. For
purchase contracts by investing enterprises in amounts in the range of US$1-2
million, procurement procedures will require at least three responsive price
quotations, representing at least two eligible countries. For contracts of
under US$1 million, procurement may be based upon local shopping, requiring at
least three quotations from local suppliers. The respective goods and
directly-related services will be purchased from the supplier offering the
lowest evaluated price. Determination of this lowest evaluated price may take
into account such relevant factors as efficiency, time of delivery,
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts.
III. ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION OF THE PSDU
A.    General Organization
1.          The PSDU shall be established as one of the profit centers within
the Credit Department of the PDB. The PSDU will comprise a section
responsible for Credit Review and Appraisal and one responsible for Promotion
and Supervision with the support of the Technical Assistance Unit. The PSDU
will be headed by a Deputy Director who will be responsible to the Director of
the Credit Department. The Deputy Director will be responsible for (a) the
administration of the daily operations of the PSDU, and (b) the approval of
credits in line with the authority granted in order to rapidly advance the
credit approval mechanism.
B.    Duties of President and Board of Directors with respect to the PSDU
1.          The President and Board of Directors of the PDB will establish and
monitor the policy and organizational requirements of the PSDU, including:
(a)   Establishing policies and procedures for programs to be financed
by international donor agencies.



- 74 -
ANNEX 3-4
page 8 of 9
(b)   Establishing overall credit risk management policies and
authorizing the appraisal and supervisory control procedures that
will be applied by the PSDU to the operations of the PBs.
(C)   Approving the annual budgets and financial investment plans of the
PSDU and taking other measures and decisions designed to improve
its performance.
2.          Subproject loans above US$300,000 equivalent will be sent to the
credit committee of PDB.
C.    Duties of the Director of Credit with respect to the PSDU
1.          The Director of Credit will have the following functions:
(a)   To supervise the overall compliance of the PSDU with the policies
established.
(b)   To approve the periodic operational and budgetary programs of the
PSDU.
2.          Subproject loans between US$ 50,000 and USS 300,000 equivalent
will be approved by a departmental credit committee, chaired by the Director,
and also comprising the Deputy Director of Credit in charge of the PSDU and
one member of the managing board of PDB.
D.    Duties of the Deputy Director of the PSDU
1.          The Deputy Director of the PSDU shall report to the Director of
Credit and have the following responsibilities:
(a)   To administer the PSDU's resources in conformity with operating
regulations and other organizational provisions.
(b)   To establish policy for, and supervise, the credit review and
appraisal process and the technical assistance program.
(c)   To liaise with external suppliers of PSDU resources.
(d)   To take other necessary administrative measures to enhance the
efficiency and performance of the PSDU's operations.
(e)   To promote the activities of the PSDU among the local banking and
business communities.
2.          The office of the Deputy Director will:
(a)   maintain information on loans approved, formalized and implemented
and on the resources available for new loans; and



- 75 -
ANNEX 3-4
page 9 of 9
(b)   prepare the budgets and periodic information reports and special
studies required by the international financial agencies.
E.    Duties of the Credit Review and Appraisal Section
1.          The Credit Review and Appraisal section shall initially have the
following functions:
(a)   To review the project appraisals performed by the PBs, discuss the
details of the projects with them and recommend actions to be
taken on subproject loan applications.
(b)   To design and update a system of information on the projects
financed by PSDU resources and the results achieved by them.
(c)   To design and coordinate with the Technical Assistance Unit,
technical assistance activity necessary to improve the capability
of PBs and small and medium enterprises to analyze and prepare
projects.
(d)   To prepare and conduct project appraisal training programs to be
administered to PBs.
F.    Duties of the Supervision and Promotion Section
1.          The Supervision and Promotion Section shall initially have the
following functions:
(a)   To establish and administer programs of promotion of the
operations of the PSDU.
(b)   To establish systems of control, supervision and monitoring of the
performance of PBs.
(c)   To assist PBs to supervise and monitor the enterprises,
particularly the small and medium enterprises assisted by the
resources of the PSDU.
(d)   To conduct studies of the outcome of projects financed under the
program and make recommendations which would lead to improvements
in credit policy and appraisal techniques.
2.          In conjunction with PDB's Economics Department, this Division will
maintain an information data base on gross investments by sector, the
performance of sectors under the program and the capability of sectors to
absorb incremental investments in capacity. This data will be made available
to participating PBs on a regular basis.



- 76 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 1 of 2
POLAND
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for a Long-Term Advisor to the Office of the Undersecretary
for Business Promotion
1.    As part of the Private Sector Enterprise Development Project The World
lank vill provide the Office of the Undersecretary for Business Promotion,
presently located in the Ministry of Industry, vith an advisor to assist in
the discharge of the duties and tasks undertaken by the Office.
2.    Specifically the advisor vill:
(a)   help the Undersecretary and his staff to assess the needs of
the private sector for support and assistance;
(b)   design and develop vith the Office Staff, support programs
for private sector promotion through direct help to
recognized development agencies or other approved
promotional agencies for the setting up and strengthening of
business management training centers and advisory services,
projects for establishing business incubators, industrial
parks of differing types, marketing assistance,
subcontracting promotion arrangements, information
dissemination;
(c)   assist the Office staff to assess requests from regional
organizations and development agencies for assistance in the
form of specialist help in designing, setting up and
implementing programs and projects in support of private
sector development and for World Bank (or other donor)
finance to implement specific project;
(d)   where appropriate, participate with, or supervise, Office
Staff in carrying out studies to evaluate the feasibility of
specific projects for which World Bank funding is being
requested;
(e)   advise the Undersecretary on all aspects related to the
development of the programs of the Office on procedures for
staffing and recruitment and on policies and measurements
being enacted by the government as related to the
development of the private sector;
(f)   assist the Undersecretary and his Office to work out and put
into effect suitable collaboration arrangements and active
cooperation with the credit programs of the PDB and of the



- 77 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 2 of 2
PSU of the Cooperation Fund.
Short-term Specialist Staff
3.    The World Bank project will provide 200 man weeks of short term
specialist staff to the Office of the Undersecretary to be supplemented by 6
years of suitably qualified and experienced Polish consultants to offer advise
and assistance both to the Office of the Undersecretary and local/regional
development agencies who are working to promote and strengthen private sector
development.
4.    The overseas short-term staff would work as required on assignments of 2
to 15 weeks duration on the following:
(a)   Surveys to assess the potential for small and medium scale
private sector growth in selected regions or localities,
determination of constraints and the type of support and
assistance needed.
(b)   Carry out feasibility studies on need and potential demand
for industrial and business space and the viability of
implementation of infrastructural projects such as business
incubators, industrial estates or technology and science
parks.
(c)   Act as resource person in the design and implementation of
business training programs for the private sector.
(d)   Assess the extent of linkages and subcontracting
relationships between the large and smaller industries and
the potential for the expansion of such arrangements as well
as the actions that could feasibly be undertaken to increase
the volume of subcontracting relations of this nature
between enterprises.
(e)   Work with the Office of the Undersecretary and local
development agencies, including local or regional government
bodies and private sector institutions, in establishing an
appropriate network of information and advisory services in
all the relevant fields (legal, taxation, financial,
technological, marketing etc) to respond to the needs of the
local business community.
(f)   Help local businesses and the related private sector
institutions to take full advantage of the credit facilities
for private sector enterprise devel. 3ment being made
available by The World Bank and other donors.



- 78 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 1 of 3
POLAND
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Subsector Studies
A.    Introduction
1.    Preliminary subsectore to be selected for study will include:
(1)   Canned fruit, vegetable and meat products;
(2)   Electronics;
(3)   Footwear and leather products; and
(4)   Subcontracting relationships primarily in the metalworking
and machinery industries.
B.    Canned and Vegetables and Meat products
2.    Poland has already developed "know how" and experience in this field.
Potential exists for new and existing SMEs to build on this background and the
reputation already acquired for Polish canned goods, hams and sausages.
3.    The study would specifically look into:
(a)   the present state of technology in the country in the
manufacture of canned goods and meat products;
(b)   productive methods and relative efficiency of the production
process employed;
(C)   qualify control in the industry;
(d)   situation with regard to supply, uniformity and quality of
raw materials and linkages with agriculture,
(e)   packaging and labelling;
(f)   marketing and distribution aspects within the country;
(g)   special problems related to exporting and possible form of
assistance in market research and international commercial
links;
(h)   linkages between large and small producers;
(i)   present availability of advice and assistance in improving
technologies, raising efficiency, improving quality of
existing products and development of new items;



- 79 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 2 of 3
(j)   proposals to help in the development of SMI in this
subsector through government measures, programs of
assistance from specialist and universities and external
donor aid;
(k)   recommendations for improving management and productions
kills in the industry;
(1)   proposals for 'self help' organizations within the
subsector.
C. Electr,oni,cc
4.    The study would specifically look into:
(a)   A general review of operations of SMI in the electronics
fields both as producers of consumer, industrial, medical
products or components of items.
(b)   General state of technology and 'local expertise' in the
subsector.
(c)   Domestic and export demand for Polish electronic products or
components.
(d)   Identification of major constraints in further development
of the electronic subsector, degree of competition of
imported product., non-availability of technical support,
inadequate assistance in quality control and product design.
(a)   Proposals for overcoming constraints - greater links with
foreign producers, availability of more resources of
technical development for skills and management improvement;
great access to foreign materials and components.
D.    Footwear and Leather
5.    The study would specifically look into:
(a)   General review of extent of manufacture of footwear and
leather products in SMI in the country.
(b)   Design, production efficiency and quality problems.
(c)   Availability of raw materials in required amounts and
quality.
(d)   Level of technologies and skills in the subsector.
(a)   Marketing problems within Poland and proposals for



- 80 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 3 of 3
increasing exports.
(f)   Recommendation for training in management and production
skills.
(g) Revi-w of possible government measures to *ase constraints
in the development of the subsector and proposals for
improved organization of the subsector itself.
E.    Subcontractina
6.    The study would specifically look into:
(a) Review of extent of subcontracting link between large and
small entorprises in Poland and identification of broader
constraints in the expansion of such relationships.
(b)   Identification of specific problems constraining the
expansion of subcontracting links - price, quality problems,
time delivery, union and workersz opposition, lack of
information on reliable suppliers.
(c)   Possibilities of specialists subcontracting, i.e. 8MI that
develop specialization in certain proc-ss or manufacturo of
items.
(d)   The regional factor in subcontracting relationships, i.e.
feasibility of developing regional links.
(e) Extent of existence or possible devolopment of basic
metalworking SMI in meatal casing (foundries), forging,
specialist machining, welding, plating, anodizing etc, that
can form basis for expanded subcontracting in machine or
equipment manufacture.
(f)   Capacity of 8MI to meet high speciflcations (tolerances)
from the point of view of availability of skills, technical
knowledge, equipment, tooling and quality control.
(9)   Proposals for increasing subcontracting links through
greater flow of information in subcontracting exchanges,
clearing houses, registers, exhibitions, specific surveys
general promotion and assistance from technical advisory
centers.
(h)   "Coaching" of SMI by large firms to become reliable
suppliors.
(i)   Prospects for expansion of international subcontractLng
links.



- 81 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 1 of 2
POLAND
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for a Monitoring and Evaluation System
1.    A small team of consultants will be recruited to help specially-selected
staff of the Office of the Undersecretary for Business Promotion design and
implement a monitoring and evaluation system for private sector promotion
projects in Poland. After designing the system, these consultants will
provide on-going short-term assistance to monitor project activities and
conduct mid-term and end-of-project evaluations. The design of the system is
expected to require about 5 work months; implementing the system and carrying
out impact evaluations will require an additional 20 work months over three
years.
2.    The designers of the management information system should specify what
data each project will provide to the Office of the Undersecretary on an on-
going basis. System designers will work with representatives of each project
to reconfirm project objectives and targets and establish verifiable
indicators. Semi-annual reports will be required from each private sector
promotion project which will:
(a)   Provide critical decision-making and oversight information in a
timely, useful and cost-effective manner;
(b)   Enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of private sector
promotion planning and implementation;
(c)   Track the flow of project inputs, activities and outputs;
(d)   Serve as an early warning system to signal serious deviations from
expected project development and, thus, to prompt selective
interventions in project implementation;
(e)   Report progress and identify problems to be solved.
3.    At the mid-term and termination of a large or particularly significant
project, the consultants and Undersecretary's staff will conduct a more in-
depth analysis of the implementing organization's administrative performance
and administrative and financial viability as well as the impact of project
activities upon targeted beneficiaries. The analysis of the performance and
viability of the implementing institution (for example, a training
institution) will require examining financial records, projecting demand and
determining staff capacity through interviews. Analysis of project impact
will involve interviewing a sample of Polish private sector recipients of
project services and determining the impact of the project on their business
operations.



- 82 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 2 of 2
4.    The system should enable the staff of the Office of the Undersecretary
to (i) explain why project objectives were or were not achieved and what
modifications were necessary; (Li) examine the reason. behind project success
or failure and substantiate lessons learned for future private sector
development projects; and (iii) feed into policy-level decisions on how to
promote the private sector.



- 83 -
Annex 5
POLAND
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule of Bank Loan
Estimated Schedule                     l
Calendar Year   Fiscal Year         Amount         Cumulative  1    of Total
and Semester   and Semester                         Amount
 ----------------(US$ million) --------------- 
1992  I         FY92 II                   0.5              0.5             0.8
II        FY93  I                    1.5              2.0             3.3
1993  I         FY93 II                    1.8             3.8             6.3
II        FY94  I                    7.4             11.2            18.7
1994  I         FY94 II                    7.5            18.7            31.2
II        FY95  I                    9.9             28.6            47.7
1995  I         FY95 II                    7.4            36.0            60.0
II        FY96  I                    7.9             43.9            73.2
1996  I         FY96 II                    5.0            48.9            81.5
II        F.37  I                    5.0             53.9            89.8
1997  I         FY97 II                    2.4            56.3            93.8
II         FY98  I                   2.5             58.8            98.0
1998  I         FY98 II                    1.2            60.0           100.00
NOTE:  Disbursement for the institutional support component totalling US$2
million, is based on actual projection covering a three-year period. For the
investment financing component (US$58 million) the profile for the region has
been followed.



MAP SECTION



77                 ~~~~~~~77-                   .
BAt TIC SEA
Slupsk
"It A I(    r E__Gdonsk
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-f3)_l! A NSK                                   bag                                       a I
EaIa
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE
Szrzecn                                                                                                          D r    g -  9v    J    DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
;^ Sczec,n                                                                                               tf   \        io/^{\IA1 i Bialytso 
A                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AREAS OF FOCUS FOR NEW
Gorzow                              Bydgoszcz U9fdgoszcz                        \4stroleka 8  1 L*    DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL
Wielkcepolskcr
echan  ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    3       AREAS WiTH CURRENT
j P  J oCickanow )                                                          > < i } } DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL
.   }   ^    i>   Pozan  llori awekl Pijjjik           <            <   :                                               INITIATIVES
.  1>   \       t           \        &                      /  7>Wa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rsaw z    7 Siedlce  i3oa 
.Uf-   H5    Podloskas               VOIVODSHIP CAPITALS
. S      NATIONAL CAPITAL
Iona Gora                             Kalisz ie2no  r_ (04  f                                                                         -      VOIVODSHIP BOUNDARIES
> p< 2 ) (? /    Tiybunolski)                                               ~>~t ow  -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Legnica                                               -.        ,     Raom             |                  tChelm 
tAt. rook.,, and,. eon,, ely "        lo a,,\ the              nteWroclnetce t
Jelen   )      -{          pl                    )*                             f1Zmosc(; 
sr a,,,e C nqn-atnn The d.y,,,,nnst ton. toed a,d the ha.,ndane sAn.n IA,. fct di.c  r                                                                                                    1KkowJ
~~>  ,          >   (    Z~~~~~ ~~ hrno                  Pzemysl 
- E w ' ffi Ei~~~~~els    oBlo'  , 
8 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                        50    100            150 
.h*nn> .tn  hnt.,   ar hnh tVeAdtVnA ttn   Anyw  et,emn,rn toc optnern nt sob lJtO.tda.                                                                                                   1
3 L  6                                                         7l                            77                              21



