Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AS                               C)
Report No. 6619-KO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
KYONGGI REGIONAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
January t1, 1988
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
Tis document has a restided listribution and may be used by ripients only in the perfonnace of
their offciad dutes. Its contents may not othendse be disclosed witout Wodd Bank auhoizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALr.NTS
Currency Unit - Won (W)
US$1                  W 800
US$1,250          =   W 1 million
(as of October 1987)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                      =   3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)   ^k=   0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)             0.3861 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha) = 0.01 k2=   2.4711 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)                      2.205 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (ton)               -   2,205 pounds (lbs)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB          - Asian Development Bank
ADT          - Avarage Daily Traffic
BPR          -  Bureau of Public Roads
EPB          -  Economic Planning Board
ERR          -  Economic Rate of Return
GNP          -  Gross National Product
KECC         -  Korea Engineering Consultants Corporation
KHC          -  Korea Highway Corporation
KMPA         -  Korea Maritime and Port Administration
KNR          -  Korean National Railroad
KRIHS        -  Korean Research Institute for Human Settlements
KRMTFS       -  Kyonggi Region Multimodal Transport Feasibility Study
MOC          - Ministry of Construction
MOER         -  Mini.stry of Energy and Resources
MOF          -  Ministry of Finance
MOHA         -  Ministry of Home Affairs
MOT          - Ministry of Transportation
SMESRS       -  Seoul Metropolitan Electrified Suburban Railway System
VOC          -  Vehicle Operating Costs
VOT          -  Value of Time



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
KYONCGI REGIONAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ....      .... ...***,,.*,,*.*.*....***            iii
I.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ....................                               1
A.  Geographic and Economic Setting ..........................          1
B. The Transport System  I....................................          1
C.  Transport Sector Issues and Objectives in the 1980s.......          3
D.  Previous Bank-Assisted Projects in Transport..............          4
E.  The Bank's Role in the Sec                  t      o     r          4
II.   THE KYONGGI REGION 5...............5
A.  Introduction                        ...                             5
B.  Population and Economic Development Trends                          6
C.  Transport Network and Traffic .,e.....................              7
D.  Transport Administration and Organization                           9
E.  Regional Development Policy ...........................            10
F.  Regional Transport Plan                                            11
III. THE PROJECT..........                                                   12
A. Project Formulation and Preparation .........o............          12
B.  Project Objectives...o........ ...**.*000oooo**o.... .,.           13
C. Detailed Features                                                   14
Do Cost Estimates e**¢e@e**v*¢¢**¢¢¢v*                                 15
E* Financing **¢¢¢*^*v*****+*v*X@es**17
F# Implementation                                                      17
G.  Procurement                                                        18
Ho Disbursements                                                       19
I. Auditing, Reporting and Monitoring                                  19
J. Environmental Effects                                               19
K.  Transport Coordination and Project-Related Studies*#.*.***         20
The project was appraised in October 1986 and the report prepared by A. Faiz
(Economist), E. A. James (Financial Analyst), B.P. Kennedy (Engineer),
C. Menckhoff (Transport Specialist), C. R. de Silva (Loan Officer), and
R. Huenemann (consultant). The report was updated following a mission to
Korea in August 1987.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authotization.



- ii -
Page No.
IV.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ...................                     021
A.  Regional Traf%ic Pattern .......O......,.............           21
B. The "First Step Program"                     ..............*21
C.  Economic Evaluation 00...... ..... .... .............e          21
D.  Toll Levels and Cost Recovery .......................e          22
E.  Risks ........,...,..... ,.,,..,........,.......,*.             22
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONo ....... .....*******.**      23
ANNEXES
1.    Government Statement on Transport Planning and
Coordination in Kyonggi Region..............................      25
2.    Growth Trend of Domestic Traffic (1966-85)00..*.....**.0...*.       29
3.   Transport Administration and Organizationo.......,.........o..       31
4.    Korea Highway Corporation......o...................f...........e    33
5.    Summary of Investments Proposed by KRMTFPS*....0**. .**.*.. **.0    42
6.    Expressway Design Standards ......................o.... .o.o..      43
7.   Project Cost Estimates....................................           44
8.    Project Implementation Schedule h e d u le....oe..............o....  46
9.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule he,d u le..o.o.......o........,..    47
10.   Project Monitoring Indicese...................................      48
11.  Measurement of Economic Benefitso...o.................o.......o      49
12.   Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File..o......      51
CHART
1.  Organization of the Korea Highway Corporation
(World Bank 30927)
MAPS
1.  National Transport Network (IBRD 20214)
2.   Expansion of Seoul City between 1917 and 1985 (IBRD 20216)
3.  Kyonggi Regional Transport Project (IBRD 20188R)
4.   Seoul Metropolitan Management Plan Policy Development Areas (IBRD 20215)



- iii -
KOREA
KYONGGI REGIONAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               Republic of Korea
Beneficiary:            Korea Highway Corporation (KHC)
Amount:                  US$116 million equivalent
Terms:                   Repayable in 15 years including 3 years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate
Project Objectives
and Description:      The objective of the project is to help increase the
efficiency of transport in the economically dynamic
Kyonggi region around Seoul by (a) physically improv-
ing the transport infrastructure and (b) supporting
the preparation of a comprehensive transport invest-
ment program. As a first stage in multimodal trans-
port investments needed to meet transport demand, two
high-capacity toll expressways would be constructed
under the project as parts of future bypass roads
around Seoul. In parallel with the expressway
construction, Government would further strengthen
transport coordination in the region and also conduct
a traffic management study in secondary cities
affected by the new expressways. Further, a dialogue
would be maintained with the Bank concerning planned
research on traffic flow and congestion analysis
preliminary to preparation of a Highway Capacity
Manual for Korean conditions.
Benefits and Risk:       The principal project benefits are savings in vehicle
operating costs due to network improvement. These
would accrue to the general public since a large
proportion of traffic in the area consists of buses
and trucks. The risk in project implementation is
considered low, since Korean authorities have
accumulated considerable experience in large-scale
road projects. Even in the unlikely event that
construction costs were to exceed estimates by 20%,
the economic rate of return would be higher than 27%
which is ample for economic justification.



- iv -
Project Costs:                                           Local   Foreign   Total
----- US$ million ---
Expressway construction         146.5    141.8    288.3
Consultants' services for
construction supervision       11.7      0.0      11.7
Base Cost                  158.2    141.8    300.0
Physical contingencies            7.9       7.1     15.0
Price contingencies               4.5      4.1       8.6
Right-of-way acquisition        124.6       0.0    124.6
Total Project Costs /a    295.2    153.0    448.2
Financing Plan:
Government                      295.2      37.0    332.2
World Bank                         -      116.0    116.0
Total Financing            295.2    153.0    448.2
Estimated
Disbursements:        Bank FY        1988   1989   1990    1991   1992   1993
----------…US$ ml lon - …             --
Annual          10      16     38      32      14      6
Cumulative      10      26     64      96    110    116
Economic Rate of
Return:               31%
/a   Includes taxes and duties estimated at US$49 million.



KOREA
KYONGGI REGIONAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Geographic and Economic Setting
1.1       The Republic of Korea has a land area of 99,100 km2, ablut 66Z of
which is mountainous. Agriculture is confined to about 22,400 km , or only
23% of the total area, mainly in the river valleys, lower hillsides and
coastal plains. The climate is seasonal with very cold dry winters and hot
humid summers. Annual rainfall averages 800 mm to 1,400 m with about 60%
falling between June and August, and seasonal flooding is a major problem.
The rugged terrain, extensive river system and severe winter climate make the
construction of transport facilities, particularly roads, difficult and
costly.
1.2       Korea's export-led industrialization has been among the most
successful examples of economic development in recent history. Between 1962
and 1978, the real Gross National Product (GNP) grew by 101 p.a. and per
capita income more than tripled in real terms. After a brief but serious
recession in 1979-81, the Korean economy recovered its growth momentum, with
real GNP increasing by more than 9% in 1983 and 8% in 1984. Although it
declined to 5% in 1985, a growth rate of 12% was registered in 1986 allowing
Korea to return to the high export and growth trajectory envisioned for the
period of the Fifth Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan (1982-86).
1.3       The population is presently estimaLed at about 42 million and is
growing at an annual rate 2f 1.2%. Population density is about 419 per km2 of
tocal area or 1,853 per km of non-mountainous land. Urban population is
estimated to be growing at an annual rate of 5.7% and has increased from 41X
of the total in 1970 to 65% in 1987.
1.4       Korea's increasing urbanization and industrialization have created
significant transport demands in the areas around the cities and industrial
centers and between them, particularly in the Seoul-Pusan (Kyongbu) Corridor,
in Seoul City and in the surrounding region (Kyonggi Province). Passenger
traffic tripled between 1962 and 1971 and tripled again by 1985; freight traf-
fic increaned nine times and five times, respectively, during the same peri-
ods. Major developments and changes in the transport sector complemented and
supported this transformation of Korea's economy (Map IBRD 20214).
B. The Transport System
1.5       For two decades, the transport system has been strained by the
demands of rapid growth and has required massive public sector investments in
transport infrastructure. The Government allocated up to 23% of its total
capital expenditure to expand and modernize transport infrastructure from 1967
to 1977, tapering down to about 15% in the Fourth (1977-81) and Fifth Plans
(1982-86). The Sixth Plan (1987-91) allocation for sector investments is at
about the same level.



- 2 -
1.6       Substantial changes in the modal distribution of traffic are illus-
trated by traffic statistics for the 1966 to 1985 period (Annex 2). The
previously dominant role cf the railways (82X of ton-km in 1966) has been
replaced by a more balanced distribution of traffic among rail, coastal
shipping and road for freight and among road and rail for passenger transport.
During this period, for freight traffic, the road and coastal shipping shares
of total ton-km increased from 82 to 402 and from 102 to 29X, respectivel-,
wihile movements by rail, although showing growth in absolute terms, fell to
31% of total ton-km. These changes reflect both the economic advantages of
the various modes and the different growth rates of the industries served, as
rail and coastal shipping became concentrated on long distances and bulk
commodities while road transport handled the short distances and more general
cargo. For passenger traffic, rapidly expanding personal incomes have gene-
rated large increases in personal travel, mainly by public transport such as
express trains and buses. About half of all passenger traffic is in urban
areas. High taxatior. of private cars and gasoline has limited motorization to
a level significantly below that of other countries with income levels compar-
able to Korea's but has not deterred rapid growth in road transport. Between
1966 and 1985, the rail share of total passenger-km fell from 43Z to 25X while
the road share increased from 56Z to 732.
1.7       The Government of Korea's basic objectivise in the past has been to
increase and modernize the capacity of the transport system in line with
projected traffic growth and to avoid major bottlenecks. This objective has
been largely achieved. The present system is reasonably balanced and traffic
is in general allocated economically among the various modes. Another objec-
tive of the investments in transport has been to pursue broader concerns in
Korea's spatial and economic planning. For example, considerable efforts have
been made to develop new industrial complexes in coastal areas to take
advantage of Korea's natural potential in harbors and to exploit low-cost
coastal shipping while avoiding excessive congestion on road and rail.
Projects are now better designed, construction quality has improved with the
rapid expansion of the construction industry, and maintenance systems have
been established for the road network and strengthened for the railways.
1.8       In its efforts to ensure that appropriate development priorities are
reflected in the allocation of scarce transport resources, the Government has
in the past tightly regulated the sector, with a restrictive licensing system
and administered pricing for all transport activities. The economic impact of
existing regulations in the trucking industry on the cost of transport
services and energy use has been assessed under a Highway Sector Project (Ln.
2392-KO), and some of the regulations constraining the efficiency of the
trucking industry, e.g., minimum fleet size and restrictive licensing, have
been removed.  The potential for improving efficiency in road transport
through the use of intermodal freight terminals is being explored. The
Government is also reviewing existing road user charges to ensure that
(especially) heavy vehicles pay their share of costs and generate sufficient
revenues.
1.9       Large investments in transport infrastructure have been complemented
by a considerable effort to improve the efficiency of the transport system
through the establishment and strengthening of institutions to plan,



construct, maintain and operate the facilities and services* in the public
sector, institutions such as the Korean National Railroad (KNR)p the Bureau of
Public Roads (BPR) in the Ministry of Construction (MOC), the Korea Highway
Corporation (KHC), and the Korea Maritime and Port Administration (KMPA) have
been established or strengthened, in many instances with increasing financial
and managerial responsibility. In the private sector, a highly efficient
contractor system has evolved for civil works which reflects both the policy
of competitive bidding in the award of contracts and the large volume of
construction that has been carried out in Korea during the past 20 years.
There are now some 500 firms capable of handling a broad range of public
works. Furthermore, with government encouragement, the major construction
firms have successfully expanded their construction activities overseas.
C. Transport Sector Issues and Objectives in the 1980s
1.10      Issues.  In setting the major Sixth Plan objectives in the transport
sector (para. 1.13), the Government has been responsive to the recommendations
made by the last Bank transport sector review mission. The mission's
Transport Sector Issues Survey Report (No. 4423-KO dated December 27, 1983)
concluded that there was considerable potential for increasing the productivi-
ty of existing transport facilities and equipment, although most of the
investments in the Fifth Plan period (1982-86) pursued development priorities
which were appropriate. The report noted that, with increasingly complex
traffic patterns and higher traffic densities, growing requirements for main-
tenance and the need to conserve energy, there is an even greater need to
increase efficiency in this capital-intensive sector, and three major areas
require specific attention: (a) planning, (b) regulation and pricing, and
(c) energy conservation.                                  I
1.11      A Highway Sector Project (Ln. 2392-KO, approved in 1984) is
addressing the above issues. Transport planning is mostly done in the context
of five-year national development planning exercises. Under the ongoing
Highway Sector Project, a road network master plan study has been completed as
a basis for a highway sector plan which was incorporated in the Sixth Plan.
The deregulation of road transport and reform of the pricing system are
already under way (para. 1.8). A transport energy saving plan has been pre-
pared, five-year energy conservation programs have been completed for all
major modes, energy audits of road transport companies are being conducted,
and the potential for installing appropriate fuel conservation devices is
being assessed, along with training and public information programs.
1.12      Despite considerable efforts, spatial planning of the transport
system and integration of public transport services are still hindered by
generally inadequate interagency coordination. This problem is especially
a'ute in the Creater Seoul area where the road network is denser and the
puLlic transport system more complex than in any other region; it was
addressed in the Bank-supported Kyonggi Region Multimodal Transport Feasibil-
ity Study (KRMTFS, 1985), the findings of which form the primary basis for the
proposed project.
1.13      Objectives.  The Government's basic policy focus in the transport
sector during the Sixth Plan is to (a) incrsase transport efficiency, capacity



- 4 -
and quality; (b) provide transport facilities that are balanced regionally;
and (c) improve transport administration.
1.14      The Government seeks to schieve the above objectives through a more
rational distribution of the means of transport; through efforts to utilize
existing facilities to the maximum degree, optimize new investment and energy
conservation, and increase private sector participation in transport; and
through investments aimed at improving transport in the largest cities and at
extending the network of paved roads to upgrade the accessibility of medium
and small cities anJ rural areas.
D. Previous Bank-Assisted Projects in Transport
1.15      The Bank's past involvement in the transport sector has been sub-
stantial. Since 1962, it has assisted KNR through nine railway project loans
amounting to US$501 million, MOC and the Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA)
through six highway project loans amounting to US$690 million and KMPA through
three port project loans amounting to US$288 million. KNR and KMPA were also
assisted through a loan of US$122 million for a multimodal coal and cement
distribution project. Of these 19 projects, 14 have been completed. Project
Completion Reports and Project Performance Audit Reports have been issued and
have generally found that the projects were successful in upgrading transport
infrastructure and strengthening the institutions in charge. Recent opera-
tions are concentrating on more inter.sive use of existing facilities, more
efficient maintenance and more emphasis on transport investment policies that
seek to develop complementarity among the modes of transport.
E. The Bank's Rile in the Sector
1.16      The Bank's policy dialogue is being strengthened through the
increasing emphasis on sector and subsector work directly linked to transport
lending in Korea. This new approach was initiated in 1984 with a Pighway
Sector Project (Ln. 2392-KO) which helps to deepen and broaden the Bank's
involvement in the road subsector by extending assistance to MOC, MOHA, the
Ministry of Transportation (MOT) and the Ministry of Energy and Resources
(HOER). That project is providing a framework for these agencies to improve
their planning and coordination and to conserve energy and deregulate land
transport. For railways, the Bank has traditionally made sector-type loans,
financing -ime slices of KNR's investment plans; the most recent of these, the
Seoul/Pusan Corridor Project (Ln. 2600-KO) continues this involvement. On the
basis of the recently completed Railway Efficiency Sector Report (No. 6692-KO,
dated June 25, 1987), a railway efficiency project is likely to be identi-
fied. For ports, Bank assistance has been directed at the modernization and
expansion of facilities to support Korea's export-led development. Container-
ization was introduced at Pusan under two completed port projects (Lns. 917-KO
and 1401-KO) and would be developed further under an ongaing project
(Ln. 2726-KO), which presents another opportunity for the Bank to support
government policy measures aimed at increasing the efficiency of container
handling and further strengthening KMPA's progress in institution building,
primarily to improve the management and financing of the port subsector.



- 5 -
.17       Besides these subsector operations, the Bank is Issisting the
Government in developing multimodal projects. The first was the Coal and
Cement Distribution Project (Ln. 2267-KO) approved in 1983, involving rail-
wavs, ports and inland terminals. A second multimodal transport study was
carried out from 1983 to 1985 to review the feasibility of a high speed train
between Seoul and Pusan, together with the complementary improvement of road
transport. The proposed project is based on a third multimodal transport
study for the Kyonggi region which identified priorities in strengthening the
expressway and suburban rail networks to meet the high transport demand in the
suburbs of Seoul. A fourth possible study being considered by the Government
could address the need to modernize the transport network in the southern
coastal region to link Mokpo-Sunchon-Masan with Pusan-Ulsan-Pohang in the
east, where most heavy industries are concentrated, and with Kwangju, the
Cholla Nam provincial capital, in the west. The study could include the
feasibility of a new port at Kwangyang Bay and of road and rail links to the
hinterland.
II. THE KYONGGI REGION
A. Introduction
2.1       The Kyonggi region, located in the northwestern part of the country,
includes three provincial-level administrative units:
(a) Seoul City, the nation's capital, has a "special city" status under
Korean law; the mayor is appointed by the President of the Republic
and reports directly to the Prime Minister. The population in 1986
was 9.7 million.
(b) Inchon Citys the country's second largest seaport, is a "direct
jurisdiction city" under the administrative control of MOHA. It is
the only major port on the western coastline and handles mostly
imports of industrial goods and raw materials. The population in
1986 was 1.4 million.
(c) Kyonggi-Do (Province), which encircles Seoul and Inchon, includes
the two busiest transport corridors in Korea, namely Seoul-Inchon
and the Seoul-Pyongtaek section of the Seoul-Pusan corridor. The
province is highly urbanized and includes a number of cities with
populations raaging from 300,000 to 500,000 inhabitants, namely
Suwon (the provincial capital), Songnam, Puchon and Anyang. There
are another fifteen cities and towns in the province with more than
100,000 inhabitants. The provincial administration comes under the
jurisdiction of MOHA, while the shi (city) and gun (county) govern-
ments report to the Provincial G_vernor. The population of Kyonggi-
Do in 1986 was 5.1 million.
2.2       The Kyonggi region covers an area of 11,691 km2, of which Seoul City
accounts for 605 km (SX' and Inchon City 207 km (2U); agriculture represents
about 27Z of the lant us' in the re ione The population density varies from
an average of 16,000 persons per km in Seoul City to an average 470 persons



per km2 in Kyonggi-Dos In 1986, the Kyonggi region accounted for about 401 of
Korea's total population and about 50% of its urban population.
2.3       In 1983, about 42% of the nation's GNP was generated by the Kyonggi
region, with Seoul City accounting for about 70% of the regional product.
Much of the employment (particularly in Seoul) is concentrated in infra-
structure and service sectors (58%), followed by manufacturing (29%), with
agriculture and mining now relatively unimportant as job sources (13%).
2.4       The concentration of population and economic activity in the Kyonggi
region has resulted in an explosive demand for transport infrastructure and
services. High-priced gasoline and high taxation of car ownership have meant
that passenger traffic has been served primarily by public transport (buses,
taxis and more recently the subway system). Nearly two million passengers
ride the Seoul subway system daily, while the aggregate average daily traffic
(ADT) crossing the 16 bridges over the Han River is over one million
vehicles. Despite government policies aimed at curtailing population growth
in Seoul, and despite major road and rail investments in the Kyonggi region
during the Fifth Plan, the supply of transport infrastructure has not kept
pace with traffic growth (partly because of recent increases in car ownership
due to rising income). Most arterials operate at or near capacity throughout
the day. However, the relationship between traffic volumes and roadway
characteristics has not been well calibrated in Korea, and a more detailed
investigation would provide an improved basis for future designs and policy
decisions (para. 3.29).
B. Population and Economic Development Trends
2.5       Seoul nestles in a small basin, surrounded by steep mountains to the
west, north and east and t#y the Han River to the south. Seoul's population
was about 200,000 at the turn of the century, had grown to about 600,000 by
1936 and to just over 1,000,000 by 1953 (Map IBRD 20216). In the 1950s,
Korea's population growth had already slowed to about 2% per annum, and this
demographic transition was reinforced by vigorous family planning campaigns
from the early 1960s onward. The population of Seoul, by contrast, grew
explosively during the 1950s (16% p.a.) and continued to grow very rapidly
during the 1960s (9% p.a.), reaching a total of 5.5 million by 1970. Because
of the natural limitations imposed by the mountains, and the strategic limita-
tion imposed by the presence of the Demilitarized Zone just north of the city,
Seoul's rapid growth quickly exhausted the open space available in the
original valley, and further expansion was then focused primarily on areas
south of the Han River, necessitating the building of many bridges to accom-
modate traffic flows within and through the city.
2.6       Seoul's rapid growth created many prnblems, espesially in housing
and transport, and the Government responded with policies to displace certain
activities, especially industry, from the downtown area. A further important
measure was taken in 1971, when a "Green Belt" was created, in which new
development is not allowed. The belt is located about 15 km from the city
center, and varies in width from one to nine kilometers. The primary effect
of this belt has been to encourage growth of the satellite cities that lie
beyond the belt., Since 1977 the Government has moved most institutions



- 7 -
concerned with science, technology and research to Taejon, about 200 km from
Seoul. Most central government ministries were also moved to the suburban
town of Kwachon, about 13 km from their previous location in the downtown
core. In recent years, the announced policy of Government was to impose a
ceiling of 10 million on the population of Seoul, but the population is now
already more or less at that level, and continues to grow at around 2X per
year. By contrast, the population growth of Kyonggi-Do has begun to accele-
rate, and is now about 4% per year. Thus the pattern of urbanization since
about 1970 has been marked by the spillover of Seoul City's growth into the
satellite cities in Kyonggi-Do.
C. Tronsport Network and Traffic
2.7       The transport system of the Kyonggi region is composed of two main
elements: the road network and the subway/railway network (Map IBRD 20188).
Within Seoul, the basic pattern of the road network is a series of three
concentric ring roads crossed by 14 major radial corridors. The first ring is
adjacent to the central business district, the second (the southern arc of
which runs along the bank of the Han River) has a radius of about 5 km, and
the third (which is not yet complete) has a radius of about 15 km. The
location of the radial corridors is dictated by the mountains surrounding
Seoul and by the alignment of bridges crossing the Han 'iver. Very recently,
this highway pattern in Seoul has been further supplemented by an expressway
along the south bank of the Han River (which runs between Kimpo airport to the
west and the Olympic facilities to the east) and by two north-south arterials
(being built with the assistance of Ln. 2514-KO for the Seout Urban Transport
Project). Outside of Seoul, the highway network into Kyonggi-Do comprises
three main corridors: the first to the southeast, the second due south
(served by two highways that converge at Osan), and the third running west to
the port city of Inchon. Cutting across these three corridors is an important
connecting route, linking Ichon, Suwon, Panwol and Inchon, which can be
characterized as an east-west tangent about 25 km south of downtown Seoul.
The expressways to be built as part of the project will extend and upgrade
important segments of the road network as recommended by KRMTFS (see
paras. 3.6-3.9).
2.8       The rail network in the Kyonggi region has two components:  the
subway system in Seoul (which is managed by an autonomous public corporation),
and the regular rail lines of KNR. The subway system with four lines
totalling 116.5 km and 102 stations is quite new, and its ultimate impact on
the region's transportation network is still unclear. The regular rail lines
of KNR also carry substantial passenger traffic over a network that covers the
entire Kyonggi region. The key rail lines into Seoul from Inchon and Suwon
are electrified, forming the Seoul Metropolitan Electrified Suburban Railway
System (SMESRS), which in its train freqvency and passenger density resembles
a subway operation. Passenger convenience is served by a rail/subway single-
ticket fare system. It must be noted, however, that the integration of the
two systems is not complete. In particular, the potential links between KNR's
new Kunpo-Kwachon-Songnam line and two subway lines have not yet been worked
out, though they are under study.



- 8 -
2.9       Traffic throughout the Kyonggi region both on road and rail is
already heavy and is increasing at rates greater than 10X per annum. On the
roads, traffic counts of 10,000 to 20,000 vehicles per day can be observed
even on modest two-lane highways far from Seoul.  Closer tu Seoul, multilane
highways commonly carry 30,000-40,000 vehicles, atd several key corridors havb
an ADT of more than 50,000 vehicles.
2.10      Passenger Traffic.  In 1983, there were 15.3 million (one-way)
passenger trips a day in Seoul, a figure that grew by about 6% p.a. over the
preceding several years, even though population was growing at only 2% p.a.
About 2.3 million of these trips crossed the Seoul City boundaries. Of the
intercity passenger trips made in the Kyonggi region in 1984, 64% were by bus
and 19% by SMESRS, leaving only 17% for other modes. Since the subway system
was still under development, traffic data for future years will undoubtedly
show a growing share for the subway. What is most striking, however, is the
small share of intercity passenger traffic carried by automobiles. This
reflects the current low level of car ownership in Korea (only 14 cars per
1,000 population), which is largely the result of expensive gasoline and the
high taxes imposed on car owners. Despite these fiscal penalties, however,
automobile registration in Korea has been growing by more than 15% p.a. in
recent years, so the modal split for passenger traffic may change rather
markedly over the next decade or two.
2.11      In Seoul, despite a pattern of morning and evening rush hours in
passenger travel, the flow of vehicles on the streets is heavy throughout the
day, because both passenger buses and freight vehicles travel at all hours.
The importance of buses and trucks in overall traffic flows is strikingly
demonstrated by vehicle counts made during 1985 at 52 widely separated obser-
vation points throughout the Kyonggi region:  45.22 of the vehicles were
trucks, 34.4% were cars (including taxis), and 20.4% were buses.
2.12      Freight Traffic.  In 1983, freight traffic across Seoul's boundaries
measured 362,000 tons a day, with another 110,000 tons moving circumferen-
tially outside the city. For the country as a whole, rail freight traffic
(measured in ton-km) has grown an average of 5% p.a., while freight traffic on
the roads has grown 14% p.a., with the result that trucks have become far more
important than railways as carriers of freight over short distances.  In the
Kyonggi region, the modal split for freight is currently about 88% by road and
12% by rail.
2.13      Traffic Safety.  One of the unfortunate consequences of the rapid
development of traffic in the Kyonggi region has been the increase in fatali-
ties and injuries due to accidents.   eaths and injuries in the region
totalled about 38,000 in 1978 and d'out 64,000 in 1983 -- a growth of 11%
annually. The improvement of roads under the proposed project can be expected
to contribute to a better safety record. Recommendations of a Road Safety
Study done by MOHA under the Provincial and County Roads Project (Ln. 2228-KO)
are now being implemented. Other actions to improve traific safety recommended
in the Study are also being pursued under the Seoul Urban Transportation
Project (Ln. 2514-KO).



- 9 -
2.14      Factors Affecting Traffic Demand.  The primary force determining
future traffic levels in the Kyonggi region will be the rate of economic
development. Nevertheless, the Government--through its policy decisions--has
the power to shape the development of traffic to a significant degree. For
example, a reduction in the taxes levied on car ownership, which has been
discussed as a mechanism to further improve the profitability of the Korean
automobile industry by stimulating the domestic market, would undoubtedly
increase traffic congestion in the urban areas, which is likely to be severe
in any event, With this problem in mind, it has been suggested to consider
tolls or other restraints on noncommercial vehicles entering urban areas.
Another desirable policy measure may be to permit the introduction of high-
quality bus or minibus services at premium fares. Passengers' choices between
cars, buses and trains will also be affected by the relative prices and avail-
ability of the alternatives.
D. Transport Administration and Organization
2.15      The administrative structure for transport in Kyonggi region is
complex and involves numerous government agencies, ranging from the Office of
the Prime Minister to municipal construct..on bureaus. Besides the regional
administrations (see para. 2.1), four central government ministries, viz. the
Economic Planning Board (EPB), MOC, MOT and MOHA, have a direct involvement in
transport matters in the Kyonggi region (further details are given in Annex
3).
2.16      The proposed project would be implemented by the Korea Highway
Corporation (KHC), which was created in February 1969 and is responsible for
the operation and management of almost all toll highways in Korea. Its stated
objective is to improve the national expressway network and contribute to the
development of highway transportation. Besides building and operating
expressways, KHC also carries out highway studies, designs, and supervision of
construction overseas. (KHC is described further in Annex 4).
2.17      Each transport agency within the region does a good job within its
well-defined responsibilities, but comprehensive planning and horizontal
coordination of the regional transport system are weak. The physical faci-
lities are technically well constructed and efficiently maintained but are not
well integrated within a comprehensive regional transport operational plan and
often suffer from lack of continuity, poor interconnections and differing
standards.
2.18      The need for coordination of transport plans, investments and
operations in the country at large and more specifically in the Kyonggi region
has been identified by various Bank studies (Korea Transport Sector Issues
Survey, Report No. 4423; Korea Spatial Strategy Review, Report No. 5868; Seoul
Urban Transportation Project, Report No. 5406). In practice, however, some
transport coordination does take place. An ad hoc committee composed of
representatives from Seoul City, Inchon City, Kyonggi Province and Kangwon
Province is convened as needed to review issues of special concern. Most
recently, infrastructure investment programs for the Kyonggi region are being
compiled and harmonized in the context of the Capital Region Improvement Law
(para. 3.26). On operational matters, the cooperation between KNR and the



- 10 -
Seoul Subway Corporation has been exemplary in coordinating the fare structure
and train operations of the SMESRS and subway systems. During the preparation
of the proposed project, the dimensions of the transport coordination problem
and existing coordination mechanisms were extensively discussed with the
Government. It was agreed to maintain a close dialogue on the subject through
regular consultations during the course of the project (paras. 3.26-3.27).
E. Regional Development Policy
2.19      The Second Comprehensive Nationa'. Physical Development Plan (1982-
1991) provides the blueprint for spatial development in the Kyonggi region and
calls for policy measures to control the population and industrial concen-
tration in Seoul City and its surrounding areas. Regional development strate-
gies for the capital region include:
-    creation of five spatial zones in the Kyonggi region related to the
degree of development and physical character stics of each zone, as
discussed below;
-    specialization of selected international and central management
functions in Seoul, with other facilities and services either
controlled or relocated to other areas;
-    improvement of secondary cities in the region as growth inducement
poles or as special industrial zones according to their respective
comparative advantages;
-    improvement of transport, communication, supply and transaction
facilities and services on a regional scale to help establish an
area-wide urban system; and
-    enactment of the Capital Region Improvement Law to insure effective
execution of improvement plans for the Kyonggi region (the Capital
Region as defined under the law coincides with the Kyonggi region as
defined for the project).
2.20      Based on the policy guidelines for Integrated Regional Settlement
Area development, MOC has prepared a Growth Management Plan for the capital
region. This plan, also known as the Realignment Plan, aims to slow down the
growth of population within Seoul City while controlling development in Inchon
City and Kyonggi-Do in order to achieve balanced regional development. It
divides the Kyonggi region into five areas (Map IBRD 20215): a (1) relocation
zone including Seoul City, its suburban fringes to the north and east (includ-
ing Uijongbu), and the green belt around Seoul City, where development is not
allowed; (2) a reserved zone in north Kyonggi-Do for development in the
future; (3) a nature conservation zone in eastern and southeastern Kyonggi-Do,
where natural resources (water, forests and paddies) are to be protected from
urbanization; (4) a limited development zone extending from Inchon to Suwon
and Osan and including the industrial city of Panwol, wbare some growth will
be allowed, mostly to accommodate the spill-over activities from Seoul City;
and (5) a development promotion area in the southwestern part of Kyonggi-Do,
extending from south of Panwol to Pyongtaek and Ansong where land will be made



- 11 -
available for industrial and commercial uses with special x.ncentives to
develop activities and attract population fron other areas in the region.
2.21      Regional development guidelines for the Sixth Plan (1987-91) suggest
that the Government will contiaue to pursue the containment plan for the Seoul
metropolitan area. However, direct regulation of location of industries and
educational institutions will be reduced in favor of market-oriented tools
such as taxation and incentive policies.
2.22      A recent Bank review of spatial strategies for Korea (Report
No.5868-KO) suggests that the regional development strategy for Kyonggi region
should aim to maintain Seoul, Inchon, and other expanding secondary cities in
Kyonggi-Do as dynamic manufacturing and increasingly important service and
information centers and should carefully consider the relative costs and
benefits of relocating economic activities into the development promotion zone
at the southern tip of Kyonggi-Do. The proposed project aims to strengthen
the spatial fabric of the Kyonggi region -- first, by improving the transport
links between the secondary cities in the region so they can develop with
reduced dependence on Seoul City, and second, by strengthening efforts to
develop effective interagency transport coordination within the region.
F. Regional Transport Plan
2.23      Following a series of studies financed by the Bank, a consortium of
consultants produced final recommendations for optimal investments in the
transport network of the Kyonggi region by 1991 and by 2001 (see Map
IBRD 20188). The transport network in the Kyonggi region is planned to
include an express,   system consisting of a third ringway, with an average
radius of 15 km, linking Kuri with Kodok, Songnam, Pangyo, Anyang, Puchon and
Nunggok (from east to west); a new radial expressway linking Inchon with
Seoul, south of the existing E-2 expressway; an east-west expressway linking
Inchon via Munhak, Panwol, and Pajang with Shingal, the junction of the
existing Seoul-Pusan (E-1) and Yongdong (E-4) expressways; extension of the
West Expressway from Shihung to Yangsang; and a new southern expressway along
the west coast from south of Anyang to the Asan Bay area. These links are in
addition to the new Seoul-Taejon expressway (Chungbu Expressway) which was
completed in December 1987. This expressway development program would be
supplemented by widening and paving of selected national and provincial
highways. The effect of the project expressways on the traffic patterns in
the secondary cities being served would be examined under the project
(para. 3.28), Complementary investments in the railway system include
capacity expansion of the existing Kyongin and Kyongbu lines, particularly the
addition of a new double track between Kuro and Seoul; extension of
electrification and SMESRS to beyond the southern border of Kyonggi-Do; and
extension of the rail link between Panwol and Kunpo (under construction) to
Yangjae and eventually to Songnam and Ichon, including interconnection of this
line with Subways No. 3 and 4. Proposed transport infrastructure investments
for the Kyonggi region are summarized in Annex 5. The highest priority
project components identified by the consultants as the "First Step Program"
to 1991 can be summarized as follows:



- 12 -
(a) Expressways:
(i)  the Seoul-Sorae section of a new expressway between Seoul and
Inchon;
(ii) the Shihung-Nonggok section of the West Expressway;
(iii) the Shingal-Panwol section of the Shingal-Nunhak Expressway;
and
(iv) the two missing sections needed to provide a complete express-
way link between Pangyo and Kuri (that is, extending the
recently c,mpleted Chur.gbu Expressway and linking it with the
main Seoul-Pusan Expressway);
(b) Rail Lines: an additional double track between Kuro and Seoul, and
a new rail link between Panwol and Kunpo (currently under implemen-
tation); and
(c)  Highways:  various widening and improvement (paving) projects on
high-traffic national and provincial roads.
2.24      From this list, the third and fourth expressway components (Shingal-
Panwol and P&ngyo-Kuri) are included in the proposed project. Construction of
the railway component (Kuro-Seoul) will begin in 1989 with government
financing; detailed engineering is under way. A number of highway widening
and improvement projects have been programmed for detailed engineering and
construction under a proposed highway sector project with financial support
provided by the Asian Development Bank (ADB). Thus many components of the
"First Step Program" are being developed, and the construction of other
components is under active consideration. In a Government Statement (Annex 1)
to be confirmed prior to Board presentation of the proposed loan, reference is
made to the formulation of a 1988-91 implementation program of high-priority
transport investments in the Kyonggi region.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Formulation and Preparation
3.1       Rationale.  In 1983, during discussions on transport sector develop-
ment with the Government based on the Transport Sector Issues Survey (para.
1.10), a consensus emerged on the importance of coordinating and integrating
the different modal transport plans for the Kyonggi region.  The Bank
suggested that the merits of an integrated planning approach could be demon-
strated through a specific project that would bring together sector agencies
in a coordinated effort.  Recent government spatial policies have emphasized
the high priority of dispersing the large population of Seoul by promoting
urban growth centers to the south and east of the city. The Government is
proposing to use the location of major new highways and rail lines to
influence future settlement patterns as well as provide better access to the



- 13 -
city. If such transport demands are to be met efficiently, it is essential
that an integrated transport plan for the region be developed and implemented
encompassing all modes of transport. The proposed project constitutes the
first phase of such a plan which is being finalized by Government to meet
growing demand over the next ten years, and supports existing mechanisms for
the coordination of transport planning in the Kyonggi region.
3.2       Project Preparation.  Following the above-mentioned discussions, the
Government initiated the first two intermodal studies in Korea: the Seoul-
Pusan Transport Corridor Study and the Kyonggi Region Multimodal Transport
Feasibility Study (KRMTFS), which was the genesis of the proposed project.
3.3       This latter study was done in three phases (financed under Loan
1836-KO, Seventh Railway Project; Loan 2267-KO, Coal and Cement Distribution
Project; end Loan 2392-KO, Highway Sector Project). In Phase I a
comprehensive transport master plan was prepared for the Kyonggi region. In
Phase II the economic and technical feasibility of the different components of
the master plan were tested and investment plans for road and rail were
identified for the period 1986 through 2001.  In Phase III the detailed design
was prepared for the road and rail components included in the investment
program of the first construction stage.  The two expressways considered for
inclusion in the proposed project are part of the first-stage investment
program; rail components from Panwol to Kunpo (under construction) and from
Seoul Station to Kuro (the construction of which is planned to start in 1989)
are also included in the first stage investment program.
B. Project Objectives
3.4       In addition to helping meet the road transport demand in two impor-
tant corridors in Kyonggi region (para. 2.7) by financing the construction of
two high-capacity toll expressways, the project would support the government
objectives of increasing the efficiency of transport in the region. Specific
policy, institutional and technological objectives to be addressed under the
project include:
(a) to support the ongoing process of coordinating transport investment
planning and monitoring the implementation of transport facilities
in the region;
(b) to support the preparation of a comprehensive transport investment
program for the Kyonggi regioA; this program should take into
account the resources that are likely to be available for transport
investments; and
(c) to improve traffic management in the secondary cities served by the
new expressways.
3.5       To help accomplish these objectives, the project would include:
(a) construction of four-lane divided, controlled access, toll express-
ways between Pangyo and Kuri (23.8 km) and between Shingal and
Panwol (23.4 km);



- 14 -
(b) consultants' advisory services for the supervision of expressway
construction;
(c) regular consultation with the Bank in the ongoing process of
coordinating transport planning, and in the preparation of an
investment program for transport in the Kyonggi region; and
(d) a government commitment to conduct a traffic management study in
four secondary cities where traffic patterns would be affected by
the new expressways.
C. Detailed Features
3.6       Pangyo-Kuri Expressway.  The new 23.8 km four-lane divided toll
expressway with six interchanges, a 390 m twin tunnel and a 1,230 m bridge
across the Han River would be part of the third ring road around Seoul
metropolitan area. The alignment would start from the Pangyo interchange on
the existing Seoul-Pusan expressway and pass by Songnam and Shinjang and end
at Kuri. The expressway would providt a direct route between the northeastern
and southern areas of Kyonggi region for local traffic and for the traffic now
using the Seoul-Pusan expressway and for the future traffic on the new Seoul-
Taejon expressway, scheduled for completion in late 1987. The proposed
connection would reduce traffic passing through downtown Seoul, alleviating
congestion there (see Map IBRD 20188).
3.7       Traffic on the expressaay is projected to be 36,000 vehicles per day
in 1991, the opening year, and to rise to 57,000 in the year 2001, when
additional capacity in the corridor would be needed.
3.8       Shingal-Panwol Expressway.  The new 23.4 km four-lane divided toll
expressway witih live interchanges and two twin tunnels totalling 780 m in
length would be an extension to the west of the existing Yongdong expressway.
The alignment would start from the Shingal interchange at the junction with
the Seoul-Pusan and Yongdong expressways and pass north of Suwon city, near
the Pugok freight terminal and end near the important new industrial town of
Panwol. Under a planned second investment stage the expressway would be
continued to join the proposed new Seoul-Inchon expressway at Seochang. The
project expressway would join a national road, recently widened to four lanes,
which would carry the traffic moving beyond Panwol to Inchon. The new
expressway would facilitate traffic moving between eastern and southern
Kyonggi region and the industrial and port city of Inchon and the new
industrial and university city of Panwol (see Map IBRD 20188).
3.9       Traffic is projected to be 28,000 vehicles per day in 1991, the
opening year, and to rise to 49,000 in 2001; additional capacity would be
needed in the corridor by about 2004.



- 15 -
3.10      Status of Preparation.  The feasibility and preliminary engineering
studies for the expressways were financed under Loan 1836-KO (Seventh Railway
Project) and Loan 2267-KO (Coal and Cement Distribution Project) and done by
the French consultants BCEOM and the Korean consultants KRIHS (Korea Research
Institute for Human Settlements), KECC (Korea Engineering Consultants Corp.),
and Yooshin. Detailed designs are complete, and final cost estimates have
been prepared. KECC was responsible for the detailed design and bid documents
for the Shingal-Panwol expressway in three sections. The consulting firms
Daewoo, Dowoo, Saman and Dongmyong prepared the detailed design and bid
documents for the Pangyo-Kuri expressway in four sections. The geometric
design standards for the expressways are shown in Annex 6 and are appropriate.
3.11      Supervision of Construction.  The supervision of construction to
ensure quality control and compliance with specifications would be done by
KHC's engineers assisted by consultant expertise. KHC's engineers have been
closely involved in major road projects, most recently with the construction
supervision of the Seoul-Taejon expressway. Qualified and experienced local
consultants would also be available for this work; during the last two decades
under Bank-financed and locally-funded projects, they have gained considerable
experience in major road construction.
3.12      About 70 KHC engineers would be assigned full-time to supervise
expressway construction. In addition, a total of about 60 man-years of local
consultants' services are envisaged to assist in the supervision of
construction of the two expressways. During negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Government on the terms of reference for these services and
assurances obtained that the selection of the consultants would be acceptable
to the Bank.
D. Cost Estimates
3.13      The total project cost including physical and price contingencies
and right-of-way acquisition costs is estimated at Won 358.58 billion, or
US$448.23 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$153.00
million or 34.1%. Project costs are shown on a year-by-year basis in Annex 7
and are summarized in Table 1 below. All base costs are in October 1987
prices. Physical c'itingencies are calculated at 5X of base cost estimates
and applied to all components. Price escalation factors have been applied to
both foreign and local costs at a rate of 1% per annum. Price contingencies
are equal to about 3% of total base costs plus physical contingencies. Taxes
and duties are estimated at about US$49 million or about 15X of total cost
including contingencies but excluding right-of-way acquisition costs.
3e14      The costs of civil works are based on work quantities calculated
from detailed designs, and costed at unit prices. The unit prices for the
work items were computed on the basis of MOC's standard manuals for labor and
equipment productivity and the related annually updated costs combined with
the current costs of materials. The unit prices are consistent with the
prices recently received in bids for major expressway works in the country.
3.15      The base cost per kilometer for constructing the two four-lane
expressways is about US$6.1 million, which is acceptable since the expressways



- 16 -
Table 1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign   Total   exchange as
Component               ----- Won billion --                   US$ million -----   % of total
Pangyo-Kuri construction         67.23   65.11  132.34   84.04   81.39  165.43          49.2
Shingal-Panwol construction    49.94   48.36   98.30   62.42   60.45  122.87            49.2
Supervision of construction       9.35    0.00    9.35   11.69    0.00   11.69           0.0
Base Cost /a              126.52  113.47  239.99  158.15  141.84  299.99          47.3
Physical contingencies (5%)       6.33    5.67   12.00    7.91    7.09   15.00          47.3
Price contingencies               3.63    3.26    6.89    4.54    4.07    8.61          47.3
Subtotal                     9.96    8.93   18.89   12.45   11.16   23.61         47.3
Right-of-way acquisition         99.70    0.00   99.70  124.63    0.00  124.63           0.0
Total Project Cost /b    236.18  122.40  358.58  295.23  153.00  448.23           34.1
/a October 1987 prices.
/b Includes W 39 billion (US$49 million) for taxes and duties.



- 17 -
include a major bridge over the Han River and other significant bridge and
tunnel works.
E. Financing
3.16      The Bank loan of US$116 million equivalent would finance about 26Z
of total project costs, and be applied to the construction of the Shingal-
Panwal Expressway as well as the Pangyo-Tongbu (Shinjang) section of the
Pangyo-Kuri expressway. The Government would provide about US$332 million
equivalent to meet the remaining capital costs of the project, including the
full costs of construction supervision, right-of-way acquisition, and
construction of the Hail (Kodok) - Kuri section of the Pangyo-Kuri
expressway. The financing plan is shown in Table 2. The Bank loan will be
made to the Government and the proceeds will be onlent by Government to KHC
through a Subsidiary Loan Agreement on the same terms and conditions as the
Bank loan; the signing of that agreement will be a condition of loan
effectiveness.
Table 2: FINANCING PLAN
Tus$ million)
Government          Bank             Total
Expressway construction
Pangyo-Tongbu (Shinjang)            60.3             51.1             111.4
Hail (Kodok) - Kuri                 54.0               -               54.0
Shingal - Panwol                    66.5             56.4             122.9
Supervision of construction            11.7               -               11.7
Contingencies
Pangyo - Tongbu (Shinjang)           4.8              4.0               8.8
Hail (Kodok) - Kuri                  4.2               -                4.2
Shingal - Panwol                     5.2              4.5               9.7
Supervision of construction          0.9               -                0.9
Right-of-way acquisition              124.6               -              124.6
Total                            332.2            116.0             448.2
F. Implementation
3.17      KHC would be responsible for implementing the project.  Expressway
construction is expected to start in December 1987 on the Hail (Kodok) - Kuri
section and in April 1988 on the remaining sections of the project
expressways; completion of the works is scheduled for late 1991. Advisory
consultant services for the supervision of construction would be provided over



- 18 -
the same period. An implementation schedule for the proposed project was
agreed with the Government during negotiations; it is presented in Annex 8.
3.18      About 380 ha of land would be acquired for the expressways,
interchanges and access roads. Virtually all of this land is in the green
belt area around Seoul, and thus only about 300 homes would have to be
displaced. The Office of Environment was closely consulted during the
planning of expressway alignments and has approved the designs. Land
acquisition commenced in late 1987 and, based on previous experience, is
expected to proceed rapidly. Howevert there could be some delays at
individual locations, which would affect construction progress at the initial
stages; KHC's construction schedule therefore allows for a comparatively slow
start-up of civil works.
C. Procurement
3.19      Procurement under the project would be carried out as shown in
Table 3:
Table 3: PROCUREMENT OVERVIEW AND BANK FINANCING
(US$ million)
Procurement method
Project element              ICB           Other        N.A.       Total cost
Civil works                 252.8         58.2           -           311.0
(116.0)        ()(116.0)
Services                                  12.6           -            12.6
Right-of-way acquisition        -            -        124.6          124.6
Total                  252.8         70.8        124.6          448.2
(116.0)        -)          -)           (116.0)
Note:   Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank.
All figures include estimated physical and price contingencies, as
well as taxes and duties where applicable. Civil works for Shirgal-
Panwol and Pangyo-Tongbu/Shinjang sections ($252.8 million) are
procured by ICB, and those for Hail/Kodok-Kuri ($58.2 million)
following local procedures.
3.20      A General Procurement Notice was published on June 15, 1987.  About
81% of expressway construction (US$252.8 million) under the project would be
carried out under international competitive bidding (ICB) by prequalified
firms in accordance with Bank guidelines. The work has been packaged into



- 19 -
seven large construction contracts, one of which (Hail/Kodok-Kuri) would be
financed entirely from Government Lunds. The other six contracts as well as
any additional ones above US$8.0 million which might become necessary in the
future would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documenta-
tion. The advisory consultants needed for construction supervision would be
financed entirely from government funds.
H. Disbursements
3.21      The Bank loan would be disbursed for expressway construction
(Pangyo-Tongbu/Shinjang and Shingal-Panwol sections) at a rate of 461 of total
contract cost. The costs for technical advisor; services and right-of-way
acquisition would be met entirely from government funds. To facilitate
disbursement, a Special Account would be opened in the Korea Exchange Bank,
with an initial deposit of US$10.0 million, the estimated average expenditures
for a four-month period. Applications for replenishment of the Special
Account would be made when funds are drawn down to 50Z of initial deposit. A
schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Annex 9, which also shows the
Korean highway project disbursement prcfile. KHC expects to substantially
complete construction by December 31, 1991; the loan closing date would he
December 31, 1992.
3.22      Loan disbursements would be made against priced contracts for the
expressway civil works. Interim certification of civil works completed and
costed at unit rates in the contracts would be done by the consultants'
supervisory team and certified by KHC. Disbursements for minor civil works
contracts costing US$3 million or less would be made against statements of
expenditure based on actual payments to contractors.
I. Auditing, Rerorting and Monitoring
3.23      The disbursement procedures would facilitate the accurate auditing
and accounting of project-related expenditures. !%HC's accounts are audited
each year internally and also externally by independent auditors. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that the accounts
of project-related expenditures, including documentation of statements of
expenditure, would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank,
and that copies of the audited accounts would be sent to the Bank for review
within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
3.24      Agreement was confirmed with the Government during negotiations on
the progress reporting and monitoring requirements for the project. Annex 10
gives the format of Project Monitoring Indices to be used. Agreement was also
reached with the Government on the preparation and submission by the Govern-
ment of a Project Completion Report not later than six months after loan
closing.
J. Environmental Effects
3.25      Apart from the effect on traffic in the secondary cities, the
construction of the expressways should cause no significant environmental
problems. The design and specifications require that temporary and permanent



- 20 -
culverts be provided for all irrigation and drainage canals to ensure that
farm activities are not disrupted. The new expressways would improve the
environment in many respects. The improved alignment with grade-separated
junctions, combined with the separation of faster-moving vehicular traffic
from slower-moving traffic, would improve road safety. Furthermore, the
reduction of congestion in or near the cities and towns along the existing
roads would substantially reduce the present noise and air pollution.
K. Transport Coordination and Project-Related Studies
3.26      Transport Plarning and Coordination in Xyonggi Region.  The need for
increased coordination of transport plans, investments and operations in the
Kyonggi region has been identified by several studies, including KRMTFS and
the Bank's Korea Transport Sector Issues Survey (paras. 2.17-2.18). Partly as
a result of these studies, and in response to the Capital Region Improvement
Law (1982), considerable progres3 has been achieved in coordinating the
planning of regional transport facilities. A multisectoral Comprehensive Plan
for the Improvement of the Capital Region was approved in 1984, which gives
specific directions for the elaboration (currently under way) of staged
implementation programs for 1988-91 and 1992-96. The obiectives and detailed
steps of this ongoing process are described in a Government Statement on
Transport Planning and Coordination in Kyonggi Region (Annex 1), the final
wording of which was agreed during negotiations (para. 5.1).
3.27      The Government expressed its desire for continued consultation with
the Bank on this subject. This would be confirmed prior to Board presentation
of the proposed loan, together with an endorsement of the Statement contained
in Annex 1 (para. 5.3). During negotiations, assurances were also obtained on
the Bank's review of the draft implementation program for 1988-96, and on
yearly consultations concerning the execution of that program (para. 5.2).
3.28      Traffic Management in Secondary Cities around Seoul.  The proposed
expressways would directly affect the traffic patterns in several satellite
cities around Seoul, especially Anyang, Kuri, Songnam and Suwon. These
secondary cities (with populations of 200,000 to 500,000) are expanding
rapidly into commercial and industrial centers, and traffic systems management
will be needed soon to avoid congestion and transport-related pollution.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that MOC would conduct a traffic
ma'.agement study for these cities; this study would be completed in sufficient
time that its recommendations can be implemented before the project
expressways are opened to traffic (para. 5.2).
3.29      Highway Capacity Study.  The growth of traffic is beginning to cause
unacceptable levels of congestion and delays on many parts of the Korean
highway network (para. 2.4). This is expected to become particularly severe
in the rapidly developing and motorizing Kyonggi region. Until now, the
geometric design of the highways has been based on the U.S. Highway Capacity
Manual, but it has become increasingly evident that U.S. traffic flow
relationships are not directly applicable to Korean conditions because of the
high proportion of trucks in the traffic stream and major differences in
vehicle performance and driving characteristics. MOC thus Lntends to conduct
a study leading to the development of a Korean Highway Capacity Manual. The



- 21 -
study wvuld be conducted with assistance from ADB, but MOC wishes to continue
its technical dialogue with the World Bank on that subject. The Bank agreed
to participate in this dialogue.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Regional Traffic Pattern
4.1       Fundamental to the Kyonggi Region Multimodal Transport Feasibility
Study was its description of the existing traffic patterns in 38 zones in the
region and a projection of how these traffic flows will grow and shift over
the next 20 years (with particular attention to the years 1991 and 2001).
These projections covered both passenger and freight traffic, on railways and
roads, For the region as a whole, passenger trips are projected to grow by
4.7% p.a., while freight tonnaSe is projected to grow by 3.0% p.a. In view of
the continuing strong growth of the Korean economy (para. 1.2), of the
importance of the Kyonggi region in the economy (para. 2.3), and of the
resulting explosive growth of demand for transport in the region (para. 2.4),
these projections are realistic, perhaps even conservative.
B. The "First Step Program"
4.2       As already indicated in para. 2.23, the Shingal-Panwol and Pangyo-
Kuri Expressways are two of the major transport infrastructure projects in the
"First Step Program" identified as most urgent by the KRMTFS. The study
examined many possible investment projects, both railways and highways, singly
and in varying combinations--including a "do nothing" base case for purposes
of comparison. These alternatives were evaluated in terms of their capacity
to handle the projected traffic flows and of their economic rates of return
(ERRs). From these results, an optimal network was identified for the year
2001. The final step was then to analyze how project ERRs varied with timing,
to identify the best sequence for project construction. It is from this
detailed process that the "First Step Program" emerged.
C. Economic Evaluation
4.3       Both construction costs and maintenance costs, measured in economic
terms, were included on the cost side of the ERR calculations. The benefits
used to calculate ERRs were primarily the savings in vehicle operating costs
(fuel, lubricants, tires, maintenance, and depreciation) that occur because of
network improvements, as compared to the "do-nothing" case. The benefits were
calculated using Korean VOC (Vehicle Operating Cost) characteristics applied
to the detailed, link-specific traffic forecasts and roadway conditions that
govern vehicle operating speeds. To be conservative, vehicle operating speeds
were assumed never to fall below 20 km/h, thus disregarding the very high VOC
values associated with extreme congestion in the "do nothing" case; that case
assumed that the two new expressways would not be built, and that all traffic
would have to use other roads. The resulting ERR for the overall project is
31%. The value of travelers' time (VOT) saved was also calculated on a very
conservative basis and would increase the ERR by an additional 4%. The
expressways are likely to reduce accidents, but the corresponding savings are



- 22 -
difficult to predict and were thus not included in the quantification of
benefits. It is also difficult to estimate the precise impact of the project
on the poverty group since project benefits would accrue to the population at
large rather than to any particular income group. However, given the large
proportion of buses and trucks in the traffic stream, the poverty impact is
expected to be significant. Further details on the economic evaluation are
provided in Annex 11.
4.4       Without taking account of VOT savings, the ERR for the Shingal-
Paswal expressway was estimated at 39%Z and that of the Pangyo-Kuri expressway
at 24%. With the VOT savings, the ERRs would be 42% and 28%, respectively.
These values are the result of an analysis made in 1987, which applied to the
KRMTFS model updated input data, i.e., (a) revised traffic generation
parameters resulting in generally higher traffic forecasts, (b) increased peak
traffic-flow conditions, and (c) updated cost curves based on a new economic
analysis of vehicle operating costs. The original KRMTFS analysis, shown in
Annex 5, had estimated slightly lower rates of return with 24Z for the
Shingal-Panwol and 19% for the Pangyo-Kuri expressways. However, even those
earlier estimates were well above the opportunity costs of capital, thus
economically justifying the expressway investments.
D. Toll Levels and Cost Recovery
4.5       Present government policy is to encourage expressway utilization by
setting tolls at a level substantially below the users' estimated benefits,
with the result that relatively little traffic diversion (less than 10-15%)
occurs. Traffic flows on the project expressways will be heavy in any event,
certainly many times the 4,000 average daily traffic (ADT) threshhold
prescribed in the Bank's "Interim Guidelines on Toll Road Proposals" as the
minimum acceptable from the economic point of view. At the same time, as
shown in greater detail in Annex 4, the toll revenues generated will be
sufficient to keep KHC in a strong financlial position, with a projected
operating ratio of about 44% in 1991, and well able to service its debt.
Thus, the proposed toll levels and consequent cost recovery on the project
expressways are a reasonable compromise between disparate economic and
financial objectives.
E. Risks
4.6       The estimated ERRs might conceivably not materialize, either because
of lower benefits than currently projected or because of higher construction
costs. For example, government policies discouraging car ownership or use
could depress traffic levels and hence project ERRs. However, given the
importance of trucks and buses in Kyonggi region traffic patterns and the
current rapid rise of car ownership, the growth of traffic that will occur
even with restrictive policy measures in force will still require significant
infrastructure investments such as the proposed expressways.
4.7       The construction costs have also been estimated conservatively, and
price competition is expected to be keen when the expressway tenders are
let. Even in the unlikely event that construction costs were to exceed
estimates by 20%, the overall rate of return would be higher than 27% and thus
remain at acceptable levels.



- 23 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1       During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government and
KHC on:
(a) terms of reference for advisory consultants needed for construction
supervision (para. 3.12);
(b) project implementation schedule (para. 3.17);
(c) progress reporting and monitoring requirements for the project
(para. 3.24);
(d) preparation and submission by the Government of a Project Completion
Report not later than six months after Loan Closing Date
(para. 3.24); and
(e) wording of a Government Statement on Transport Planning and
Coordination in Kyonggi Region (para. 3.26).
5.2       During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
and KHC that:
(a) the selection of advisory consultants needed for construction
supervision would be acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.12);
(b) the audited accounts of project-related expenditures prepared by
KHC's independent auditors would be sent to the Bank for review
within six months of the end of the fiscal year (para. 3.23);
(c) the Bank would be sent a draft of the transport elements of the
1988-96 Capital Region Improvement Program, and be given an
opportunity to comment on those elements before the program is
finalized (para. 3.27);
(d) consultations would take place at least once each year between the
Bank and MOC on the execution of the program (para. 3.27); and
(e) MOC would carry out a study on improving traffic management in
Anyang, Kuri, Songnam and Suwon, at an early enough time that
traffic management measures recommended by that study can be
implemented before the project expressways are opened to traffic
(para. 3.28).
5.3       Signing of a letter confirming the Government's endorsement of the
Statement on Transport Planning and Coordination in the Kyonggi Region would
be a condition of Board presentation (para. 3.27).
5.4       Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank
would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 3.16).



- 24 -
5.5       With the above agreements and assurances, the proposed project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$116 million for a term of 15 years, including a
grace period of 3 years, at the standard variable interest rate. The Borrower
would be the Republic of Korea.



- 25 -                               ANNEX 1
Page 1
KOREA
KYONGGI REGIONAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Letter from Ministry of Construction
December 9, 1987
Mr. Cautam S. Kaji
Director
Country Department 2, Asia Region
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Dear Mr. Kaji:
Re: Proposed $116 million loan for Kyonggi Regional Transport Project
Herewith attached is a Statement on Transport Planning and
Coordination in the Kyonggi Region which reiterates the Government's
objectives for improving transport efficiency in greater Seoul and describes
the mechanisms to achieve this. We welcome continued collaboration and
consultation with the World Bank on this subject.
With best regardts,
Sincerely yours,
Lee Kiung Jin
Director General
Bureau of Public Roads
Ministry of Construction



- 26 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
KOREA
KYONGGI REGIONAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Government Statement on Transport Planning and Coordination in Kyonggi Region
1.        This statement has been prepared in connection with a proposed
project which would support the construction of two expressways in Kyonggi
Province, with the overall objective of improving accessibility and cost
effectiveness of transport in the region. In its broader context, this
objective requires that this and subsequent investments be made in a planned
and coordinated manner. The sections below set out the main directions which
Government intends to pursue in respect to transport planning and coordination
in the Kyonggi region.
Background
2.        The region, consisting of Seoul City, Inchon City and Kyonggi
Province, has experienced phenomenal growth in recent decades and now accounts
for about 401 of Korea's population. Since the early 1970s, the pattern of
urbanization has been marked by the spillover of Seoul's growth into Kyonggi
Province. The increase in population and economic activity and the more
dispersed pattern of urbanization have resulted in an explosive demand for
additional transport infrastructure and services.
3.        To expand the transport system, several agencies have built new
facilities and initiated new transport services. While each agency performs
efficiently within its well-defined responsibilities, there is scope to
improve comprehensive planning and horizontal coordination of the overall
transport system. The physical facilities are technically well constructed
and efficiently maintained but more complete integration within a
comprehensive regional transport plan, improved continuity and better planned
interconnections could further enhance the benefits to the traveling public
and the economy at large.
4.        With the objective of strengthening overall transport planning in
the region, the Ministry of Construction (MOC) and Korean National Railroad
commissioned the Kyonggi Region Iultimodal Tranisport Feasibility Study.  The
final report was published in December 1985 and is now a principal basis for
future transport investments in the region. These are being refined and
prioritized in the framework of the Capital Region Improvement Law (1982),
taking into account the guidelines formulated in the multisectoral
Comprehensive Plan for the Improvement of the Capital Region (1984).
Comprehensive Plan
5.        The Comprehensive Plan gives the following basic directions for the
development of transport, communications and distribution facilities:



- 27-                             ANNEX-
Page 3
(a) A comprehensive transport system will be formulated in a way that
trinsport facilities are to be integrated and systematically
connected.
(b) A metropolitan-wide transport system will be developed, taking into
account the functional interrelation between Seoul and other cities
in the region, and between cities and their hinterland within the
region.
(c) Systematic transport system management will be extensively applied
to solve transport problems in Seoul, thereby reducing the urgency
of investing in new facilities.
(d) Interarea transport facilities will be improved and user charges
reorganized in such a way that dispersion of population and
industries can be promoted.
6.        With regard to the road network, the Comprehensive Plan states that
transport corridors between Seoul and urban areas in Kyonggi region will be
improved to accommodate the growing travel demand and that secondary roads and
bypasses will be constructed in densely populated areas. Supplementary
arterial networks and ring roads will also be developed. With regard to rail
transport, the Comprehensive Plan calls for the continuous expansion of the
subway and electrified railroad network into an integrated system.
Implementation Program
7.        The Comprehensive Plan has been formally adopted, and MOC is now
preparing a detailed Implementation Program. Pursuarit to policy directions
laid down in the Comprehensive Plan, Seoul Metropolitan Government, Inchon
City, Kyonggi Province and the relevant transport agencies have submitted, to
MOC, their respective investment proposals which will be consolidated into a
Capital Region Implementation Program for the period 1988-96. Before this
Implementation Program is finalized, all concerned Ministries and line
agencies will be consulted by MOC. The draft Implementation Program will
embody investment proposals in every sector including transport and will
identify specific new major roads, subway and railroad connections as well as
other transport facilities in the Kyonggi region to be built through 1996.
8.        A committee has been established to implement the Capital Region
Improvement Law. It is the Capital Region Improvement Deliberation Committee
chaired by the Prime Minister which will meet as needed (or make decisions
through circulation of documents) to review the Implementation Program, and to
direct major investment decisions. The Vice Chairmen of the Committee are the
head of the Economic Planning Board who is also Deputy Prime Minister and
Planning Minister, and the Minister of Construction, while the other members
are the Ministers of Home Affairs, Defense, Education, Finance, Industry,
Transportation, Public Information, Health and Social Affairs, the head of the
Office of Environment, the Mayor of Seoul and representatives of the private
sector and the academic and research communities. In addition, technical
policy guidance will be provided by the Capital Region Improvement Steering
Committee, which is chaired by the Vice Minister of MOC and whose members are



- 28 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 4
the concerned Directors General of the Ministries represented in the higher-
level committee and the Ministries of Energy and Resources, Communications,
the Government Legislation Agency and Emergency Planning Agency, as well as
local government institutions (Seoul, Inchon, Kyonggi Province).
Program Staging and Investment Priorities
9.        Taking into account the findings of the Kyonggi Region Multimodal
Transport Feasibility Study as well as other criteria, the Capital Region
Implementation Program will define a first-stage plan of high-priority
investments to be made by 1991. Any discontinuities in the rail and road
networks as well as the need for intermodal transfer facilities will be
identified as part of this process and resolved in consultations among the
agencies concerned. The resulting first-stage plan will provide a framework
guiding individual investment decisions by the government agencies responsible
for transport in the region.
10.       Upon completion of the Capital Region Implementation Program, MOC
will monitor the execution of that program to assist in harmonizing the
investment priorities determined by the responsible agencies. It will report
at yearly intervals to the above committees which will, if required, initiate
any corrective actions to improve the integration of the transport system.
Conclusion
11.       A firm decision-making process has now been established for infra-
structure investments in the Kyonggi region, in accordance with the objectives
of the Capital Region Improvement Law. We are confident that this new process
will substantially strengthen transport planning and coordination and
contribute to improved transport efficiency.



K2tF.A
KYOuIW REGIONAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Growth Trend of Dowestic Freight Traffic (1966-85)
Units:  1.000 tons: million ton-km
1966       1962-66        1971       1967-71        1976       1972-76        1981        1977-81       1982              1983              1984             1985
Traffic    2 t       In-  'r?iWf            2 to-  Traffic    2 S       in-   Traffic X  S        in-   Traffic                       S     Traffi cTraffic    2
volume   share  crease   volute   share  creas    volume   share  crease   voluee   shere  crease   volute   share   volume   share   voldn    share   volum   share
Railways              24,064    46.9    9.4      31,955   25.1    5.8    43,629    17.8    6.4       48,761   12.1    2.2       47,437   11.0    50.476   10.0    53,661    9.8    55,346    8.9
Nishoays
Coiarcial              N/A      -       -      73,934   58.0      -     93,751    38.2    4.9    104.256   26.0    2.1    108.576   25.2   126.403   2S.0   143,629   26.4   148,699   23.9
Private 6 govt.       NI/A      -       -      10.320    8.1      -     94,439    38.4   55.7    226.547   56.4   19.1    247,575   57.6   299.808   59.3   315,910   58.0   383,903   61.6
Subtotal           24,528    47.8    9.9      84,254   66.1   28.0   188.190    76.6  174.4    330.803   82.4   11.9    356.151   82.8   426.211   84.3   459.539   84.4   530,602   85.5
Marititm               2,686      5.3   13.2     11,263    8.8   33.2    13,829       5.6    4.2     22,206    5.5    9.9       26,454    6.2    29,086    5.7    31,731    5.8    34,179    S.5
Aviatton                   -      -       -           7      -    49.1          5      -    (5.7)         18     -    28.5          30     -          43     -         58      -         68    0.1
Total              51 ,278   100.0    9.8    127.479  100.0   20.0   245.653   100.0    5.2    401.788  100.0   10.3    430,072  100.0   505.818  100.0   544.989  100.0  620.195  100.0
Ton-km
Railvays               5,450    81.6    9.3       7,841   48.9    7.5      9,7Z6    44.6    4.4       10,815   37.5    2.2      10,892   36.9    11,629   33.6    12,033   32.3    12,296   30.9
tthvraye
Commercial             N/A      -       -       3,302   20.6      -      4,374    20.0    5.8       4,868   16.9    2.2        5,097   17.2     5,943   17.2      6.762   18.2      7,068   17.8 s
Private & gov t.       N/A      -       -         237    1.5      -      2,172    10.0   55.7       5,217   18.1   19.2        5,674   19.2     6.896   19.9      7.266   19.5      8,784   22.0
Subtotal              558     8.4   11.6       3.539   22.1   64.7      6.546    30.0   13.1      10.085   35.0    9.1      10.771   36.4    12,839   37.1    14,028   37.7    15.852   39.8
Maritime                 672    10.0   36.7       4,653   29.0   50.2      5,533    25.4    3.5       7,927   27.5    7.5        7,861   26.7    10,099   29.3    11,141   29.9    11,639   29.2
Aviation                   -      -       -           2      -      -          2       -    (2.5)          7     -    26.S          11     -          17     -         22    0.1         26    0.1
Total               6,68    100.0   11.1      16.035  100.0   19.1    21.809   100.0    6.4       28.834  100.0    5.8      29.555  100.0    34,584  I00.0    37.244  100.0    39.613  100.0
Sources:  (1)  Fifth Fve -Tear Economic and Social Develoreent Plan. Trnsportation Sector Plan (1982-86), December 1961, Transportatton Sector Planning Task Force, NDT, Korea, op. 2-3.
(2)  StatistitcaL Yearbook of Transportation - 1981, KOT, Korea,   r ,If, 113, tSS, 157.
(3)  Statistical Yearbook of _ransportation - 1973, NOT, Korea, pp. 76-71, 101.
(4)  Statistical Yearbook of Transpoorttion - 1985, FOT, Korea, pp. 10-11, 169, 171.
(5)  Statistical Yearbook of Transportation - 1986, DOT, Korea, pp. 26-27, 1R8-191.



Growth Trend of Domestic Passenger Traffic (1966-85)
Units: 1.000 p ssengers: mdllion pass-km
1966       1962-66       1971         1967-71       1976        1972-76         19S1        1977-81       1982               1983               1984               1985
Traffic    2     7 In-   Treffic    T        I In-   Traffic    2      2 In-    Traffic    S      z In-   Traffic    S        Traffic    I      Traffic      I     fTraffic    S
volum    shore  crease   volume   share   create   volume   share   crease    volume   share   crease   volume   share        volu_   share    volume    share   volume    share
Passengers
Railways
Rail Intercity  138.299    8.3   9.4    128,159    4.1    (1.5)   148,562    2.8       3.0     172,765    1.9      3.1    161.548    1.6      153,710    1.5     147,122    1.4      145.964    1.3
Seoul suburban      %/A      -     -         N2A     -       -      100.107    1.9      -      268,364    2.9    21.8   282.062    2.9        315,713    3.0     341,939    3.1      357.158    3.1
Subtotal       138.299    8.3   9.4    128.159    4.1    (1.5)   248,669    4.7   14.2        441.129    4.8    12.1    443,570    4.5       469.423    4.5     469.061    4.5    503.122    4.4
Subway                   -     -     -                 -        -      33,914    0.6      -       88.326    1.0    21.1      89,298    0.9      115,623    1.1     212,637    1.9    325.238    2.9
Highways
Intercity       277.076   16.7    -      339,886   10.7     4.2   651,624   12.2    13.9       910,657    9.9      7.0    978,402   10.0    969.279    9.2       947,246    8.7     948,974    8.3
Urban         1,234,480   74.6    -   2,684,343   85.0   16.8  4.399.359   82.4    10.4  7.772,473   84.2    12.0  8.280,850   84.5   8,932.045   85.1   9.253,373   84.8  9,652,013   84.3
Subtotsl     1.511.558   91.3  20.8  3.024,229   95.7    14.9  5.050,9S3   94.6    10.8  8.683,130   94.1    11.4  9.259.252   94.5   9.901.324   94.3  10.200.619   93.5  10.601.047   92.6
Maritime            5,909    0.4   9.6       6,371    0.2      1.5      5,994    0.1    (1.2)       9,230    0.1     9.0      9,602    0.1        8,979    0.1       9,371    0.1        8.534    0.1
Aviatton               192     -   25.4      1,105     -      44.8        795     -     (6.8)       1,555     -     14.4       1,844     -        2.163    -         2.869     -         3.467     -
Total        1.655.958  100.0  19.5  3.159.864  100.0    13.8  5,340.355  100.0    11.1  9.223.370  100.0    11.5  9.803.566  100.0  10.497.712  300.0  10.914.557  100.0  11.441.409  100.0
pass-kni
Raitl interctty    8,665   42.5  10.0      8,750   27.1     0.2      12,441   21.2     7.3       16,552   18.2     5.8     15,838   16.5       16,073   16.2      15,961   15.6       16,616   15.6  1
Seoul suburban      */A      -     -         N/A     -       -        1,864    3.2      -        4,976    5.4    21.7       5,1f9    5.5        5,615    5.7       5,923    5.8        5.979    5.6
Subtotal         8.665   42.5  10.0       8.750   27.1     0.2      14.305   24.4    10.3      21.528   23.6      8.5     21.034   22.0       21.68S   21.9      21.884 21.4        22.       21.2 
Subway                  -      -     -           -     -       -          388     .       -         1,2#    1.4   26.5        1,309    1.4        t,556    1.6       2.310    2.2       4.477    4.2
Highways
Intercity           N/A     -      -      11.936   37.0      -       25,030   42.7    16.0      35.559   39.0      7.3     38,211   39.9       38,417   38.6      38.723  -37.9      38,878   36.4
Urban               N/A      -     -      10.981   34.1      -       18,369   31.3    10.8       31,756   34.9    11.6     33,899   35.4       36,40    36.6      37.675   36.9       3,9147   36.6
Subtotal        11.464   56.2  19.9      22.917   71.1    14.9      43.399   74.0    13.6      67,315   73.9      9.2     72.110   75.3       74.817   75.2      76.398   74.8       78,025   73.0
)Iaritint              196    1.0   7.6        256    0.8      S.5        249    0.4    (0.6)         480    O.S    14.0         610    0.6         557    0.5          81    0.6          570    0.5
Aviation                55    0.3  25.0        314    1.0    41.7         276    0.5    (2.h)         557    0.6    15.1         654    0.7         840    0.8        1,012    1.0       1.182    1.1
Total           20.380  10C.0  15.0      32.237  100.0      9.6     58.617  100.0    12.7      91,138  100.0      9.2     95.717  100.0       99.458  100.0      102,1S5  100.0     106.849  100.0
Sources:  (1)  Fifth Fid Social Develogent P.A as Transportationo Sector Plan (1982-86), December 1981. Transportation Sector Planning Tak Force, 3DT, torea, pp. 2-3.
(2)  StatisticlTero& of Taransportation - 1981, MOT, Korea. ov. 16-17, 60-63, 110-113.
(3)  Statistical Tearbook of transportation - 1973, MlT, Korea, pp. 76-77.
(4)  Statistieal Yearbook of Transportation -  1985, NOT. Korea, Po.  9, 121-123.
(5)  Statistical Yearbook of Transportation - 1986, OMT, Korea, pp. 24-25, 31-35, 140-148.



-31 -                              ANNEX 3
Page 1
KOREA
KYONGGI REGIONAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Transport Administration and Organization
1.        The Economic Planning Board (EPB) approves all transport infrastruc-
ture investments in the Kyonggi region proposed by the line ministries,
reviews all government budgets annually and allocates priorities, and is
concerned with transport pricing such as setting of fares for buses, taxis and
subways and tolls for expressways.
2.        The Ministry of Construction (MOC) is concerned with all aspects of
national physical planning and construction activities in the public sector.
It is also exclusively responsible for national roads (through its Bureau of
Public Roads) and expressways (through the Korea Highway Corporation), and
sets standards for urban roads and streets. MOC is also responsible for
development of industrial ports. Because of MOC's pervasive involvement in
infrastructure planning, regional and urban planning has a physical rather
than an economic orientation and central decisions tend to override
considerations of cost effectiveness and local priorities.
3.        The Ministry of Transportation (MOT) has overall, responsibility for
the planning, development and operation by the Korean National Railroad (KNR)
for railways, by the Korea Maritime and Port Administration (KHPA) for ports
(except industrial and fishing ports which are under MOC and the Ministry of
Agriculture, respectively), by the Civil Aviation Bureau for aviation and by
the Waterways Bureau for inland waterways. MOT is also responsible for
regulation of all transport modes. The Transport Coordination Bureau in MOT
is theoretically responsible for coordination of transport investments and
policies but, in practice, has not been effective because of resistance from
other ministries involved in transport.
4.        The Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA) has overall responsibility for
provincial and county roads, although it is intended to shift the planning of
these roads to MOC. The Local Administration Bureau of MOHA plans and
monitors provincial and county roads programs and also assists cities and
counties to develop their road networks.
5.        The interaction of various administrative and functional levels of
the Government results in a complex organizational array with respect to the
construction and operation of transport facilities in the Kyonggi region.
Within Seoul City, the city administration is directly responsible for
transport planning, construction of transport. infrastructure, traffic
management, and provision and operation of its public transit systems, other
than suburban rail lines (SHESRS) operated by KNR. The subway system in Seoul
City is managed by the Seoul Metropolitan Subway Corporation, a semiautonomous
public corporation under the city administration. Inchon City is also
directly responsible for the management and operation of the transport system



-32 -                              ANNEX 3
Page 2
under its jurisdiction, although its transport programs and plans have to be
approved by MOHA. Two exceptions are the Port of Inchon, which is managed by
KHPA, and the SMESRS system within the city boundaries, which is run by KNR.
6.        The expressway system within Kyonggi Province is managed by the
Korea Highway Corporation (KHC), which will be the implementing agency for the
proposed project, and the national roads by MOC's Bureau of Public Roads. The
national and suburban rail lines are run by KNR and the Kimpo airport by the
Civil Aviation Bureau of the MOT. The Bureau of Construction of the Kyonggi
Provincial Government is responsible for the construction and maintenance of
intercity provincial roads, while its Bureau of Transportation regulates
intercity buses and commercial vehicles and licenses them. The Kyonggi
government is also responsible for enforcement of traffic and safety
regulations through the police department. The city and county governments
have responsibility for construction and maintenance of local roads within
their respective jurisdictions. There is fairly good cooperation among the
road construction bureaus at local, provincial, and central levels, partly
because HOC has a regional office of construction in Kyonggi Province at Suwon
and partly because the Kyonggi provincial government provides grants to city
administrations for urban road and street improvements.



-33                               ANNEX 4
Page 1
KOREA
KYONGGI REGIONAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Korea Highway Corporation
Organization and Management
1.        The Korea Highway Corporation (KHC) is headed by a president who
reports to a board of directors comprised of representatives from MOC and
other public and private sector agencies (Chart 1). The president is assisted
by a vice-president and four managing directors who are each responsible for
planning, general affairs, engineering and construction. In addition, KHC has
9 departments and a highway research laboratory at the head office, 4 regional
offices and 2 field construction offices under the head office, and 23 fieild
maintenance offices for the maintenance of existing expressways.
2.        At end-1986, KHC had a total of 2,718 staff members, including 1,132
qualified and experienced professional engineers, specialists and technicians
in the various fields of planning, design, construction, maintenance and
management.
Current Network
3.        The public road network in Korea is divided into five classes:
national expressways, national highways, special city roads, and city and gun
(county) roads. The total length of the network is 53,654 km. Paved roads of
all classes totalled 29,071 km in 1986, accounting for only 54% of the total
network. KHC is responsible for managing almost all of the expressways (which
total 1,415 km and therefore represent less than 3% of the public road
network). The construction of expressways in Korea began with the Seoul-
Inchon expressway in 1967; it was the first highway handed over by MOC to KHC
for management in February 1969. The following table shows how the network
managed by KHC had developed by mid-1987.



- 34 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 2
KHC-MANAGED NETWORK, 1987
Number
of     Design        Date of
Route              Length    Width        lanes   speed         completion
(km)      (m)                 (kph)
Seoul-Inchon        24.0       20.4         4      80-120      Dec 1968
Seoul-Pusan        428.0       22.4        4       80-120      Jul 1970
Onyang-Ulsan         14.3      22.4         4      80-120       Dec 1969
Taejon-Jonju         79.5      23.4         4      80-120       Dec 1970
Shingal-Saemal      104.0      13.2         2      80-120      Nov 1971
Jonju-Sunchon       172.3    13.2/23.4    2/4      70-120       Nov 1975
Sunchon-Pusan      176.5    13.2/23.4    2/4       70-120      Nov 1975
Saemal-Kangnung     97.0       10.7         2      50-120       Sep 1975
Kangnung-Tonghae    30.0       10.7         2      50-120       Sep 1975
Taegu-Masan          86.3    13.2/23.4    2/4      70-120       Dec 1977
Pusan-Masan         20.6       23.4         4      80-120       Sep 1981
Taegu-Kwangju       182.9      13.2         2      80-120       Jun 1984
Total       1,415.4
Planning and Design
to        MOC still retains overall responsibility for expressway planning.
KHC jointly participates with MOC in all phases of development including the
identification and selection of roads for the national five-year development
plans. In the case of the Kyonggi Regional Transport Project, KHC was
responsible for the completion of feasibility studies and detailed
engineering. KHC's policy guidelines for toll road development include
ensuring that:
(a)  paving of the existing national and local roads is given priority;
(b)  construction of expressways aims to bring all parts of Korea within
a one-day trip zone; ant
(c)  the development of the various classes of the network (national,
provincial, etc.) is interrelated in such a way as to promote the
least-cost development of each individual class.
5.        KHC uses the national geometric design standards shown in Annex 6.
Recently, however, there has been a general policy to use concrete (instead of
asphaltic concrete) pavements for high capacity, multilane expressways. The
use of concrete seems to be linked to the development of local cement produc-
tion, the reduction of imports of oil and oil-based products and an expected
lower maintenance cost. KHC recently completed the 1988 Olympic Expressway
(connecting Taegu and Kwangju) as a concrete-paved road.



-35 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 3
Maintenance and Operation
6.        Maintenance and operation costs are funded from toll revenues and
carried out bv the four regional offices, which together control a total of 21
field maintenance offices. The regional offices are responsible for
(a) planning of operations and maintenance, (b) operation of toll gates,
(c) renovation and rehabilitation of roads, and (d) operation and management
of safety devices such as those for vehicle speed surveillance and others.
The field offices carry out the actual maintenance and other activities such
as (a) patrols, snow clearing, etc., (b) traffic control including the removal
of disabled vehicles, (c) periodic inspection of structures and pavement,
(d) repairs to roadways and structures, and (e) information services to motor-
ists. A typical field office is responsible for 50-70 km of expressways.
This division of responsibilities has worked very well and the toll roads have
been properly maintained. The provision of adequate funds from toll revenues
ensures adequate maintenance.
Toll Policy
7.        The two major factors considered when deciding to levy tolls are
(a) the selection of roads for tolling and (b) the level of tolls to be
charged. Article 2 of the toll road law authorizes tolls on:
(a) highways where those who transit or use them benefit markedly from
such transit or use, and
(b) highways, the use of which is not unavoidable due to the existence
in the vicinity of another highway that could be transited.
So far, this policy has led to the levying of tolls on most major intercity
expressways, especially when there is an alternative route nearby. As a
result of past discussion with the Bank, KHC carries out the appropriate
financial and economic analyses of the impact of tolls on all proposed toll
expressways.
8.        The level of tolls is determined by KHC and approved by the EPB.
These tolls are a combination of a fixed entrance ramp fee (W 200) plus basic
rates per km as indicated below:



- 36 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 4
TOLL RATES AND USER BENEFITS
Benefit             Basic rate            X of
Vehicle class           (won/km)              (won/km)            Benefit
I. Passenger cars,
trucks < 2.5 t           59.57                  20                33.6
II.  Buses                     174.72                   42                24.0
III.  Trucks < 10 t             196.79                   23                11.7
IV.  Trucks > 10 t             264.33                   46                17.4
The basic toll rate by law cannot exceed the "benefit"--which is really the
operating cost and time savings accruing to users of the expressways.
Examples of tolls on major routes include: Seoul-Pusan, W 8,800, and Seoul-
I Inchon, W 700. Due to the success of its tolling operations, KHC surpluses
have been increasing by over 10% p.a. in the recent past. The project roads
will also be tolled and will contribute to the revenue surplus.
C. Budget, Accounts and Audit
9.        KHC prepares its own budget in consultation with MOC.  Most bud-
getary needs for widening of expressways and, very recently, for a portion of
new construction costs are provided by KHC's own toll revenues. In preparing
its budget, however, KHC has to comply with general government policy on
expenditures, which is somewhat restrictive.
10.       KHC uses standard government accounting prdcedures.  Its annual
statements are audited internally, as well as by independent firms for the
benefit of its private-sector creditors.
H. Financial Objectives
11.       KHC's objective (by law) is to recover the cost of the toll road
network development directly from users. The law further states that the
tolls, user fees and other income may be used only for:
(a) repayment of principal and interest of costs incurred in the new
construction or rehabilitation of toll roads, and
(b) costs incurred in the new construction, rehabilitation, maintenance
and management of other highways.
In addition, KHC is required to set aside any remaining profit in "project
expansion" and "profit" reserves.



- 37 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 5
I. Past Financial Performance
12.       KHC has in the past been reasonably profitable.  This is largely
because of the 17% p.a. growth in vehicles using the toll road system during
the past decade and the relatively low costs of the toll collection system.
The salient features are reproduced below for the period 1983-86. Details are
given in the tables at the end of this annex.
1983      1984       19l5       1986
Total revenue (W billion)                108.0      124.5      175.4     232.7
Income before tax (W billion)             50.6       62.4       69.3      93.3
Operating ratio                             53        50         60         60
Return on assets (x)                      13.9       14.4       13.8       12.0
Essentially the corporation is in a period of rapid revenue growth which,
coupled with a well-controlled growth of expenditure (less than 8% p.a.), has
produced the profitable position shown in the financial statements.
J. Current Position and Investment Plans
13.       KP  is currently in a sound financial position.  Its balance sheet
shows very little long-term debt in 1985 (less than 10% of total assets)
largely because most of its assets were provided by the Government. Other key
ratios such as the return on assets (12% or more) verify its sound position.
14.       KHC will in future finance a larger portion of its investment plan
from its own funds and by borrowings, both foreign and domestic. Its 1987-91
investment plan calls for the expenditure of some W 1,538 billion, mostly for
the Seoul-Taejeon and the Kyonggi expressways, widening of 240 km of other
highways from 2 lanes to 4, and the renovation and concrete repaving of the
428-km Seoul-Pusan expressway.  Of the total funds reiired, KHC's own funds
will provide 47%, the Government 46% and long-term lc4ns 7% of inv stment
needs. The following table shows the financing plan for the period 1987-91.



- 38-                              ANNEX 4
Page 6
Expenditures
Item                                                  1987-91
(W bln)
KHC internal generation                                69509
Government contribution                                690.0
Net borrowing                                           152.3
Total funds available                           1,538.2
Funds required for investment                        1,538.2
K. Future Performance (1987-91)
15.       As the preceding tables show, KHC should be able to implement its
development plans and still remain in a sound financial position. Some of the
main financial projections for this period are given below. Details are given
in the tables appearing at the end of this annex.
1987      1988       1989      1990       1991
Total revenues
(W bln)                      195.7     230.3      234.6      260.0     286.2
Income before taxes
(W bln)                      102.2      110.1     135.5      148.0     159.1
Operating ratio                  48         52        42         43         44
Return on assets (Z)            10.6        8.8       9.2        8.7        7.8
The main assumptions underlying these forecasts are that traffic growth will
average 11% p.a. on the toll road network and that there will be no real
increase in tariffs. Even given these conservative assumptions, KHC's
financial position will still remain sound. The growth in revenues will
continue at a similar pace as in the past, and the operating ratio will remain
low, under 5OX. The return on total assets will be acceptable but will
decline from previous levels largely because of the high costs of the new
expressways to be added to the network. Due to inflation, they will cost much
more than the roads currently in the system and hence total assets will
increase considerably over the period. The decline in return on total assets
will cease with the end of the period of intensive construction activities.
More important, KBC will at all times be able to service its debt.



KOREA HIGHWAY CORPORATION: INCOME STATEMENT (1983-91)
(Won million)
Actual                    Est.                 Forecast
1983     1984      1985      1986     1987      1988      1989      1990     1991
Revenue
TolI                                      102,463  116,014  126,423  149,095  172,460  196,100  225,644  250,690  276,555
Others /a                                   5,487    8,517   49,002   83,602   23,213   34,203    8,982    9,291    9,610
Total Revenue                          107,950  124,531  175,425  232,697  195,673  230,303  234,626  2981  286,165
Expenditures
Operatinx xenditures
Operatlon and maintenance                48,479   53,205   55,034   53,723   60,819   73,560   78,710   84,000   89,800
Administration and management             5,426    5,582    5,464    6,031    6,917    8,366    8,950    9,050   10,210
Others /a                                   388       376   41,355   76,221   22,098   26,282          840      950       990
Subtotal                                54,293   59,163  101,893  135,975   89,834  108.208   88,500   94,000  101,000   I
Nonoperating Expenditures                                                                                                         %
Interest                                  1,153    1,020       952       862       762    8,500    7,100   14,400   22,400   1
Others                                    1,917    1,926    3,350    2,537    2,901    3,500    3,550    3,600    3,620
Subtotal                                 3,070    2,946    4,302    3,399    3,663   12,000   10,650   18,000   26,020
Total Expenditures                      57,363   62,109  106,155  139,374   93,497  120.208   99,150  112,000  127.020
Income Before Taxes                     50,587   62,422   69.270   93,323  102,176  110,095  135,476  147.981  159,145
Taxes                                         2,878    3,021    3,515    6,543    6,447    7,730    8,940    9,760   10,500
After-Tax Income                        47,709   59,401   65,755   86,780   95,729  102,365  126,536  138,221  148,645
Highway cost recovery                        45,993   57,213   63,322   84,343   92,793   99,290  122,740  134,080  144,185
Net Income                               1,716    2,188    2.433    2,437    2.936    3,075    3,796    4,141    4,460
/a  Includes special Government allocation of W 160,176 million for Chung-bu Expressway in 1985-88, and equal auount for
construction expenditure.



KOREA HIGHWAY CORPORATION: BALANCE SHEET (1983-91)
(Won million)
Actual           1st.                                         Forecast
1983      1984       1985       1956      -T87-           1988          1989          1990          1991
Assets
Curreot Asset's
Quick  assets                               20,558    19,078    15,256    20,144            482        20,000        20,000        20,000         20,000
Tnventories                                 4,133      3,152      3,480      2,479       4,479          4,000         4,000   -    4,000          4,000
Oth,er c,irrt,'t ajset% /a                   1,086        885    26,354    43,690       26,232          3,000         3,000         3,000          3,000
Thtal Current As,ets                      25,777    23,115    45,090    66,313         31,193         27.000        27,000        27,000         27,000
Less: Current Liabilities
Payables and accrued llabilities             5,015     4,274    32,453    85,942    123,111            28,846        88,110       169,489        116,544
Current portion of long-term debt            1,566      1,579      1,809      1,976       1,993         2,000         2,000         2,000          2.000
Total Current Ltahttities                   6,581      5,853    34,262    87,918    125,104           30,846        90,110       171,489        118,544
Net Working Capital                        19.196    17,262    .0,828   (21.605)   (93,911)           (3,846)      (63.110)    (144,489)        (91,544)      g
Fixed Assets                                                                                                                                                     0
Hixed     at cAst)                         321,941   382,644   448,916   749,948    995,016    1,196,416    1,436,816    1,694,316    1,941,216
Other (net)                                 23,967    33,000    43,450    48,825        62,177         51,777        99,477        149,677       178.077
Total Fixed Assets                       345,908   416,644   492,366   798.773  1.057.193    1.248.193    1.536.293    1.843.993    2,119,.;-
Total Assets                             365.104   432,906   503,194   777.168    963.282    1.244.347    1.473.183    1.699,504    2.027,749
Liabilities and Equity
Long-term debt - IRR                               -          -          -          -           -        34,000        61,200         83,200        98,500
Other                      32,995    35,878    38,500    39,813         46,531        44,531         42,531        40,531        38,531
Equity                                       332,tO9   397,028   464,694   737,355    916,751    1,165,816    1,369,452    1,575,773    1,890,718
Total Liabilities and Equity             365,104   432,906   503.194   777.168    963,282    1,244,347    1.473.183    1.699.504    2.027,749
Ja Including work-in-progress for Chung-bu Expressway.



KOREA HIGHWAY CORPORATION: SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS (1983-91)
(Won million)
Actual                     Est.                    Forecast
1983    1984       1985       1986       1987       1988     1989       1990       1991
Sources
Intprnal Cash Generation
Income                               47,709  59,401    65,755    86,780    95,729   102,365  126,536   138,221   148,645
Plus depreciation, etc.                7,941   8,320      9X274      8,249    13,248    16,700   17,100    18,100    19,300
Subtotal cash generation            55,650  67,721    75,029           29   108,977   119,065  143,636   156,321   167,945
Government contribution                      -   5,600    66,834    92,747    90,000   200,000  100,000   100,000   200,000
IBRD loan                                    -        -         -          -          -    34,000   27,200    22,000    15,300
Total Sources                        55,650  73,321   141,863   187,776   198,977   353,065  270,836   278.321   383,245
Applications
Investments
Highway widening and construction  19,890  49,812   120,763   186,210   221,645   201,400  240,400   257,500   246,900
Kyonggi Region /a                        -       -          -      1,000      6,100   127,200  122,700    98,900    71,600
Others                              19,890  49,812   120,763   185,210   215,545    74,200  117,700   158,600   175,300
Highway improvement                    8,135  12,013    12,446    20,527    21,847    36,300   77,100    79,500    52,300
Other capital expenditure              4,128   5,299      7,680      7,092    19,571    23,300   10,600    20,700    29,100
Subtotal investments                32,153  67,124   140,889   213,829   263,063   261,000  328,100   357,700   328,300
Other expenditure                        1,777   6,552      5,599      4,404      6,227          -         -          -          -
Debt service (non-IBRD)                  1,556   1,579      1,809      1,976      1,993      2,000    2,000       2,000     2,000
Change in noncash working capital    20,164  (1,934)   (6,434)  (32,433)  (72,306)   90,065  (59,264)  (81,379)   52,945
Total Applications                   55,650  73,321   141,863   187,776   198,977   353.065  270,836   278,321   383,245
/a Including debt service for IBRD loan.
'a



KOREA
KYONGGI 8EGIONAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Summary of Investments Proposed by KRETFS
Estimated cost                         Estimated
Section                Length   (million won)   ERR /a        traffic volume (vpd). 1991
From               To                (km)   Constr.    RJW    (1)    Total           Car      Due    Truck  Remarks
Espressway
Seoul              Inchon            24.93  108,339  37,499    26       42,103    17,781   6,714  17,608  ROW 2:3; paving 2:2 lanes - cone. pav.
Shingal            Munhak            40.20  166,020  25,843    22   ) 29 308/b  10,997   3,492  14,819  tOW 2:3; paving 2x2 lanes - conc. pav.
Shingal            Panwol            25.00   85,400  13,900    24   }   *  -
Pangyo             Kurt              25.60  129,345  65,000    19       30,459/c  12,774   4,967  12,718  RON 2x3; paving 2x2 lanes - conc. pav.
Shthung            Panvol            12.47   48,117   9.167    26       21,691      9,388   3,040   9,263  ROW 2:3; paving 2x2 lanes - conc. pav.
Anyang             Kwangmyong         6.50   21,271   3,055    24       23,251    10,507   3,680   9.064  2x2 lanes - conc. pav.
Dalyami            Asanman           41.30  128,352  19,606    28             -         -        -       -  West Coast Exp. - 2:2 lanes - conc. pav.
Railway
Kuro               Seoul Main        12.00  100,109  14,412    22    182,630/4          -        -       -  New double track
Suwon              Pyongtaek         34.00  125,797   2,567    18       55,85371        -        -       -  New double track, Kyongbu line
Kunpo/Kumjong /e  Yangjae/Sadang   26.86  187,972   8,655    15         43,00071        -        -        -  Extension of Panvol-Sadong line with
connections to Subways F3 and 94
Highway Widening                                                                                               From        To
Anyang             Nongok             5.87    3,149   2,989    34        9,435      3,395   1,983   4,057  2-lane -> 2x2
Nunggok            Kimpo             12.50   20,341   1,233    86       39,772    13,777  11,110  14,885  2-lane ->  2:2
Kiipo              Kanghwa            9.88   18,718   1,125    20         1,991       712      473     806  New 2-lane bridge only                             N
Tobong             Uijongbu           6.41    7,036   2,244    19       22,221      8,422   5,457   8,342  New 2:2 lane
Tonong             Tokso              7.29    6,081   3,164    16        14,508     8,283   3,489   2,736  2-lane -> 2:2
Tokso              Yangsu            14.17   34,797   2,883    22       13.242      3,443   4,105   5,694  2-lane -> 2:2, partly new 2x2
Tongduchon         Chongok           11.18    9,306   4,008    39         6,536     4,147      166   2,223  2-lane --> 2:2
Osan               Songhwan          14.69   14,367   3,316    34       35,690    18,045   6,450  11,195  2-lane -> 2:2
Songnam            Kwangju           21.29   14,672      803    36      23,196      7,429   2,813  12,954  2-lan  ->  2x2
Dokhyon            Suwon              9.43    8,177   3,587    59       22,682      8,482   4,970   9,230  2:2       >  2:3, partly new 2x2
Highway Improvement (Paving)
Puchon             Kaewha             7.73    2,302      338   114       8,100      1,600   1,400   5,100  )
Panwol             Shlnchon          12.20    6,308   1,248    34        2,100        620      670     810  j
Kisan              Kumtu             10.07    3,053      612    29          440       100      200      140  1 Trafflc estimates are not reliable and
Ildong             Idong              5.01    1,581       61    48       1,800        480      430     890    s may be subject to wide variation,
Yangpyong          Chongoyong        27.74   17,477   1,059    18           360       145       55      160  1 depending on daily and seasonal varia-
Yangpyong          Toechon           18.24    7,916   1,709    16           480        170      90      220  } tions.
Panwol             Palan             21.10   23,603      575    25        1,050       360      230     490  )
/a  The ERRs are based on the expectation that all the expressway and rail links will be completed by 1991.  ERR's for Shingal-Panwol and
Pangyo-Kurt expressways are original estimates; they have been recalculated In 1987, based on updated traffic flow and cost data (see pars.
4.4)
/b  Updated 199o   trafflc projections:  27,830  vehicles per day.
/c  Updated 1991 traffic projectIons:  35,794 vehicles per day.
7-i Peak hourly volume--persons/hoor in year 2001.
fe  Including connections with subway lines 3 and 4.
Source:  Kyonpgl Regi0n Mutttiodal Transport Feasibility Study, prepared for MOC and KNR by BCEOSI-KRIHS-KECC-Yoosbin, December 1985.



KOREA
KYONGGI REGIONAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Expressway Design Standards
50 km/hr             IO k/bEressway            k/hr              IZO kmlhr       Remarks
Road type                   Full control of       Full control of       Full control of       Full control of
access (1st class)   access (let class)   access (1st class)   access (lst class)
Number of lanes                     4                     4                    4                     6
Do-sign speed (km/hr)              80                    100                   120                  120
Width (m)
0lF-al width                    24.40                 24.40                24.40                 31.60         Expressway:tx0.Sn; side strip to be added
Pavemunt width                4 e 3.6               4 0 3.6               4 e 3.6               6 0 3.6
Separator vidth                 3.00                  3.00                  3.00                  3.00
Shoulder width                  3.50                  3.50                  3.50                  3.50
Structure loading for
bridges (tons)                 0D-24                 DB-24                0D-24                  01-24
Tunnel width (a)                  9.00                  9.00                  9.00                 12.60         For 2-lane tunnel; for 3-Lsne tunnel
arid  Width (o)
groo" area               23.40                 23.40                 23.40                 30.60         Longs:xpAX>100 N; lId.Pav.L>50 N
Rural area                      23.40                23.40                 23.40                 30.60         Short:Exp.L<100 R, Vid.Pav.L<50    
Radius of Curvature (a)
Desrrable                        400                   70                  1,000 1.000
inimou                           280                  460                   700                   700
Gradlent (S)
Fst rable                         4                     3                    2                     2
Maxim                             7                     6                    S                     5
SUPerelevatlon (S)
2                    2                     2                     2
Naximem                           6                     6                    6                     6
Clearance (a)                      4.7                   4.7                  4.7                   4.7
Pavement type              Concrete pavement    Concrete pavement    Concrete pavement    Concrete pavement
Stopping sight distance
(a)                              110                   160                  210                   21n
Hinimom Radius of Ver-
tical Gurve km)
crest                          3,000                 6,S00                t1,000                 11,000
Sag                             2,000                3,000                 4,000                 4,000
Code of future status              El                    32                    33                  E5,E6         2x2 expandable 2x3 (36)



KYWIN RIE6IUL TRAIWIT PROJECT
Project Coat Estiostes
422c mtlliom in 9ctobr 1967 prices)
---------------------------------------------------------9------------------------------1990-…-------199                ------- ----------2--------------------------Tota        ---… -
Local Foruign  Total  Local Fernqsp  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign   total   Local  Fmrcapo  Total    Local  Fores gn   Total
I P.qIYo-Ksi 02.6 tel                      4.706   4,556   9,214  17,460  16,929  34,409  26,909  27,996  51,907   6,74    9,445   17,205   7.395    7.162  14,557   17,229   65.112  132,341
2 9hanqal-P.uol (23.4 Wa                   3,491   3,31    4,962  12,964  12,575  25,559  21,473  20,797  42,270    4,492    6,297   12,779    5.493   5.320  li,613   49.937   48,364  98,301
3 SaWerisaoa of Contruction                  655       0     455   2,431      0  2,431  4,021         0   4,021    1,216       0    1,211   1.029         0    1,029   9,350        0   9,350
Total base cot                        6,657   7,943  16,800  32,695  29,504  62,399  54,403  48,795 103,196   16,448   14,752   31.200   13,917   12,412   24,399  121.516  113,47m  2399912
…--- … --------------------- ~--                  -- -     --- -   ---    …-…-----------    ---
Physacal coatimpncaes 252)                 443    397    940   1,445   1,475   3,120   2,720   2,440   5,140       622     738    1.560      191      424    1,320    6,326    5,674   12,000
total                                 9.300   6,340  17,440  34,540  30,971  45,5t9  57,123  51,235 106,355  17,270   15,490   32,740   14,613   23,106   27,7t9  132,942  119.150  251,912
Price coatlqmese
~AalI (2)                        1.002   1.00            2.002   1.002          1.002   2.002            1.002    1.002            1.002    1.002             1.002    1.00?
Coqamm.dd wi                     0.75    0.75            1.761   1.74           2.7M    2.79             3.602    3.602            4.642    4.0142,
ANont                              70      63     133    606    545   1,153  J,566   1,424  3,012         651      589    2,245     707      434    1,341   3,429    3,255   6,684
RtVbt-of-42ac qMgitlot                  99,700       099, 700        0      0       0       0       0       0        0       0        0        0        0        099, 700          0     99,700
Grand Total                         209,070   9,403 117,473  35.146  31,524  66,672  56,712  52,159 111,370   17,926   14,079  34,005  15,320  13.740  29,010  236,173  122,405  356576
*==a=   mxm  in332w.  ssu*in  #uMM   on==i  ,,          uzs==  sui=Mm  asm3.              inamo    *su      mm=   scam=         in      3*3
lfates: 1. Eaclaae rate: 22912.60   to 600
2. All figun re e rondel.
OF 



F.IIIE
K110.9  Sl WML  1 TRONPY  P4JT
Projet Cost Estioates
(IlS  '000 in Otabwr 5987 price)
------ -----------    --------I----------1991------                                                   1992-- -   --t                 tal-
Local Faweip  total  Local Fortip  Totsl  LKcal Foreip  Total  Local  Forup   Total   Local  Forein   Total    Lmol  Frign   Total
I Pany-Kort 123.9 k.)                     5.083   5,696  11,581  21,850  21,1U1 43,0tl 36,136  34,9"   71,134   10,925   10,591   21,504    9,244    8,93   18,1    94,036   81,390  16,426
2 ,ietga-Peanl 1(23.4 to)                 4,370  4,231   8,601  16.230  15,719  31,949  26,941  25,996 52,937   9.115   7,959  15,974   6,864   6,450  13,516  42,421   60,451  122,876
3 Supervision of Construrtios               819      0    819  3,039         0  3,039  5.026        0  5,026    1,519        0   1,519   1,236         0   1,286   11,63         0   11,6
total base cost                     11.071   9,929  21,000 41,11-9  3,880 77,999  68,003  60,94 128,97  20.S59   13,440  36,999   17,396  15.603  32,999  158,14  141,945  299,0
Pt"ical continqmenct"  (5J                SSt    491   1,050   2.056   1,844  3,900  3,400  3,050  6,450    1,029        922   1,950      970      790   1,650   7,907   7,092  15,000
Total                               11,625  10,425  22,050 43,175  36,724 81,f99  71,403 64,04 135,447  21,W17  19,362  40,949  18,266  16.393  34.649  166,052 148,937 314,990
Price coetinoncies
AMu it)                          1.00    1.001          1.001   1.00          1.002   1.00?           1.0     1.00              1.001   1.400             1.00-   1.001
Comoae   (2)                    0.75?  0.751            1.74?    .76t          2.7M1   2.7M            3.69    3.960             4.914   4.864
Aomnt                             97      78    165    760    682  1,442   1995   1,7BI'   3,765        820     736   1,556       64       m     1,677   4,53      4,06    8,605
RIit-of-Ias equasitiam                124.625       0 124,625      0       0      0       0       0       0       0        0        0       0        0        0  124,625       0  124,625
Grand Total                        136.337  10,503 146,840  43,35  39,404  83,341  73,38B 65,924 139,212   22,407  20,0M    42,505   19,150   17,176  36,326  29,217  153,007 448,224
Ibtn: 1. Etc_a , rate: 9  1.00 - Om 80  .
2. All fhqurs ae romgoed.



- 46-                            ANNEX 8
KOREA
KYONGGI REGIONAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Start    Complete
General Procurement Notice                                            06/15/87
Issue prequalification (PQ) documents for
contractors and get responses                           09/03/87   10/31/87
Evaluate PQ submissions, including Bank review            11/01/87   01/15/88
Terms of reference for supervision consultants            07/01/87   11/11/87
Pangyo-Tongbu (Shinjang) and Shingal-Panwol Expressways
Bidding documents, including Bank review                07/01/87   01/15/88
Bid period                                              01/16/88   02/29/88
Evaluation of bids, including Bank review of
evaluation report and KHC recommendations             03/01/88   03/25/88
Request proposals for supervision consultancies
and select consultants, including Bank review         01/16/88   03/30/88
Construction of expressway                              03/30/88   12/31/91
Hail (Kodok)-Kuri Expressway Section (funded b- Government)
Engineering documents                                   07/01/87   10/22/87
Construction nf expressway                              Dec 1987   12/31/91



- 47                             ANNEX 9
KOREA
KYONGGI REGIONAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Estimated cumu-             Disbursement profile
IBRD fiscal year              lative disbursements            of Korean highway
and semester               US$ million           Z             projects (%)
1988
December 31, 1987                 -              -
June 30, 1988                    10               9
1989
December 31, 1988                18              16                   7
June 30, 1989                    26              22
1990
December 31, 1989                38              33                  33
June 30, 1990                    64              55
1991
December 31, 1990                88              76                  76
June 30, 1991                    96             83
1992
December 31, 1991               103              89                  89
June 30, 1992                   110              95
1993
December 31, 1992               116             100                 100



-48 -                                          ANNEX 10
KOREA
KYONGGI REGIONAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Monitoring Indices
Estimated               Percent completed
Project component                        quantities   12/31/88  12/31/89  12131/90  12/31/91
Pangyo-Kuri Expressway
Lot 1         W
Earthwork! (m3)                        2,506,000
Paving (o )                              147,000
Culverts (number)                              36
Bridges (number)                               17
Final cost (W billion)                         50
Lot 2
garthwork! (a3)                        2,437,000
Paving (m )                              173,000
Culverts (number)                              44
Brldges (number)                               11
Final cost (W billion)                         65
Lot 3
Ea thwork! (m3)                        2,097,000
Paving (3 )                              150,000
Culverts (number)                              72
Bridges (number)                               11
Final cost (W billion)                         48
Lot 4
Earthwork! (m3)                        1,026,700
Paving (m )                               62,000
Culverts (number)                              19
Bridges (number)                                2
Final cost (W billion)                         56
Shingal-Panwol Expressway
Lot 1
Earthwork! (m3)                        3,644,000
Paving (  )                              232,000
Culverts (number)                              62
Bridges (number)                               12
Final cost (W billion)                         47
Lot 2
Earthwork! (mi)                        4,612,000
Paving (a )                              206,000
Culverts (number)                              46
Bridges (number)                               14
Final cost (V billion)                         55
Lot 3
Earthwork! (i3)                        3,054,000
Paving (a )                               159,000
Culverts (number)                              62
Bridges (number)                                6
Final cost (W billion)                         37



- 49 -                            ANNEX 11
Page 1
KOREA
KYONGGI REGIONAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Measurement of Economic Benefits
1        As the U.S. Highway Capacity Manual and similar studies have made
clear, the "capacity" of a road (for a given level of service) is a site-
specific concept, which results from the interaction of three types of local
conditions:
(a) roadway conditions, such as width of lanes, severity of gradients,
length of weaving sections, and horizontal alignment;
(b) traffic conditions, such as the percentage of heavy vehicles and the
daily and hourly peaking patterns; and
(c) control conditions, such as intersection controls, speed limits and
rules governing the use of lanes (restriction of the median lane to
high-occupancy vehicles only, for example).
The speed at which vehicles can travel on a particular road is a non-linear
function of the volume of traffic relative to capacity, and vehicle operating
costs (VOC) in turn are a non-linear function of vehicle speed, as shown in
Table 11.1. The result of these complex interrelationships is that VOC on a
particular road segment may exhibit little variation over a wide range of
traffic volumes and yet change dramatically as capacity is approached. Thus,
the benefits of a proposed expressway, as compared to an arterial (without
major intersections), are typically rather modest for moderate levels (both
because the VOC saving per vehicle is small and because relatively few
vehicles are involved), yet the benefits can be very substantial when traffic
flows are heavy.
2.        The benefits used in the Kyonggi Study to calculate ERRs were pri-
marily the savings in VOC (fuel, lubricants, tires, maintenance, and depreci-
ation) that occur because of network improvements, as compared to the "do
nothing" case. These benefits were calculated from the detailed, link-
specific traffic forecasts and roadway conditions that govern vehicle ope-
rating speeds, using Korean vehicle operating cost characteristics. The
underlying calculations incorporated several conservative assumptions:
(a) expressway capacity per lane was taken as 2,500 passenger car units
per hour, although the U.S. Highway Capacity Manual suggests a
figure of 2,000 cars per hour;
(b) arterial capacity per lane was taken as only 10% less than express-
way capacity, although the true difference is no doubt greater; and
(c) vehicle speeds were assumed never to fall below 20 km/h, thus trun-
cating the high values of VOC associated with extreme congestion.



- 50 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2
Because of these assumptions, the ERRs reported in Chapter IV can be con-
sidered to be conservative values.
3.        Estimates of the value of time (VOT) saved were also included in the
benefits used to calculate ERRs. VOT estimates based on marginal-rate-of-
substitution calculations were found to vary widely and were discarded. VOT
benefits were therefore estimated from conservative productivity calculations,
ranging from W 400 to W 1,200 per passenger hour for work-related trips and
one-third of these values for non-work trips. (For comparison, Korean CNP
divided by total hours worked was about W 1,600 in 1984, and the hourly wage
in manufacturing in the same year was about W 990.)
Table 11.1: VARIATION OF VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS WITH SPEED, PAVED ROADS
(Won per km)
Small      Large        Small      Medium      Large
Speed       Car          Bus         Bus        Truck       Truck       Truck
40          98.65       197.33     285.01       228.45     293.12      358.49
48          87.89       172.33     254.48       196.84     257.55      318.16
56          80.65       154.15     234.48       174.20     232.09      291.38
64          76.18       141.58     223.87       158.26     214.65      276.07
72          72.87       131.98     216.66       146.22     202.95      265.54
80          71.23       125.82     216.46       138.03     194.46      263.38
88          70.26       122.24     221.54       132.79     190.23      267.71
Source:  Feasibility Study Report for ADB Fourth Road Improvement Project, by
KRIHS, KECC, DOHWA, KCA, July 1987.



- 51 -
ANNEX 12
KOREA
KYONCGI REGIONAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.   General Reports
A.1 The Second Comprehensive National Physical Development Plan,
1982-1991, May 1982, Government of the Republic of Korea
B.   General Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
B.1  Korea Transport Statistics
B.2  Statistical Yearbook for Kyonggi-Do, 1984, Kyonggi Provincial
Government
B.3  Statistical Yearbook for Seoul City, 1984, Seoul City Government
B.4  Korea Transport Sector Issues Survey, December 27, 1983, World Bank
B.5  Comprehensive Plan for the Improvement of the Capital Region,
July 11, 1984, Ministry of Construction
B.6  Feasibility Study Report for ADB Fourth Road Improvement Project,
General Report, July 1987, KRIHS, KECC, DOHWA and KCI
C.  General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Col  Kyonggi Region Multimodal Transport Feasibility Study$ Final Report,
December 1985, BCEOM (France), KRIHS, KECC and Yooshin (Korea)
Part I   - General Report
Part II  - Highway Preliminary Engineering Study
Part III - Railroad Preliminary Engineering Study
C.2 Shingal - Panwol and Pangyo - Guri Expressway Study, Review Report,
March 1987, Dorsch Consult



KOREA
KYONGGI REGIONAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Organization of the Korea Highway Corporation (KHC)
Auditor                                     President             - --               Board of Directors
Auditing Office                                                                           Secretary Office
Public                                    .       .ein.                            Assistance Department
Information Office                             Vice President                          for lth IRF World Meeting
Managing Director                  Managing Director                   Managing Director                   Managing Director
for Planning                    for General Affairs                  for Engineering                     for Construction
Accounting     General           e       Emergency                                                       t        Highway
Planning        and         Afar          uies         Planning       Danenat.       Depovt.i      abraor DetCntruto    Re-search
Dept       rocurement    A               Dept.         Dept  .                                                         
Dept.DetLbroy
Chungbu Regional Off.      Chung Chong Regional Of f       Yongnam Regional Off           Honam Regional Oft         Field Construction Off. 12)
;~ ~ ~~~~~-    Cun  Chn*;gonlO t                                  Reioa Off.
Inchon Maintenance Off. |FChonan Maintenance Oft            Taegu Maintenance Off.          Chonju Maint. Off
Suwon Maintenance Off. || Taejon Maintenance Off.           Pusan Maintenance Off.         Kwangju Maint. Off.
Ichon Maintenance Off | h Youngdong Maint. Oft  | 4Changnyong Mait Off.                    Sunchon Maint. Off
Wonju Mainance Off.  |       Kumi Maintenance Off.    4  Masan Maintenance Of f.        Jinju Maintenance Oftf
Taegwanryong Maint. Oftf       Nonsan Maintance Oft.          Koryong Maint. Oftt           Namwon Maint Oft
Kangnung Maintenance Of         sinchon Maintenance Off f            Toll Off (19)                Toll Off (15)
Kyongan Maintenace Off.            Tol Off. (21)
Tol Off (22)                                                                                                                 a:w40418p,



CR150      _>/                       DEMOCRATIC  PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC OF KOREA
REM. PEOPLES                                                                        <FAFNN
REPUBLIC                                        -R--E2kht k                                      Q
EXPES  WAVST
E FINANCED  EFRBF  FKA
UNDER PROJECT
'FR                      N.~M           I*A         -     -     .    1lX.M 3@3 -   aC,FF
/shn.  =I t     rJ                          REPUBLIC  OF  KOREA
REF  -S  ~~. y 76¢21i --  K¢hi4 j    TO-                                      KYONGGI REGIONAL
k-4>   t              I          F Fr--   \KFFFAF4 4>->TRANSPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
,-e,',.,'   %,;-   '       't                              ~TRANSPORT NETWORK
____   ROFDCR PRODINCE
,EPPESSWA F
.R -   KPRESSWAYS (PLANNED)
° FFFFAF4.e                                           NATONAL ROADS (PAED)
NAnONAL ROADS (UNEARD
REOSENC ROADS PAVED)
- \  -   PROVINCE ROADS JUNPAVED)
RAILROADS
INDERNA'DONAL ARPORTS
*     FIRST CLANS PORTS
.5    SECOND CRASS PORTS
*  NDESERIAL PORT
CITYFPROAFNCE ROANDAPAR
_._  INTEENATIONAL ROUNDARES
4,EEFS2F  E>'   -        A                                                                         KILOMETERS
(S  R A Ž        ~                                                                           MILE1                               20          40 SO   o



IBRD 2021
126°45                                                             12700'
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
KYONGGI REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EXPANSION OF SEOUL CITY BETWEEN 1917 AND 1985
1917
37°45'                              1936                                 0   COMMUNITY CENTERS                                37045
1947                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVE RS
_RN963                                  CITY/PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
PLANNING AREA
ggFt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OU
-37030                                                                                                                        37030'.
DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE$ REPUBLIC'
OF KOREA 
DO
z~KYONCSANGNUK
CHUNGCHONGANd         00D
KOGANGNAM
0           5            10
I     p            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
CIHOLLANAM DO         PUSAN                                        KILOMETERS
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.p. 7?. *_10
CHEJU DO \                                                                                                       W_   .._
127 00d
JANUARY 1937



IA'E~C(                .       .f r~6:IL /  IBRD 202 
A                                               I?1,N,,   REPUBLIC OF KOREA                    127°30
KYONGGI REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SEOUL METROPOLITAN MANAGEMENT PLAN
! " ,SPOLICY DEVELOPMENT AREAS
fXPRESSWAYS                        KANGWON
{ H U F a S ( F t [ S .  N ^ N S   S   "  ;'  / "  l'  " ' S S ''  - M A J O R   R O A D S             D O
.,:   .18,00,               RIVERS                                        38'00
- CITY/PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
l..
AN n  ~~,;  PUS0N
R ESLRVED FOR DEVELO MENT
CHEJU   OV 00
_ ,   -          \     \   ,   ,,_,   I               t       t P{                       Ikc
We t I? 03 z M O T   ndi j
"'t)~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
INCHON~~: 
Ionogwo                         (D
0  5      10  If,                                   12 IStnO**.. \ 
KI.LOMElFRS                                    c] 0         >                                           *
3.7-WJ                       AL                                                              . H>,5
. . s A > 0 z 1 \ CHUNGCHONGBUK
'  -tL 'gf ' {     Sng on                                DO
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                              C\, .. rbvx c_  n w   _.  v  ab m 0
CHUNGCHONGNAM DO
26   jf     )               \                  \'';  '''         8 {               l' 1..      127980
JANUARY 1987



DEMocKAnC   ~ ~       IBRD 2018819
A5        10 PANMANLOM                    E27D00T   CHLUNICO                             127T5 15l271                            5           EO  CHUNCHOES          I2,L   * /                                                                   2 1 17S r
b hDn   /S\'<   |-.                                                           //                             ; /          ___   _ ]                 $C(PEOR
NWncx      2!\  }Wondong;                                                      _            ,>_ S                        /=~~~~~~~~ - J bo                                             KANGWON DO|                                 v. .    7
r--0 0f hF t / S ---- ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,-                                                                                                                                 AE   ?'R
i$~~~~~~~ ~SEOUL                                                                 tzSic7                                                                                                                                    CPHA
H..  ~~~.NTER      ~~~                                                    ~~        ~ ~       Yo,.  Shinjana" -gje                                                                                                                 12
INCHON                           I K                                             cI nE'LT
AAI nO _ %0XS . -PK0705EL CC)NSTKUCST                                                            V
hich                                                                                                                                                                             10 TFH.< "OiAh \    _    co  7 EFA"1IIY T
47o13                          ,                                                                               Yongin~~                                                                 CE                     S     thAY                       EXISIING sNTECNANGE7              r7 I
|1 HLrihak,' I                                                                             K-'  g                                                                                   KILREOX
I tns" em                                    X                 , t CHUNGCHON GB U K I N  OPREgoKO                                                                                                                              GEG NE2AT
V400 CHUNGCHO X~~~~~~~~~,,                                        a     UEN1r,r)          /O   U7S Ongong Aag'7D CT/KVNCEONAIS2D
TRANSPORT PROJECT
EXP RE SSWAYS.
PROPOSED COENTIRUCTIOIN
UNDER CONSTRUCTION
HAN  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                        - ---- PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING COMPLETED
U PROPOSED INEERCHANGES             DEYS.
I  -                                                                              '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 *~~~~~~~~~~~ EXISTING INTERCANGES
N                                                               HI ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----WIDENING
PAV,NC,
LXESEING
0,                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SHORT TERM PROJECT
----LONG TERM PROJECE
EXHI.- ESTING DOAUBLE LINE
ET  ES                                                                                                               I                                            -H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-T- TASTING SINGLE LINE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXSIN  INL IN
10  is ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N0 PASSENTI.TI TERMIRNAL
KILOMETERS                      Chp9n02 EEIGHE TEEMUNAL
.T''.  ~~~                     .---IN OPERATION
CHIJNGCHONGBUK         .--.--- PLANNED REXTENSION
*,.              ~~~~~~~DO                        RIVERS
Di~~~  CHUNGCHONGNAM  H-                                                                                                           RHHR ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          TH PHELON                                         CETTIPROTINCE BOUNDARIES          3E'EEA.g  ---ITIRCVNC BONDAIE
DO                                             ~PogokH1                                                                                                                                        DD                                           DR
DENY   N,.-   TA EASSEEL  DEALT   ED HLHAN    - T27'1D                                                                                                                                             SEPTEMBER EQ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21-0'12715



