Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2905 KO
                          Loan Agreement
               (Kyonggi Regional Transport Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF KOREA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated February 19, 1988
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2905 KO
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 19, 1988, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower has confirmed its support for the streng-
thening of transport planning and coordination in the Kyonggi Region
in accordance with a statement dated December 9, 1987 received from
the Borrower;
      (C)   the Project will be carried out by Korea Highway Cor-
poration (the Corporation) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the
Corporation the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;
and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
Page  2
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and the Corporation;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Corporation" means Korea Highway Corporation, a statu-
tory body established and operating pursuant to Law No. 2083 of
January 17, 1969 of the Borrower, as amended to the date of this
Agreement;
      (b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and the Corporation of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Corporation pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
      (d)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (e)   "Kyonggi Region" means the area consisting of Seoul
City, Inchon City and the Kyonggi Province.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred sixteen
million dollars ($116,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expenditures made
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open, in the name of the Corporation, and maintain in dollars a
special account in the Korea Exchange Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
Page  3
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-half
percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for the
last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Bor-
rowings for such Semester.
      (c)   For purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means the six-month period com-
                  mencing on each date specified in Section 2.06 of
                  this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
                  which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of
                  the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, expressed as a percentage
                  per annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.08. The Corporation is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause
the Corporation to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of the Corporation therein set
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable the Corporation to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
the Corporation under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Corporation, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall include,
inter alia, interest at a rate identical to the rate calculated in
accordance with Section 2.05 of this Agreement, and repayment and
grace periods identical to those specified in the Amortization
Schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Page  4
Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the civil works required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall
be carried out by the Corporation pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Bank a
draft of the transport elements to be included in the Capital Region
Implementation Program for the period 1988-1996 to enable the Bank
to provide comments on those elements prior to finalization of said
Program; and (ii) review with the Bank annually the progress
achieved in the execution of the transport elements of said Program.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, through its Ministry of
Construction, carry out a study on improving traffic management in
Songnam, Suwon, Kuri and Anyang. Said study shall be completed in
sufficient time to permit its recommendations to be implemented
before the expressways to be constructed under the Project are open
to the traffic.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                  with sound accounting practices, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents;
                  evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                  at least one year after the Bank has received the
                  audit report for the fiscal year in which the
                  last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made;
                  and
            (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested,
                  including a separate opinion by said auditors as
                  to whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such fiscal year, together with
                  the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                  the related withdrawals; and
Page  5
            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                  cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Bank shall from time to time rea-
                  sonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The Corporation shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that the Corporation will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   Law No. 2083 of January 17, 1969 of the Borrower shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
affect materially and adversely the ability of the Corporation to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of the Corporation or for the suspension of its operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
      (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely,
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and the Corporation.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Corporation, and is legally binding upon the
Corporation in accordance with its terms; and
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Corporation and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and the Corporation in accordance
with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  6
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Director General of
the Treasury Bureau in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower are
designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Kwachon
            Republic of Korea
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MOF                           K23243
                  Kwachon, Korea
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
                  Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF KOREA
                  By /s/ Hyun-Hong Lee
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account
for amounts paid (or if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the
Borrower for civil work contracts, to meet 46% of expenditures for
each such civil work contract, in accordance with the provisions of
this Agreement.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
Page  7
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower,
within the Kyonggi Region, in: (i) meeting the increasing demand for
transport and providing better accessibility; and (ii) increasing
the efficiency of transport.
      The project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Expressways
      Construction of four-lane divided, controlled access, toll
expressways between Pangyo and Kuri (about 25 km), and between
Shingal and Panwol (about 25 km), including interchanges and access
roads.
Part B:     Consultants' Services
      Utilization of consultants' services for technical advice to
the supervision of construction of the expressways under Part A of
the Project.
                         *   *   *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1991.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
      beginning October 1, 1991
      through October 1, 2002                   4,835,000
On April 1, 2003                                4,795,000
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section
3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
      Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the balance
                                    outstanding on the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:
Page  8
Not more than three years                       0.20
      before maturity
More than three years but                       0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                         0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                      0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity
More than 13 years before                       1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equi-
valent to $10 million to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
      (a)   On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Bor-
rower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. on the basis of such requests, the Bank shall
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account in the respective
equivalent amounts as shall have been justified by the evidence
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such documents and
other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that
such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.    (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made
by the Bank when either of the following situations first arises:
Page  9
            (i)   the Bank shall have determined that all further
                  withdrawals should be made directly by the Bor-
                  rower from the Loan Account in accordance with
                  the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02
                  of this Agreement; or
            (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus
                  the amount of any outstanding special commitment
                  entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
                  of the General Conditions with respect to Part A
                  of the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent
                  of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
      (b)   Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the re-
maining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure
or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
