Report No. PID9763
Project Name                     Ethiopia-Emergency Recovery Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Multisectoral
Project                          ETPE67084
Borrower(s)                      Government of the Federal Democratic
Republic of Ethiopia
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Economic Development and
Cooperation, the Regional Governments,
and the Ethiopian Roads Authority
Environment Category             B
Date of Initial PID              September 22, 2000
Date of Final PID                November 9, 2000
Appraisal Date                   October 3, 2000
Board Date                       December 5, 2000
1.      Circumstances of the Disaster
On May 6, 1998, fighting broke out between the armed forces of the
Governments of Ethiopia and Eritrea along the common border of the two
countries and continued for two years resulting in significant casualties and
displaced persons. On June 18, 2000, the two governments signed an Agreement
on the Cessation of Hostilities. Under the terms of the Agreement, both
parties agreed to cease all military attacks and seek a resolution to their
disputes through peaceful and legal means. The UN Security Council authorized
an international peacekeeping force to monitor the implementation of the
Agreement. Both countries have agreed to terms of a peace settlement to be
signed December 18, 2000.
According to the latest estimates provided by the Government, as a result of
the conflict, approximately 360,000 people were displaced (Internally
Displaced Persons - IDPs) in the border regions of Tigray and Afar. About
75,000 people of Ethiopian origin who had been residing in Eritrea returned
or were deported and another 30,000 are expected to come into Ethiopia in the
near future. The conflict-affected population also includes those families
that as a result of civilian, including militia, war casualties have lost
their main bread winner (about 35,000).
The consequences of the war on the overall economy have been significant.
Defense spending which had reached a low of 2.5 percent of GDP before the
conflict rose to 13.3 percent in FY 2000 with a corresponding rise in the
fiscal deficit to almost 12 percent.
2.      Response of the Government and the International Community
The Federal Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Commission (DPPC) took the
lead in responding to the emergency needs arising from the war and has worked
in close cooperation with the regional sector bureaus in Tigray and Afar,
along with national and international NGOs. Assistance has been provided to
the IDPs as well as the deportees/returnees. The Government has also



undertaken some initial de-mining operations in the conflict zones through
the Ethiopian De-mining Project (EDP), a non-combatant unit in the military.
In response to the UN Country Team's January 2000 appeal and relief action
plan for US$27.5 million in combined food and non-food assistance for the
IDPs, as of June 30, 2000 the International Community had provided about
US$19.7 million meeting 80 percent of the food requirements but only 22
percent of the non-food requirements. The UN made a second appeal in August
2000 for US$15.1 million for food assistance and US$15.3 million in non-food
assistance to meet the most critical and urgent needs.
3.      Rationale for Bank Involvement and Bank Response and Strategy
The Bank's objective in the immediate post-war period is to help the country
deal as quickly as possible with the human, material and financial
destabilization caused by the war, while simultaneously re-engaging on core
development issues. An Interim Support Strategy describes the Bank's strategy
in greater detail for the post-conflict transition over the next twelve to
twenty four months. This strategy is designed to: (i) address the immediate
human, infrastructure and economic emergency, and to help set the economy
back on a path of sustainable growth; (ii) tackle weaknesses in the
management of the IDA portfolio, and (iii) initiate long-term Bank assistance
in three areas of critical structural importance in the Ethiopian economy--
food insecurity, the spread of HIV/AIDS, and systemic weaknesses in the
country's capacity to produce and deliver essential services.
4.      Program Objectives
The objectives of the Emergency Recovery Program are to assist the Government
of Ethiopia to: (a) help the war-affected people to rebuild their lives and
resume productive economic activities; (b) reconstruct and rehabilitate
destroyed and damaged infrastructure to restart the provision of services;
and (c) support macro-economic stability in the country.
5.      Project Description
As part of its response, the Bank will finance an Emergency Recovery Project
(US$230 million), to be implemented over a three-year period from January
2001 through December 2003, that consists of household rehabilitation,
humanitarian mine clearance, and road rehabilitation.
The Bank has also restructured its portfolio to reallocate funds for the
Emergency Recovery Program. It is estimated that about US$30.0 million out of
the existing undisbursed portfolio can be made available for the purposes of
the Program; specifically, US$17.5 million from the Ethiopia Social
Rehabilitation and Development Fund (ESRDF) project for community
infrastructure; US$2.5 million from the Ethiopia Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS
Project (EMSAP) for rapidly focussing on the HIV/AIDS issue that has a
potential to escalate as a result of the conflict; and US$10.0 million from
the Second Energy Project for rehabilitation of critical power supply
infrastructure.
(a) Household Rehabilitation: Help the war-affected population to rebuild
their lives and resume productive economic activities by providing assistance
(through benefit packages to be given in cash to the identified
beneficiaries) for household rehabilitation which would include housing
reconstruction and rehabilitation, and provision of basic household goods for
-2 -



IDPs in the war-affected areas, and income generation support including
agricultural and business development inputs for IDPs, deportees/returnees
and families of deceased primary bread winners throughout the country.
(b) Humanitarian de-mining of war-affected areas in order to enable the
return of the displaced population and the rehabilitation of their homes and
livelihoods. Specific tasks will include: (i) establishment of a Humanitarian
Mine Action (HMA) quality assurance unit within the Federal Emergency
Recovery Program Management Unit (ERPMU) in the Ministry of Economic
Development and Cooperation (MEDaC); (ii) provision of HMA equipment and
materials; (iii) training of up to 500 additional persons in the Ethiopian
De-mining Project; (iv) landmines and battle area clearance, and disposal;
and (v) identification (level 2 survey) and marking of hazardous areas.
(c) Rehabilitation/Improvement of Road Infrastructure: This component would
help to: (i) rapidly rehabilitate and restore destroyed or damaged road
infrastructure in the war-affected areas; (ii) rehabilitate critical road
sections and bridges that have suffered serious damage due to an increase in
heavy unexpected traffic and/or the diversion of traffic from the original
import/export route to new routes; (iii) rehabilitate roads to ensure
operational efficiency in the implementation of relief program activities and
facilitate the flow of imported humanitarian cargo in selected chronically
drought-affected areas; and (iv) carry out emergency heavy maintenance of
priority roads whose improvement had been slowed down by the war leading to
further deterioration of large sections. The proposed road improvements would
also contribute to reducing infrastructure-related market and distribution
costs by reducing road transport costs, and create additional employment for
the war-affected populations to the extent that labor intensive methods are
utilized.
(d) Community Infrastructure Rehabilitation: Activities under this component
are designed to rapidly rehabilitate and reconstruct destroyed and damaged
community infrastructure in the education, health, and water supply sectors
and also animal health facilities in the war-affected areas in order to
resume the provision of efficient and effective delivery of basic services.
(e) HIV/AIDS prevention, care and support (funded through ongoing EMSAP
project) to reduce HIV infection and spread by scaling-up HIV/AIDS related
interventions to include: (i) strengthening services for the displaced
persons at the local level; (ii) provision of services to the military and
CSWs; (iii) care and support to those affected and infected; and (iv)
coordination and management support to the regional HIV/AIDS secretariat and
the Boards and focal units at zonal and woreda levels.
(f) Reconstruction/Rehabilitation of Power Supply Infrastructure: Activities
under this component include: (i) rehabilitation and reconstruction of
damaged power supply facilities in four towns in the war-affected areas; and
(ii) replacement of the Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation's (EEPCo's)
goods lost in Assab port after closure of the border which has severely
hampered the country's power infrastructure development program.
6.      Financing Plan
US$ million
Government                       13.1
IDA                              230.0
Total Project Cost               243.1
7.      Program Implementation Arrangements
The ER Program and IDA-financed ER Project will be managed, coordinated and
-3 -



implemented by the ERPMU in MEDaC. For the Household Rehabilitation
Component, in Tigray Region, a Program Management Unit (PMU) will be
responsible for overall Program management and monitoring. In Afar, the
Regional ESRDF Office would serve as the PMU. In the other regions, the DPPC
would be the Federal coordinating and management body for the
deportees/returnees and families of deceased bread winners. Establishing PMUs
in the other regions as required. For the Community Infrastructure Component,
the ESRDF Regional Offices in Tigray and Afar will be responsible for the
implementation of these activities. For the HIV/AIDS Component, the existing
EMSAP implementation modalities will be followed whereby management and
coordination would be the responsibility of the regional HIV/AIDS
secretariat, and implementation would be the responsibility of the local
units of the regional sector bureaus. For the De-mining Component, the ERPMU
in MEDaC would be the decision-making and oversight authority and would be
responsible for establishing appropriate standards, reviewing standard
operating procedures and safety regulations, conducting quality assurance
tests and ensuring that all mine clearing activities are carried out and all
mines cleared under the Project are promptly destroyed. The mine clearance
activities would be undertaken by the EDP under contract to the ERPMU. The
Road Rehabilitation Component would be managed and implemented by the
Ethiopian Roads Authority (ERA) in coordination with the relevant Regional
Rural Roads Authorities. The Power Reconstruction Component will be
implemented by EEPCo.
8.      Sustainability
The rehabilitation of (i) the different groups of people affected by the war,
(ii) community infrastructure, and (iii) road and power infrastructure
together with the de-mining activities is designed to get people back into
their homes, restart their farming and other economically productive
activities, and restore public services on a sustainable basis.
9.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
An Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Credit (Cr. 2351-ET) was provided in
March 1992 for an amount of US$150 million equivalent in order to reverse the
adverse social and economic effects of almost two decades of civil war and
economic mismanagement. The key lessons learned include: (i) commitment and
ownership of the Borrower is critical for successful project implementation;
(ii) staff of implementing agencies need to be trained early in procurement
and disbursement procedures with periodic refresher courses during project
implementation; (iii) the Bank should be flexible and ready to review its
procedures for procurement and disbursement in an emergency situation to
speed up implementation; (iv) delegation of authority to an efficient Project
Management Unit proved to be an effective administrative arrangement; (v)
programs under the full control of communities are more likely to be
sustainable; and (vi) smaller regravelling contracts in a roads component are
better suited to domestic contractors or ERA force account units rather than
International Competitive Bidding contracts.
Lessons learned from previous de-mining projects suggest that the Bank
should: (i) have a clear plan to ensure that rehabilitation activities are
undertaken only where de-mining has been completed; (ii) ensure that
experienced quality assurance is part of mine clearing; and (iii) given the
Bank's limited expertise in de-mining, involve relevant international
organizations.
-4-



10.     Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI) No
11.     Social and Environmental Aspects
The Program is classified as environmental category B because no component is
expected to have a significant environmental impact but requires evaluation
of possible local adverse impacts and mitigation measures associated with
household and community infrastructure reconstruction, farm and livestock
inputs, and rehabilitation. The only construction that is envisaged is the
reconstruction and rehabilitation of war-damaged roads, bridges, housing, and
community infrastructure. In addition, the Project is expected to have a
major positive environmental impact through its contribution to de-mining a
significant area of land, a large part of which is arable. The rehabilitation
assistance to the various groups of war-affected people will be designed to
be responsive to the needs, characteristics and aspirations of these people.
In order to ensure that the project meets the needs of individual beneficiary
households, local officials will work with the communities they serve to
allocate resources between eligible beneficiaries, filling the gap between
what each has now and what is required to restart their farming or other
income generating activities, and to reconstruct and refurbish their homes
for occupancy. For the household rehabilitation component, a preliminary
field survey will be conducted in the war-affected areas to confirm
beneficiary needs and housing reconstruction requirements, and to refine the
TOR for the social and environmental assessment. The social and environmental
assessment will assess the potential environmental impacts associated with
beneficiaries returning to their communities, reconstructing their homes, and
restarting their farming activities. In so doing, relevant mitigation
measures will be translated into implementation guidelines. The social and
environmental assessment will also be used to establish a baseline from which
to evaluate the success of the project in re-establishing people in the homes
and livelihoods.
12.     Program Objective Category: EN
13.     Program Benefits and Risks
The proposed Program is designed to provide the Government access to an
adequate level of financing to begin responding to the humanitarian crisis
caused by the war. The major benefits are to: (i) help the affected people
rebuild their homes and resume productive economic activities; (ii) rebuild
critical community (schools, clinics and water supplies) road and power
infrastructure in the war-affected areas in order to resume the provision of
basic services, and (iii) reverse the general slowdown of economic
development due to the war
Risks and related mitigation measures include: (i) Resumption of conflict
leading to the destruction of newly rebuilt infrastructure, housing and
businesses, and displacement of people who have returned to their homes.
However, signing of a peace agreement and the deployment of the UN
peacekeeping force reduce this risk considerably as does the demobilization
and reintegration of soldiers through the Emergency Demobilization and
Reintegration Project; (ii) Fungibility of resources to be mitigated by the
Bank's requirement to establish effective mechanisms to ensure that project
funds are used for the intended purposes and regular public expenditure
reviews; (iii) Delays in de-mining activities resulting in delayed project
implementation is a moderate risk given the importance the international
- 5 -



community and the Government place on this issue; (iv) Limited implementation
capacity within the country to be mitigated by dividing implementation among
institutions with proven capacity, and for the household component making use
of a quick disbursing mechanism which will allow the use of simplified
Government disbursement procedures; and (v) Cash payments for benefit
packages under the household rehabilitation component. There are three
important safeguards to ensure that the funds are utilized for the purposes
intended: (i) comprehensive system of community-based resource allocation and
verification to ensure households receive the funds due them and purchase
agreed assets; (ii) food aid with assistance of donors to ensure that people
are able to use IDA funds for the intended purpose; and (iii) monitoring and
facilitation of the supply response by the private sector for goods that may
be in short supply.
14.     Contact Points
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Robert J. Roche
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-4682
Fax: (202) 473-8301
This PID processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
December 15, 2000.
-6-



