                                              Document of
                                            The World Bank

                                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                                  Report No: ICR350




                  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                       (IDA-34380 IDA-3438A)




                                                  ON A

                                                CREDIT

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 180.0 MILLION
                                 (US$230.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                TO THE

                       FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA

                                                FOR AN

                                EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT




                                             June 21, 2007

Water and Urban 1
Country Department 06
Africa Region




This document has restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective )
                           Currency Unit
                                Birr 1.00 = US$0.12
                                US$1.00 = Birr 8.7


                           Fiscal Year July 1 ­ June 30



                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
DCI     Domestic Construction Industry
DMO     District Maintenance Office
DPPC    Federal Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Commission
EDRP    Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project
EEPCo   Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation
EDP     Ethiopia Demining project
EMAO    Ethiopian Mine Action Office
ERA     Ethiopian Roads Authority
ERP     Emergency Recovery Project
ERPMU   Federal Emergency Recovery Project Management Unit
ESA     Environmental and Social Assessment
ESRDF   Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund
GoE     Government of Ethiopia
ILO     International Labour Organization
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
ICRC    International Committee of the Red Cross
IDA     International Development Association
IDPs    Internally Displaced Persons
ISR     Implementation Status and Results
MoFED   Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
PASDEP  Plan for Accelerated and Sustained Development to End Poverty
PMU     Project Management Units
PSNP    Productive Safety Nets Programme
RaDO    Rehabilitation and Development Organization
REST    Relief Society of Tigray
UNOPS   UN Officer for Project Services
WFP     World Food Programme




                           Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
                        Country Director: Ishac Diwan
                          Sector Manager: Jaime M. Biderman
                     Project Team Leader: Robert J. Roche

                    FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
                                 EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT

                                                         CONTENTS


1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design .....................................................................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ......................................................................5
3. Assessment of Outcomes..................................................................................................................11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ................................................................................23
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.............................................................................23
6. Lessons Learned...............................................................................................................................26
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ..................................27
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis ................................................................................................29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing .................................................................................................33
Annex 3. Benefit Allocations ...............................................................................................................35
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.........................................................................................................37
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (Including Assumptions in the Analysis).......................42
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ....................................46
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance..........................................................48
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)......................................................................................49
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any) .............................................................50
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR...........................................51
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders.............................................59
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents............................................................................................60
MAP IBRD 35578................................................................................................................................61

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Emergency Recovery
Country:                Ethiopia              Project Name:
                                                                     and Rehab. Project
Project ID:             P067084               L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-34380,IDA-3438A
ICR Date:               06/22/2007            ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
Original Total
                        XDR 180.2M            Disbursed Amount:      XDR 174.5M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        07/13/2000    Effectiveness:         02/15/2001        02/15/2001
Appraisal:             09/17/2000    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/05/2000    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:               12/31/2003        12/29/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):


                                              i

Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                2                 1
Other social services                                           61                53
Power                                                           18                 2
Roads and highways                                              19                44


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                         Secondary          Primary
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction          Primary           Primary
Macroeconomic management                                       Primary         Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                            Secondary         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili        Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Ishac Diwan                       Oey Astra Meesook
Sector Manager:           Jaime M. Biderman                 Jeffrey S. Racki
Project Team Leader:      Robert J. Roche                   Robert J. Roche
ICR Team Leader:          Robert J. Roche
ICR Primary Author:       Abebaw Alemayehu



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Emergency Recovery Project was to assist the Government of
Ethiopia to:
  · help the war-affected people to rebuild their lives and resume productive economic
activities;
  ·   restructure and rehabilitate destroyed and damaged infrastructure to restart the
provision of services;
  · support macro-economy stability in the country.

  Key Performance Indicators ( Technical Annex - Page 61)


                                               ii

  Rehabilitation
  Transfer to households of at least 60% of the finances needed by the estimated 360,000
internally displaced persons within the war affected area to return to their homes,
reconstruct damaged house and restart farming and other income generating activities.

  Transfer to households of at least 60% of the finances needed by
  · the estimated 110,000 deportees/returnees, and
  · 36,000 families of deceased civilians to restart/initiate income generating activities
(144,000 family members of the deceased).

  De-mining
  De-mining carried out in war affected areas to allow at least 85% of the IDPs to return
to their homes, farms and pastures.

  Reconstruction
  · Rehabilitation/improvement of at least 500 km of primary and secondary roads.
  · Improvement of at least 500 km of regional rural roads in the war affected areas.
  · Procurement of at least 1,500 meters of Bailey Bridges to replace bridge damaged
during the conflict and to replenish ERA's emergency stock

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
                                                approval           Target      Completion or
                                               documents)          Values      Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Number of internally displaced households provided with Agricultural/income
                generation rehabilitation assistance
                                           68,660 IDPs,

                360,000 internally         including Afar.

                displaced people as per    (63,660 and 5,000

Value           initial estimate at        household heads

quantitative or Appraisal (~ 72,000 IDP    (hhs) as per                      67,105 IDP hhs
Qualitative)    households)                household
                                           assessment by
                                           Tigray and Afar
                                           Project
                                           Management Units
Date achieved 02/15/2001                   12/29/2006                        12/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The original target values are established during implementation in the process of

achievement)    verifying the eligible beneficiaries. The achievement was about 98%.

Indicator 2 :   Number of internally displaced households (rural and urban) provided with


                                                iii

               housing reconstruction assistance in Tigray region.
                                             16,389 rural
                                             housing units;                   14,097 rural

Value                                                                         housing units and

quantitative or Not estimated at appraisal                                    2,138 houses built

Qualitative)                                 1,025 damaged                    in Zalanbessa
                                             housing units in                 ((1,091 owners and
                                             Zalanbessa                       978 former renters)

Date achieved 02/15/2001                     12/29/2006                       12/29/2006

Comments        The original target values were established during the needs assessment and

(incl. %        beneficiary verification process. The difference between the number of target (

achievement)    verified eligible) and assisted IDPs was due to assistance from other
                organizations.
Indicator 3 :   Number of deportee/returnees provided with income generation support package
                                             71,248 deportee

Value           110,000 deportees (about hhs in all regions

quantitative or 71,000 deportee              (49,026                          66,038hhs
Qualitative)    households) - initial        deportee/returnee
                estimate at Appraisal        households in
                                             Tigray)
Date achieved 02/15/2001                     12/29/2006                       12/29/2006
Comments        The difference between the number of target (verified eligible) beneficiaries and
(incl. %        assisted deportees/returnees primarily was due to double registration of family
achievement)    members.

Indicator 4 :   Number of families of Deceased bread winners provided with
                agricultural/income generation rehabilitation assistance package
                                             85,516 families of

Value           144,000 family members deceased bread

quantitative or of the deceased (36,000      winners (32,057                  77,054
Qualitative)    families) - initial estimate families of
                at Appraisal                 deceased bread
                                             winners in Tigray)
Date achieved 02/15/2001                     12/29/2006                       12/29/2006
Comments        The difference between the number of target (verified eligible) beneficiaries and
(incl. %        assisted families of deceased was due to incorrect information in official records
achievement)    and court cases.

Indicator 5 :   De-mining carried out in war affected areas to allow at least 85% of the IDPs to
                return to their homes, farms and pastures
                                             68,660 IDPs,
Value           360,000 IDPs (~72,000        including Afar.
quantitative or                              (63,663 and 5,000                67,000 IDPs
Qualitative)    households)                  households in
                                             Tigray and Afar
Date achieved 02/15/2001                     12/29/2006                       12/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The de-mining operation in Tigray and Afar has helped more than 95% of

achievement)    displaced people to return and re-start their economic activities.

Indicator 6 :   Improved road condition of the country


                                                 iv

Value
quantitative or22% of the roads were in 40% of roads in                      40%
Qualitative)   good condition             good condition

Date achieved 02/15/2001                  12/29/2006                         12/29/2006
Comments       The road component of ERP has contributed to the improvement of the road
(incl. %       conditions of the country, but was not the only project that has contributed to
achievement)   this outcome.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from                        Achieved at
                                               approval           Revised       Completion or
                                             documents)        Target Values    Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Transfer to households of at least 60% of the finances needed by the estimated
               360,000 internally displaced persons
                                          ~US$ 44 million
                                          (ETB 381.0
                                          million for Tigray

Value                                     and Afar (Birr

(quantitative  US$40 million              351.8 and 29.2                     ~US$37 million
or Qualitative)                           million for Tigray
                                          and Afar regions,
                                          respectively as per
                                          the need
                                          assessment)
Date achieved 02/20/2002                  12/29/2006                         12/29/2006
Comments       The $110m baseline for all categories of beneficiaries was set during appraisal.
(incl. %       Separate estimates for IDPs, families of deceased, and deportees were made is
achievement)   2002. The target values were based on the needs assessment in Tigray and Afar.
               Transfer to households of at least 60% of the finances    needed:
Indicator 2 :  a) by the estimated 110,000 deportees/returnees, and
               b) 36,000 families of deceased civilians (144,000 family members)
                                          ~US$79 million
                                          (ETB 245 million
                                          to
Value                                     deportees/returnee
(quantitative  US$65 million              and                                ~US$67 million
or Qualitative)                           ETB 442.3 million
                                          to all families of
                                          the deceased

Date achieved 02/15/2001                  12/29/2006                         12/29/2006
Comments       The achievement is about 85% compared to the target value. The target value
(incl. %       was estimated during the implementation phase on the basis of the expressed
achievement)   needs of the beneficiaries. The baseline is the estimate made in 2002.
               Land area cleared to create an environment conducive for the safe and
Indicator 3 :  sustainable return of displaced people, Number of people with mine-awareness
               education in the war affected



                                                v

Value
(quantitative   War affected areas in      27km2                           24km2
or Qualitative) Tigray and Afar

Date achieved 01/15/2001                   12/29/2006                      12/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The target values were as per survey made by Ethiopia De-mining Project and

achievement)    Halo Trust, which was later confirmed by EMAO.

                Rehabilitation/improvement of at least 500 km of primary and secondary
Indicator 4 :   roads;Improvement of at least 500 km of regional rural roads in the war affected
                areas.
Value
(quantitative   1,806km                    1,604km                         1,345km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/15/2001                   12/29/2006                      12/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement on the overall roads was 82%, and 93% on the primary and

achievement)    secondary roads compared to target.

Indicator 5 :   Number of damaged community infrastructure projects reconstructed/completed
                80 schools
                35 health facilities
Value           5 Vet clinics              409 community

(quantitative   142 water supply and       facilities                      442 schemes
or Qualitative) pipeline construction
                projects

Date achieved 02/15/2001                   12/29/2006                      12/29/2006
Comments        ESRDF financed the community infrastructure worth of ETB 118 million
(incl. %        (approximately US$ 13 million). ERP had also spent ETB 5 million for the
achievement)    completion of project started by ESRDF.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                 DO                       IP                Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     06/27/2001            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     40.31
  2     06/28/2001            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     40.31
  3     12/26/2001            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     42.47
  4     04/30/2002            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     43.97
  5     12/16/2002            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     93.04
  6     05/29/2003            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   101.24
  7     11/25/2003            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   137.39
  8     05/14/2004            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   151.46
  9     05/25/2004            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   151.91
  10    11/24/2004            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   169.24
  11    04/26/2005            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   177.89
  12    11/22/2005            Satisfactory             Satisfactory                   199.33



                                                vi

  13  06/30/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    229.83
  14  12/08/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    241.24



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                     vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
On May 6, 1998, fighting broke out between the armed forces of the governments of Ethiopia and
Eritrea along the common border of the two countries. The fighting continued for two years (1998­
2000) and resulted in significant casualties, displaced people, and damaged household and
community property. About 360,000 people were internally displaced, 92% in the Tigray Region and
the remainder in the Afar Region. About 110,000 people of Ethiopian origin who had been residing in
Eritrea returned to Ethiopia or were deported. The conflict-affected population also included 36,000
families who lost their main breadwinner, mostly civilian militia, in the war. Apart from this,
infrastructure, including roads, bridges, power supply, and community infrastructure were either
destroyed or damaged as a result of the war.

The macroeconomic context of the postwar period was one of severe external and internal
imbalances. Foreign exchange reserves were down to two months of imports, below the minimum
level required for Ethiopia to withstand an external shock. The fiscal deficit climbed to 11.2% of
GDP in fiscal year 1999-00. Defense spending, which had reached a low of 2.5% of GDP in 1996-97,
rose to 8.7% in 1998-99 and as high as 13.3% in 1999-00. This level of defense spending was 50% of
total recurrent spending in 1999-00.

On June 18, 2000, the two governments signed an Agreement on the Cessation of Hostilities. In late
June 2000, the government of Ethiopia (GoE) asked the World Bank to assist with a postwar recovery
program that could address emergency humanitarian needs, reconstruction, and demobilization;
stabilize the economy, and restart the reform agenda. The Bank's objective in the immediate postwar
period was to help the country deal with the human and financial destabilization caused by the war as
quickly as possible, while simultaneously reengaging in core development issues. An Interim Support
Strategy (Report No. 21189-ET) described the Bank's support program for the two years following
the cessation of fighting. The strategy presented a US$700 million emergency postconflict support
package, including the US$230 million sector investment loan called the Emergency Recovery
Project, or the ERP. This ICR assesses the degree to which the objectives of the Emergency Recovery
Project have been achieved.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The stated objectives of the ERP were to mitigate the consequences of Ethiopia's conflict with Eritrea
by providing developmental assistance to the war-affected people to (i) rebuild their lives and resume
their productive economic activities, (ii) lay the basis for long-term recovery by reconstructing and
rehabilitating destroyed and damaged infrastructure to restart the provision of services, and (iii)
support macroeconomic stability.

Key performance indicators given in the ERP Technical Annex (p. 61) included the following:

    Household Rehabilitation Component
    · Transfer to households at least 60% of the finances needed by the estimated 360,000
         internally displaced persons (IDPs) in the war-affected area to return to their homes,
         reconstruct damaged housing, and restart farming and other income-generating activities.
    · Transfer to households at least 60% of the finances needed by (i) the estimated 110,000
         deportees/returnees and (ii) 36,000 families of deceased civilians to restart or initiate income-
         generating activities.




                                                    1

    Demining Component
    · Carry out humanitarian mine action in war-affected areas to allow at least 85% of the IDPs to
         return to their homes, farms, and pastures.

    Roads Component
    · Rehabilitate and improve at least 500 kilometers of primary and secondary roads.
    · Improve at least 500 km of regional rural roads in the war-affected areas.
    · Procure at least 1,500 meters of bailey bridging to replace the bridge damaged during the
         conflict and to replenish the Ethiopian Roads Authority's (ERA's) emergency stock.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators
No revisions were made to the project objectives or key indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries (original and revised)
The main beneficiaries of the project were war-affected people, including
    · Internally displaced persons
    · Deportees and returnees from Eritrea
    · Families of civilians whose main breadwinner died as a result of the war

At appraisal, the number of beneficiaries was estimated to be 360,000 IDPs (approximately 72,000
households1), 110,000 deportees/returnees, and 36,000 families of the deceased breadwinners. During
implementation the number of deportees/returnees rose to 142,0002 as more people returned from
Eritrea. In addition, the number of families of the deceased3 almost doubled due to the fact that nearly
all deceased breadwinners had been supporting two households, that of their wives and children and
that of their parents and siblings.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The project had three core components financed by the ERP credit and several other components
financed by existing projects financed by the International Development Association (IDA).

Components Financed by Emergency Recovery Project (US$230 million)
Household Rehabilitation Component (US$109.9 million): This component included (i) housing
reconstruction and provision of basic household goods for IDPs in the war-affected areas; (ii) income-
generation support, including agricultural and business development inputs for IDPs,
deportees/returnees, and families of deceased primary breadwinners throughout the country; and (iii)
rehabilitation of community infrastructure such as education, health, water supply. and animal health
facilities.

The household rehabilitation component of ERP provided a minimum package of support, which
enabled the IDPs, deportees/returnees, and families of the deceased to resume their productive
economic activities. The project supported beneficiaries by providing assistance for agricultural



1Household size is five persons according to the national average and a survey done on IDPs during the first
disbursement evaluation in March 2002.
2The flow of deportees from Eritrea was expected to stop after the peace agreement was signed in June 2000,
but about 20,000 more people were deported or returned through September 2002. Some 45% of the households
have two to four family members, according to the ERP second evaluation report, June 2003.
3Families of the deceased numbered 85,000. The baseline survey result for the Social and Environmental
Assessment showed that a significant number of the deceased in both urban and rural areas have more than one
benefiting household.


                                                     2

rehabilitation; income-generation support for business development and purchases of basic household
items; and reconstruction or rehabilitation of damaged residential housing units for IDPs. Households
were provided grants on the basis of individual development grant agreements.

The benefit packages, eligible beneficiaries, cash allocations, and list of eligible items identified in
the ERP Technical Annex are presented below. Annex 4 of this ICR describes how benefits were
allocated between beneficiaries.

                    Table 1. Rehabilitation Assistance as Estimated at Appraisal

         Assistance             Eligible              Rehabilitation        Typical Eligible Goods and
         Packages            Beneficiaries         Assistance(maximu                 Services
                                                      m ceiling per
                                                     family, in birr)
                                                         5,000
      Agricultural    Farming, rural IDPs                               Ox, plough set, hand tools,

      rehabilitation  Farming, rural families of                        seeds, and heifer or small
                                                         10,000
                      the deceased                                      ruminants and a beehive

      Pastoral                                                          Camel, heifers, and sheep or
      rehabilitation  Rural, pastoral IDPs               5,000          goat
                      Nonfarm IDPs                       5,000
      Income-                                                           Replacement of fixed assets,

      generation      Deportees/returnees                6,000          acquisition of new assets and

      support                                                           inputs,
                      Nonfarm families of the            10,000         and training
                      deceased
                      Rural IDPs (Tigray)
                      Severe damage                      3,000          Minor, major, and complete
      Housing         Minor damage                                      reconstruction of houses, based
                                                         7,000
      Reconstruction                                                    on the level of damage to each
      and             Major damage                                      house
      Rehabilitation                                     15,000

                                                                        Replacement of traditional
                      Pastoral IDPs                       500           mobile houses
      Household                                                         Dining utensils, sleeping
      Items           IDPs in Tigray and Afar           600­800         materials, water containers, etc.



Demining Component (US$30 million): The demining component included the clearance of land
mines and unexploded ordnance in the war-affected areas to enable the return of the displaced
population, and the rehabilitation of their homes and livelihoods. It also included the establishment of
a demining organization in Ethiopia that conforms to international humanitarian mine action
standards.

Roads Component (US$86.1 million): This objective of this component was to assist with
rehabilitating roads and bridges and procuring equipment to replace road maintenance equipment
missing after border closure at Assab port. Funds also were to procure spare parts for repair of
equipment required to strengthen regraveling, resealing, and routine maintenance units in war-
affected regions, namely, Adigrat, Gondar, Debremarkos, Combolcha, and Dire-Dawa districts, and
on Tigray's rural roads.




                                                 3

Institutional support (US$4.0 million): This component targeted strengthening the capacity of the
borrower's institutions at the federal, regional, and local levels to manage the project through training,
technical advisory services, and acquisition of vehicles and equipment.

Components Financed by Other IDA Projects (US$30 million)
The Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund (ESRDF) Project (US$17.5 million)
financed the rehabilitation/reconstruction of damaged or destroyed community infrastructure to help
resume the delivery of basic services. Schools, health clinics, water supply, and veterinary facilities in
the war-affected areas were restored.

The Ethiopia Multi-Sector HIV/AIDs Project (US$2.5 million) provided HIV/AIDS prevention, care,
and support for the civilian population in the war-affected areas. The main objective of the HIV/AIDS
subcomponent was to reduce infection and the spread of HIV by scaling up HIV/AIDS-related
interventions for the IDPs in 15 war-affected woredas (8 in Tigray and 7 in Afar) displaced as a result
of the Ethiopian-Eritrean conflict.

The Energy II project (US$10 million) financed the rehabilitation/reconstruction of power supply
infrastructure that was damaged or destroyed in four towns in the war-affected areas and replaced the
Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation's (EEPCo's) goods that were lost in Assab port after closure of
the border, which severely hampered the country's power infrastructure development program.

1.6 Revised Components
No formal revisions were made to project components.

1.7 Other Significant Changes
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA)
In September 2002, the ERP DCA was amended by reallocating US$9.7 million from the goods
category for the roads component and US$14.3 million from demining services to road works, and by
extending the closing date by two years (from December 31, 2003, to December 31, 2005). The
financial shortfall for the road works was due to further deterioration of the roads since the work was
appraised and higher-than-expected contract values. The purpose of the extension was to provide
sufficient time to complete the roads and demining components.

In June 2003 the Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project (EDRP) Credit (Cr. 3437-ET)
was restructured to provide supplemental financing for ERP: (i) to complete the rehabilitation of IDPs
and deportees, (ii) to reconstruct homes and businesses in Zalanbessa, and (iii) to finance eligible
expenditures under the Mille-Assab road contract that was financed under the first IDA-financed
Roads Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2438-ET).

In July 2005 the ERP DCA was further amended and the closing date extended by one additional year, to
December 29, 2006, at the request of GoE to finance additional road works under the project.

Cost Savings and Overruns
Overall the project gained about US$41million as a result of foreign exchange fluctuations, increasing
the total project budget from US$230 million to US$271million. Cost savings were realized in the
demining component by using the Ethiopian Mine Action Office (EMAO) rather than international
contractors. Cost overruns occurred for road works, families of deceased breadwinners, and the
reconstruction of Zalanbessa town. Surplus funds from foreign exchange gains and EDRP were used
to cover the shortfall. A project cost and financing summary is given in annex 2. The following
summarizes the reasons for additional costs:




                                                   4

    ·   The financing gap of about US$33 million in ERP was due to (i) an increase in the benefits
        for families of deceased civilian militia, (ii) the higher-than-expected number of
        deportees/returnees from Eritrea, and (iii) the reconstruction of Zalanbessa.

    ·   Benefits for families of deceased breadwinners were increased to account for the fact that
        almost all militia members supported not only their immediate household members (wife and
        children) but also their parents and younger siblings.

    ·   The flow of deportees from Eritrea was expected to stop after the peace agreement was signed
        in June 2000, but 20,000 more people were deported or returned through September 2002.
    ·   The town of Zalanbessa was completely destroyed during the war, and all the residents were
        displaced. Although included in the ERP project description, Zalanbessa was not fully
        appraised, and funding for reconstruction was allocated only after the Border Commission
        ruled that it would remain in Ethiopia.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry
Project preparation benefited from four important factors:

1. The agreement between the president of the World Bank and the prime minister of Ethiopia, and
    the commitment of the Bank's Vice Presidency for the Africa Region and the Ministry of
    Economic Planning and Development to identify the project in September, appraise it in October,
    negotiate it in November, and take it to the Bank's Board of Directors in December so it could
    become effective in February. As a result, the project was given priority by staff in all institutions
    at all levels.

2. The involvement of almost the entire professional staff of the Country Office during appraisal,
    particularly the week spent in Tigray Region holding intensive discussions with officials from the
    regional administration and sector bureaus. The experience and inputs of both the government
    and Bank teams, working together, resulted in a good project design at entry, as evidenced by the
    limited refinements required to successfully implement the project.

4   Good rehabilitation proposals were prepared by the Tigray Regional Administration, the Ministry
    of Finance and Economic Development (MoFED), and the Federal Disaster Prevention and
    Preparedness Commission (DPPC). The latter represented the IDPs, families of deceased and
    deportees/returnees in the other regions, The Ethiopian Roads Authority (ERA) and the Ethiopian
    Electric Power Corporation prepared also prepared good proposals for infrastructure
    rehabilitation.

4   Project design experience from a similar project in Uganda and team members' experience in
    community-based development projects. The lessons identified in the ICR for the previous
    Ethiopia Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Project (Cr. 2351-ET) were also germane for
    the design of ERP.

The quality at entry is judged to be satisfactory.




                                                  5

Household Rehabilitation Component
Cash grants to households: Cash grants were based on individual development plans that listed the
goods that each household agreed to purchase. This allowed the project to use the existing private
sector capacity and thereby avoid government involvement in large-scale procurement. The system
also expedited the flow of funds to households and their ability to acquire the inputs they needed to
replace their farm animals and goods and their housing construction materials.

The project accepted two risks in designing the support for household rehabilitation in the form of a
cash grant to households: (i) the risk that beneficiaries may not actually receive the cash due to them,
and (ii) the risk that they would not use the cash for productive purposes. It was believed that the
existing local government mechanisms in Ethiopia were relatively free of administrative corruption
and that the regional governments were under considerable pressure from the central government and
potential beneficiaries to provide benefits, so cash grants were likely to reach beneficiaries.

To reduce the risks, the community-level processes ensured a certain degree of transparency through
community meetings where the amount of the block grant was known and where the amount going to
households was discussed. In this way, every beneficiary knew what they were entitled to receive,
and funds could not be easily "captured" by local elites. Also, the existing woreda and tabia (kebelle)
structures were believed to be effective in managing cash transfers to individual beneficiaries and in
checking that they would use them for the agreed-upon purpose (this was supplemented by the
requirement of independent assessments of grant usage). The outcomes demonstrated that cash grants
succeeded under ERP, and that the risks were effectively mitigated. However, this ICR should caution
that using direct cash grants may not work in other situations where levels of corruption at the local
level may be higher, and where the local structures are not as effective.

Inflation: Because of concerns about price inflation, initial assessments were made of the private
sector capacity to supply key inputs for the project: corrugated roofing sheets and cement in Mekelle,
and livestock in northern Ethiopia. The Tigray branch of the federal Emergency Recovery Project
Management Unit (ERPMU) monitored unit prices but found that the only appreciable price increase
was for lambs and sheep due to the demand from local army camps.

Estimation of needs for household rehabilitation at appraisal: During ERP's design, the government's
cost estimate for the household rehabilitation component was considered by the Bank preparation team
to be too high because it had assumed that every household had lost all assets and would require a full
benefits package. In the absence of proper data to confirm actual needs, the Bank and Government
preparation teams agreed to reduce this estimate to 60%. In January 2001 a rapid assessment was
conducted. Consultants interviewed 150 sample households in the Tigray Region to seek more
systematic input from beneficiaries on their requirements and on their preferences for assistance
modalities. The 60% estimate turned out to represent the actual need for internally displaced persons.
However, the needs could have been significantly higher, in which case additional funding would have
been required.

Demining Component
Demining was fundamental to project implementation because of the presence of land mines in
communities, farms, and pastures. Public awareness, demarcation of mine fields, and clearance of
mines and unexploded ordnance (UXO) were required to return people to their homes. Prior to ERP,
humanitarian demining was handled by a non-combatant unit of the army called the Ethiopian
Demining Project, established with U.S. support. At appraisal, a fundamental decision had to be
made: employ international demining contractors or support the establishment of a civilian national
humanitarian mine action office, building on the existing Ethiopian Demining Project.




                                                  6

The government put its full support behind the establishment of a civilian mine action organization.
Within three months the proclamation creating the Ethiopian Mine Action Office (EMAO) was
adopted, the officers and staff of the Demining Project were decommissioned, new offices were
established, and the existing deminers were better trained and equipped with U.S. assistance.
Although UN mine action advisers were accustomed to managing and executing such operations
themselves, they provided invaluable advisory and training services to EMAO throughout the project
to help create an organization that works to the level of international mine action standards and can
compete for international demining contracts. An international mine action adviser was also based in
ERPMU to provide overall policy advice on mine action and to assist ERPMU with the supervision of
the demining contracts with EMAO.

Roads Component
To take advantage of all available capacity, to support ongoing reforms under the National Roads
Program, and to maximize local job creation, the ERP roads component was aligned with the ongoing
road sector program objectives. Those objectives included (i) reforming Ethiopian Roads Authority's
force account units to operate as commercial units and (ii) developing and building the capacity of the
District Maintenance Offices. Accordingly, the road improvement contracts, which were mainly for
regraveling and major maintenance work, were designed for implementation by local contractors and
ERA force account units, allowing comparative competition.

The works carried out under ERP contributed to (i) domestic construction industry capacity building
by allowing local contractors to bid on 12 works contracts and (ii) establishing contracting
arrangements, for the first time, between the ERA district maintenance offices and the ERA head
office as a regulatory and contracting body for 13 contracts. Furthermore, all works under these
contracts were designed and supervised by local consultants, thus contributing to the capacity
building of domestic consultants in the DCI. Similarly, all the rural roads improvement works were
designed to build the capacity of small-scale, labor-based contractors that had been trained by the
International Labour Organization (ILO). For continuity of the lessons learned, ILO recruited by
direct contracting to manage this component.

2.2 Implementation
Figure 1 shows the disbursement by component over time. By the original December 31, 2003,
closing date, the full US$110 million budgeted for household rehabilitation had been transferred to
MoFED, 90% had been transferred to the regions, and 78% went to individual beneficiaries. By that
time, only 25% of the US$87 million allocated for roads had been disbursed, largely because of (i) the
lead time required for works contracting, (ii) the delays in mobilizing full fleets of equipment in some
district maintenance offices, which were waiting for spare parts and equipment to be procured under
the credit; and (iii) additional deterioration, necessitating increased scope of work on many of the
roads. Also, although all mine fields had been demarcated and most high-priority areas had been
demined to allow people to return to their homes, only 6 km2 of the targeted 27 km2 area had been
cleared. Therefore, the DCA was amended to extend the closing date of the project by two years,
through December 31, 2005, corresponding to the time required to complete the road works. The
DCA was amended a second time at the government's request, to include additional road works in the
project and to extend the project by one more year, through December 31, 2006. This allowed
uncommitted ERP funds, primarily resulting from currency exchange fluctuations, to be used to
finance remaining works (65 out of 1,400 km) previously under the Road Sector Development
Program Support Project, which closed on May 31, 2005.




                                                   7

                               Figure 1 Disbursements by Component


              50.00


                                                                 RSDPSP
              45.00
                                                                 De-mining

                                                                 HouseholdRehabilitation
              40.00                                              Institutional Strengthening

                                                                 RoadRehabilitation

              35.00



              30.00



              25.00



              20.00



              15.00



              10.00



               5.00



               -
                      2001      2002      2003     2004     2005           2006           2007

                                                   Year




Household Rehabilitation Component
Given the importance of getting cash to beneficiaries as quickly as possible, the quick-disbursing
arrangement (based on a positive list of imports) was the best mechanism for disbursing funds for the
household rehabilitation activities. The first US$30 million release was immediately available as
foreign exchange through retroactive financing of imports such as oil, and the equivalent amount of
local currency was available for disbursement from a dedicated account to household beneficiaries. By
the original closing date of the project 85% of the household rehabilitation funds had been transferred to
the beneficiaries (Table 2).

           Table 2. Summary of Disbursements through December 2003 (US$ million)

                              Amount           Amount      Amount Spent by Amount Spent on
                           Disbursed to      Disbursed to    Beneficiaries               Agreed-To Goods
                              Region         Beneficiaries

  Families of Deceased         46.12            39.43             29.46                        23.80

  IDPs                         36.03            22.57             11.92                        11.15

  Deportees/returnees          27.23            22.77             13.21                        10.56

  Total                        109.38           84.77             54.59                        45.52

        Source: ERMPU records.




                                                  8

Demining Component

The extension of the project allowed time for the Ethiopian Mine Action Office to integrate mine
detection dog teams and mechanical equipment into its operations to speed up clearance work and to
complete 90% of the targeted demining work along the northern border. The use of the UN Officer
for Project Services to assist ERPMU and EMAO to procure specialized goods for the demining
component expedited the procurement process and allowed EMAO to expand its operations.

EMAO managers deserve first mention for their leadership, in particular their willingness to organize
training and sustain acquired skills, capacity to operate in extreme terrain/climate, and maintenance of
control throughout the project. Also, the technical assistance provided by UN mine action specialists
to help build the capacity of EMAO, and other international specialists to support ERPMU's
oversight of the demining component, were instrumental in the success that was achieved in
establishing EMAO as an internationally recognized mine action organization, and in carrying out
surveys and clearance to international standards.

Roads Component
In the first 20 months of the project, the Ethiopian Roads Authority carried out the procurement of
125 contracts (consultants, goods, and works) that require the Bank's prior review and 18 civil works
contracts that require a post review. ERA was successful in awarding all but two contracts, one for
civil works and one equipment contract. The time and effort required to plan and process the large
number of contracts under the roads component, plus contractors' delays in starting work and some
implementation delays by the ERA district maintenance offices (mostly due to the lack of essential
equipment), resulted in the roads component being rated as unsatisfactory in 2004. At that time only
a quarter of the credit allocation had been disbursed. ERP's focus on addressing the main causes of
delays improved performance so much that disbursement was up to 40% within six months. In the
end, the roads component achieved all the program targets, with all the proceeds spent. The overall
achievement of the roads component of ERP is satisfactory. At the end of the project, 92% of the
credit allocation for the roads component had been disbursed (see annex 2).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation, and Utilization
The monitoring plan for the household rehabilitation component envisaged periodic checks based on
random sampling of communities and households to ensure that beneficiaries received the cash that
was due to them and purchased the agreed-to income-generating assets and housing reconstruction
materials. Each of the three fund releases for the household rehabilitation component was monitored
to confirm that funds had reached the beneficiaries and had been used for the agreed-to purposes
before subsequent releases were made (see annex 8). These assessments were also used to verify that
the support packages made a real difference to beneficiaries in terms of restarting their farming and
other income-generating activities, and returning to normal life. The task of periodic monitoring and
reporting was carried out by the Federal Emergency Recovery Project Management Unit (ERPMU)
and PMUs established in each region. Rehabilitation task forces (RTFs) and beneficiary committees
were established at the local level to support the regional PMUs in the identification of beneficiaries,
prioritization, and monitoring. Progress reports using standard formats were prepared on a monthly
basis at the regional level and on a quarterly basis at the federal level.

The monitoring framework for the roads and demining components was adequate and enabled the
Bank to monitor and track implementation progress and achievement of the project objectives. For
demining, the monitoring conformed to standard international practices for humanitarian landmine
clearance. For roads, the monitoring conformed to the standard practices employed by ERA in the
Road Sector Development Program. The semiannual and interim World Bank supervision mission




                                                  9

reports were very important for evaluating past performances and tracking activities for the following
six months.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguard Compliance
The ERP was classified as environmental category B because no component was expected to have a
significant negative environmental impact. An Environmental and Social Assessment (ESA) was
undertaken in Tigray, Afar, and Amhara regions at the end of the first year of the project, which
confirmed that there would be no appreciable negative environmental or social impacts.

Household Rehabilitation Component
The potential impact on the environment due to the use of thick wooden beams to support earth
covered roofs was avoided by shifting to corrugated iron sheets for roof coverings and wooden
support poles. The use of wood door and window framing for housing reconstruction in Zalanbessa
and Afar was small compared to the overall demand, so did not to cause a significant environmental
impact.

The implementation of the community infrastructure was guided by the ESDRF Environmental and
Social Management Plan and a resettlement policy framework throughout the project. ESRDF
monitored the implementation of the ERP community infrastructure until December 2004. After
2004, the ERPMU and the Tigray PMU hired two former ESRDF engineers, who were responsible
for monitoring the reconstruction of Zalanbessa.


Since the IDPs were returning to their original homes, issues related to involuntary resettlement were
not triggered. However, by 2003, about 900 former renters had returned to Zalanbessa and were
living in temporary shelters provided by the International Rescue Committee (IRC). These people
were provided assistance to construct simple homes (two rooms, a kitchen area, and a latrine) under
the Ethiopia Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project (Cr. 3437-ET). The potential
negative impacts associated with the reconstruction of Zalanbessa were identified at the very
beginning, and mitigation measures were employed. An Environmental and Social Assessment for
EDRP was prepared, cleared by ASPEN, and disclosed. The ESA required mitigation measures for
rubble disposal, quarrying, and drainage. The action plan for the resettlement of renters in Zalanbessa
stipulated that beneficiaries would have the legal right to receive plots and that they would be
assigned only plots that were owned by the municipality and were not inhabited or being used for
income generation by others. With guidance from ASPEN, the government prepared a resettlement
action plan for six commercial sex workers who had taken up residence in destroyed houses in
Zalanbessa. The execution of the mitigation measures and resettlement action plan were monitored by
the Bank team during regular supervision missions and during several visits specifically for that
purpose.

Rehabilitation of Road and Power Infrastructure
The roads component had no major environmental issues. It was confirmed that the road
improvement works were on existing damaged roads and did not change the roads' alignment or
width. Minor environmental issues were catered to and addressed as part of the normal engineering
design and construction specifications based on the provisions of ERA's Environmental Procedures
Manual, which had been agreed to for the implementation of the road sector program. The
rehabilitation of the damaged power supply facilities was carried out by EEPCo, which has
considerable experience in the construction of distribution systems. No major environmental or social
issues were triggered, because the construction works focused on rehabilitating only the parts of the
existing distribution system that had been damaged in the war. That work involved replacing poles
and distribution line conductors.



                                                10

Fiduciary Compliance
With the exception of some delays in submitting financial audits (a systemic problem in Ethiopia
related to the capacity of the National Auditing Office), no major fiduciary problems were
encountered during the execution of ERP. An Independent Procurement Review (IPR) was conducted
for the project in FY 2006. The finding was that ERP followed the overall procedures and that the
management of the procurement for the project was satisfactory.

2.5 Postcompletion Operation and Next Phase
The household rehabilitation component has been transferred to the Regional Bureaus of Rural
Development, and any support required for farming IDPs and the families of the deceased will be
continued through the woreda agricultural offices in each region. In Tigray, the government has
included IDPs in the Productive Safety Nets Program, a food-for-work program started by the
Ethiopian government in February 2005 and extended to Tigray in 2006. The urban IDPs and
deportees who received income-generation support can continue to get support through the micro and
small enterprise offices operating in a number of towns of each region under the Bureau of Trade and
Industry. The Federal Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Commission (DPPC) is the main
government actor responsible for the emergency needs of IDPs. DPPC works in close cooperation
with the Tigray and Afar regional authorities, national and international NGOs, and the UN. The
Relief Society of Tigray (REST), which is the DPPC's main governmental implementing partner in
this region, has been in charge of distributing World Food Programme food aid to IDPs in Tigray in
times of drought.

ERP has made an important contribution to the establishment of a sound organizational structure for
demining. The continuation and scaling-up of demining activities is assured, with the financing
already available from other donors (the European Union, the governments of Germany and Norway,
and the United Nations Development Programme). Beyond this, EMAO is qualified to provide
demining services internationally on a contract basis.

ERP has also strengthened, through the purchase of heavy equipment, the ERA's district maintenance
offices in Adigrat, Gonder, Debremarkos, Kombolcha, and Dire-Dawa to undertake regraveling,
resealing, and routine maintenance. In any event, ERA will remain the mainstay of the national Road
Sector Development Program financed by the government and donors.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation
Ethiopia's new poverty reduction strategy, called the Plan for Accelerated and Sustained
Development to End Poverty (PASDEP, 2005­2010), continued to support the important initiatives
started under the 2000­2004 Sustainable Development and Poverty Reduction Program. The Food
Security Program, within the framework of the wider PASDEP, aims to increase food availability at
the household level through (i) increased crop production and productivity, (ii) increased livestock
production and productivity, and (iii) increased access to other nonfarm income through
nonagricultural activities. The ERP rehabilitation assistance packages that were designed in 2000 are
still consistent with the PASDEP food security program packages, which include provision of
improved inputs to increase livestock and crop production and productivity and support for additional
income-generating activities.

Landmines and UXO are not limited to the war-affected area along the border with Eritrea. Earlier
conflicts along the border with Somalia left no-man's-lands that are dangerous to enter. The intention
of the government has been to use the Ethiopian Mine Action Office to clear community, farm, and
pasture lands in these areas with financing from other sources.


                                                 11

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Objectives
The objective of the Emergency Recovery Project was to assist GoE's efforts to (i) help the war-
affected people rebuild their lives and resume productive economic activities, (ii) reconstruct and
rehabilitate destroyed and damaged infrastructure to restart the provision of services, and (iii) support
macroeconomic stability in the country (ERP Technical Annex, p.11).
Outputs

Household Rehabilitation Component
At project appraisal the number of beneficiaries was based on the government's estimate of the
number of IDPs, deportees/returnees, and families of deceased breadwinners, and the cost of
resettlement was based on an estimate of the type of farm and nonfarm assistance families would
need to resettle in their homes and restart their economic activities. Since the number of beneficiaries
and the cost of resettlement could only be estimated at the time of appraisal, it was agreed at
negotiations that IDA would provide at least 60% of the funds needed to achieve the project
objectives, leaving space for other donors to participate in the project if necessary. As confirmed
through the ESA that was conducted at the start of the project and through follow-on household
surveys, the IDA financial support proved sufficient to cover the full resettlement cost for more than
95% of the beneficiaries.

Overall ERP provided full financial support to 210,000 of the 224,000 beneficiary families (94%) that
were most affected by the war with Eritrea. This included 67,000 of the 68,000 IDP households
(98%), 66,000 of the 71,000 deportees/returnees (93%), and 77,000 of the 85,000 families of
deceased militia (90%) It also financed the rehabilitation of 1,133 of the 1,223 km (93%) of targeted
primary and secondary roads, and 417 of the 500 km of rural roads (83%) under labor-based
contracts. It was also possible to clear 24 of 27 km2 of the landmine-infested area (89%). Over 98%
of displaced households were resettled and were able to restart their economic activities. Project
outputs are summarized in Table 3 and detailed in Annex 4.

                                       Table 3. Project Outputs

                                                                       Eligible as
                                                    Estimated at    Verified during       Actually
                   Component                         Appraisal      Implementation        Assisted

 Household Rehabilitation
 Number of IDP households                                72,000                68,660         67,105
 Number of families of deceased                          36,000                85,446         77,054
 Number of deportees/returnees                          110,000                71,175         66,038
 Number of houses reconstructed in rural
 areas                                                                         16,389         14,097
 Number of houses reconstructed in
 Zalanbessa                                                                     1,091        2,138d
 Number of community facilities
 reconstructed                                               280                  409             442

 Demining
 Area cleared of landmines (km2)                                                   27              24

 Road and Bridge Reconstruction
 Rehabilitation of primary and secondary                  1,306                 1,223           1,133



                                                  12

roads (km)
Improvement of regional rural roads (km)      500      417     412
Procurement of steel bridges (m)             1,500    1,500   1,500




                                         13

Internally Displaced Persons:
    · Household size is five people according to the national average and a survey done on IDPs
         during the first disbursement evaluation in March 2002. Appraisal estimated 360,000 IDPs.
    · Constructed 978 housing units for former renters and six squatters under EDRP.
    · The difference between the number of eligible IDP households verified during
         implementation and actually assisted, is due to the fact that other organizations including
         VOCA, REST, CRS, and COOPI assisted some of the IDPs. Some also were found to be
         ineligible during the actual provision of assistance due to double registry and separate
         registration of family members.

Families of the Deceased:
    · Most deceased civilian heads of households supported two families, one their wives and
         children and another their parents and siblings.
    · For the families of the deceased, court cases and incorrect records for deceased militia and
         benefiting families accounted for most of the difference between the number of families
         verified and actually assisted.

Deportee Households:
    · Most deportees had two to four family members (Ethiopia, Study of Ethiopian
         Deports/Returnees from Eritrea living in Tigray, UNICEF and Women's Association of
         Tigray, December 2001)
    · Separate registration of family members and double registration was a significant problem in
         the case of deportees and accounted for most of the discrepancy between the number of
         people verified as eligible and assisted.

Demining Component
A total of 24 square kilometers has been cleared by EMAO as of the closing date of ERP. A total of
2,118 antipersonnel and 206 antitank mines and 31,979 items of UXO have been cleared and
destroyed. Also, 239,089 people have participated under EMAO's mine risk education. The
integrated effort of mine clearance and mine risk education enabled more than 95% of IDPs (67,000)
to return to their livelihood and resume normal life. This surpassed the target of 85% stipulated under
the ERP Technical Annex. The number of mine accidents has also been reduced from 1146 injuries
(national figure from EMAO and ELIS) in 2000 to 5 in 2006.

Roads Component
At appraisal, the rehabilitation/improvement of road infrastructure constituted (i) rehabilitation of
1,306 km of primary and secondary roads, (ii) improvement of approximately 500 km of regional
rural roads, (iii) reconstruction/installation of selected bridges, and (iv) procurement of equipment,
spare parts, and steel bailey bridges. During implementation, the critical primary and secondary road
sections that require immediate rehabilitation were found to be 1,223 km. The rural roads were 417
km. The project outputs were almost achieved in full. The rehabilitation of 1,133 km of primary and
secondary roads (93%) and 412 km of rural road links (98%) were undertaken. The road works were
undertaken through "own force," private contractors, and labor-based contracts. Under the own-force
activities, ERA with its district construction crew had completed the rehabilitation and maintenance
of 11 road links, with a total length of 665 km at a cost of Birr 257 million. ERA also contracted out
11 road links to private contractors. A total of 558 km was rehabilitated and maintained at a cost of
Birr 274 million. The completed road projects had significantly improved the conditions of the roads
and facilitated easy movement of traffic. The labor-based component was planned to improve and
maintain about 500 km of rural roads in Tigray. A total of 412 km of roads has been completed under
18 contracts, with the supervision of ILO. ERA has also reconstructed three bridges and completed
the procurement of equipment, steel bridges, and spare parts.



                                                   14

Outcomes

Household Rehabilitation Component
Some 98% of the confirmed displaced families have been able to reconstruct their homes and have
been able to restart their farming and other business activities. Communities, farms, and pastures have
been cleared of landmines and UXO. Community infrastructure has been reconstructed better than
before. Also, 91% of the confirmed families of deceased and 93% of deportees/returnees have
received income-generating counseling, prepared individual development plans, and used more than
85% of the grants for the agreed-to purposes.

Three household surveys were carried out to (i) determine if beneficiaries had prepared proper
development plans, received the agreed-upon funds, and used those funds for the agreed-upon
purposes; and (ii) assess the degree to which the project outcomes were achieved. The first survey, in
January­February 2002, took place after the first release of the household rehabilitation funds had
largely been disbursed to beneficiaries. The second was done in March­April 2002, after the second
release of household rehabilitation funds had largely been disbursed to beneficiaries. A third followed
in November­December 2005, when the rehabilitation component was completed. The first survey
focused mainly on the project delivery mechanism, the second introduced questions about impacts of
the project on the beneficiaries, and the third focused on those impacts.

The second and third surveys were based on interviews with key informants and officials, focus group
discussions, household surveys, and site observations. Discussions revealed that the ERP assistance
has had a significant positive impact on the socioeconomic conditions of the beneficiaries. Responses
of the different groups were consistent as shown in Table 4.

                        Table 4. Project Impacts Based on Household Surveys

                                                    Reported as "Improving" or "Improving Much"
                                                                       (Percent)

                                                        IDPs          Families of      Deportees and
                                                                       Deceased           Returnees
 Overall quality of life                                 94               97                 79
 Economic situation                                      87                -                 75
 Social and psychological stability                      92               92                 86
 Adequacy and quality of food                            77               90                 88
 Adequacy and quality of lodging                         86               84                 63
 Adequacy and quality of clothing                        74               86                 76
 Adequacy and quality of schools                         88               93                 91
 Adequacy and quality of health facilities               85               96                 88
 Adequacy and quality of clean water                     63               84                 80
 Adequacy and quality of electricity                     40               54                 61
 Knowledge of HIV/AIDS prevention/control                98                -                 99
 Agricultural income generation                          89
 House repair/reconstruction                             83
 Provision of household utensils                         60
 Nonfarm income generation                               52
 Mine clearance                                          89
 Adequacy and quality of rural roads                     79
 Effects on ecology and environment                      93




                                                  15

Internally displaced persons: It was noted in the impact study report that IDPs were very bad off at
the end of the conflict. They lived as refugees, displaced from their homes and farms, depending on
relief aid without employment or income. Near the end of the project, the impact study found the
following: "Now all of the IDPs had returned to their homes and resumed their normal lives. Students
flock to schools in early mornings peacefully. Patients are sitting and waiting for treatments at clinics.
Market days are regularly held and people are exchanging goods and services. Religious and funeral
ceremonies are colorfully observed. People have largely recovered from the bitter socio-
psychological experiences they faced during the displacement period" (ERP, Impact Assessment
Report, MoFED, June 2006). .

Most respondents were now engaged in the same occupations as before the conflict. In fact, things
were going quite well for them at the time of the survey, not only because of ERP assistance in
reconstructing their homes, clearing landmines, and providing farm implements and inputs, but also
because good rains had brought several good harvests. Most everyone felt that they had recovered
both socially and economically. When asked to compare their socioeconomic situations at the time
the conflict ended with that of their current situations, some said "semayna midis," meaning as wide
as the distance between the earth and the sky.

Of the IDPs surveyed, 89% indicated that their income from agricultural activities had been
improving or improving much, 94% indicated that their overall qualify of life was improving or
improving much, and 87% said that their economic situation was improving or improving much.
Also, 80­90% of respondents indicated that the adequacy and quality of food, clothing, lodging,
schools, health facilities, and water supply were improving or improving much. When asked whether
the ERP assistance enabled them to restart their agricultural activities, 93% of the IDP respondents
said yes.

Zalanbessa: The town was completely destroyed during the war. ERP provided financial assistance to
former home and business owners, as well as former renters, to reconstruct or build new homes or
businesses up to standard sizes. Grants were also given for household utensils and start-up of income-
generating activities. Roads, water supply, electricity, and schools were also reconstructed. Residents
appreciated very much the assistance they got from ERP, which they call "Igir Mitkal," which means
"stand on feet," and which they said really put them on their own feet. Nonetheless, they are
disappointed that border trade, which was flourishing before the war, has been cut off, and incomes
are not as high as before.

Families of deceased militia members: Most of the beneficiaries were widows with children and old
parents unable to work and earn a living. In fact, it was found that most deceased militia members
were supporting two households, their wife and children in one and their parents and siblings in
another. Household surveys indicate that less than 25% of the families of deceased were left with
much in the way of assets and were in a bad socioeconomic situation because of the loss of the family
breadwinner. More than 90% of the beneficiaries reported that their overall economic situation and
social/psychological situation were improving or much improving as a result of ERP. Also, 80­90%
of beneficiaries reported that the adequacy and quality of food, clothing, lodging, schools, health
facilities, and water supply were improving or much improving.

Deportees: Upon arrival in Ethiopia the deportees/returnees were in bad shape. Most were depressed,
without home or property, and frightened about their future. Most were women, children, and old
people. Most of them settled in larger towns and cities. With the assistance of ERP, they have now
been able to move out from refugee camps and have started their new lives, finding homes and jobs.




                                                  16

At the time of the impact study, 64% of the respondents were renting, 15% owned their own homes,
14% lived with relatives, and 7% remained in temporary shelters. Of respondents, 96% indicated that
have been able to secure jobs: 53% were involved in petty trading, 19% in casual labor, 8% in
farming, 7% in cottage industries and household services; 2% were students and 11% were
unemployed. The biggest change was with traders, which increased from 28% before the war to 53%
after, while those who were casual workers declined from 34% to 19%. It seems that ERP assistance
effectively allowed many to shift from casual labor to trade. Similar to IDPs and families of deceased
militia members, more than 90% said their economic situation and quality of life were improving or
much improving.

Demining Component
The demining component aimed at supporting the creation of a national mine action organization and
ensuring the safe return of displaced civilians to their homes and farms by reducing the danger areas,
and then clearing areas where mines and UXO were found.

In February 2001, the Ethiopian Mine Action Office (EMAO) was established under the Council of
Minister's Regulation 70/2001. In so doing, mine action responsibility in Ethiopia was transferred
from the military Ethiopian Demining Project (EDP) to a civilian humanitarian demining
organization.

Within three months, EMAO's headquarters was established and senior management and operational
staff were recruited. The first demining training for the project was conducted for two demining
companies (193 personnel) from May 2001 to October 2001. An additional two manual companies,
each with 54 deminers, were trained and deployed in 2003, and two large companies with 112
deminers each were trained and deployed in 2005. Mechanical equipment and mine-detection dog
teams were integrated into EMAO's operations in 2004 to further improve performance. Training has
been given to eight national dog handlers (by assistance of Norwegian People's Aid) and 12 national
mechanical flail operators and technicians. EMAO was also supplied with the necessary demining
equipment.

By the end of the first year of the project, essentially all displaced households had returned to their
homes. A land mine general survey was conducted by Ethiopian Mine Action Office during the first
year of the project to assist regional administrations in Tigray and Afar to prioritize areas for mine
clearance. In order to minimize land mine accidents, access roads to towns and villages were
surveyed and suspected dangerous areas were marked by EMAO. In addition, EMAO mounted a
mine awareness campaign, so that people would take the necessary precautions when returning home.
These activities contributed substantially to the reduction in mine accidents as IDPs returned to their
villages. Accidents reduced from 1146 in 2000 ( national figure from Ethiopia Land Impact Survey),
to 149 in 2001 (the first year of the project), to 11 in 2004, to 5 in 2006.

By the original closing date of the project, December 24, 2003, EMAO had cleared 4 km2 of priority
areas in and around communities, giving most farmers access to their fields. By the closing date of the
project, EMAO had cleared 24 of 27 km2 (90%) of mine-infested area in Tigray and Afar stretching
along the Ethiopian-Eritrean border, allowing 98% of war-displaced people to return to their homes
and farms. In total 249,800 people were given basic mine risk education. Going forward, with EU
financing EMAO will complete mine clearance along the border with Eritrea and expand its activities
in other parts of the country where landmines remain from other conflicts.

Roads Component
The implementation of the road works by both the domestic contractors and ERA's DMO force
account units fostered good competition between the two groups, leading to good final results and


                                                   17

development of experience within both groups. Four domestic contractors carried out road
improvements and major maintenance works under 12 contracts (558 km) following a competitive
bidding process, which came up to a final average price of about US$ 3.8m per contract. Thirteen
contracts (665 km) were also executed through ERA's force Account units. Opportunities were
created for five domestic consulting firms to undertake the works supervision for average contract
prices ranging up to US$ 600,000 per contract.

The labor based rural roads maintenance works provided opportunity for the employment of the local
populations along the roads. It was possible to create 636,867 person days of employment for casual
laborers. Out of this, 78,968 person-days of employment were for female laborers. In addition, 55
construction and labor foremen who had earlier received training organized by ILO, were assigned to
supervise the works and gained practical experience in implementing contracted labor-intensive road
works.

Support for Macroeconomic Stability in the Country

Along with the Economic Rehabilitation Support Credit (ERSC- US$150m), the Ethiopia Structural
Adjustment Credit (ESAC-US$120m), and an Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration project
(EDRP-US$170 million), the ERP helped to finance the macro-economic stabilization program.
While ERSC and ESAC had a primary objective of stabilizing the post war economy, the ERP was to
support the immediate needs for foreign exchange through quick disbursing arrangement for the
household rehabilitation activities, and thereby contribute to macroeconomic stability. For the
household rehabilitation component, US$114 million was disbursed in the first three years. The ERP
is believed to have contributed to increasing the foreign exchange reserves and increasing GoE
expenditure on poverty-related sectors. Foreign exchange reserves were down to two months of
imports during the war period and started to increase after ERP became effective in February 2001
(FY 2001/02). The poverty-targeted expenditures as defined in Ethiopia (aggregate spending in
education, health, agriculture, and roads sectors) rose from 7.5% of GDP in 1999/2000 to 12.5% in
2002/03, without increasing the overall fiscal deficit.

                                 Table 5. Macroeconomic Indicators

Macroeconomic Indicators                   96/97    97/98    98/99  99/00    00/01   01/02 02/03

Gross official reserve (in months of
imports of goods and nonfactor
services of the following year)               3.1      2.9      2.7    2.2     2.0      3.4     3.5
Overall fiscal deficit including grants
(% of GDP)                                   !1.7     !2.8     !7.1  !10.4    !4.2     !8.3    !7.0
Expenditure on poverty-related sectors
(% of GDP)                                    7.9      8.3      8.9    7.5     8.9     11.7    12.5

Source: Draft Article IV report IMF, 2007




                                                 18

3.3 Efficiency
To establish whether the resources provided were used efficiently for each of the three major
components, actual unit costs were compared with values established at appraisal and in some cases
with market norms.

Household Rehabilitation Component (Birr1: US$ 0.12)
Income generation grants: On average, displaced households received Birr 2,400 each, and families of
the deceased received Birr 5,000 each through income-generation support grants. Packages were
based on the cost of essential farm animals, implements, and inputs for rural households and on the
cost of starting a small business for urban households. Surveys proved that beneficiaries found the
positive list for each package and the size of the grant to be acceptable. During implementation, the
size of household grants was close to the appraised value.

Housing: In Tigray Region 57% of rural homes have a single room, and 32% have two rooms. The
amount spent to rebuild the houses under ERP was lower than current contractor prices (Birr 15,000
versus Birr 20,000 for rural homes, and Birr 44,682 versus Birr 70,000 for urban homes). The grant
provided to replace destroyed rural houses was just enough to construct a two-room house, assuming
in-kind labor and competitive pricing. In addition to income-generating support, beneficiaries in
Zalanbessa had a choice of receiving assistance for family houses or commercial buildings, but not
both. Overall, 887 households chose family houses and 273 chose commercial buildings. The
rehabilitation assistance package for residential housing for displaced households in Zalanbessa
ranges from Birr 35,500 for households with two family members (29%), Birr 41,500 for household
with three to four family members (34%), and Birr 50,750 for households with five or more family
members (45%). The maximum floor area of the reconstructed houses was 50 square meters
(excluding the wall thickness) for households with a family size of five or more. This is about 65% of
the average houses or 15% of the largest houses that existed before the conflict. For those who lost
commercial buildings (e.g., restaurants, hotels, tea rooms, workshops, flourmills, and warehouses),
the average housing assistance was Birr 48,800. The proposed maximum assistance was about 35% of
the value of the average destroyed property.

                              Table 6. Rehabilitation Assistance (Actual)

                                      Total           Estimate of Unit Cost Per        Actual cost
                                   Investment         Household at Appraisal         per household
                                 (Birr million)                  (Birr)                  (Birr)
Farming income generation             150           2,400 (average)                 2,305
grants for IDPs in Tigray

Housing reconstruction for            190           15,000 (rural, total damage)    · 14,235
IDPs in Tigray                                      7,000 (rural, major damage)     · 6,543
                                                    3,000 (rural, minor damage)     · 3,000
                                                    54,536 (urban, average)         · 44,682
Deportees                             223           2,400                           3,372
Income-generation grants
Families of deceased                  381           2,400                           5,000
Income-generation grants




                                                 19

Roads Component
The ERP TA did not estimate the economic rate of return (EIRR) and net present value (NPV).
However, comparing costs and benefits at the end of the project economic life (10 yrs), the return on
investment for the 11 road links is robust. As illustrated in Table 7 below, the post-implementation
ERR and NPV have been estimated for the rehabilitation and section improvement of 11 primary and
secondary roads (1306km). The NPV ranges between a high figure of about ETB 117million
(Shashemene-Alaba) to a low figure of ETB 16 million (Arbaminch-Jinka). The respective EIRRs for
these roads were 52% and 88%, respectively.The EIRR was the highest for Arbaminch-Jinka, and the
lowest for Shire-Tekeze road link (35%) at 10% discount rate (opportunity cost of capital in
Ethiopia). The benefits from travel time savings, reduced traffic congestion on existing roads,
enhanced road safety are not included. The estimated NPV and EIRR are therefore conservative
estimates.

                       Table7. Summary of the Economic Analysis Results

                     Project                   Economic Criteria          Economic Analysis
                                                                                 Results
         Wukro - Zalambessa                 NPV (in million ETB)                        79.684
                                            EIRR (%)                                      66.6
         Gondar - Humera                    NPV (in million ETB)                        20.501
                                            EIRR (%)                                      36.4
         Shire - Tekeze (shiraro)           NPV (in million ETB)                        19.685
                                            EIRR (%)                                      34.7
         Jimma - Bonga                      NPV (inmillion ETB)                         19.439
                                            EIRR (%)                                     153.4
         Welkite - Hossaina                 NPV (in million ETB)                        27.522
                                            EIRR (%)                                      53.3
         Gohastion - Dejen                  NPV (inmillion ETB)                         21.980
                                            EIRR (%)                                      42.6
         Dejen - Debre Markos               NPV (in million ETB)                        66.725
                                            EIRR (%)                                      52.6
         Arbaminch - Jinka                  NPV (in million ETB)                        15.968
                                            EIRR (%)                                      87.7
         Shashamane - Alaba                 NPV (inmillion ETB)                        116.814
                                            EIRR (%)                                      52.1
         Awasa - Hageremariam               NPV (inmillion ETB)                         78.076
                                            EIRR (%)                                      70.4
         Bedele - Metu                      NPV (inmillion ETB)                         51.587
                                            EIRR (%)                                      41.7



Demining Component
EMAO carried out mine clearance under five contracts. Out of the total area of 27 km2 initially
estimated to be cleared of landmines, 24 km2 (88%) were cleared using manual methods, mine-
detecting dog teams, and mechanical flails at a total cost of Birr 209 million (Birr 115 million was
EMAO running cost and Birr 95 million was for equipment).




                                                  20

The operational efficiency of EMAO can partly be judged by the reduction in the unit cost of
clearance, which dropped from Birr 18.78, Birr 4.49, and Birr 3.35 per square meter for contracts
W01, W02, and W03, respectively. Efficiency can also be judged by comparing the unit cost of
clearance with that of international norms. For manual demining (without mechanical equipment and
dog teams) the norm is US$1.40­1.70 per m2 according to the Geneva International Center for
Humanitarian Demining.4 In contracts W02­W04, before dogs and mechanical equipment were
integrated into operations, EMAO's unit cost was about US$0.54 per m2, about one-third the
international price. When the cost of mechanical equipment and dog teams for contract W05
(assuming an eight-year useful life) is included, the overall cost per m2was about US$1.75 per m2.
The clearance rate increased substantially, but the unit cost approached the international norm of
about US$2.3 per m2.

                                          Table 8. Demining Costs

                                                                Cost of            Cost of

  Description     Total Area          Cost of Service                           Service and
                 Cleared (m2)        Contracts (Birr)         Equipment                             Cost Br/m2
                                                                 (Birr)         Equipment
                                                                                    (Birr)
Contract WO1           561,403             10,541,214                                               18.78
Contract WO2         5,540,416           15,368,912                                                  2.77
Contract WO3         5,893,908             23,348,251                                                3.96
Contract WO4         3,560,947             24,713,682                                                6.94
Contract WO5         8,638,531             40,548,119                                                4.69
Total               24,195,205            114,520,179         95,337,138       209,857,317           8.67


Note: The reduced rate of clearance under contract W04 was due to high concentrations of metallic fragments
and extreme climatic conditions, that is, high temperature in Bure and heavy rains in the highlands.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The project outputs were satisfactorily achieved almost in full, thus, the project outcomes were
attained, as described below.

Outputs:
    · Full financial support to the 210,000 households that were most affected by the war with
        Eritrea, including some 67,000 internally displaced families in Afar and Tigray regions,
        66,000 deportees/returnees from Eritrea, and 77,000 families of deceased militia members.
    · Establishment of the Ethiopian Mine Action Office capable of working to international mine
        action standards, and clearance of landmines and UXO (24 of the targeted 27 km2) so that all
        displaced persons could return to their homes, farms, and pasture lands.
    · Rehabilitation of 1,200 km of primary, secondary, and rural roads; reconstruction of 417
        schools, clinics, and water supply facilities; and reestablishment of 65 km of damaged 15 kV
        power lines.




  4Geneva International Center for Humanitarian Demining, Mine Clearance Costing and Sensitivity Analysis,
  August 2005, p. 19.


                                                    21

Outcomes:
    · More than 95% of eligible IDPs returned to their homes, planted crops, and restarted other
        business ventures; deportees found housing and jobs, with many initiating their own small
        businesses; and families of deceased initiated new income-generating activities. More than
        90% of those adversely affected by the war declared that their income and quality of life were
        improving or "much improving as a result of ERP. They felt that life could not have returned
        to normal without it. In addition, the town of Zalanbessa was reconstructed from the ground
        up, including 2,000 homes, schools, roads, electricity, water, and sanitation.
    · The economy received an immediate infusion of foreign exchange through the household
        rehabilitation component, followed by major road works and demining activities, which
        helped to stabilize the macroeconomy.
    · The implementation of the road works by both the domestic contractors and ERA's DMO
        force account units fostered good competition between the two groups, leading to good final
        results and development of experience in both groups through participation.
    · In addition, 14 small contractors were trained on labor-based works contracts execution and
        management; and 636,867 person-days of casual laborers were deployed.
    · De-mining of the war affected areas allowed 98% of war-displaced people to return to their
        homes and farms. Accidents reduced from 1146 in 2000 (national figure from Ethiopia Land
        Impact Survey), to 149 in 2001 (the first year of the project), to 11 in 2004, to 5 in 2006.

Relevance:
    · The ERP approach and objectives are consistent with Ethiopia's current poverty reduction
        strategy as set out in PASDEP for 2005­2010, as well as the Bank's Country Assistance
        Strategy (CAS). In fact, the assistance provided through ERP to rebuild the lives and resume
        the productive activities of the war-affected population foreshadowed the country's current
        program to help vulnerable groups become self-reliant by providing financial assistance for
        farm and nonfarm income generation.

Efficiency:
    · During project appraisal the government and the Bank preparation teams worked together to
        define assistance packages that would provide what is needed for beneficiaries to reconstruct
        their homes and to reestablish their farming and other business income. Shortly after the
        project appraisal, before the project became effective, 150 households were consulted to
        check that the proposed grant packages met the needs of the beneficiaries and that funds were
        adequate. Also, as implementation progressed, the unit costs of demining and road works
        were checked against established norms. Value for money was achieved in all three major
        components.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Most displaced people were completely dependent on relief assistance between 1999 and 2001
because of the combined effects of drought and conflict, which prevented them from gaining access
to farmland, livestock, and productive assets (WFP, May 1, 2002). ERP's farm assistance that is tied
to the purchase of draft animals and basic farm inputs has contributed to an increase in agricultural
production, which in turn has led to improvements in the living conditions of the beneficiaries, as
confirmed by the positive assessments of the impact assessment (ERP, Impact Assessment Report,
MoFED, June 2006).The psychological trauma experienced by deportees is reported to have been
significantly reduced.



                                                 22

(b) Institutional Change and Strengthening
The establishment of EMAO is a significant development. EMAO from the start was committed to
following international standards for humanitarian mine action suited to the Ethiopian context.
Through ERP support, EMAO has been fully equipped and staffed. The manual demining companies
have increased from two demining companies (with 193 demining personnel) in 20002 to six de-
mining companies (with 822 personnel, including management staff) in 2006. It has also integrated
manual and mine-detecting dog teams and mechanical equipment. Ethiopia has ratified the
convention for stopping the use, stock piling, production, and transfer of antipersonnel mines on
December 14, 2004, and is expected to destroy all antipersonnel mines not later than June 1, 2015.
MoFED-ERPMU has played an important role in monitoring the demining operations. The EU had
provided 8 million Euros for EMAO as of January 2007 for EMAO's three-year operation. The
UNDP-MAAT will manage the funds and provides regular feedback to EMAO on procurement and
budget issues in keeping with standards.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
    None significant.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
As noted earlier, the findings of the ICR are based on the three beneficiary assessments involving
focus group discussions and household surveys. These were carried out during the course of project
implementation, before release two and release three of the household rehabilitation funds, and at the
end of the project (refer to the list of supporting documents in annex 12).

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate to High

The risk to the development outcome depends on a number of factors. The main risk stems from the
existence of hostilities between the two countries due to the unresolved border dispute. Although
people have returned to their homes, as many as 30,000 people could be displaced again depending
on the outcome of the border demarcation (WFP, July, 2003). The principle concern is the town of
Badme, where the conflict first flared up. Moreover, the local agrarian economy is subject to seasonal
shocks from drought and flood, which affect economic growth. Accordingly, the risk to development
outcome is assessed as moderate if safety net programs continue, but otherwise risk is assessed as
high.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

Given the limited time for preparation and the success of meeting the objective, the Bank
performance at entry was satisfactory. The time taken to prepare and process the project was only two
months. The fast-track project processing was truly amazing. A large (20-person) identification
mission started its work in Ethiopia on September 11, 2000. Appraisal started on October 4, and
negotiation was completed in Washington on November 2, 2000. The World Bank Board approved
the project on December 5, 2000, and the project became effective on February 15, 2001 (one month
after the planned date). The pressure to meet urgent postwar financing requirements limited the time
available for consultation with the beneficiaries. Given the emergency nature of the project, it was
possible to obtain only ad hoc beneficiary inputs during appraisal. This was clearly a weak aspect of
the project at the design stage. However, shortly after the project became effective, a beneficiary


                                                   23

assessment was carried out to check the proposed consultative approach and grant packages with the
beneficiaries. The remarkable speed of project preparation would justify a rating of highly
satisfactory; however, the risks introduced by fast-track preparation cannot be ignored.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

The quality of supervision was satisfactory. The continuity in the Bank's team, combined with the
presence of key staff in Addis Ababa, allowed the Bank to supervise the project very closely and to
provide an exceptionally high level of implementation support to GoE.

In addition to fully deploying the range of skills within the task team, the ERP team has leveraged
other expertise both from within the Bank and from outside. Specifically, the United Nations Mine
Action Advisory team (UN MAAT) has supported the mine action operation through joint review
missions. Supervision of ERP has been continuous. The ERP task team has regular contact with the
client and implementing agencies--team members deal with project-related issues on a regular
(almost daily) basis. The team has been proactive in monitoring progress and in providing assistance,
as and when requested by GoE, on various technical and project management issues. Interactions with
GoE include not only formal communications but also, and more frequently, informal
communications, including meetings, phone calls, and informal implementation support missions.

The team has conducted 13 formal supervision missions and a number of interim implementation
support missions to the regions between the semiannual missions. Interim implementation support
missions are similar to formal missions in that the Bank team provided implementation support to
GoE with an emphasis on problem solving. During the semiannual and interim implementation
support missions, the Bank's team members have conducted several joint field visits with GoE's
project staff to regions and to participating agencies, as required.

With the country director (CD) in the field, the country portfolio has been reviewed frequently in both
formal and informal meetings. The CD has played an important role in raising ERP-related
implementation issues at the highest level in GoE and has provided support for some of the more
difficult negotiations with the government. Similarly, in addition to providing regular oversight on
ISRs, the sector managers of AFTU1 have conducted several missions to Ethiopia and provided
guidance at critical junctures.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall rating is satisfactory for reasons stated above. Because of the speed of project preparation
and approval and the continuous and good-quality implementation assistance provided by the Bank,
its performance is rated as satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Government performance during the preparation phase was satisfactory. The borrower had
demonstrated strong commitment in the preparation phase, including the assignment of institutions
and dedicated, well-qualified staff to manage implementation of the project at both the national and
regional levels. During implementation, the ministers of Finance and Economic Development have
visited the project beneficiaries from time to time and provided the necessary guidance and close


                                                  24

attention throughout the design and implementation phases. The decision to use the MoFED structure
for financial flow and reporting from the federal level down to the region and woreda (district) level
has been effective.

(b) Implementing Agency Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The performance of the Implementing Agencies is rated as satisfactory. The government's
management of ERP has contributed much to the successful implementation and completion of the
program. With the exception of some delay each year in submitting the annual audit reports, the
internal control, accounting, financial reporting, funds flow/disbursement arrangements, and financial
planning and budgeting of the implementing agencies were reliable, as evidenced by periodic reports.
The final audit report for the period July 2006 through April 2007 is underway and should be
completed before January 7, 2008.

Household rehabilitation component: ERP was coordinated by a Federal Emergency Recovery
Project Management Unit (ERPMU) within the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
(MoFED). Regional Program Management Units (PMUs) in Tigray and Afar were responsible for
managing and monitoring the program. The Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund
office in Afar Region was responsible for implementing the assistance program there. Implementation
of the household rehabilitation component in the other nine regions was coordinated through the
federal Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Commission (DPPC), and regional PMUs/focal persons
based either at Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Bureaus or regional administration offices in
each region. Regional PMUs were established in the respective regions, with the exception of Harrari,
Dire-Dawa, and Gambella, where the number of deportees and families of the deceased were small
(less than 500) and were handled by focal persons. The federal units reviewed regional rehabilitation
budget requests and disbursed the necessary budget in a timely fashion. The staff also made frequent
field visits to assist regional project offices and produced several field visit reports. They also
periodically produced and submitted progress reports to the World Bank.

Program implementation in the regions was supported by regional steering committees and
rehabilitation task forces, which were established at the local level where the majority of the affected
beneficiaries reside. The task forces have played significant roles in ensuring that beneficiaries use
the cash grants for development purposes as evidenced by the evaluations of the first and second
disbursement for the household rehabilitation component. Communication with and between the
agencies and the Bank was timely and adequate.

Demining component: EMAO's Board and managers have effectively guided the implementation
process for the demining component and have built a world-class demining organization, to
recognized international standards.

Roads component:
The preparation and implementation of the Roads Component was effectively managed by the
Ethiopian Roads Authority (ERA). The ERA worked hard during the preparation and appraisal of the
Roads Component in designing the sizeable program of road sections that needed to be improved,
which were selected due to the direct impact of the war, or as a result of unattended maintenance of
some road sections. The Tigray Rural Roads Authority (TRRA) also facilitated the implementation
of the rural roads component.

The preparation and implementation of the Energy/Power Component was also effectively managed
by the Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation (EEPCo).


                                                    25

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The household rehabilitation component was a management challenge. The National ERPMU and
Regional ERPMU in Tigray worked with each other and with the Regional Administration and senior
management in MoFED to effectively implement the Project.

The ERA had the advantage of its experience in preparing and managing the implementation of the
larger scope of activities under the Roads Sector Development Program Phases 1 and 2 (1997-2002
and 2002-2007). The component included a large of number separate NCB works contracts and the
associated consultancy services. However, ERA worked closely with the Bank team, and was able to
successfully resolve potential problem issues that arose in processing the many contracts under the
Component. ERA also took up the challenge to follow up closely with works execution, and this
resulted in increasing the progress of works execution and ensuring the final results achieved. The
TRRA's earlier implementation of similar labor-based road works also contributed to smooth
implementation of the rural roads construction.

The EEPCo also had the added advantage of its experience in preparing and managing the
implementation of the various Power/Energy Sector projects and this experience was fully used in
ensuring the successful implementation of the Energy component.

6. Lessons Learned
Cash grants to households expedite procurement. The household rehabilitation component was based
on cash grants to beneficiary households, allowing them to purchase the goods and services they
needed to procure household goods, farm animals, and implements, as well as housing reconstruction
materials and services. This allowed the project to use the existing private sector capacity and thereby
avoid government involvement in large-scale procurement. As a result, funds flowed faster, and
households could acquire the inputs they needed to reestablish their homes and livelihoods quicker.
Transparent community-level processes ensured that funds were allocated fairly between households,
that people received the money due them, and that they used it for the agreed-upon purposes. In
replicating this approach, those involved in planning must weigh the potential for corruption at the
local level, commitment on the part of government to ensure that beneficiaries received their due, and
the effectiveness of local government.

Infrastructure takes time. The project helped people recover from the conflict with Eritrea, and was
instrumental in increasing the foreign exchange reserves in the original three-year project period. The
country also benefited considerably from improved roads, bridges, power supply and community
infrastructure, as well as a first-rate demining organization, but these extended the project period by
three years. The view of the project team is that the total investment provided an important impetus to
the peace process and reassurance that the economy would rebound. It also allowed for a more
integrated approach in which people not only were resettled but also saw life getting better as the
infrastructure around them improved over time. Basically, three years got people back to their homes,
but six years were needed to return things to normal. After three years the project would have been
rated marginally successful; after six years it was fully successful. When works are involved in an
emergency recovery operation, plan on a five-year implementation period.

Combined capacity of local contractors and force account units and comparative competition for road
works was effective. For the roads component, the decision to involve both ERA DMO force account
units and domestic contractors yielded benefits for future consideration in execution of emergency
works. The combination of domestic contractor participation and ERA DMO force account units in


                                                  26

the implementation introduced competition, which effectively served as incentives for improving
performance by both groups of implementers. In addition, risks of contractual claims, which occurred
during the execution of the road works under the first ERRP, were eliminated with the involvement
of domestic contractors, and equally satisfactory results were achieved in restoring the good road
condition.

Take advantage of international expertise to build a humanitarian mine action organization. Since the
Bank did not have a comparative advantage in supervising demining activities, ERPMU hired an
international expert to advise them in their supervisory role, and the United Nations partners fielded a
team of experienced mine action professionals to advise, build capacity, and ensure quality control.
The establishment of the Ethiopian Mine Action Office, EMAO, as a permanent organization that can
work to international demining standards is critical to long-term resolution of the problem in the
project area and in other parts of the country affected by previous conflicts.

Government commitment was the key success factor. The high-level commitment of both GoE and
the Bank were critical to the project's success. GoE's commitment was evidenced by the constant
travel for field inspection to the regions and the periodic review of ERP by the minister of finance. At
the regional level, the presidents of the regional councils oversaw the overall implementation of ERP
in the regions. The commitment of both the regional council and the regional administration in Tigray
was fundamental to the success of the project. That is why the establishment of a civilian demining
organization was necessary.

Emergency projects require more frequent field inspections than normal projects. Formal semiannual
supervision missions must be supplemented by interim missions to project areas. Interim supervision
visits to the field on a regular basis, between the semiannual formal missions, as well as ad hoc field
visits to the regions, are important, particularly when problems arise. These visits helped to quickly
reach agreement on practical solutions and allowed the implementation agencies to carry on with their
work. The joint field visits also fostered a close and collegial working relationship between the staff
of the Bank and the GoE counterparts, which helped the Bank to be perceived as a supporter rather
than a supervisor and controller by the client.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing Agencies (none)

(b) Cofinanciers
There were no significant issues. The UN Mine Action Advisory Team (UN MAAT) has supported
EMAO in several activities, including the establishment of EMAO, the training and deployment of
manual demining companies, the setting-up of an information management system for mine action,
the establishment of Ethiopian national mine action standards and EMAO standard operating
procedures, and the training of an EMAO training team that is now capable of training demining
companies without a full-time international adviser.

The United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) has been supporting mine risk education activities in
Tigray since 1999 and in Afar since 2001. Implementation of mine awareness was carried out through
an indigenous NGO, the Rehabilitation and Development Organization (RaDO). EMAO field staff
have received training from the UNICEF project officer in basic mine risk education and community
liaison. Community liaison is a vital link of communication between the community and the mine
clearance team.




                                                   27

The World Food Programme (WFP) provided food assistance to 76,500 IDPs until they were able to
harvest their crops late in 2004, after demining activities were effectively implemented. The
International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) was present in most conflict areas. In Irob (eastern
Tigray), ICRC has assisted 13,000 IDPs with food aid.

(c) Other Partners and Stakeholders
International NGOs have often assisted conflict-induced displaced persons in Ethiopia through
national and regional structures. for example, the Relief Society of Tigray (REST), a local NGO,
implemented a USAID-funded housing project in Tigray. Several national NGOs have actively
supported the internally displaced, often under tripartite arrangements with a UN agency and the
government. The Rehabilitation and Development Organization (RaDO) has worked closely with
EMAO in mine awareness education in Tigray and Afar since 2000, with a small World Bank grant,
and subsequently with technical and financial support from UNICEF. The International Rescue
Committee has also played an important part in receiving and documenting deportees and in
providing emergency aid to IDPs.




                                                 28

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives
The project was intended to mitigate the consequences of conflict with Eritrea by providing
developmental assistance to the war affected people to re-build their lives and resume their productive
economic activities, as well as to lay the basis for long-term recovery by rehabilitating key
infrastructure and stabilizing the macro-economy.

The stated objective of the Emergency Recovery Project (Financing Agreement and Technical
Annex) was to assist the Government of Ethiopia to:
    · help the war-affected people to rebuild their lives and resume productive economic activities;
    · reconstruct and rehabilitate destroyed and damaged infrastructure to restart the provision of
        services; and
    · Support macro-economic stability in the country.

Key Performance Indicators (Technical Annex, p. 61)

Rehabilitation
    · Transfer to households of at least 60% of the finances needed by the estimated 360,000
        internally displaced persons (IDPs) in 38,000 households within the war affected area to
        return to their homes, reconstruct damaged housing and restart farming and other income
        generating activities.
    · Transfer to households of at least 60% of the finances needed by (i) the estimated 110,000
        deportees/returnees, and (ii) 36,000 families of deceased civilians to restart/initiate income
        generating activities.

Demining
    · De-mining carried out in war affected areas to allow at least 85% of the IDPs to return to
        their homes, farms and pastures

Reconstruction
    · Rehabilitate/improve at least 500 km of primary and secondary roads.
    · Improve at least 500 km of regional rural roads in the war affected areas.
    · Procure at least 1,500 meters of bailey bridges to replace bridge damaged during the conflict
        and to replenish ERA's emergency stock.




                                                  29

Revised Project Development Objectives (As Approved by Original Approving Authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                   Original Target      Formally           Actual Value

    Indicator           Baseline Value              Values (from                            Achieved at
                                                       approval       Revised Target  Completion or Target
                                                     documents)           Values               Years

Indicator 1 :   Number of internally displaced households provided with Agricultural/income generation
                rehabilitation assistance
                                                68,660 IDPs,

                360,000 internally displaced    including Afar.
                                                (63,660 and 5,000
Value           people as per initial estimate  household heads
quantitative or at Appraisal (~ 72,000 IDP      (hhs) as per                          67,105 IDP hhs
Qualitative)    households)                     household assessment
                                                by Tigray and Afar
                                                Project Management
                                                Units
Date achieved   02/15/2001                      12/29/2006                            12/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The original target values are established during implementation in the process of verifying

achievement)    the eligible beneficiaries. The achievement was about 98%.

Indicator 2 :   Number of internally displaced households (rural and urban) provided with housing
                reconstruction assistance in Tigray region.
                                                16,389 rural housing
                                                units;                                14,097 rural housing
Value                                                                                 units and 2,138 houses
quantitative or Not estimated at appraisal                                            built in Zalanbessa
Qualitative)                                    1,025 damaged
                                                housing units in                      ((1,091 owners and

                                                Zalanbessa                            978 former renters)


Date achieved   02/15/2001                      12/29/2006                            12/29/2006
Comments        The original target values were established during the needs assessment and beneficiary
(incl. %        verification process. The difference between the number of target ( verified eligible) and
achievement)    assisted IDPs was due to assistance from other organizations.
Indicator 3 :   Number of deportee/returnees provided with income generation support package

Value           110,000 deportees (about        71,248 deportee hhs

quantitative or 71,000 deportee households)     in all regions (49,026                66,038hhs
Qualitative)    - initial estimate at Appraisal deportee/returnee
                                                households in Tigray)
Date achieved   02/15/2001                      12/29/2006                            12/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The difference between the number of target (verified eligible) beneficiaries and assisted

achievement)    deportees/returnees primarily was due to double registration of family members.

Indicator 4 :   Number of families of Deceased bread winners provided with agricultural/income generation
                rehabilitation assistance package
                                                85,516 families of

Value           144,000 family members of       deceased bread

quantitative or the deceased (36,000            winners (32,057                       77,054
Qualitative)    families) - initial estimate at families of deceased
                Appraisal                       bread winners in
                                                Tigray)



                                                   30

Date achieved    02/15/2001                      12/29/2006                              12/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %         The difference between the number of target (verified eligible) beneficiaries and assisted

achievement)     families of deceased was due to incorrect information in official records and court cases.

Indicator 5 :    De-mining carried out in war affected areas to allow at least 85% of the IDPs to return to
                 their homes, farms and pastures
                                                 68,660 IDPs,
Value            360,000 IDPs (~72,000           including Afar.
quantitative or                                  (63,663 and 5,000                       67,000 IDPs
Qualitative)     households)                     households in Tigray
                                                 and Afar
Date achieved    02/15/2001                      12/29/2006                              12/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %         The de-mining operation in Tigray and Afar has helped more than 95% of displaced people

achievement)     to return and re-start their economic activities.

Indicator 6 :    Improved road condition of the country
Value
quantitative or  22% of the roads were in        40% of roads in good                    40%
Qualitative)     good condition                  condition

Date achieved    02/15/2001                      12/29/2006                              12/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %         The road component of ERP has contributed to the improvement of the road conditions of

achievement)     the country, but was not the only project that has contributed to this outcome.



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                    Original Target       Formally           Actual Value

    Indicator           Baseline Value                Values (from                           Achieved at
                                                       approval       Revised Target        Completion or
                                                      documents)           Values            Target Years

Indicator 1 :    Transfer to households of at least 60% of the finances needed by the estimated 360,000
                 internally displaced persons
                                                 ~US$ 44 million
                                                 (ETB 381.0 million

Value                                            for Tigray and Afar

(quantitative    US$40 million                   (Birr 351.8 and 29.2                    ~US$37 million
or Qualitative)                                  million for Tigray
                                                 and Afar regions,
                                                 respectively as per
                                                 the need assessment)
Date achieved    02/20/2002                      12/29/2006                              12/29/2006
Comments         The $110m baseline for all categories of beneficiaries was set during appraisal. Separate
(incl. %         estimates for IDPs, families of deceased, and deportees were made is 2002. The target values
achievement)     were based on the needs assessment in Tigray and Afar.
                 Transfer to households of at least 60% of the finances   needed:
Indicator 2 :    a) by the estimated 110,000 deportees/returnees, and
                 b) 36,000 families of deceased civilians (144,000 family members)
                                                 ~US$79 million

Value                                            (ETB 245 million to

(quantitative    US$65 million                   deportees/returneean                    ~US$67 million
or Qualitative)                                  d
                                                 ETB 442.3 million to
                                                 all families of the



                                                     31

                                              deceased

Date achieved   02/15/2001                    12/29/2006                              12/29/2006
Comments        The achievement is about 85% compared to the target value. The target value was estimated
(incl. %        during the implementation phase on the basis of the expressed needs of the beneficiaries.
achievement)    The baseline is the estimate made in 2002.

Indicator 3 :   Land area cleared to create an environment conducive for the safe and sustainable return of
                displaced people, Number of people with mine-awareness education in the war affected
Value
(quantitative   War affected areas in Tigray  27km2                                   24km2
or Qualitative) and Afar

Date achieved                                 12/29/2006                              12/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The target values were as per survey made by Ethiopia De-mining Project and Halo Trust,

achievement)    which was later confirmed by EMAO.

Indicator 4 :   Rehabilitation/improvement of at least 500 km of primary and secondary roads;Improvement
                of at least 500 km of regional rural roads in the war affected areas.
Value
(quantitative   1,806km                       1,604km                                 1,345km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   02/15/2001                    12/29/2006                              12/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Achievement on the overall roads was 82%, and 93% on the primary and secondary roads

achievement)    compared to target.

Indicator 5 :   Number of damaged community infrastructure projects reconstructed/completed
                80 schools

Value           35 health facilities          409 community

(quantitative   5 Vet clinics                 facilities                              442 schemes
or Qualitative) 142 water supply and
                pipeline construction projects

Date achieved   02/15/2001                    12/29/2006                              12/29/2006
Comments        ESRDF financed the community infrastructure worth of ETB 118 million (approximately
(incl. %        US$ 13 million). ERP had also spent ETB 5 million for the completion of project started by
achievement)    ESRDF.




                                                  32

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                            Appraisal
                Components                  Estimate     Actual/Latest     Percentage

                                            (USD m)    Estimate (USD m)   of Appraisal

  Rehabilitation of Households and               109.90           113.48
  Community Infrastructure
  De-Mining                                       30.30            17.68
  Reconstruction                                  86.10           113.86
  Institutional Strengthening                      4.00             1.68
                       Total Baseline Cost       230.00

  Physical Contingencies                          0.00
  Price Contingencies                              0.00
                       Total Project Costs          .00

  Front-end fee PPF                               0.00             0.00              0.00
  Front-end fee IBRD                               0.00             0.00             0.00
                 Total Financing Required        230.00           246.70




(b) Financing

                                       Appraisal
  Source of Funds        Type of                     Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                       Cofinancing   Estimate (USD
                                          m)       Estimate (USD m)      Appraisal

  Borrower                                     0.00             0.00
  International
  Development                                230.00             0.00
  Association


(c) Disbursement Profile




                                               33

   ERP Historical Disbursement by Component in million USD, May30, 2007
                            Budget at                       as per GOE
                            Appraisal          Disbursed data
Household rehabilitation              110.1         113.48         114.39
IDPs                                   39.7                         37.45
Deportees                              17.2                         20.83
Families of Deceased                   48.2                         46.64
Operations                                5
Zalanbessa                                                           0.92
completion of community
infrastructure and power                                              2.3
de-mining services                                                   6.25
De-mining                              30.1          17.68
Goods/vehicles and Equip                2.4           2.72
Services/consultancy                   27.7          14.96
Roads Reconstruction                   81.7         116.82
Goods/Veh./Equip                       37.8          25.45
   Works                               40.1          86.37
consultancy                             3.8             5
Institutional
strengthening                           4.1           1.68
Unallocated                               4
Total                                   230         249.66
EDRPa                                  33.4           22.9
Zalanbessa                              6.4            6.4
household rehabilitation               17.3            6.8
SOGE Roads                              9.7            9.7
ESRDF                                  17.2
community infrastructure               15.2           13.8
Household rehab                           2              2
HIV/AIDS                                2.5            2.5
Energy                                   10             10


 a. Source: ERPMU




                                         34

Annex 3. Benefit Allocations

Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs): In urban and agricultural income-generation benefit packages,
the process of benefit allocation for IDPs included the following: (i) establishing the number of IDPs
by tabia (kebelle) and type of benefit, using data from household assessments, and (ii) estimating
budget allocations for IDPs in each tabia and woreda by multiplying the number of beneficiaries in
each category by the average cost of benefits. The principle of the allocation was the gap between the
assets that individual households have and what they need to establish their farming activities. The
allocation of benefits for each household was carried out by the respective communities in each
tabia.5

Housing Reconstruction: Only householders who owned houses in the war-affected areas and whose
houses were destroyed or damaged as a result of the war were eligible for assistance. Each house was
assessed on the basis of the damage using the following criteria:

          Minor Damage: Dismantled or destroyed doors and windows only
          Major Damage: Destroyed roofs or dismantled roof structures only
          Severe Damage: Both walls and roof destroyed (including doors and windows)

The extent of the damage was the basis for the allocation of benefits for the reconstruction of rural
houses. Except for the houses destroyed in Zalanbessa, all damaged houses in the war-affected areas
were categorized as rural houses. Because houses in Zalanbessa were completely destroyed, the
allocation was based on the beneficiaries' family size.

Families of the Deceased: The Ministry of Defense (MoD) was the main source of information for
the families of the deceased seeking assistance from ERP. The ministry prepared the list of eligible
beneficiaries with a payment sheet (based on the will left by the deceased) and transferred the list to
the respective regional offices, with a copy to the federal ERPMU at MoFED. After verification6 and



5Based on the assessment result, the regional office establishes the total budget required for agricultural
activities, income generation, and household items and for housing reconstruction for each tabia or kebelle.
Following that, benefits to individual IDPs are assigned at the tabia level through the following steps: (i) PMU
withholds 10% of each tabia allocation, 5% at the region and 5% at the woreda levels; (ii) tabia allocations are
initially established by the PMU; (iii) each tabia will be notified to establish priorities based on a budget of the
remaining 90%; (iv) the tabia Rehabilitation Task Force then converts the budget into agricultural goods (ox,
shoats, heifer, beehives, etc.) and establishs the number of each that the budget could buy; (v) households are
ranked according to several combinations of agricultural goods based on preferences given during the need
assessment; and finally (vi) the proposal is presented to a community meeting and allocations are made to each
household according to the priority list and available budget.

6The steps followed in the verification and needs assessment of beneficiary families of the deceased were as
follows: (i) a letter of notification about the death of the militia was transferred to the region and then to the
respective woredas and kebelles; (ii) following this, a payment sheet of the families of deceased militia
members, which indicates the amount of assistance to each family member, was collected by the regional PMU
in three copies from the Ministry of National Defense; (iii) the list was then passed to the regional Finance
Bureau, which in turn transferred the list to the respective zonal and woreda finance offices; (iv) the woreda
task forces, in collaboration with the kebelle task forces, verified the eligible families (wife and children,
parents and siblings) and notified the family of the death of the breadwinner; (v) the kebelle then sent the
families who have identification and verification documents to the woreda administrations; (vi) the woreda
technical task force, after completing the needs assessment form for each family and verifying all the necessary


                                                        35

completion of a grant utilization agreement with eligible families, the MoD payment sheet was
transferred to regional and woreda finance offices for payment. Families of the deceased militia in
most cases include wife and children and parents and siblings. The level of assistance per beneficiary
family for most families ranges from Birr 3,000 to Br11, 000 (Impact Assessment Report, June 2006).
The basis for assigning benefit packages was according to the deceased's will, which was recorded
while joining the army.

Deportees: The budget allocation for deportees was based on data collected on the number of
beneficiaries in each area. Deportees were registered at the point of entry and were provided
certificates attesting to their deportation from Eritrea. The registration list was verified by woreda
RTFs and a grant utilization form was completed for each deportee. Based on the verified list and
form, an outline plan for the assistance was developed, including the numbers of beneficiaries in each
area and the type of assistance. The cash assistance provided to deportees ranged between Birr 3,000
and Birr 6,000 depending on the family size (Impact Assessment Report, June 2006).




documentation, submitted the documents to the woreda administration for payment authorization; (vii) the
woreda administration then wrote and sent a payment authorization letter to the woreda finance office; and (viii)
on the basis of the authorization letter and all the necessary documents, the woreda finance office made
payment to eligible families in the presence of the kebelle committees.


                                                       36

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Overall achievement of project outputs is assessed as satisfactory. Most key component output targets
were satisfactorily met, and the quality of output is assessed as satisfactory. The implementation of
the project components has contributed to achieving the project objectives. The specific achievement
of each component and subcomponents are summarized below.

Component 1: Household Rehabilitation Component
Rating: Satisfactory
Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs): According to household assessments carried out by the Program
Management Unit in Tigray and Afar, the total number of IDPs resulting from the conflict with
Eritrea was about 68,000 households, 93% of which are in Tigray and about 7% in Afar. On the other
hand, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs estimated the number of IDPs in
the two regions at 63,000 households (62,000 in Tigray and 1,000 in Afar). Out of the estimated
68,000 people who are internally displaced, 96% have received rehabilitation assistance amounting to
US$37 million. This amount was about 84% of the expressed financial needs of the displaced
households established through an initial needs assessment, surpassing the 60% target level set as a
key performance indicator in the ERP Technical Annex. A total of 16,389 rural housing units
(excluding Zalanbessa) were identified as damaged or destroyed during the war in Tigray Region. At
project closing, 14,097 (86%) of these rural homes have been fully rebuilt, with a total cost of Birr
116 million (US$13 million). In Zalanbessa, 2,003 housing units were constructed (1,025 were
completely destroyed and reconstructed for former owners, and 978 housing units were newly
constructed for former renters and six squatters).

Deportees and Families of the Deceased Militia: The project beneficiaries in this category were about
85,000 families of deceased militia members and 71,000 deportee/returnees from Eritrea. About 30%
of the families of the deceased militia reside in Tigray, 25% in Amhara, 20% in Oromia, 15% in
Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples' Regional State, and 10% in other regions of the
country. Out of 71,000 deportees, the majority live in Tigray (75%) and Amhara (17%). Over 90% of
the estimated eligible beneficiaries were assisted and acquired the agreed-upon goods and services,
which assisted them in undertaking income-generating activities. The amount disbursed was about
US$47 million for the families of the deceased, and US$21 million for deportees. This corresponded
to about 85% of the finances needed by the eligible families of deceased and deportees established
during the needs assessment. Although the estimated number of affected beneficiaries and the number
actually reached differ, it is believed that the initial estimate by the PMUs was a bit exaggerated and
that all the affected households have been reached.

Use of Household Rehabilitation Funds for Developmental Purposes
Based on the Development Credit Agreement (Cr. 3438-ET) between the government of Ethiopia and
the World Bank, disbursement of funds for the household rehabilitation component of ERP was
released in three tranches of US$40, US$45, and US$25 million. An evaluation of the first tranche
release was made between December 2001 and February 2002, prior to the release of the second
tranche. The results of the expenditure review concluded that the grants to beneficiaries were
judiciously spent on development activities. In the case of families of the deceased, about 25% of the
grant was used for the purchase of goods and services not specified in the Technical Annex. These
items included housing construction/repair (40%), essential household goods (30%), and other
expenditures, including training, medical care, school fees for children, loan repayment, food, animal
feed, and memorial services for the deceased (30%).

After thoroughly reviewing the expenditure pattern, the Bank team suggested that the scope of
eligible benefit packages in the Technical Annex be broadened to include minor housing repair and


                                                   37

construction of housing additions for business purposes, land rent, and education expenses. The team
also recommended that up to 10% of the grant be used to purchase household essentials.

The evaluation of the first and second tranches combined (which was a condition for the disbursement
of the third release) was made between March and April 2003. The second evaluation included a
sizable sample group of those who had received assistance in the first tranche (before May 2002). The
evaluation attempted to (i) determine the degree to which the funds that were unspent at the time of
the first evaluation were later used to purchase agreed-upon developmental goods and services, and
(ii) ascertain if the assistance provided through ERP was making a substantial difference in their
lives. The total sample size was 2,005 households, of which 813 received the assistance in the first
tranche, and the remaining 1,192 received assistance in the second tranche (before and after May
2002, respectively). The sample households consisted of 556 IDPs (100 of whom were pastoralists),
816 families of deceased militia, and 633 deportees. About 50% of the sampled IDP beneficiaries
received the assistance before May 2002, and the remaining received assistance after May 2002.
Similarly, 72% of the sampled families of the deceased received assistance before May 2002, and all
deportees and pastoralists received the assistance after May 2002.

Below is brief summary of the result:
Internally Displaced Persons: The sample IDP beneficiaries in Tigray have received, on average, Birr
2,333 for agricultural rehabilitation and income-generation support, excluding housing reconstruction.
The beneficiaries have used 97% of the assistance received in the first and second tranches for the
procurement of goods and services; the remainder (3%) was kept in local banks and individual
homes. The survey results showed that rural IDPs have used the assistance for the purchases of
agreed-upon goods and services such as cattle, shoats, seeds, fertilizer, farm implements, and other,
while urban beneficiaries have mainly spent for agreed-upon income-generating activities such as
petty trading, constructing rental rooms, opening small shops, and purchasing milk cows and pack
animals for transport. Of the total amount spent on goods and services, about 93.5% was spent on
intended items, somewhat higher that the 90% found in the first tranche evaluation. The nonintended
expenditure items were mainly food items, clothing, medical expenses, and housing rent.

Families of Deceased: The average assistance provided to sampled families of the deceased was Birr
9,879. The survey results showed that families of the deceased used 85% of the assistance provided to
them in the first and second tranches for the procurement of goods and services, of which 81% was
spent on the procurement of intended goods. This figure was significantly higher than the finding in
the previous evaluation exercise, which was only 52%. It appeared that the effort of the project
management units and regional task forces helped people make informed decisions and let them
understand the importance of spending the money for developmental purposes.

Deportees: On the average, deportees received Birr 3,500 per household. According to the second
evaluation, deportees spent 85% of the assistance that they received at the time, of which 80% was
used for productive purposes. The nonproductive items were primarily food, transport, and housing
rent, which were not considered to be developmental uses but are essential for households who do not
have a permanent place to live.

Subcomponent 1: Rehabilitation of Community Infrastructure
(funded through an ongoing Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund Project)

The major objective of this subcomponent was to rehabilitate, reconstruct, equip, and furnish the
damaged or destroyed social infrastructure at the community level and resume the delivery of basic
services. Activities under this component were designed to rapidly rehabilitate and reconstruct
destroyed and damaged community infrastructure in the education, health, and water supply sectors


                                                  38

and also animal health facilities in the war-affected areas in order to resume the provision of efficient
and effective delivery of basic services.

The construction of 409 community infrastructure facilities was undertaken (378 facilities in Tigray
Region and 31 in Afar Region) under the ESRDF funding of about US$15 million, which was
reallocated to ERP. With the exception of 41 facilities in Tigray, the rest were reconstructed within
the closing period of ESRDF, December 2004. The completion of 41 facilities in Tigray and the
reconstruction of 16 drilling and 12 water distribution systems in Afar were carried out under ERP
funding. For the 409 facilities, ESRDF had spent about US$13 million, and ERP spent about US$2.3
million for the completion of 41 facilities in Tigray and construction of 16 water drilling and 12 water
distribution works in Afar. The ESRDF project closed in December 2004, with satisfactory
performance.

Subcomponent 2: The Ethiopia Multi-Sector HIV/AIDs Project (EMSAP) supported HIV/AIDS
Prevention, Care, and Support.

The main objective of the HIV/AIDS component was to reduce infection and the spread of HIV by
scaling up HIV/AIDS-related interventions for the displaced population in 15 war-affected woredas
(eight in Tigray and seven in Afar) as a result of the Ethiopian-Eritrean conflict. Some of the
achievements include the following: (i) The regional HIV/AIDS secretariat, and boards and focal
units at zonal and woreda levels were established, and HIV/AIDS interventions were strengthened
through training and financial support. (ii) A total of 1,160,075 people, 769,334 from Tigray and
390,741 from Afar, benefited from the subcomponent with the allocated Birr 2,159,723. (iii)
Available information indicate that care and support, awareness creation, and condom distribution
have increased in the selected woredas. And (iv) there is no evidence to show that the population of
the selected woredas have higher HIV incidence in spite of exposure to high-risk situations, and this
may indicate success of the intervention measures undertaken.

In Tigray, about 30 implementing institutions participated in community-based care and support
programs in the war-affected areas. About 40 workshops have been undertaken in which more than
4,000 people participated. Support has been provided to 294 HIV/AIDS orphans and 153 people
living with HIV/AIDS. As a result, 37 school anti-AIDS clubs have been established in the region.
More than 1,600 youths have participated in the anti-AIDS clubs, and a manual for out-of-school
youth has been prepared.

In Afar, six community and NGO organizations were involved in the implementation of the
component. More than five workshops were carried out on community-based care and support,
transmission, and prevention mechanisms of HIV/AIDS. About 630 people participated in the
workshops. The participants were policy makers, religious leaders, street children, anti-AIDS clubs'
peer educators, and commercial sex workers. In addition, a rapid assessment was conducted on the
local structure of community-based care and support. Eight organizations were involved in prevention
activities in the region. Over 376 people (school youth, secondary school teachers, and health
professionals) have been trained, of which 196 are peer educators of anti-AIDS clubs.
The multisector HIV/AIDs project closed in 2005, with satisfactory implementation status. The ICR
concluded that the project delivered on its development objective (October 2006, Report No.
ICR000065).




Component 2: Demining
Rating: Satisfactory


                                                 39

The objective of the demining component was to mitigate the threat of landmines and UXO and to
create an environment conducive to the safe and sustainable return of civilians to their homes and
livelihoods.

According to the Ethiopia Landmine Impact Survey, 378,139 people were found to be affected by
landmines or UXO, with the majority of this population being IDPs concentrated in the areas
bordering Eritrea (Ethiopia LIS final report, January 2005). More than 90% of the population resides
in zones having high concentrations of affected communities. Pasture was the most frequently
reported type of resource blockage, with farmland being second. Afar Region is the third most
contaminated region. In this region, 159 communities were found to be affected by landmines or
UXO, a majority of which were contaminated during the Ethiopian-Eritrean conflict in 1998­99.
According to an initial survey by the NGO HALO Trust and the Ethiopian Demining Project (EDP),
an estimated 27 square kilometers of land were mined along the Ethiopian-Eritrean border in Tigray
and Afar.

A total area of 24 km2 had been cleared by EMAO as of the closing date of ERP. A total of 2,118
antipersonnel and 206 antitank mines and 31,979 items of UXO have been demined and destroyed. A
total of 239,089 people have participated in the EMAO mine risk education. The integrated effort of
mine clearance and mine risk education enabled more than 95% (67,000 IDPs) to return to their
livelihoods and resume normal life. This surpassed the target of 85% stipulated in the Technical
Annex.

EMAO undertook the implementation of demining under five successive demining contracts, which
were time-based work contracts, and payment was based on the number of days worked in
accordance with the monthly rates of contract agreement with ERPMU. A total amount of Birr 207
million (about US$23 million) was disbursed for mine clearance operations, including, at first, two
short-term service contracts for the establishment of EMAO headquarters and field operation, then
five mine clearance contracts, and international procurement of demining equipment and services
undertaken through the Management Services Agreement (MSA) that GoE signed with UNOPS. The
federal ERPMU monitored the implementation of the humanitarian demining through an international
mine action adviser, a local mine action desk officer, and four field monitors. The ERPMU
monitoring of demining ensured that works were being carried out in accordance with the contractual
agreements and with acceptable standards.

EMAO currently has six manual demining companies, three mechanical flail teams, three mine
detection dog teams, demining tools, mine detectors, personnel protection equipment, communication
equipment, surveying equipment, medical equipment, and vehicles. Mine action is a long-term
activity. The fact that EMAO has established itself as a professional organization working to
international standards is very important, since its services are required in a number of areas in
Ethiopia. Its establishment has brought the country new skills, technology, and managerial know-how
in humanitarian demining

Component 3: Rehabilitation/Improvement of Road Infrastructure
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall objective of the roads component was to assist the GoE's efforts to (i) rapidly rehabilitate
and restore destroyed or damaged road infrastructure in the war-affected areas; (ii) rehabilitate critical
road sections and bridges that have suffered serious damage resulting from an increase in
unexpectedly heavy traffic or the diversion of traffic from the original import/export route to new
routes; (iii) rehabilitate roads to ensure operational efficiency in the implementation of relief program


                                                   40

activities and facilitate the flow of imported humanitarian cargo in selected chronically drought-
affected areas; and (iv) carry out emergency heavy maintenance of priority roads whose improvement
had been slowed down by the war, leading to further deterioration of large sections.

In its damage assessment report, the government identified the rehabilitation and reconstruction of 40
road links having a total length of about 1,800 km. It also identified the procurement of equipment
and spare parts to replace road maintenance equipment that was looted at Assab port and to replace
steel bridges damaged during the war. A total length of 1,718 km (1,423 km gravel and 295 km
asphalt) of roads was rehabilitated at a total cost of about Birr 544 million (US$63 million), and the
equipment, spare parts, and steel bridges for sector development were procured at a cost of Birr 34
million (US$4 million). In addition, ERP has also supported a total of 679 km of asphalt road
construction under the road sector development program (Modjo-Awash Arba 160 km, Hirna Klubi
91 km, Debremarkos-Merawi 219 km, Merwi-Gonder 208 km) at a cost of Birr 218 million (~US$25
million), bringing the total disbursed amount to Birr 796 million (US$92 million).
The rehabilitation of the 1,700 km of road works were undertaken through own force, private
contractors, and labor-based contracts. Under the own force activities, ERA, with its district
construction crew, had completed the rehabilitation and maintenance of 11 road links, with a total
length of 665 km, at a cost of Birr 257 million. ERA also contracted out 11 road links to private
contractors, and 555 km was rehabilitated and maintained at a cost of Birr 274 million. The budget for
private works was about Birr 272 million. The completed road projects had significantly improved the
conditions of the roads and facilitated easy movement of traffic.
The labor-based component was planned to improve and maintain about 500 km of rural roads in
Tigray. A total length of 412 km have been completed under 18 contracts, with the supervision of
ILO. The cost for these works was about Birr 17 million, and the plan was to spend Birr 16 million.
Due to the rehabilitation of the rural roads, many woredas have been interconnected, which facilitated
transportation and ensured easy movements of people and goods. They also reduced travel time and
transport costs, as well as maintenance and operational expenses, all of which benefited both users
and transport operators.

Reconstruction/Rehabilitation of Power Supply Infrastructure Subcomponent (funded through
the ongoing Energy II)

The aim of this subcomponent was to (i) rehabilitate and reconstruct damaged power supply facilities
in four towns in the war-affected areas and (ii) replace the Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation's
(EEPCo's) goods lost in Assab port after closure of the border, which has severely hampered the
country's power infrastructure development program.
EEPCo had implemented electric power supply infrastructure construction and material supply as
planned. Projects carried out included the rehabilitation and reconstruction of 65 km of 15 kV lines,
27 km of 0.4 kV lines, and 6 km of street lights; replacement and provision of 29 pieces of 50 and 63
kVA transformers, two 450 kW diesel generators, and 550 single-phase customer connections in the
towns of Zalanbessa, Adigrat, Bure, and Mekkele; and construction of 116 km Nekempt-Bedele 132
kV transmission line. In addition, Ghedo-Gimbe transmission line, Koka and Tis Abay power plants
and substations; and new customer connection were implemented. The total amount spent was Birr 88
million, which was equivalent to the reallocated amount.
In addition, a contract agreement was entered with Tigray Region Electric Light Power Authority
(ELPA) to extend electric power lines and install meters for former renters for a total of Birr
2,053,586 in September 2005. The activities undertaken included (i) electric meter connection to 969
renters, (ii) 1.8 km high-power line, (iii) one 315 kVA transformer and 12 km subsidiary power lines,
(iv) fixing of fluorescent lamps for 25.9 km of street lights, and (v) fixing of incandescent lamps for
1.8 km of street lights. These were all financed under the ERP household rehabilitation component
since EEPCo used all the funds that were reallocated to ERP under Energy II.


                                                  41

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (Including Assumptions in the Analysis)

Road Components

I. Economic Analysis

1.1     Introduction
The Emergency Recovery Program consists of the following road sub-component for which an IDA
Credit No. 3438-ET of US$ 117.566 million was allocated: -

This sub-component consists of the rehabilitation and section improvement of primary and secondary
roads under four main categories:-

    i.   Roads affected by war totaling about 668 km including Wukro-Zalanbessa (55 km), Gondar-
        Humera (80 km), Shire ­ Tekeze (100 km), Mekele-Abiadi-Adwa (190 km), Negele-Filtu-
        Dollo (150 km) and Gondar-Tekeze-Shire (93 km);

    ii. Roads that have deteriorated due to increased traffic flows in the general northern area, as
        well as traffic diverted, from the main road to the Port of Asseb, to the existing road to the
        Port of Djibouti. The priority roads under this category include:- Gohatsion-Dejen (41 km),
        and Dejen- Deber Markos (50 km);

    iii. Roads connecting to persistent drought areas and serving an increased and constant flow of
        relief cargo. The priority roads in this category are:- Arbaminch-Jinka (80 km) and Goba-
        Meslo-Bitata (120 km);

    iv. Roads segments with slowed down improvements due to the effects of the war which
        include:- Shashemene-Alaba (50 km), Robe- Ali-Gassera-Ghinir (50 km), Awassa-H/mariam
        (80 km), Bedelle-Metu (60 km), Wolkite-Hossaina (67 km) and Jimma-Bonga (40 km) roads.

The objective of this paper is to do draft economic feasibility analysis and see the effects of the
Program.

1.2     Roughness
There was high deterioration in the condition of the road before the reconstruction of the road: the IRI
value was estimated to be >10 IRI and >7 IRI (International Roughness Index) for gravel and asphalt
roads respectively, on average, although the level of deterioration varies from road to road.
After the reconstruction of the road the roughness value has been reduced on average to 3 to 5 IRI and
5 to 7 IRI for the asphalt and gravel roads respectively.

1.3     Traffic
ERA's classified traffic data for year 2003, 2004 and 2005, actual data, and 6% growth rate from year
2006 have been used. The table below shows the Average Annual Daily Traffic for the year 2003,
2004 and 2005, for the roads under consideration.




                                                  42

                        Average Annual Daily Traffic ­ (Year 2003, 2004, 2005)

                                                    Vehicle Type
                  Year   Car  L/Car   S/Bus   L/Bus    S/Truck  M/Truck    L/Truck T/Trailer Total
Wukro - Zalambessa
                   2005     3    88     131      50       101         94       67        47  581
                   2004     3    94     104      46         79        71       63        39  499
                   2003     2    72     119      42         63        74       64        27  463
Gondar - Humera
                   2005     1    27     11       55         16        83       31        19  243
                   2004     1    22     11       32         26        27       25        10  154
                   2003     1    23     24       13         19        25       30         8  143
Shire - Tekeze (Shiraro)
                   2005     0    44     61       43         58        59       70        54  389
                   2004     0    31     35       32         42        31       34        15  220
                   2003     0    28     42       17         33        21       45        11  197
Gohastion - Dejen
                   2005     4    71     36       51         76       129       63        61  491
                   2004     4    58     27       49         39       126       87        70  460
                   2003     3    62     18       41         27        77      109      100   437
Dejen - Debre Markos
                   2005     4   104     57       42         24       113       67        45  456
                   2004     2    90     49       43         20        95       77        34  410
                   2003     2    79     36       30         19        56       82        30  334
Arbaminch - Jinka
                   2005     0    49     21        4         49        38       18         2  182
                   2004     0    30     12        5         29        35       16         6  135
                   2003     0    32      5        6         19        35       19         1  116
Shashamane - Alaba
                   2005     6   130     153      68       159        107       59        38  720
                   2004     4   114     137      67       106        174       67        51  720
                   2003     4    96     100      79         85       199       87        44  694
Awasa - Hageremariam
                   2005    27   123     177      21         96       154       64        22  684
                   2004    41    86     157      27         83       120       69        20  603
                   2003    36    97     136      26         66        87       53        20  521
Bedele - Metu
                   2005     0    57     66       11         47        93       58        29  361
                   2004     0    68     51       11         55        69       46        26  326
                   2003     0    58     26        9         42        27       30        15  207
Welkite - Hossaina
                   2005     3    76     58       27         65        50       91         3  373
                   2004     2    74     54       46         54        50       56        17  353
                   2003     2    85     37       38         45        46       34         3  290
Jimma - Bonga
                   2005     0    51     54       26         38        55       56         5  285
                   2004     1    64     48       31         77        99       88        17  425
                   2003     0    46     31       28         43        57       62        11  278




                                              43

Traffic projections on the project road have taken into account past & future trend in GDP growth,
population increase, AADT, vehicle fleet and fuel consumption. These are among the major factors
influencing traffic growth rates on the project road and for the purpose of this study 6% growth rate
have been assumed.

1.4     Costs
Construction was started at year 2003 and 2004 depending on the project and it took two to three
years. The analysis period is assumed to cover 10 years analysis period i.e. after the completion of the
construction.

The total costs for the rehabilitation/Maintenance of the project roads are presented below. The
financial construction and maintenance costs have been converted into economic costs by applying a
conversion factor of 0.76. The vehicle operating costs were estimated based on input costs from
recent Ethiopian vehicle fleet data. A discount rate of 10% has been used for the opportunity cost of
capital.

                                    Total Cost Estimate, Civil Work

                                                Surface
                         Project                 Type      Length       Cost in million Birr
          Wukro - Zalambessa                     Asphalt         50                     20.209
          Gondar - Humera                        Gravel          80                     22.813

          Shire - Tekeze (Shiraro)               Gravel

                       Contract 1                                50                     23.603
                       Contract 2                                50                     23.110
                                                               100                      46.713
          Gohastion - Dejen                      Gravel          41                     17.724
          Dejen - Debre Markos                   Asphalt         50                      24.72
          Arbaminch - Jinka                      Gravel          80                      6.425
          Shashamane - Alaba                     Asphalt         50                     33.072
          Awasa - Hageremariam                   Asphalt         80                     15.207
          Bedele - Metu                          Asphalt         60                     22.318
          Welkite - Hossaina                     Gravel          67                     17.724
          Jimma - Bonga                          Gravel          40                      4.150

1.5      Benefits
The proposed rehabilitation/maintenance of the project road would have essential benefits to the
nation's economy as well as to the environment including:
    · Reduced vehicle operating cost (e.g. fuel consumption, maintenance cost)
    · Reduced travel time
    · Increased road safety, and
    · Area development.

1.6     Alternatives
Each project has been compared with the "do-minimum case" which assumed only routine
maintenance for the economic analysis.

1.7     Economic Analysis Results
The result of the HDM-4 analysis for the base case, discounted at 10% is shown below.




                                                 44

                                 Summary of the Economic Analysis Results

                                                                             Economic Analysis
                         Project                     Economic Criteria              Results
             Wukro - Zalambessa                   NPV (in million ETB)                      79.684
                                                  EIRR (%)                                    66.6
             Gondar - Humera                      NPV (in million ETB)                      20.501
                                                  EIRR (%)                                    36.4
             Shire - Tekeze (shiraro)             NPV (in million ETB)                      19.685
                                                  EIRR (%)                                    34.7
             Jimma - Bonga                        NPV (inmillion ETB)                       19.439
                                                  EIRR (%)                                   153.4
             Welkite - Hossaina                   NPV (in million ETB)                      27.522
                                                  EIRR (%)                                    53.3
             Gohastion - Dejen                    NPV (inmillion ETB)                       21.980
                                                  EIRR (%)                                    42.6
             Dejen - Debre Markos                 NPV (in million ETB)                      66.725
                                                  EIRR (%)                                    52.6
             Arbaminch - Jinka                    NPV (in million ETB)                      15.968
                                                  EIRR (%)                                    87.7
             Shashamane - Alaba                   NPV (inmillion ETB)                      116.814
                                                  EIRR (%)                                    52.1
             Awasa - Hageremariam                 NPV (inmillion ETB)                       78.076
                                                  EIRR (%)                                    70.4
             Bedele - Metu                        NPV (inmillion ETB)                       51.587
                                                  EIRR (%)                                    41.7


  II. Contribution of ERP for Road Condition

  The ERP has also contributed to improvement of roads in good condition in the country. The contribution
  because of ERP works is 5.5%, 6.8% and 2.4% for paved, gravel and rural roads respectively
                                                               Percentage of Road            Percentage
                                                                Network in Good           Contribution of ERP
                                                               Condition in 2006                Roads
- Percentage Contribution to federal paved roads in good              60                         5.5
   condition
- Percentage Contribution to federal gravel roads in good             45                         6.8
  condition
- Percentage Contribution to rural roads in good condition            46                         2.4




                                                       45

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

         Names                        Title                  Unit      Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR

Abebaw Alemayehu         Sr Urban Development
                         Specialist                      AFTU1

Samuel Haile Selassie    Sr Procurement Specialist       AFTPC
Negede Lewi              Sr Transport. Specialist        AFTTR
John D. Riverson         Consultant                      AFTTR
Mulat Negash Tegegn      Consultant                      AFTPC
Mesfin Wodajo Jijo       Highway Engineer                AFTTR

Eshetu Yimer             Sr Financial Management
                         Specialist                      AFTFM


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

No.    Date ISR Archived           DO              IP          Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1    06/27/2001               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                                   40.31
2    06/28/2001               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                                   40.31
3    12/26/2001               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                                   42.47
4    04/30/2002               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                                   43.97
5    12/16/2002               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                                   93.04
6    05/29/2003               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                                 101.24
7    11/25/2003               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                                 137.39
8    05/14/2004               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                                 151.46
9    05/25/2004               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                                 151.91
10 11/24/2004                 Satisfactory   Satisfactory                                 169.24
11 04/26/2005                 Satisfactory   Satisfactory                                 177.89
12 11/22/2005                 Satisfactory   Satisfactory                                 199.33
13 06/30/2006                 Satisfactory   Satisfactory                                 229.83

(c) Staff Time and Cost

                                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

             Stage of Project Cycle                                          USD Thousands
                                                     No. of staff weeks    (including travel and
                                                                             consultant costs)
Lending
                       FY00                                                                  3.48
                       FY01                                            87                 385.15
                       FY02                                             4                    3.15
                       FY03                                                                  0.00
                       FY04                                                                  0.00
                       FY05                                                                  0.00



                                               46

                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

             Stage of Project Cycle                                USD Thousands
                                            No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                   consultant costs)
                     FY07                                                          0.00
                     FY07                                                          0.00
                                     Total:                   91                391.78
Supervision/ICR
                     FY00                                                          0.00
                     FY01                                     19                159.49
                     FY02                                     54                173.32
                     FY03                                     67                  93.11
                     FY04                                     41                  92.05
                     FY05                                     37                109.69
                     FY06                                     42                  93.93
                     FY07                                     16                  19.76
                                     Total:                  276                741.35




                                       47

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance


         Bank                  Ratings             Borrower     Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                                      Government:

Quality of Supervision:                     Implementing
                                            Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
Performance:                                Performance:




                                          48

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

Beneficiary surveys were carried out in 2002 and 2003 in relation to the evaluation of disbursements
to the household rehabilitation component. In the second evaluation, the total sample size was 2005
households, of which 813 received the assistance in first tranche and the remaining 1192 received
assistance in the second tranche. The sample households consist of 556 internally displaced persons
(100 of which were pastoralists), 816 families of deceased, and 633 deportees. As part of the impact
assessment in 2006, a total of 27 focus group discussions were also conducted with beneficiaries.
Each focus group involved 5 to 7 discussants. The findings of the surveys have been summarized and
included in the ICR. The list is provided in Annex 12.




                                                49

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

As part of the Impact Assessment, in 2006, participatory focused group discussions and key
informant discussions with local experts/officials, community leaders, knowledgeable individuals and
beneficiaries were conducted. A total of 32 key informants and 27 focus group discussions (5 to 7
discussant in each group) were conducted. Results have been included in the main text of the ICR.
For details, the Impact assessment report has been attached to the ICR as supporting document.




                                                50

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Executive Summary

1.1   Background

The two years (May 1998-June 2000) Ethio-Eritrean war had resulted in massive destructions and
displacement of many people in both countries. On the Ethiopian side, about 364,000 people were
displaced from 14 woredas (8 in Tigray and 6 in Afar regional states) that were directly affected
along the 1,000 km border between the two countries.

Most of these Internally Displaced People (IDPs) remained in temporary settlements/shelters
entirely depending on humanitarian assistance because they were unable to return to their homes
due to the presence of landmines and/or because their homes as well as their essential resources and
basic infrastructural services (water and power supplies, roads, schools and health facilities) were
damaged or destroyed. The border town of Zalanbessa had been totally destroyed.

About 110,000 Ethiopians who had been permanently residing in Eritrea were suddenly
deported/returned to Ethiopia as the result of the war. The war-affected population also included
about 144,000 families who lost their main breadwinners including militia and war causalities.

The concentration of large number of relatively well paid soldiers together with the inflow of
commercial sex workers and development of informal family arrangements has exposed the armed
forces and communities in Tigray and Afar National Regional States to considerable health risks
such as HIV/AIDS transmissions.

Following the Cessation of Hostilities Agreement in June 2000, the country initiated an Emergency
Recovery Project (ERP) with three years duration (January 1, 2001-December 31, 2003)7 and
approached the World Bank for financing. In December 21, 2000, a Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) was signed between the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia and
International Development Association (IDA) for a total amount of 180,200,000 SDR (Cr. 3438-
ET).

1.2   Objective of ERP
The objectives of the ERP have been to:
    · Help the war affected people to rebuild their lives and resume productive economic activities;
    · Reconstruct and rehabilitate destroyed and damaged socio-economic infrastructure to restart
        the provision of services;
    · To mitigate the threat of land mines and UXO and to create an environment conducive for the
        safe and sustainable return of civilians to their homes and livelihood;
    · To reduce the HIV infection and spread by scaling up HIV/AIDS related interventions for the
        army and the displaced population as a result of the conflict; and
    · Support macro economic stability in the country.

1.3   Components of the Project
The components of the project have been:



    7The project duration was later extended up to December 29, 2006.




                                                   51

    · Support for households rehabilitation that included assistance to (a) internally displaced
         people (IDP), (b) families of the deceased (FDs)by the war, (c) returnees/deportees(DPs)
         from Eriterea and (d) reconstruction and rehabilitation of residential and commercial
         premises damaged by the war;
    · Rehabilitation and reconstruction of community infrastructure (schools, health facilities and
         rural water supply;
    · Rehabilitation and reconstruction of roads, bridges and power connections as well as
         purchase of machinery and power generators.
    · De-mining of land mines and UXO; and
    · Creation/promotion of awareness for the prevention of HIV/AIDS and care and support to
         PLWHA

1.4   Purpose of the ICR
This ICR is intended to take stock of the achievements of project objectives, outputs and outcomes;
experiences and lessons learned in the process of preparing and implementing activities of the ERP
components. The lessons learned from this ICR would help in the designs, preparation, and
implementation of other new projects.

1.5   Project Preparation, Design & Quality at Entry
The project preparation, design and quality at entry were properly carried out according to the
objectives of the project. The Government both at the federal and regional levels including
implementation agencies like MoFED, DPPC, Regional Governments and project offices, EEPCO,
ERA, ESRDF and HIV/AIDS secretariat office, among others, were fully involved in the
assessments of needs of beneficiaries, and damages done on social and economic infrastructure.
The project is comprehensive in addressing all aspects of the aftermath of the war (affected
communities, damaged infrastructure, mine infestation, HIV/AIDs) and the design focused in
immediate rehabilitation needs of the war affected people through quick disbursement arrangements
based on positive list of imports.

1.6   Consistence/Relevance to the Bank CAS
The consistence of the project to government priorities and the Bank's CAS, like poverty reduction
strategy, meeting MDG goals, food security, and rehabilitation of households and re-construction of
damaged and destroyed social and economic infrastructure, promotion of economic development
and macro-economic stability was properly checked.

1.7   Project Risks
The Government's full commitment to implement the project and put in place policies, institutional
arrangements, required staff with adequate skills both at federal and regional levels were
ascertained. Proper consideration was made to fully involve household beneficiaries and local
officials. Furthermore, institutional arrangements for successful implementation of the project were
made through the existing Government structure and establishing new ones as required. These have
enhanced the implementation and sustainability of the achievements of objectives and outputs of
the project.

1.8   Institutional Arrangements
The ERPMU was established to be responsible for the overall coordination of the implementation
of the program including to manage the household rehabilitation, while other agencies like the
ERA, EEPCO, ESRDF, etc were designated to implement components falling under their normal
mandates. The EMAO was also established as a national entity to implement the de-mining
activities.



                                                 52

1.9    Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Component Oriented Monitoring and Evaluation arrangement was followed in the course of
implementation of the ERP supported activities. Accordingly all implementing agencies including the
regional project offices of Tigray and Afar, ESRDF, ERA and EEPCO, DPPC and EMAO produced
and submitted progress reports to the federal ERPMU, which again submitted consolidated quarterly
progress reports to the World Bank and other concerned bodies. The Federal PMUs and the World
Bank country office made frequent field visits to project areas to further strengthen the follow-up and
monitoring process as well as provision of technical backstopping in the course of implementation.

2.     Achievements of Objectives and Outputs of the ERP

2.1    Achievements of Objectives and Outputs of Assistance for Household Rehabilitation
The overall objectives of the household rehabilitation component was to provide assistance to the
war-affected population in order to rebuild their lives and resume productive economic activities
and have access to basic services.
With the total payment of rehabilitation assistance amounting to Birr 362,364,314 for a total of
67,105 IDPs, Birr 381,110,403.20 for 77,054 FDs, and Birr 222,701,240 for 66,038 Deportees, the
project has enabled beneficiaries to acquire agreed goods and services (all eligible beneficiaries), and
reconstruct war damaged residential and commercial houses including purchases of essential
household items (eligible IDPs only). Besides the project has provided basic skill trainings to a
number of households on the basis of training need assessments.

As measured against the above mentioned key performance indicators, 94% of the IDPs have
received minimum financial assistance needed, surpassing the 60% target level set as a key
performance indicator in the ERP Technical Annex. Similarly, 91% and 93% of the FDs and
Deportees have received minimum cash assistance required respectively.

According to the Impact Assessment Study that was conducted by independent consultants towards
the end of the project, the general living conditions of the ERP beneficiaries have substantially
improved through marked increases in productivity, production and income. Their social and
psychological situations have also been stabilized. For example, from each category of the sample
beneficiaries 87.3% of the IDPs, 91.7% of the FDs, and 79% of the Deportees said that their general
living conditions have improved, while 97.4% of IDPs, 97.2% of FDs, and 86% of Deportees
replied their social and psychological situations have been stabilized with the project.
Thus the output and impact of the household rehabilitation could be rated as highly satisfactory.

2.2    Achievements of Objectives and Outputs of Socio-Economic Infrastructure

2.2.1 Achievements of Objectives and Outputs of Roads
All planned outstanding (in completed) projects under Credit No. 3032 (Modjo-Awasharba, Hirna-
Kulubi, D/Markos-Merawi and Merawi-Gondar) having a total length of 679.1km road works
financed from credit no. 3438-ET with a total of birr 218,323,106 were completed at the allocated
budget. Thus 95.7% (2397.1 km) of the total planned roads was completed at birr 766,184,518
compared to the budgeted Birr 762,090,274. The planned three bridge/structure projects (Dure-
dewel contract I, Dure-dewel contract II, and DireDawa-Dure) were implemented at Birr
38,634,788 compared to the allocated budget of Birr 34,369,307 (12% higher). Total expenditure
for all road projects came to Birr 796,459,581, compared to the total allocated budget of Birr
804,819,306.

The Emergency Maintenance of Roads was one of the major components of the rehabilitation effort
that was carried out. Accordingly, the execution of activities carried out under maintenance projects


                                                 53

had significantly improved the conditions of the road projects and facilitated easy movement of
traffic of the maintained/rehabilitated roads.

2.2.2    Achievement of Objectives and Outputs of Power
Rehabilitation and reconstruction of 65km of 15KV line; 27km of 0.4KV line; and 6km of street
lights, replacement/ provision of 29 pieces of 50 and 63 KVA transformers; 2 pieces of 450 KW
diesel generators and 550 single phase customer's connections in the towns of Zalanbessa, Adigirat,
Bure and Mekelle and construction of 116km Nekemt-Bedele 132KV transmission line were carried
out. In addition, the constructions of 135 km Ghedi- Gimbe transmission line; as well as upgrading
and maintenance of Koka and Tis-Abay power plants and substations; and new connections were
implemented for 969 former renters and 1091 former customers in Zalanbessa town. The total budget
utilized was Birr 88.5million, which was equivalent to the re-allocated budget/finance
The ERP's output in supporting of rehabilitation, construction and supplying of equipment for electric
power had been found commendable.

2.2.3 Achievements of Objectives and Outputs of Community Infrastructure
The rehabilitation, expansion, upgrading, construction and furnishing of 92.7% (486) of the approved
total 523 community projects (schools, health and rural water supplies) were successfully completed
and started to render normal services in Afar and Tigray regions. The total financial costs of
completing all the 486 projects were Birr 118.62 million, that is, at 91% of the approved budgets Birr
130.72 million.

According to the impact assessment study conducted towards the end of the project, the majority of
sample IDPs, graded that the impact of the ERP support have been improving and improving much,
in terms of beneficiary communities' access to and nearness of these basic infrastructure.

2.3    Achievement of Objectives and Outputs of De-mining Activities
The main objectives of the Mine Action component of the Programme have been to mitigate the
threat of landmines and UXO and to create conducive environment for the safe and sustainable
return of civilians to their homes and livelihood.

It was estimated that 27 Square kilometers of land were mined as per the initial survey conducted
by Hallo Trust (an NGO) and EDP. Out of this area, 24.2 Square kilometers were cleared until 29
December 2006 showing an achievement of 88.9%. by EMAO since May 2002 using Manual
Demining and Mine Detection Dog Teams. The Mechanical Flail teams prepared a total area of
4,918,297 square meters to be cleared by the other de-mining entities.

The establishment of the Ethiopian Mine Action Office has enabled the country to build its own
national capacity and save loan fund from spending to contracts of international de-mining
companies.

Farming and grazing lands that were infested by landmines were cleared and communities had been
able to return and cultivate their lands and move their cattle for grazing, able to resume a normal
and free life.

The fear that once gripped the people due to the abundant loss of their cattle and human life mainly
small children has been eliminated once their areas have been cleared and handed over to them with
certified documents of free lands. People have been able to interact with one another without fear of
landmines. The number of mine casualties has significantly dropped




                                                 54

The Mine Clearance operation has contributed in the disposal and demolition of the hazardous
materials thereby creating the opportunity to get in touch with the environment and engage in
environmental protection activities like terracing, planting trees, gully protection etc...

2.4    Achievement of Objectives and Outputs of HIV/AIDS Prevention, Care and Support
The main objectives of the HIV/AIDS prevention, care and support component of the programme
involved awareness creation on the prevention, control, care and support for the displaced people
including DPs, military personnel, demobilized soldiers and commercial sex workers (CSWs).

The impact assessment study carried out earlier indicated that intensive campaigns had been carried
out over all the Regional States including the war-affected woredas. Posters had been placed at
appropriate places (on roads sides, in compounds of schools and health facilities, in bars and hotels,
etc). Various Anti-HIV/AIDS Committees like Anti- HIV/AIDS Youth Clubs, Ant-HIV/AIDS Kebele
Committees, and Anti-HIV/AIDS Committees/Clubs at work places had been established at all
woredas and tabias. Condoms were being distributed freely and placed at toilets, latrines and other
convenient places. Awareness creation on prevention and control of HIV/AIDS were being conducted
at various levels, at regular community meetings, at schools and to attending patients at health
facilities particularly by trained health officers.

3.     Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation and Outcomes/Outputs
The following factors worth mention to have contributed for slowing down the implementation
performances of the project activities.


3.1    Household Rehabilitation Supports- Major problems under household rehabilitation
       included:
    · High turn over of RTFs and Woreda Finance Bureau staffs
    · Weak data base and system to identify some of the FDs heritors,
    · Reluctance of regions to timely settle their accounts,
    · Long time taken to settle court cases of some FDS.
    · Limited experience in establishing humanitarian mine action office

3.2    Support to Community and Economic Infrastructure
    · Lack of competent and experienced contractors, specifically in the implementation of rural
         water supply projects contributed to relatively low performance and coverage, and
    · Lengthy procurement processes in the purchase of road equipment.

3.3      Support to the De-mining Activities
The harsh climatic conditions (high temperature) in the operation areas and the topographic
conditions of most of the mine-infested areas were the major challenges through out the project.
Some of the war-affected areas that were close to the battlefields were also highly contaminated
with fragments and other landmines and UXOs. It took long time to clear these highly fragmented
areas and to make them free of landmines and UXOs. Lengthy custom clearance processes have
also affected timely delivery of de-mining equipment.

4      Sustainability
4.1    Support to Household Rehabilitation
The eventual success and long-term sustainability of the household rehabilitation depend upon the
effective utilization of the cash support for productive purposes and how well a phasing-out
program is conceived. Most of the cash assistance had been effectively used for productive
economic activities (agricultural production and non-agricultural income generating activities),




                                                   55

which have growth potentials and self-sustenance. Hence, sustainability of the household support is
highly satisfactory.

4.2    Support to Community Infrastructure: School, Health Facilities and Rural Water
       Supply
Community infrastructure, like schools and health facilities rehabilitated and constructed by the ERP
funds had been transferred to the regional/woreda education and health bureaus/departments, which
are responsible to manage and operate them including covering their recurrent and maintenance
expenses. However, the sustainability of rural water supply appears at risk because as the amount of
fees collected by the users communities appeared too small to cover even operation expenses

4.3    Support to Economic Infrastructure: Road and Power
As the support given for the road sub-component was to build the capacity and capability of ERA,
an existing and well-organized institution, sustainability of the support given to the road program
has been thus further enhanced. Similarly sustainability of support given to power sub-component
is ascertained, as the EEPCo is a well-established revenue generating and self-supporting growing
institution.

4.4    Support to De-mining
The support given to de-mining has already created the EMAO, which has become capable entity
even by regional and international standards. But its future sustainability depends on availability of
works and finance both in Ethiopia and in the neighboring countries. It is hoped that with its
developed manpower, skills and gained experiences, the EMAO would make all efforts to promote
itself and find work in countries, like the Sudan (South & Darfur), Somalia and Congo, indeed, with
the donor finance to the mine-infested/affected countries. Recently, EMAO has obtained EU
financing for continuation and scaling up of demining activities.

5      Performance Evaluation of Borrower and Donor
5.1    Bank's Performance
The World Bank team had taken only two months to prepare and process the project. There were
interim missions from Washington DC and country office. As the project was an emergency one, the
time taken for the design phase had thus been short. The team had really done very good job with
such a short time period.

The Loan Process, Negotiation, Board Presentation, and Project Effectiveness had taken two
months. This was the quickest possible time (compared to the time taken to approve normal other
projects by the Bank).

During the project implementation and operation phases, both the borrower and the donor had
worked closely. There were several field visits jointly made including higher officials and resolved
many issues at local levels. Studies such as verification of fund utilization by beneficiaries, social
and environmental assessment, and project impact study have been done jointly. Withdrawal
applications were properly considered and fund disbursements were timely made. There were
encouraging flexibility in line with the emergency nature of the project and all no objection requests
were positive and timely responded to the satisfaction of the borrower. These conditions among
others, contributed for the smooth implementation and operation of the project activities. There has
been a continuous follow up and support by the staff at Washington and in Ethiopia. The Banks
contributions and assistances in this regard have been commendable. Hence, the overall Bank
performance is rated as highly satisfactory.

5.2    Borrowers' Performance


                                                56

5.2.1 Government/Borrower
The government of Ethiopia has been instrumental in preparing the program and allocating of
recurrent budget and assigned staff. Furthermore, different government agencies including the
ERA, EEPCo, DPPC, ESRDF, Regional Governments, Project offices at all levels and sector
bureaus also collaborated by giving the necessary support during the implementation period.

5.2.2 PMU's Performance
On the Borrower's side, the federal project management unit (ERPMU) had coordinated the
rehabilitation process at national level. It reviewed regional budget requests and disbursed the
necessary budget timely. The ERPMU staff have made frequent field visits to assist regional project
offices and have produced several field visit reports. The ERPMU have also produced progress
reports based on regional reports and submitted to the World Bank country office and other relevant
government bodies on quarterly basis.
The borrower's performance in negotiations, coordination, fund disbursement implementation,
operation, and procurement, follow-up and monitoring of the ERP activities was satisfactory.

EMAO's Performance
Despite being new, the performance of the EMAO has been to the level of international standards
and its capacity has increased to a capable demining entity integrated. Due to its successful
accomplishment, the EMAO has got international recognition to be engaged in demining activities
elsewhere and get the benefits of its services.

UNDP's Performance
The UN, through its technical support to the Ethiopian Mine Action Programme, has assisted the
project in giving technical advice in the areas of contract management, Quality Assurance, training,
and information management systems and procurement. UN-MAAT closely worked with the
project from the beginning of the mine action operations and it has assisted in filling the shortfalls
in some of the key areas. Currently, UNDP is financing the humanitarian mine action in the country
through EU donation to ensure continuity of the operations.

6     Lessons Learned
6.1   Great experiences had been gained and capacity had been created on how successfully to
      enable return large number of internally displaced people to (IDPs) their places of origins,
      rehabilitate and re-establish families who lost their main breadwinners (FDs), and deportees
      (DPs) once crowded in refugee camps; and also enable them resume normal livelihoods, as
      well as in rehabilitation and reconstruction of damaged and destroyed houses, community and
      economic infrastructure (schools, health facilities, rural water supplies, roads and power) and
      clearance of landmines that were dangerous to human and animal lives. The speed, efficiency
      and effectiveness of the whole exercise had been commendable.
6.2   The use of existing institutional structures than establishing new project offices that require
      more resources had helped to quick -start project implementation and execution of the project
      in a cost effective way through minimizing overhead costs at all levels. Establishment of the
      coordinating function of ERPMU within the MoFED using key personnel assigned mainly on
      a secondment basis, as well as the use of exiting institutions like ERA and EEPCo for the
      implementation of road and power rehabilitation and reconstruction components of the
      project respectively are among commendable examples.
6.3   On the other hand, in the case of Tigray and Afar regions, where the activities were large
      and intensive requiring full time and immense scale of operations at a fast speed,
      establishing a separate PMUs with key experienced personnel assigned on a full time basis,
      was found to be successfully relevant and effective despite additional costs. Similarly the




                                                 57

      establishment of the EMAO brought new skills, technology, managerial know-how and
      gained new experiences for the country.
6.4   The fact that the project objectives, component-wise activities and targets were realistically
      and clearly defined and designed; and simply understood by the implementing agencies, had
      helped beneficiaries and other stakeholders make great contribution to the successful
      completion of the project.



6.5   The project preparation, loan processing, approval and effectiveness were all completed
      timely in the shortest possible time to meet the emergency nature of the project. Similarly
      quarterly and annual progress reports from the implementing agencies were regularly and
      timely submitted to the ERPMU, which was subsequently able to submit the overall
      quarterly and annual progress reports to the higher government authorities and donors.
6.6   Involving the beneficiaries, regional and local (woreda) officials/stake-holders, particularly
      the formation of the RTFs and the implementation agencies in the design, need assessments
      and monitoring and evaluation of the projects had created transparency and ownership of the
      projects to the beneficiaries and implementing agencies.
6.7   The training given to the beneficiaries (IDPs, FDs and DPs) and the staff of the Mining Desk
      at the EPRMU and EMAO as well as the provision of necessary support services like
      purchase of equipment and machinery for the EMAO, ERA and EEPCo had further assisted
      the capacity building of the implementing agencies.
6.8   Both the borrower and the Bank followed flexibility during implementation.
6.9   Proper follow-ups including field visits of the project were regularly carried out both by the
      Bank and the ERPMU staff.
6.10 The successful links and smooth interactions between federal, regional and woreda
      organizations and other implementing agencies like the ERA, EEPCo, ESRDF, EMAO,
      DPPC and the EPRMU as well as with the donors like the World Bank, UNDP, ILO, etc had
      made commendable contribution to the successful completion of the project.

7     Recommendation
Since Ethiopia is one of the ratifying and acceded countries of the Mine Ban Convention, the country
is expected to implement the convention before the deadline. During the project, it has been possible
to clear 24.2 square kilometer of mined area. The degree of the problem is well beyond the closing of
the Programme and it has been arranged that the government and other donors will actively involve in
addressing this issue. In line with this effort, the Peace Building Initiative by the European
Commission has pledged an eight million Euro grant for Mine Action in Ethiopia to be financed
through the UNDP. And it is expected that other donors who are also engaged in supporting the
Ethiopian Mine Action Office will continue their effort. A huge capacity has been built over the
project period. This capacity has to be properly and efficiently utilized in the years to come at
international level.




                                                58

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
UNDP Support to the Ethiopian Mine Action Office and ERPMU during the ERP

The UNDP Mine Action Support Programme has supported the Emergency Recovery Project by
providing international assistance to the Ethiopia Mine Action Office headquarters and field units.
The ERP included wording to the effect that "a mine action component is a pre-requisite for other
rehabilitation activities to take place, and will be developed in the context of post-conflict
rehabilitation". The main objectives of the ERP Demining Component were stated as:
    · To create a national mine action capacity to respond to the landmine / Unexploded Ordnance
        threat on a country-wide basis.
    · To create conditions throughout Tigray and Afar regions that permit Internally Displaced
        Persons and civilians residents to return to their homes free from the threat of explosive devices
        so that reconstruction and development activities can take place in a safe environment.

UNDP believe that both objectives were fully accomplished, including capacity development
achievements in terms of EMAO planning, operations, training, quality assurance, operational safety
and information management., The high quality of EMAO management and operations have been
recognized in project evaluation reports of international agencies.

Comprehensive Mine Action Programme evaluations were conducted by Both UNDP and the Geneva
International Center for Humanitarian Demining (GICHD) in 2006. The UNDP evaluation found that
"a high degree of national management, planning and operational capacity had been developed". The
GICHD evaluation noted that "EMAO's demining operations have made a substantial contribution to
the resettlement and rehabilitation efforts in the war-affected districts of Ethiopia, delivering
significant socio-economic benefits for those regions and promoting Ethiopia's post-war recovery."

It became clear during 2006 that EMAO had reached a level of competency that justified National
Execution. Accordingly, during 2006 the UNDP project drastically reduced international advisors.
With EMAO designated as Executing Agent for all project activities, donor funds will continue to be
channeled through UNDP

As part of the ERP, the GOE and UNDP signed a Memorandum of Agreement for the provision of
management and support services to be provided through UNOPS. The GOE, in consultation with the
World Bank, decided to use approximately US$ 1,500,000 allocated to the Mine Action component of
the ERP for provision of international procurement services for the EMAO through UNOPS, and
under the project management of the ERPMU. The amount of the MOA was subsequently increased
to US$ 2,606,992 in 2004, and was further increased a total sum of US$ 6,662,255 in 2006.
International procurement was used to purchase specialized equipment, as identified and requested by
EMAO, that included vehicles, mine detectors, demining protective equipment, explosives,
communication equipment, excavating and survey tools, medical equipment and spare parts for
vehicles and mine detectors. In 2003, the World Bank agreed to an EMAO/ ERPMU proposal to
procure Mini-Flails and Mine Detection Dog Teams (MDDT) to enhance EMAO's ground
preparation capability and mine clearance productivity. The addition of MDDT and Mini-Flails
significantly increased EMAO productivity and safety of operations. Final ERP international
procurement was completed in late 2006 and all equipment was shipped or delivered by 31Dec06.

UNDP wish to thank the World Bank and Government of Ethiopia for their cooperation throughout
the ERP process.




                                                   59

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

1. ERP, Technical Annex, Report No. 7402-ET, November 2000.
2. ERP, Aide-memoirs of supervision missions, Project Status Reports (PSRs) and Implementation
   Status and Results reports (ISRs), 2001­06.
3. ERP, Household Rehabilitation Component, First Disbursement Evaluation Report (Tigray,
   Amhara, and Afar regions), MoFED, March 2002.
4. An evaluation of the first disbursement to the families of the deceased in the Oromiya Region,
   April 2002.
5. An evaluation of the first fund disbursement to the families of the deceased in the Southern
   Region, April 2002.
6. An evaluation of the second phase ERP household rehabilitation assistance to IDPs, deportees,
   and the families of the deceased in Tigray, Afar, Amhara, Oromia, Southern, and Addis Ababa
   regions, MoFED, August 2003.
7. ERP, Impact Assessment Report, MoFED, June 2006.
8. ERP, Projecty Completion Report for the Household Rehabilitation Component for Tigray
   Region, Tigray-PMU, August 2006.
9. Ethiopia, Landmine Impact Survey, Final Report, Survey Action Center, January 2005.
10. The federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, Central Statistical Authority, Welfare Monitoring
    Survey 2004, analytical report, June 2004, Addis Ababa.
11. ERP, Environmental and Social Assessment (ESA), MoFED, September 2002.
12. EDRP, Environmental and Social Assessment (ESA), MoFED, March 2003.
13. Ethiopia, Study of Ethiopian Deports/Returnees from Eritrea living in Tigray, UNICEF and
    Women's Association of Tigray, December 2001.




                                               60

             32°E                                36°E                             40°E                42°E                    44°E                                          ETHIOPIA
                                                                 ERITREA                                                  REP.                           ADMINISTRATIVE
                                                                                                                            OF                                         REGIONS
                                                                                                                      YEMEN
                   ETHIOPIA                                                                                                                                       AND ZONES
          14°N                                                                                                                    14°N
                                                                   TIGRAYTIGRA                                                                                           ZONE BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                         REGION BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES



                                                                                                                                                                    46°E                   48°E


          12°N                                                                             AFARAFAR                                                                                              12°N
                                                                                                               DJIBOUTI
                                                                 AMHARAAMHARA


                    SUDAN
                                       BENSHANGULBENSHANGUL

          10°N                                                                               DIRE DA A
                                                                                             DIRE DAW                                                                                            10°N




                                                                ADDIS ABABA
                                                                ADDIS ABABA

                                                                                                   HARARIHARARI                                                                SOMALIA



          8°N             GAMBELAGAMBELA                                      OROMIYAOROMIY                                                                                                       8°N




                                              SOUTHERN NATIONS,
                                              SOUTHERN NATIONS,                                                      SOMALISOMALI

                                                NATIONALITES
                                                NATIONALITES
          6°N                                   AND PEOPLES
                                                AND PEOPLES                                                                                                                                       6°N

                0  50  100 150 200 Kilometers



                0    50     100    150 Miles




                                                                                                                       This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                       The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
          4°N                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD
                                                                                                                       shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank              4°N
JUNE                                                                                                                   Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                       endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                      35578
    2007         UGANDA                                     KENYA
             32°E              34°E              36°E             38°E            40°E                42°E                    44°E                                  46°E                   48°E

