Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Ministry of Finance and Economic
Development (MoFED)
Emergency Recovery Project (ERP)
Baseline Survey Report
on
Environmental and Social Assessment (ESA) in Afar, Amhara and
Tigray Regions
Prepared By
Mohammed Mussa - ESA Team Leader
With Retta Assegid, Worku Gebeyehu, Kelkilachew Ali, Mesfin Admassu,
Etalem Mengistu and Aregay Demeke
May 2003



TABLE OF CONTENTS
LIST OF ACRONYMS ..............................                             V
PREFACE ............... VI
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ...........................                               VII
INTRODUCTION ...........................                                     12
1. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES          ..12
2. STUDY METHODOLOGY AND LIMITATIONS       ..14
2.1  SOURCES OF INFORMATION AND SURVEY TECHNIQUES .14
2.2 SAMPLING PROCEDURE                        .5
2.3. LIMITATIONS OF THE SURVEY .15
2.4. ORGANIZATION OF THE REPORT .15
CHAPTER ONE: TIGRAY REGION ...........................                       17
0. REGIONAL PROFILE                           ..17
1. INTERNALLY DISPLACED PEOPLE (IDPS)      ..17
1.1. BACKGROUND                            .17
1.2. DISPLACEMENT SITUATION                     .18
1.3. SOCIO-ECONOMIC CHARACTERISTICS                .19
1.4. COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE .21
1.5. HOUSING RECONSTRUCTION .22
1.6. LIVESTOCK HOLDING .24
1.7. LANDMINE EFFECTS .26
1.8. FOOD ASSISTANCE ASSESSMENT .27
1.9. ESTIMATES OF FOOD ASSISTANCE .28
1.10. NEEDS AND PRIORITIES .29
1.11. HIV/AIDS AWARENESS .31
2. FAMILIES OF THE DECEASED         ..32
2.1 SOCIO-ECONOMIC CHARACTERISTICS .32
2.2. OCCUPATION OF THE HOUSEHOLD MEMBERS .34
2.3. ASSET HOLDINGS .35
2.4. HOUSEHOLD NEEDS AND PRIORITIES .36
2.5. ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENT .37
2.6. HIV/AIDS AWARENESS .38
3. DEPORTEES..39
3.1. BASELINE INFORMATION ON DEPORTEES .39
3.2. POTENTIAL INCOME GENERATING ACTIVITIES (IGS) .41
3.3. RECOMMENDATIONS .43
3.4. ESTIMATE OF FOOD ASSISTANCE .44
4. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS         ..45
4.1. CONCLUSIONS .45
4.2. RECOMMENDATIONS .46
CHAPTER TWO: AMHARA NATION REGIONAL STATE .............................................. 47
0. REGIONAL PROFILE            ..47
1. FAMILIES OF THE DECEASED         ..47
1.1. BACKGROUND .47
1.2. SOCIO-ECONOMIC CHARACTERISTICS OF BENEFICIARY HOUSEHOLDS .48
1.3. SKILLS AND OCCUPATION OF RESPONDENTS .50



1.4. ASSET HOLDINGS .................................                      51
1.5. NEEDS AND PRIORITIES .................................                53
1.6. INCOME GENERATING SCHEMES AND TRAINING .................................  54
1.7. TRAINING NEEDS AND POTENTIALS .................................       56
1.8. HIV/AIDS AWARENESS .................................                  57
2.  DEPORTEES ...............................                                  58
2.1. DEMOGRAPHIC CHARACTERISTICS ...........................               58
2.2  DEPORTATION AND LOSS OF PROPERTY ...........................          59
2.3  EDUCATIONAL STATUS OF DEPORTEES ...........................           59
2.4  CURRENT LIVELIHOOD SITUATION ...........................              59
2.5  FOOD ASSISTANCE ...........................                           60
2.6  ACCESS TO SOCIAL SERVICES ...........................                 62
3.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS          ............................ 63
CHAPTER THREE: AFAR REGIONAL STATE .65
0.  REGIONAL PROFILE .............................                             65
1.  INTERNALLY DISPLACED PEOPLE (IDPS) ............................ .          66
1.1. BACKGROUND ..............................                             66
1.2. SOCIO-DEMOGRAPHIC CHARACTERISTICS ..............................      66
1.3. ACTIVITIES OF IDPS ..............................                     66
1.4. DISPLACEMENT AND PROPERTY LOSS ..............................         67
1.5. LIVESTOCK HOLDING ..............................                      68
1.6. LANDMINES ..............................                              69
1.7. FOOD ASSISTANCE ..............................                        70
1.8. ACCESS TO SOCIAL SERVICES ..............................              70
1.9. MAJOR PROBLEMS, NEEDS AND PRIORITIES ..............................   71
1.11. HlV/AIDS ..............................                              71
2.  FAMILIES OF THE DECEASED ...............................                   72
2.1. BACKGROUND ..............................                             72
2.2. SOCIO-ECONOMIC CHARACTERISTICS ..............................         72
2.3. NEEDS AND PRIORITIES ..............................                   73
2.4. HIV/A1DS ..............................                               73
3.  DEPORTEES ...............................                                  74
3.1. BACKGROUND .............................                              74
3.2  DEPORTATION .............................                             74
3.3. SOCIAL INTEGRATION OF THE DEPORTEES .............................     74
3.4. ACCESS TO SOCIAL SERVICES .............................               75
3.5. FOOD ASSISTANCE .............................                         76
4.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS          ............................ 77
CHAPTER FOUR: ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF REHABILITATION
INTERVENTIONS .78
1.  INTERVENTIONS FOR INTERNALLY DISPLACED PEOPLE (IDPS) .79
2. INTERVENTIONS FOR FAMILIES OF DECEASED .80
3. INTERVENTIONS FOR DEPORTEES                        .81
CHAPTER FIVE: SOCIO-ECONOMIC IMPACTS OF THE INTERVENTIONS -
SAFEGUARD ISSUES .82
iii



CHAPTER SIX: MONITORING AND EVALUATION ....................................................... 83
1. CURRENT PRACTICES .83
2.  CONSTRAINTS IN THE EXISTING M & E ACTIVITIES .83
3.  PROPOSED MONITORING AND EVALUATION SYSTEM .84
4. RAPID ASSESSMENT .85
5. EVALUATION .85
CHAPTER SEVEN: REHABILITATION STRATEGY FOR DEPORTEES .................... 86
1. GENERAL REHABILITATION STRATEGY       ..86
I.1. NEEDS ASSESSMENT .86
1.2. PREPARATION OF INDIVIDUAL BUSINESS PLANS .86
1.3. MARKETS AND FINANCIAL COST AND BENEFIT ANALYSIS FOR SOME IGS .87
1.4. PARTICIPATION OF THE DEPORTEES IN THE PROCESS .87
1.5. FINANCING .87
1.6. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENT .87
1.7. SELECTION OF PILOT TOWNS .88
1.8. PROVISION OF TRAINING .88
1.9. FOOD ASSISTANCE .88
1.10. SHELTER .88
1.11. PREPARATION OF ACTION PLAN .89
1.12. MONITORING .89
2.  REHABILITATION STRATEGY FOR THE VULNERABLE GROUPS  .    .89
2.1. NEEDS AND PRIORITIES .89
2.2. REHABILITATION PLANS .90
2.3. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENT .90
2.4. PROVISION OF TRAINING .90
2.5. ORPHANS .91
2.6. THE ELDERLY (AGED) .91
2.6. THE DISABLED .92
2.7. MONITORING .93
iv



LIST OF ACRONYMS
AARRDP        Agency for Assistance of Refugees, Returnees and Displaced People
ACSI -        Amhara Credit and Saving Institute
ADA    -      Amhara Development Association
APDA -       Afar Pastoral Development Association
BoA    -      Bureau of Agriculture
BoLSA -       Bureau of Labour and Social Affairs
DPPB   -      Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Bureau
DPPC   -     Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Commission
DSCP -       Dessie Street Children Project
EGS    -     Employment Generation Scheme
EECMY         Ethiopian Evangelical Church Mekane Yesus
EMAO -       Ethiopian Mine Action Organization
EOC    -     Ethiopian Orthodox Church
ERP    -      Emergency Recovery Program
ERPMU-        Emergency Rehabilitation Program Management Unit
ESRDF -       Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund
FFW    -      Food for Work
FGD    -      Focus Group Discussion
FHI    -      Food for the Hungry International
FSCE   -      forum for Street Children Ethiopia
IDA    -     International Development Association
IDPs   -     Internally Displaced People
IGS    -     Income Generating Scheme
GTZ    -      German Technical Assistance
LSAD -        Labour and Social Affairs Department
Kg     -     kilogram
Kms    -      Kilometers
masl   -      Meter above ESAlevel
MoFED -       Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
M & E -      Monitoring and Evaluation
MFI    -      Micro Finance Institute
MOND-         Ministry of National Defense
NGO    -      Non-governmental Organizations
ORDA -        Organization for Rehabilitation and Development of Amhara
RADO -       Rehabilitation and Development Organization
REST   -      Relief Society of Tigray
RTF    -      Rehabilitation Task Force
ESA    -      Environmental and Social Assessment
SIDA   -      Swedish International Development Agency
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
TLU    -      Tropical Livestock Unit
ORDA -        Organization for Rehabilitation and Development of Amhara
PMU    -      Project Management Unit
UNDP- United Nations development Program
USAID-        United States Aid for International Development
UXOs -        Unexploded Ordinance
WFP    -      World Food Program
v



PREFACE
This report was prepared by Mohammed Mussa (ESA Team Leader) with Ato Retta Assegid, Kelkilachew
Ali, Ato Worku Gebeyehu, Ms Etalem Mengistu, Ato Mesfin Admassu, Ato Aragey Demeke and Frederic
Giovannetti (ESA advisor). Many people in various capacities have provided information and assistance
towards the efforts of the Study Teams in Tigray, Afar and Amhara Regional states. These include senior
staff of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MoFED), the World Bank; staff of the
EPMRU in Amhara and Tigray Regions, DPPC, ESRDF-Afar Office, government sector offices at and
regional, zonal and woreda levels; members of zonal and woreda councils; and community members in all
project woredas
We are also thankful to NGOs and bi-lateral and multi-lateral organizations who provided useful information
for the study. These include WFP, UNICEF, USAID, UNDP and others.
Our special thanks go to Ato Wondwowssen Feleke, head of the EPMRU, Ato Gemeda Aleme, Ato Demillie
Asmamaw, Ato Demirew Getachew and Ato Hailiye Makonnen of MoFED; Mr. Robert Roche, Mr. Gaiv
Tata and Ato Abebaw Alemayehu of the World Bank for their technical inputs and encouragement provided
during the undertaking of the study. We also thank the various community members and beneficiaries of the
project for their patience and time which made our assignment interesting and professionally rewarding.
vi



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The Ethio-Eritrean conflict has resulted in displacement of the population of Tigray and Afar bordering
Eritrea. The conflict has also resulted in the deportation of Ethiopians from Eritrea. The IDPs and deportees
have lost their means of livelihood. Furthermore, many households in the country including in Tigray,
Amhara and Afar Regional states have lost their breadwinners following the border conflict.
With the recent Comprehensive Peace Initiative between Ethiopia and Eritrea, an Emergency Recovery
Program (ERP) has been initiated which is aimed at rehabilitating the war affected population of the country.
The Credit Agreement between the Ethiopian government and the IDA requires to undertake the
Environmental and Social Assessment of the war-affected population in the three regions of Tigray, Afar and
Amhara.
The rehabilitation program has identified rehabilitation packages for the war-affected population in the areas
of agriculture, housing rehabilitation for IDPs, household utensils and income generating schemes (IGS).
The items under these packages are considered as intended, while others outside these packages are
considered as non-intended. To this effect, the Environmental and Social Assessment (ESA) study has been
conducted to establish the benchmark information of the beneficiaries and identify the needs and priorities.
The ESA study has benefited from primary and secondary information. Primary information was collected at
sample household level using structured questionnaire. In addition, participatory tools and techniques (focus
group discussions and semi-structured interviews) were used to gather the perceptions of the various
stakeholders. Sample households (IDPs, Deportees and families of deceased) were covered by the survey.
The survey conducted on Tigray deportees by UNICEF is used in this report. The relevant documents
including the technical annex of the Credit Agreement as well as other previous studies in the three regions
were reviewed.
Findings
The program of ERP is classified as environmental category B because no component is expected to have a
significant environmental impact. An Environmental and Social Assessment (ESA) was undertaken in
Tigray, Afar and Amhara Regions at the end of the first year of the project to (i) more carefully evaluate
possible adverse social and environmental impacts associated with beneficiaries returning to their
communities, reconstructing their homes, and restarting their farming and business activities, (ii) establish a
socio-economic baseline, and (iii) evaluate the first release of household funds. The study confirmed that
there are no appreciable negative environmental or social impacts. The main concerns identified at appraisal
and tracked during implementation are as follows:
Restocking: Herd size and potential for overgrazing, plus the market price of livestock. Herd size and market
prices were tracked.
Farming Inputs: The application of inorganic fertilizer. Pesticides are not financed under the project. Use of
fertilizer was tracked.
Housing Reconstruction: The potential use of wooden beams to support traditional earth packed masonry
houses was mitigated by use of corrugated iron sheet roofing. Acceptance of the new construction materials
had to be confirmed, and price of roofing sheets tracked.
Resettlement: Since the IDPs are returning to their original homes issues related to involuntary resettlement
have not been triggered. However, a demining component was added to ensure the safe return of civilians to
their homes and farms by clearing areas affected by mines and unexploded ordnance.
vii



Deportees: The integration and acceptance of deportees/returnees in the communities, and support to
vulnerable old and young people.
Internally Displaced People (IDPs)
IDPs are found in Tigray and Afar Regions who have lost their properties due to the conflict. According to
the survey, the total number of IDPs in Tigray is estimated at about 54,836 in 47 war-affected tabias of the
region. With the effort of the Government and the Donor Community, some of the displaced have managed
to return to their origins and lead normal lives, while some of them still need assistance.
In Tigray, the needs of the IDPs have been assessed in three phases and the first phase of the ERP assistance
has already been disbursed to about 12,000 IDPs. In Afar, a rapid need assessment has already been
conducted for urban IDPs but there benefit disbursement has not yet taken place.
About 83% of the respondents in Tigray declared that they have returned to their origins and most of them
have already resumed their activities, though not at a full scale. For some of the IDPs, house damage and
landmines are the major reasons for not returning to their origins. It was reported in Tigray that cultivation is
limited due to fear of landmines.
The present survey results show that in Tigray, about 54% and 34% of the urban and rural IDP household
members, respectively have primary education and above, while 21 and 51%, respectively are reported to be
illiterate. The situation is different in Afar where most of the household members are illiterate and only 15%
of them have primary education. This is mainly due to the fact that even before displacement, children in
Afar are engaged in livestock herding and the current conventional education system is not relevant to the
region unless mobile education system is put in place.
There is an argument that due to the production system in the Afar Region (mobility), it is difficult to
distinguish displacement from normal movement of pastoralists with their animals. However, it was learnt
during the survey period that pastoralists have been displaced from some kebeles bordering Eritrea and the
movement of livestock for grazing and watering has been restricted by the fear of landmines. The survey
indicates that the herd size per household has drastically reduced as compared to the pre-war holding.
Generally, the survey results do not raise concerns about potential adverse environmental impacts as a result
of future restocking and housing reconstruction programs. The purpose of restocking is to replace the lost
animals, and is not increasing the herd sizes against what they used to be before the conflict. Moreover,
livestock has usually been purchased locally. Qualitative information collected from beneficiaries, officials
and experts confirms this view. Furthermore, the strategy of reconstructing houses has shifted from the uses
of beams to other materials which avoids the adverse environmental impact.
Regarding the priorities of the IDPs in the two regions, 70% of the IDPs in Afar reported that food shortage
is the major problem, while in Tigray 40% of the respondents declared that housing is the problem. In
Tigray, WFP has distributed food assistance to about 307,000 IDPs. About 98% of those who received the
assistance reported that the duration of the assistance was six months and above. WFP claims that since most
of the IDPs are expected to return to their origins and resume their activities, the food assistance for 2002
will be limited to some most vulnerable IDPs only. In Afar Region, 31% of the pastoral IDPs declared that
they have received food assistance for 6 months and above, while the majority of them (mainly pastoral
IDPs) reported that they have not received any food assistance at all.
Families of the Deceased
The families of the deceased are among the targets of the ERP. So far, 10,920 and 4,631 families of
deceased households in Tigray and Amhara, respectively have received the benefit packages, while in Afar,
the ERP benefit has not yet been disbursed due to the problems associated with logistics.
viii



The survey results show that on average, about 50% of the deceased have only one single beneficiary
household, and about 35% of the deceased have two beneficiary households (spouse and parent headed
households). The remaining 15% of them have more than two household beneficiaries. The major
beneficiaries of the deceased are spouses with children, if any, and parents. The extended family system in
the country has been reflected in the survey results - in some cases, brothers and sisters are considered as
beneficiaries which is mainly the case in Afar Region and the unmarried deceased.
The survey results further indicate that urban and rural families of deceased in the regions wish to involve in
off-farm activities for diversifying their income and improving their food security situation. Among the off-
farm activities, petty trading has become the most preferred area. For instance, in Tigray, 83% of the urban
and 86% of the rural families of deceased expressed the opinions that they would like to engage in petty
trading. The justification for the selection of this activity is that it does not require special skills and has been
practiced by many people as a source of additional income. About 56% of the respondents believe that they
can generate income from petty trading within 7-12 months and support themselves.
Deportees
One of the effects of the Ethio-Eritrean conflict is the deportation of about I  0,000 Ethiopians from Eritrea.
Among these deportees, about 75,000 are in Tigray, 1,400 in Afar and 16,500 in Amhara. The ERP
assistance has not yet reached the deportees. Recently, registration of the deportees has started at national
level the purpose of starting the rehabilitation program. During the focus group discussions in the three
regions, the deportees expressed that they feel neglected and abandoned. Some NGOs and WFP have
provided food assistance to some of the deportees but mainly only for 3-6 months.
The finding of the survey suggests that getting job opportunities is a priority for all deportees. Most of them
left Eritrea for economic reasons where, prior to the conflict, they were productive members of the society,
able to support themselves. Most of the deportees are now in conditions of dependency. Women and young
girls who are unable to find jobs and/or start productive economic activities, have been exposed to risky
activity - commercial sex work, especially in the areas of high military presence, are exposed to sexually
transmitted diseases, including HIV/AIDS.
The needs assessment studies in the three regions suggest that the deportees are more interested in IGS
activities. Among the various IGS, petty trading has been considered as the major choice of the beneficiaries.
Similar to the urban IDPs and families of deceased, the deportees also believe that petty trading does not
require special skills and huge capital and that they can generate better income from this type of IGS.
Conclusions and Recommendations
The following conclusions are drawn from the findings of the ESA:
I . The socio-economic characteristics of the sample war-affected population shows that they need
assistance to start productive activities. Although most IDPs in Tigray and Afar have returned to
their origins, their productive activities are constrained by lack of resources and fear of landmine.
Access to social services such as education and health are not encouraging particularly in the Afar
Region. The school enrollment rate of children is low, particularly in Afar Region.
2. The ERP benefit packages have been disbursed to IDPs and families of deceased in Tigray and to
families of deceased in Amhara. The disbursement was made based on the assessment and
prioritization of needs of the beneficiaries. The local government offices and the beneficiaries
themselves were involved in the process. It was also learnt that in most cases, the benefit packages
have been used for the intended purposes.
ix



3. The registration of deportees has taken place at nationally level but the rehabilitation program has
not yet started. It was observed that in some instances, the benefit package for the deportees is not
commensurate with the actual needs. For instance, housing is an important component of the
rehabilitation program which is not included in the package Family size was not also considered
when the benefit package for deportees was set - some households with large family sizes may not
be adequate.
4. In Afar, houses have been destroyed in towns like Bure, but were not considered in the package. Birr
500 was considered for the construction of a mobile IDP house which is not perceived sufficient.
5. Generally, the rehabilitation activities do not show adverse environmental and socioeconomic
impacts. Restocking in both Tigray and Afar will be made through local purchases and the IDPs get
replacement for what they have lost as a result of the conflict. Therefore, there are no additional
stocks to the initial herds of the beneficiaries that will threaten the environment. Furthermore, the
strategy of reconstructing of houses has shifted from the uses of beams to other materials which
avoids the risk of adverse environmental impact. Furthermore, the rehabilitation interventions are
not expected to cause any negative socio-economic impacts on the communities in terms of
integration, natural habitat, involuntary resettlement etc.. They instead will contribute to the local
economies and particularly to the actual beneficiaries.
6. The survey results show that the knowledge about HIV/AIDS is high among the sample beneficiaries
in the three regions. However, HIV/AIDS remains a concern, especially for deportee/young girls in
Tigray and Afar who have not been engaged in productive economic activities. Owing to the
presence of military bases in the two regions, coupled with lack of employment opportunities, the
number of young girls joining the commercial sex work has been increasing.
Recommendations
Based on the findings of the ESA baseline survey, practical recommendations are made on the benefit
package, landmines, environmental and socio-economic impacts of interventions, rehabilitation of deportees
and monitoring and evaluation of the rehabilitation interventions. The recommendations are presented as
follows:
1. Restocking of animals in Afar should take place as soon as possible. The purchases of livestock can
take place from woredas not affected by the border conflict. Price variations, especially for small
ruminants, were raised in Tigray due to the demand created by the presence of the military.
Therefore, the current livestock market price should be taken into account as to ensure that the
benefit package is adequate . Price monitoring for other elements of the package should also be
conducted.
2. The housing reconstruction component of the program for the Tigray IDPs seems to be slow and it is
recommended to expedite this rehabilitation component. Furthermore, shelter has been identified as
one of the priority areas for deportees. Therefore, in consultation with the community and local
government, there will be a need to reconsider low cost housing construction for the deportees.
There is also a need for flexibility in uses of the families of deceased package for construction and/or
maintenance of houses, especially if the families of deceased are to use the houses as the means of
income sources.
3. The housing benefit package for pastoral IDPs was not found to be sufficient and there is a need for
reconsideration: Furthermore, the benefit package should include the housing reconstruction in Afar
urban areas (Bure).
x



4. Since children of the deceased could be relatively disadvantaged, it is recommended to introduce
into the package the possibility to cover educationai costs for the children, including vocational
training for the young adults where relevant, up to a limit to be determined. This measure would be
limited to female-headed households and needs further investigation. In some instances, brothers and
sisters
5. Landmine is a concern in Tigray and Afar war-affected woredas .and cultivation and movement of
humans and livestock have been restricted. In Tigray, the landmine issue is more critical in
L/Adiabo, Berhele, Gulomekeda and Irob woredas In Afar, pastoralists were mainly displaced from
Elidar, Berehale, Erepti and Dalul woredas and could not return to their original localities due to fear
of landmines. This situation has constrained the economic activiti8es of the IDPs in both regions.
Therefore, there is a need for expediting the de-mining process and also the awareness creation on
landmines, giving priorities to most affected woredas, so that the IDPs could return and start their
economic activities at full scales.
6. The rehabilitation of deportees is an immediate and critical issue. The potential rehabilitation
interventions have been identified and the market was assessed. A market assessment was made for
tailoring, metal work, tea/coffee shops, cart services and other petty trading which could be
implemented in the towns of Mekele, Adigrat, Dessie, Asayita and Kombolcha. The indicative
financial costs and benefits have also been estimated for these rehabilitation interventions.
Therefore, the implementation should take place in these pilot towns and the experience could be
replicated to other towns of the country depending on the concentration level of deportees. The
rehabilitation of deportees should also include housing since most of them depend on relatives as
indicated under benefit package of this recommendation. It is also worth noting that some NGOs are
already operating the study areas. Such NGOs and financial institutions in the region includeAgency
for Assistance of Refugees, Returnees and Displaced People (AARRDP), Amhara Credit and
Saving Institute (ACSI) , Amhara Development Association (ADA) Relief Society of Tigray
(REST), Tigray Development Association (TDA) and Afar Pastoral Development Association
APDA). Therefore, it is recommended to coordinate the implementation of the rehabilitation
interventions with these and other relevant NGOs.
7. In order to ensure the sustainability of the rehabilitation program, food assistance should be
considered as an important element. Furthermore, the participation of the deportees (deportee
committees) in the process of needs assessment and prioritization needs to be encouraged.
8. The rehabilitation interventions generally do not have adverse environmental impact. However, the
concentration of livestock in relatively landmine free woredas and kebeles in Afar Region is a
potential environmental concern. Therefore, the de-mining process should be expedited and the
awareness raising on landmines should be continued for the return of the pastoral IDPs to their
grazing and watering domains.
9. The uses of the benefit package for the intended goods should be monitored and reported
accordingly. In addition, the impact of the benefit package on the beneficiaries (how livelihood is
changing as a result of the benefit package) should be evaluated. It is recommended to conduct a
quarterly monitoring, and a mid-term and an ex-post evaluation of the rehabilitation interventions.
xi



INTRODUCTION
1. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES
The conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea has resulted in displacement and casualties in human and material
resources. The people were either displaced, deported or have lost their breadwinners. The most war-affected
regions are Tigray and Afar, while some deportees from Eritrea have also been residing in urban areas of
Amhara. The rural farming Internally Displaced People (IDPs) have left their origins with limited personal
belongings and have lost their agricultural inputs as well as other means of livelihood such housing,
household items etc. The IDPs from the urban centers were either self-employed, private and/government
employees. When they left the urban areas affected by the war, they lost their houses and other livelihood
means. The IDPs are temporarily sheltering in areas which are food insecure and where they have been
additional burdens to the host communities.
The Emergency Recovery Program is a comprehensive package designed to cope with the aftermath of
the conflict. The Program includes two new credits, the Emergency Recovery Project (ERP) and the
Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project (EDRP), plus contributions from three existing
IDA-financed projects. The US$230 million ERP credit is financing household rehabilitation (for IDPs
in Tigray, deportees/returnees, and families of deceased bread winners), de-mining, and road
maintenance/rehabilitation. The US$170 million EDRP credit is financing reintegration of military
personnel into civil society and assistance to disabled veterans. The existing Ethiopia Social
Rehabilitation and Development Fund (ESRDF) is financing US$17.5 million for household
rehabilitation for IDPs in Afar and community infrastructure, EMSAP is financing US$2.5 million for
HIV/AIDs, and the Energy 11 Project is financing US$10 million for power supply rehabilitation.
The main areas of tension during the conflict on the Ethiopian side, along the 1000 kilometer boarder
between the two countries were: i) Badme and Shiraro, in the western boarder area between the
Tekeze and Mereb rivers (Western Zone of Tigray Region), ii) Tsarona, Zalambessa and Alitena in the
central boarder section (Eastern Zone of Tigray Region) near the main road leading to the Eritrean
capital of Asmara; and iii) Bure in the eastern boarder section (Zone I of the Afar region) on the main
road to the Red Sea Port of Assab. However, disputed areas that led the two countries into war have
been resolved through the Peace Agreement and the boarder decision. The rehabilitation of displaced
people has helped normalize relations in the boarder area. Before the project was negotiated, the
Governments of Ethiopia and Eritrea signed letters confirming the they would honor all debts to IDA
regardless of the final disposition of land between the two countries and related assets that they may
have financed.
These Program components are described below including how environmental and social issues are
addressed in each component:
(a) Household Rehabilitation (ERP): The overall objective of the household rehabilitation component
is to provide assistance to the war affected population in order to rebuild their lives and resume
production economic activities and have access to basic services. The ESA is done for this
component as per the requirement of ERP - DCA (CR#34380)
(b) Humanitarian de-mining (ERP): The objective of the de-mining component is to mitigate the
threat of land mines and UXO and to create an environment conducive for the safe and sustainable
return of civilians to their homes and livelihoods. This component is expected to have a significant
positive environmental impact through its contribution to de-mining a significant area of land a large
part of which is arable. In this ESA the impact of land mine on the return of IDPs in Tigray and Afar
has been explored.
- 12 -



(c) Rehabilitation/Maintenance of Road Infrastructure (ERP): The overall objectives of the road
sub-component are to assist the Government of Ethiopia to: (i) rapidly rehabilitate and restore
destroyed or damaged road infrastructure in the war affected areas, (ii) rehabilitate critical road
sections and bridges that have suffered serious damage due to an increase in heavy unexpected
traffic and/or the diversion of traffic from the original import export route to new routes, (iii)
rehabilitate roads to ensure operational efficiency in the implementation of relief program activities
and facilitate the flow of imported humanitarian cargo in selected chronically drought affected areas
and (iv) carry out emergency heavy maintenance of priority roads whose improvement had been
slowed down by the war leading to further deterioration of large sections. There are no major
environmental issues anticipated under this component. All road reconstruction works are only
rehabilitation/maintenance activities carried out on the existing roads with out changing their
alignment or width. The potential impacts of all activities are well known and can be effectively
addressed through design, standard mitigation measures and proper construction monitoring. The
contracts include specific environmental provisions and contractors are briefed on these
requirements during site visits. The Environmental Management Branch of ERA will monitor the
environmental mitigation actions and intercede as necessary. The social issues related to this
component are: (i) the potential for increased transmission of HIV/AIDS along the roads to be
reconstructed and (ii) access to construction employment by local residents in the project area. The
Environmental Management Branch of ERA has already developed HIV/AIDS prevention strategy
that targets awareness creation for the overall roads sector development program. Access to
unskilled jobs associated with improvement of the roads is being addressed through unemployment
action plan for the main roads and labor based technology that's suitable for rural roads
improvement.
(d) Community Infrastructure Rehabilitation (ESRDF): The major objective of this component is to
rehabilitate, reconstruct, equip and furnish the damaged or destroyed social and economic
infrastructure at the community level and restore the resumption of delivery of basic services.
Finance for this activity, including the community infrastructure in Zalambessa is coming from the
reallocated proceeds ($15.2 million) of the ESRDF credit (Cr. 2841 -ET). The ESRDF through its
regional offices in Tigray and Afar Regions are responsible for the implementation of these
activities. ESRDF has an operational manual that provides criteria for an environmental screening of
each project during its appraisal, in order to identify potentially negative environmental and social
impacts at early stage. As part of a request for a Supplemental Credit and in order to comply with
current WB safeguard requirements, ESRDF has produced an Environmental and Social
Management Plan (after completion of an Environmental and Social Assessment) and a Resettlement
Policy Framework in June 2002. The first document sets out mitigation, monitoring, and institutional
measures to be considered during project implementation to avoid or mitigate potential adverse
environmental and social impacts. The Resettlement Policy Framework describes the principles and
procedures for compensation for loss of property and livelihood.
(e) HIV/AIIDS prevention, care and support (EMSAP): The main objective of this component is to
reduce HIV infection and spread by scaling up HIV/AIDs related interventions for the army,
commercial sex workers in the army and displaced population as a result of the conflict This
component is not expected to create any serious negative impact on the environment as the project is
mainly dealing with awareness training and therefore would not need a medical waste plan. In
addition, the activities of health institutions and service providers incorporate standard measures for
the safe disposal of medical waste.
(f) Reconstruction/Rehabilitation of Power Supply Infrastructure (Energy II): The aim of this
component is to rehabilitate and reconstruct damaged power supply facilities in the four towns of
Zalambessa, Adigrta, Bure and Mekelle in the war affected areas. It involves the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of 65Km of 15KV line, 27 km of 0.4 KV line, and 6 km of street lights along with the
replacement provision of 29 pieces of 50 and 63 KVA transformers, 2 pieces of 450Kw diesel
- 13 -



generators and, 550 single phase custonier connection in 'the above mentioned four towns. The
power supply rehabilitation activities in the four towns, including Zalambessa will be financed from
a reallocation from the on-going Energy II project (Cr. 3019-ET), and its implementation is being
carried-out by the Ethiopian Electric Power Authority (EEPCo). The power rehabilitation work at
Mekele, Adigrat and Bure have been completed. Power rehabilitation works will involve only
the replacement of power poles and distribution lines along the existing transmission routes.
EEPCo already has a unit that's responsible for coordination of project management activities for
IDA financed projects. EEPCO has established guidelines for the construction of distribution lines
which include normal environmental mitigation measures and safety procedures. EEPCO has also
prepared a Resettlement Policy Framework for dams and transmission lines under Energy II Project,
which sets out the principles and procedures for social impact mitigation, through compensation for
loss of property and income, relocation or resettlement, monitoring and evaluation, and a grievance
resolution mechanism. The Environment and social monitoring unit of EEPCO will monitor the
environmental and social mitigation actions.
According to current implementation status of ERP, a shortfall of about US$36.0 million is expected in: (i)
the household rehabilitation component (rehabilitation of 28,800deportees throughout the country and 1941
IDPs in Afar), (ii) rehabilitation of IDPs in Zalambessa through the reconstruction of damaged residential
and commercial houses and (iii) settlement of the Mille-Assab Road Maintenance Contract claim. The
additional money for the three activities is expected to come by restructuring the EDRP Credit.
The Credit Agreement between the Government of Ethiopia and the World Bank requires that after six
months of project effectiveness, a Environmental and Social Assessment (ESA) be conducted. The ESA is to
address the household rehabilitation component in the three regions of Tigray, Afar and Amhara..
Therefore, the objectives of this study are:
*  Establish baseline information for all categories of eligible beneficiaries in the three regions,
*  Prepare a draft rehabilitation strategy for deportees, urban IDPs and urban families of deceased
based on baseline information collected by ESA team, PMUs and other institutions,
*  Establish a monitoring and evaluation system.
*  Assess the environmental impacts of the interventions
*  Assess food assistance requirement of beneficiaries.
2. STUDY METHODOLOGY AND LIMITATIONS
2.1    SOURCES OF INFORMATION AND SURVEY TECHNIQUES
Primary and secondary (qualitative and quantitative) information were collected for this study. Secondary
information were collected from different relevant documents at federal and regional levels. The technical
annex of the Credit Agreement, previous studies and government policies were reviewed and important
information were generated. The primary information was collected through interviews with stakeholders -
beneficiaries and non-beneficiaries. Two survey techniques were applied for the collection of the primary
data - conventional and participatory. Structured questionnaire was designed and pre-tested for the collection
of data at household level, while checklists were framed based on the structured questionnaire for focus
group discussions and for semi-structured interviews - the questionnaire and checklists are provided in the
annex volume of the Environmental and Social Assessment study.
The structured questionnaires were translated to Tigrigna (for Tigray Region) and Amharic for Amhara and
Afar Regions. Enumerators were recruited and trained on the administration of the questionnaires during
which pre-testing was carried out in sample areas of the three regions.
- 14 -



2.2    SAMPLING PROCEDURE
The team had made reconnaissance visits to the regions prior to the design of the study methodology. During
the reconnaissance visits, some secondary information were collected from the respective regions,
discussions were held with the ERPMU branch offices as well as with some community members. The
information was used as the basis for the determination of the sample woredas and sample household size
from each category of beneficiaries - families of deceased, Deportees and IDPs. Following the technical
annex of the Credit Agreement and the situation on the ground, 2% of the IDPs and families of deceased who
already received the first disbursement were covered by the sample. The survey also covered IDPs, families
of deceased and Deportees who were not yet paid. The sample includes the rural/urban as well as
male/female beneficiary households.
In Tigray, the total number of IDP households already paid was 1 1,923 in six woredas. Thus, 2% of the total
IDPs paid was drawn proporational to the number of IDPs by woreda and tabia ('). In the same region, the
total number of families of deceased households paid was 10,920 and 2% of the figure is considered
proportional to the population of each woreda. Similarly, sample families of deceased households were
considered for the survey in the Amhara Region. The total number of families of deceased households paid
was 4,631 and 2% of the total number was the sample size drawn from 12 sample tabias. The summary of
the sample sizes by category and region are provided below, while the details of the sample distributions are
provided in the annex volume of this report.
Sample Sizes by Region and Category of Beneficiaries
Category of           Tigray          Amhara         Afar            Total
Beneficiaries
IDPs                  331             _      _84                     415
Families of Deceased  247             200             50             397
Deportees             UNICEF          126            95              221
Survey                        I               I__      _
Totals                578             326            229              1033
2.3. LIMITATIONS OF THE SURVEY
1. In Afar Region, a sample size of 50-75 families of deceased households was initially planned. However,
due to the mobility of the respondents, the actual sample size was lower than the plan.
2. In all categories of beneficiaries, there were some missing values since the respondents did not respond to
all questions in the questionnaire. It should be noted that the difference between the actual number of
respondents and the sample six is the number of households who did not respond to that specific question.
3. Like any survey of this kind, there could be some biases in the responses - over and under reporting is
possible. To this effect, problems such as access to social services, assistance, house damage etc. could be
over emphasized, while income level could be under reported.
2.4. ORGANIZATION OF THE REPORT
Tabia is the wordfor "Kebelle" in Tigrigna language.
- 15 -



The results of the baseline survey are presented in three chapters for the three regions. The different
categories of beneficiaries have been addressed for each region. The details of the survey results are
presented in separate annex volume of this report.
- 16 -



CHAPTER ONE: TIGRAY REGION
REGIONAL PROFILE
The Tigray Regional State situated in the northeastern highlands of Ethiopia covers an area of approximately
80,000 sq. kms. It has a population of 3.3 million people of which 85% live in the rural areas and the
remaining 15% live in urban and semi-urban areas. The regional economy is based on agriculture on which
83% of the population depend for their livelih6od. Agriculture is primarily rain fed type and subsistence-
oriented in nature. Crops such as sorghum, teff, barely and millet mainly, and some maize and pulses grow
in the region. The main livestock raised in the area include cattle, goats, sheep, horses, donkeys, mules and
poultry.
In Tigray, the average size of land available to four-person households is 0.5 hectare, too small to support the
family on agricultural production alone. The average production of cereals, the major agricultural output is
4-7 quintals per household in the drought prone areas and this level of staples cereal production can only
feed a family for 5-8 months a year at best. In support, non-farm activities provide supplementary incomes
for many. However, food insecurity still remains at significant level.
As a result of the Ethio-Eritrean conflict, about 10 percent of the total population of Tigray was displaced
and lost the agricultural production, livestock, sources of livelihood, homes and belongings. The deportation
of Ethiopians has also increased the burden of the region. Moreover, as a result of the war, many households
lost their breadwinners. With the recent Comprehensive Peace Initiative between Ethiopia and Eritrea, the
war affected areas in Tigray must deal with the challenges of post war recovery at the household and
community level to enable an effective return to productive and secure lives. This part of the report includes
information on IDPs, families of deceased and Deportees in Tigray Region. ERPMU has been established in
Tigray which deals with rehabilitation of the war-affected population in the region.
1. INTERNALLY DISPLACED PEOPLE (IDPS)
1.1. BACKGROUND
In Tigray, the initial number of the internally displaced people in Tigray was about 315,936 of which
116,416 were from the western zone, 88,978 in the central zone and 110,542 people from the eastern zone.
The distribution of displaced households is given in table 1 below.
Table 1.Distribution of Internally Displaced Households
No   Woreda                                      Benejficiaries/HH Heads
1   Tahitay Adiabo                               9,417
2    Lailay Adiabo                               4,494
3    Kafta Humera                                12,113
4    Aheferom                                    8,137
5    Merbleke                                    8,490
6    Irob                                        4,017
7    Gulomekeda                                  8,108
8    Gantafeshum                                 60
Total                                       54,836
Source: ERP Office, Tigray
- 17-



1.2. DISPLACEMIENT SITUATION
The first people believed to be displaced were those who left their place in May 1998. This is also evident
from table 2 that the majority of the people were displaced in 199898 and diminished gradually in both rural
and urban areas.
Table 2: Distribution of Respondents by Year of Displacement
Year of Displacement    Number of Responde nts
Rural (n=315)      %           Urban (n=33)    %
1998                    238                75.6        13
1999                    71                 22.5        18
2000                     1                 0.3         _
2001                    3                   1.0
2002                     2                 0.6         2
Total                   315                100.00      33              100.00
In the process of rehabilitation, priority was given to reintegrating of the displaced with the community. The
success towards this end is believed to be a pillar for the whole process. It was learnt that many displaced
people both from rural and urban areas have already returned to their original place. The time of return for
most of them was year 1992 (1999/2000) and 1993 E.C (2000/2001).
Table 3. Distribution of Respondents By Current Place of Residence
Living at original Place of  Number of Respondents
Residence                 Rural (n=313)                   Urban (n=33    %
Yes                       259                82.7        33              100
No                        54                  17.3       -
Total                     313                100.00      33              100.00
Table 4. Distribution of Respondents By Year of Return to their Original Place
Time of Return (EC)  Number of Respondents
Rural (n=246)                    Urban (n=31)     %
1990                 6                   2.4          2                6.45
1991                 49                  19.9         -                -
1992                 110                44.7          -                -
1993                 79                  32.1         25               80.64
1994                 2                   0.8          4                12.90
Total                246                 100.00       31               100.00
For most of the rural IDPs, farming was the primary occupation. It was learnt from the survey that most of
the rural IDPs (83.5% of those reported) and almost all urban IDPs have resumed their previous activities.
The focus group discussions-with the beneficiaries revealed that the fear of landmines prevented them from
cultivation at a full scale. It was also observed that most of the displaced people in the sample area (Rama
Town) for urban IDPs have started petty trading activities.
A significant number of displaced people from rural areas covered by the survey (17.3%) have still not
returned to their original places. Attempt was made to investigate why they did not return. The result is
summarized and presented in Table 5 below.
- 18-



Table 5. Respondents (Rural IDPs) By Reasons for Not Returnin to their Place N=266
Reasons                                Number of Respondent            (
Fear of Landmines                      52                          52.5
House Damaged and not habitable        35                         35.35
Already Settled                        2                          2.02
Other reasons                          10                          10.10
Total                                  266                        100.00
Fear of landmines was the major constraint preventing the rural people to return to their place. The displaced
people consulted were eager to return back to their original place and those already returned considered it a
privilege to come back. The need to return back is strongly manifested by the fact that only few of the
respondents from rural areas (2.02%) included in the survey have decided to settle where they were during
the survey.
1.3. SOCIO-ECONOMIC CHARACTERISTICS
The sample survey result indicated that the sex ratio of the displaced and eligible beneficiaries for support
was almost equal in rural areas. The variation was also minimum in urban areas. The distribution of the
beneficiaries is summarized and presented in the following charts and in the annex volume of this report.
Sex Distribution of Beneficiaries-     Sex Distribution of Beneficiaries-
Rural IDP                              Urban IDP
Female     Mate                          eMaleg1) 44%
50%       50%                         FemaleW6   44%
The level of education of the beneficiaries was also assessed. This is due to the fact that in the process of
aspiring for long-term impact, the need for availing education facilities for the people particularly the
children is fundamental. It was, however, found that more than 50% of the sampled beneficiaries from rural
and a significant proportion from urban areas were illiterate. The number of beneficiaries with primary level
education was, however, significant in both cases and this is believed to imply children who were attending
school during and after the conflict.
Level of Education-Urban IDP                Level of Education-Rural IDP
9%                M Illiterate             0%            El Illiterate
1  Read and Write        0%o%          * Read and Write
0 Primary Level     34%                 eo Pnmary Level
9%     O0 Secondary Level                52%   0 Secondary Level
54%                N Higher Education      9%             UHigher Education
E1 Not Ready for
School                                O Not Ready for School
2 As indicated in Table 3, 54 respondents reported that they did not return to their villages. In this table however, the
number of respondents seems higher which is caused by multiple responses.
- 19 -



In the process of rehabilitation, focus should not only be given to restoring and/or supporting routine
activities, but also upgrade and encourage people to apply some special skills they have (if any). Thus, the
study attempted to identify what special skills do the beneficiaries have. It was found out that the majority of
the beneficiaries in both rural and urban areas do not have any special skill. Few people had skills in
masonry/carpentry and metal work, but the food processing skill indicated by few people in rural areas may
not be a promising venture as the areas are mostly rural and the food processing service may not required
much. A good proportion of the beneficiaries were also students who may need to get exposed to some
vocational training programs. The details are given in the annex volume of this report in the chapter of rural
IDPs.
Before displacement, farming was the major occupation of the beneficiaries from rural areas. Areas that
generate employment opportunities like a simple daily work seems to be insignificant (rural areas) as people
who had this opportunity (before displacement) were only 1% of the sampled beneficiaries. Table 6 presents
the result.
Table 6. Occupation of Beneficiaries Before Displacement
Occupation Before         Number of Beneficiaries
Displacement              Rural (n=1 735)    %         Urban (n=159J    %
None                                         -         27               15.72
Farming                   517                29.8      -
Daily Laborer             18                 1.0       5               3.14
Petty Trade               21                 1.2       37              23.27
Artisan                   4                  0.2       2                1.25
Housewife                 140                8.1       8               5.03
Maid                      51                2.9        48              30.18
Employee                                    -          27               1.98
Student                   829               47.8       -
Young for school          102                5.9       -
Other                     __                 -         5               3.14
Total                     1735              100.00    159              100.00
Assessment was made to estimate the current annual income of the respondents (who were mainly the heads
of the households). The majority of the respondents from rural areas (5 1%) reported that they were earning
less than 100 Birr per annum. This is suspected to be the cash income generated only. Respondents earned
above Birr 2000 per annum were only 4% of the sample.
The average monthly income generated by respondents from urban areas ranged from less than 500 birr to
above 2000 birr. It was observed that significant variation existed between the income of beneficiaries from
rural and urban areas.
Estimated Annual Income-Rural IDP            Estimated Monthly Income-Urban IDP
Above                                                        Above
1000-             2000 birr
500-2000     2000 Birr                                 2000 birr            2%
500-2000     40/%          Less than                  18%
Birr               ~~~~~~~100 Birr
15%                          51%             500-1000a1
birr                  Less than
100-500                                    100/                   500 birr
Birr                                       0                      70%
30%
-20 -



Most of the displaced people surveyed were living on hand outs given by agencies like The World Food
Program (WFP). However, the support may not be extended for a longer period of time and as WFP
indicated during the discussions, the support will be terminated at the end of year 2001 or the first months of
year 2002.
Considering this background, assessment is made as to how the beneficiaries will support themselves and
their family in case they do not have any source of income/job. More than three quarters of the respondents
from rural areas replied that they were relying on government and other non-governmental organizations'
handouts. It was also alarming that none of the respondents had any kind of saving to fall back on. The
support from relatives is naturally not expected much as most of them were facing the same fate during the
conflict. Respondents from urban areas were entirely expecting government support. The finding is
summarized and presented in Table 7 below.
Table 7. Respondents By Source of Income to Support their Family
Source of Income          Number of Respond nts
Rural (n=213)      %           Urban (n=8)     %
Dependent on relatives     1                 0.47        -
Government assistance     175                82.15       8               100
NGOs assistance           23                 10.79       -
External Remittance       1                  0.47
Petty Trade               4                  1.87
Earlier Saving            -
Other Sources             9                  4.22        -
Total                     213               100.00       8               100.00
1.4. COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE
Areas occupied during the conflict have lost most of the basic social infrastructure (water supply, education,
health facilities). Therefore, restoring these services is a challenge in the process of rehabilitating the
displaced people.
It is important to note that the damage assessment and cost estimations of the community infrastructure could
not be presented by damaged levels (minor, major, & sever) due to the following reasons:
* The infrastructure were designed and constructed not in a standard manner. For instance, even
primary schools are not constructed in similar standards in different locations.
*  As per our assessment, some of the social infrastructure were already renovated and some others are
under construction. Restoration of basic community infrastructure facilities such as health,
education, and water supply are underway in Tigray Region
* In addition, the survey covered some sample woredas and it is difficult to draw conclusions on the
number and types of community infrastructure damaged by level of damage.
Despite the attempts made to restore the supply of potable water services in most of the rural areas, water
supply was found to be a major problem in areas like Bademe. A strong request was forwarded by all people
consulted (the displaced people, the RTF and woreda officials) to give priority to restoring this service.
It was learnt during the survey that most residents get water from nearby rivers, unprotected wells and public
outdoor sources (common distribution water points in towns). Only few people had safe water supply. The
few water sources made available before the conflict were found to be destroyed during the occupation.
- 21 -



Table 8. Respondents By Source of Potable Water
Source of Potable Water    Number of Respondents
Rural (n=54)-      %       Urban (n=33)     %
Pipe                        13                4.1      7               21.21
Public Outdoor              112               35.1     24              72.72
Protected Well             54                 16.9
Unprotected Well            113               35.4
Others/River               27                 8.5      2               6.06
Total                      319                100.00  33               100.00
It was observed during the survey period that quite a large number of children attend schools. However, the
facilities available in some of the schools were below standard. The children are required to carry their own
chairs to and from schools and forced to learn in window and door less rooms. This was particularly observed
in schools visited in Badme. The situation of the health facilities was no exception.
Access of Children to School-           Access of Children to School-
Rural IDP                               Urban IDP
No                                         No
21%                                        3%
Yes                                  Yes
79%                                  97%
Investigation was made why some families do not send their children to school. Most of the children,
according to the respondents, were young for school but a significant number of the respondents in rural
areas (24.19%) indicated that they were not able to support their children go to school.
The absence of health facilities was highly pronounced as 78% of the respondents in rural areas indicated
that the health institutions are very far from where they are living. The urban areas seems to be in a better
position with regard to having access to health facilities.
1.5. HOUSING RECONSTRUCTION
Most of the internally displaced people particularly those from rural areas lost their houses, animals, and
household materials during the conflict. The level of damage varied from complete to partial destruction.
The problem of housing was significant in areas like Bademe and Irob woredas. Some other areas were also
under direct artillery attack. For instance, houses in four kebeles around Gerhu-semay were totally destroyed.
In some cases the internally displaced people were forced to stay in plastic sheets covered roofs and this had
became a cause for fire hazard. The plastic sheets used for roofing in Woretle kebele of Irob woreda were
found to be old and request was forwarded to seek solution before the arrival of the rainy season. No housing
- 22 -



package was fully in place for all the affected groups and areas. Only a pilot project was underway in Marta
Kebele of Gulomekeda wereda.
Most of the displaced people from rural areas (85.8%) did have their own houses before displacement. The
houses were constructed traditionally (Edimo) and only few of them did have roofs of corrugated iron sheets.
The findings of the survey indicated the types of roofing materials, damages made to the houses, and types of
items required for reconstruction and their possible sources are summarized and presented in the annex
section.
The number of houses and the extent of damage by woreda are indicated in table 9 below. The damage level
is provide as minor, major and severe
Table 9: Number of Houses Damaged by Woreda
Woreda                  Number of Houses and Extent of Damage
Minor                  Major                  Severe
Erob                    882                    1618                   467
Gulomekeda              597                    2091                   2413
Gantaafeshum            5                                             16
Ahferom                 782                    1395                   769
Mereblehe               544                    741                    159
T/Adiabo                644                    684                    1639
L/Adiabo                350                    513                    544
Kaffa Humera            175                    273                    472
Humera town             173                    268                    280
Totals                  4152                   3874                   6759
Source: Tigray EPRMU, 2001
The estimated quantities of Reconstruction Materials are shown in Table 10 hereunder.
Table 10: Total required housing reconstruction materials in Tigray Region
No.   Type of Construction material     Unit                Total Quantity
I .   Corrugated Iron Sheet             Pcs                 511,895
2.    Cement                            Quntal              51,412
3.    Nails                             Kg                  231,645
4.    Metal doors                       Pcs                 19,247
5.    Metal windows                     Pcs                 19,247
6.    Wooden poles                      Pcs                 386,075
It was learnt during the focus group discussions that wooden poles are transported from adjacent regions,
Gonder and Wollo. Stone is readily available in most places other construction materials are industrial
products which can be found from national central market such as Addis Ababa and Mekele. Therefore, the
above construction materials are readily available and can be supplied.
- 23 -



The comparisons of cost estimates for reconstructing houses are provided in Table 11 below. The table
shows that the survey estimates are lower than the ERP estimates. However, the survey estimates do not
include contingencies and other costs. Thus, it could be concluded that the ERP estimates are generally
adequate for housing reconstruction.
Table 11: Estimates of Housing Reconstruction (Birr)
Level of        Number of Houses Unit Cost              Total Cost
Damage
ERP      Survey       ERP          Survey
Estimate  Estimate    Estimate     Estimate
Minor           4,152             3,000     2,310        12,456,000   9,591,120
Maior           7,583             7,000    4,541        53,081,000   34,434,403
Severe          6,759             15,000   11,385       101,385,000  76,951,215
Totals          18,494                                  166,922,000  120,976,738
Generally, there is a shift from the traditional beam and earth packed roofing to a new type which is replaced
by corrugated iron sheet roof covering. Traditional door and window openings were wooden beams and
plinks and this also were replaced by sheet metal. The major reasons for this shift is the constraint in getting
the wooden beams that are used for roofing and door and window openings. The big trees from which these
beams made from are not available in the region. However, the communities were given the option of using
their preference in material selection. This shift in using construction materials reduces the concern of
adverse environmental impact.
According to the result of the focus group discussions in different woredas of Tigray, the shift from
traditional housing construction to modem method is acceptable and does not have any negative social
impacts. Most respondents expressed their need to reconstruct their houses in relatively modem way by
using corrugated iron sheets and timber - this has also been encouraged by the region. Most respondents
were suggesting to get the timber within the region and also from near by Amhara Region. Its implications
on the environment and forest resources in the neighboring regions should, however, be investigated.
1.6. LIVESTOCK HOLDING
The effect of the war on the environment was significant especially in areas occupied during the conflict.
Trees were cut and forests destroyed to build trenches and also to construct houses after the occupation. The
effect was particularly significant in areas like Bademe and Irob weredas. As a result of the destruction of
forests, wild animals were believed to be affected. But soil degradation is said to be not serious in T/Adiabo
in general. It was stated that in some areas the grazing lands have not been used during the occupation and
now not fully utilized for fear of landmines as a result of which their forage content is substantially
improved. The woreda RTF in T/Adiabo indicated that some environmental protection activities were going
on. The community is also contributing to the protection of the existing forests.
Only few people had livestock during the survey and this has little impact on the grazing lands. Of all the
sampled beneficiaries, only 71 respondents reported to the questions and indicated their livestock number.
This highlights only few people owned livestock-the source of which is expected to be new purchases made
by the support from the program. The results are presented in the following chart.
- 24 -



Ownership of Private Grazing Land-
Rural IDP
Yes
22%
No
78%
Table 12: Size of Livestock Herd Before and After the Conflict
Oxen                   Cows                    Sheep and Goats
Before displacement    262                    252                     418
Purchased with the     126                    64                      33
Project benefit        126                    64                      33
Currently owned        235                    213                     293
*  The oxen purchased following the payment of the benefits account for about 53% of the present
number and the cows for 30%. The Project benefits prove to contribute very significantly to the
efforts by the displaced households to restore their incomes.
*  As all numbers still remain less than they were initially, no immediate adverse environmental impact
can be expected so far as the result of the benefits.
Owning a private grazing land is not common in most parts of the country and the study area is not
exceptional. However, it was found out that about 22.5% of the respondents in rural areas did have a private
grazing land. But this result should be taken with caution as the level and standard of the grazing land is not
set and known and the possibility of having that kind of property in parts of the country (the northern part)
where land is a precious asset and scarce is questionable. The carrying capacity of the grazing land was also
investigated. The majority of the respondents indicated that the land they own could support more than 10
animals.
Table 13. Respondents (Rural IDPs) By the Carrying Capacity of The Grazing land Owned (n=66)
Carrying Capacity       Number of Beneficiaries     %
1-2 animals             14                         21.21
2-5 animals             18                          27.27
5-10 animals            12                          18.18
More than 10 animals    22                          33.33
Total                   66                         100.00
- 25 -



1.7. LANDMINE EFFECTS
Effective resettlement and return to productive lives by IDPs in Tigray and Afar has been hindered by the
presence of landmines and unexploded ordinance (UXOs) affecting the health and safety of human and
livestock. Although some IDPs have returned to their origins, they could not start their usual productive
activities due to landmines and the landmines has reduced the land for cultivation and grazing. This has also
extended the dependency period of IDPs on other communities and outside support. The movement of
women for safe water has been restricted. The landmine also has negative environmental impacts - removal
and disturbance of the fertile tip soil, and increased soil erosion due to the explosion of landmines. The de-
mining effort is not expected to cause any negative environmental impacts. The understanding is that the de-
mining will be conducted manually and any sophisticated machines will not be employed that will affect the
environment.
The landmine concerns of the community have been presented by woreda in table 14 below. The fear of
landmines is high in the woredas, especially in Mereblehe, L/Adiabo and Gulomekeda. In Gulomekeda
woreda, landmine concern is very particularly in Gerhu-sernay, Marta, Weratle and Bademe tabias.
Cultivation has been restricted by landmine fears and this has been declared by all respondents in Merblehe
and 93% of the respondents in L/Adiabo. All parties consulted during the survey indicated that vast areas are
landmine infested and unable to be put under cultivation affecting the return of the IDPs and their economic
activities. According to the information obtained in these areas, no full-scale de-mining activities have yet
started except those done by the army to free major highways and some farmlands and grazing areas. People
have not yet returned to areas like Selamo in T/Adiabo woreda. A study demarking areas infested with
landmines along with their priority was conducted by the woreda officials and sent to the concerned
authorities. It is, however, a concern by all parties consulted that there could be areas that are not yet
identified.
Table 14: Land-mine Concerns By Woreda (Respondents in %)
Parameters                T/Adiabo      L/Adiabo   Mereblehe     Gulomekeda    Irob
Yes    No    Yes    No   Yes    No     Yes   No      Yes   No
Tabia occupied by Eritrean  51   49     100   0    50     50     69    31      100   0
Troops___
Landmine                  82     18    76     24   100    0      67    33      62    38
Attended        Landmine  59     41     79    21   33     67     88     12     92    8
awareness sessions                             _
Landmine is hidden in your 59    41    90     10   100    0      92    8       94    6
tabia
Cultivation  prevented  by  39   61    93     7    100    0      83     17     71    29
landmines
Many areas were under occupation. About 75% of the respondents from rural areas indicated that their
village was under occupation. The people consulted in the occupied areas feel the presence of landmines and
the majority of them reached by the questionnaire indicated that there were incidents of landmines. More
than 90% of the people interviewed also replied that they know people either killed and/or injured by
landmines.
Recognizing this effect, the ERP has established the Ethiopian Mine Action Organization (EMAO) and some
land miners have already been trained. In addition, Rehabilitation and Development Organization (RADO)
is working to create awareness about landmines and provide counseling services to landmine victims in the
affected woredas of the region. The survey result as indicated in the above table suggess that the majority of
- 26 -



the respondents have attended the awareness raising sessions. For instance, 88% and 92% of the respondents
in Gulomekda and Irob woredas, respectively reported that they have attended the awareness raising sessions
conducted by RDO and other governmental organizations. RADO is conducting landmine awareness
creation programs in schools, and also by organizing a listening groups in kebeles (15 groups/kebele). It has
organized task forces at kebele levels to identify needs and assist in mapping the areas suspected of having
landmines. The organization also provides vaccine services for livestock by its agents and supplies other
agencies with information about landmines. The results of the survey with regard to landmines is
summarized and presented in Annexes section.
The result of the survey showed that about 81% of the respondents in rural areas had attended landmines
awareness creation sessions. The majority of the training programs were conducted by RADO.
Atttended Landmines                  0  rg a n iza tio n      p ro %
Awareness Creation Sessions-                         Landm        inet
Rural IDP
No
19%
Yes
81%
The effect of fear of landmines was vivid as three quarters of the people contacted from rural areas indicated
that they had farmlands not cultivated as a result. This has a negative contribution to the efforts made to
rehabilitate these people at least in the short run. People who did not return to their place have also put fear
of landmines as one of the primary problems for not returning.
1.8. FOOD ASSISTANCE ASSESSMENT
The World Food Program indicated that the support package (as of November 2001 the number of people
supported was 307,000) follows WFP standard of 2100 calories/person/day that amounts to 15 KG of cereal
(wheat/sorghum), and 4.5 KG of oil per month. Households with children aged below five years were getting
additional support of Famix.
According to WFP, the support is mainly in kind (food items). WFP was also assuming that in the year 2002
most of the beneficiaries will not continue at a status of displaced people, would return back to their place
and resume farming and support themselves. The organization also expects that the number of people who
would not return back to their place for fear of landmines will be small. But the regional DPPB believes that
the IDPs that would not return to their village as a result of landmines could be significant and these people
need assistance in the year 2002. According to the bureau, the number of people needing support can be as
high as 134,000. The office of the region's Emergency Rehabilitation Program estimates the number of the
internally displaced households at 54,836.
Almost all the displaced people consulted during the survey were getting food assistance during the survey
and this has been going on for more than 6 months. Detailed result of the survey is summarized and
presented in the annex section. According to the majority of the respondents, equal amount of support is
provided to all households.
-27-



Access to Food (Current)-Rural IDP        Access to Food Assistance-Urban
No                                       IDPs
3%                                        0%
Yes                                     100%
97%                                   |E3YeS No
Table 15. Duration of the Food Assistance
Duration              Number of Respondents
Rural (n=309)     _       _      Urban (n=33)    %
1-3 months            2                 0.6
4-6 months            2                  0.6           -
More than 6 months    305                98.7          33              100
Total                 309               100.00        1 33             100.00
A significant number of people from both rural and urban areas have been receiving food assistance before
the start of the conflict. Of the total people consulted from rural areas, about 43.2% of them had access to
food support before the conflict. There was a mixed response obtained from respondents regarding the size
and frequency of the current food assistance in comparison with the support made before. The result of the
survey is summarized and presented in the annex section.
1.9. ESTIMATES OF FOOD ASSISTANCE
The major organization that has been supporting the displaced people in the region was The World Food
Program. The organization follows support in kind strategy that generates 2100 calories per person per day.
As indicated above, about 99% of the IDPs reported that they need food assistance for more than 6 months.
The regional DPPB also claims that food assistance will be required for most of the IDPs for at least one
year. The argument is that even though some IDPs have returned to their origins, they have not yet started
their productive activities due to landmines and other factors. Therefore, the food assistance requirement is
estimated for 134,000 IDPs.
Table 16: Food Assistance Requirement for IDPs
Food Item        Quantity per     Duration        No. of           Total Food
month (kg)       (months)         Beneficiaries    requirement
________________   ________________                ~~(Q uintals)
Wheat/Sorghum    15               12               134,000         241,200
Oil              0.75             12               134,000          12,060         1
FAMIX            2                12               33,500           8,040
Assumptions:
*  Food assistance is required for 134,000 IDPs for one year.
*  25% of the deportees are children under five years old and pregnant and/or lactating mothers
(33,500) that need supplementary food
- 28 -



1.10. NEEDS AND PRIORITIES
To make the intervention successful and achieve the objectives set for it, the felt need of the people should
be investigated and interventions should be designed accordingly. The beneficiaries stressed that it is only
need-based intervention that brings about a change in their living situation. Beneficiaries were asked what
they want most in the near future. The result of the survey is summarized and presented in the annex section
Table 17.
Table 17. Distribution of Respondents By First Priority
First Priority                    Number of Respon dents                              l
Rural (n=322)    %           Urban (n=26)     %
Moving from where they are now    5                1.55        -
Building House                    127              39.44       4                15.38
Finding Job                       15               4.65        7               26.92
Getting food                      74               22.98       1               3.84
Start Farming                     46               14.28       -
Getting Land to Cultivate         31               9.62                               l
Buying Animals                    24               7.45        -
Starting a business                                -           14              53.84
Total                             322              100.00      26              100.00
The need for housing was seriously raised time and again by most beneficiaries from rural areas during the
discussion sessions. This was substantiated by the result of the survey that the majority of the respondents
put building a house as their first priority. Only few people wanted to move from where they are and this
also indicates that most of them have already returned to their original place. Starting a business activity was
preferred by the majority of the people in urban areas.
Diversification of activities in the future also encourages and supports the beneficiaries to get involved in
some off-farm activities strengthens their income base and make the intervention successful. This is
determined by the potential of the area where these people are living. Most respondents expressed their
interest to get involved in these activities. But in some areas like Woratle kebele of Irob woreda, people who
chose to get involved in other innovative and off-farm activities were very few. This could be due to the fact
that these people are mainly herders and give attention to rearing livestock.
Need for Non-farm Activities-Rural IDP
No
19%
Yes
81%
Petty trade was the activity chosen by most of the respondents in both rural and urban areas. These activities
were chosen because most respondents indicated that they have already experience in the area. Petty trading
is not requiring any specific training to initiate it and as long as one has little capital to start with, entrance
into the venture is easier. The existence of market for the product also motivated them to make the choice.
People want to get settled in a relatively decent house before getting involved in any activity. When asked
what support is required from the government to start the off-farm activities chosen, most beneficiaries from
the rural areas still demanded support for housing. The response of most people from urban areas was not
- 29 -



specified, but some demanded training apparently to start business activities. The findings of the survey are
put in Table 18 and the annex section.
Table 18. Respondents By Support Needed to Start the Non-farm Activities
Support Required          Number of Resp ondents
Rural (n=271)     %             Urban (n=28)     %
Training                  19               7.07          3                 10.71
Tools/Equipment           1 5              5.53          1                 3.57
Livestock                 19               7.07          ___
Land for Farming          11               4.95          ___
Support for Housing       222              81.91         2                 7.14
Other Supports            3                1.10          22                78.57
Total                    271               100.00        28                100.00
The rehabilitation program has a limited life over which the beneficiaries are expected to become self-
sufficient and need no external support. This being the major objective of the intervention, getting the view of
the beneficiaries about the time required for self-sufficiency was vital for better judgment. Assessment was
made with this regard and only 16% of the respondents from rural areas replied that they will become self-
sufficient in about six months time. More than half of the people consulted indicated that at least one year is
required for full rehabilitation and asked for the support to continue for the time indicated.
Time Required for Full Rehabilitation-
Rural IDP
Above 24
months  Less than
6 months
13-24      16%
months - ;-
23%
7-12
months
60%
Respondents from urban areas were asked to identify the serious problem they have during the survey.
Getting access to employment opportunity from the government and/or other agencies that generates income
was the major problem identified.
Urban IDPs By Major Problem
Other       Lack of
proble       food
27obienn~  /19% Lack of
No          --Shelter
access              5%
to publicj'\
services    No job
3%      Opportinty
46%
- 30 -



1.11. HIV/AIDS AWARENESS
The HIV/AIDS pandemic is one of the major problems in Ethiopia. Recognizing this fact, the Emergency
Rehabilitation Program has identified this issue as one of the major components of the rehabilitation
program.
A preliminary assessment was made to investigate if the beneficiaries did have some basic knowledge about
the pandemic. Almost all people consulted indicated that they did have the information and accessed to some
training and/or counseling services.
Most of them also know one or more methods that should be used to protect themselves from being infected.
Most of the respondents were also using one of the major prevention mechanisms. The majority of them
reported that that one-to-one was the method they were using. The source of information about the pandemic
was mainly from meetings and this indicated that the kebele/Tabia officials were performing significant job
with this regard. This was also confirmed during the group discussions. The role of media, particularly radio
was also found to be significant in creating awareness about HIV/AIDS. The result of the survey is shown in
Table 19 and annex volume of this report.
Table 19. Distribution of Respondents By Knowledge about HIV/AIDS
Know            Number of Respondents
Rural (=320)                      Urban fN=33)     %
Yes             319               99.7            33              100
No              1                 0.3
Total           320               100.00          33              100.00
- 31 -



2. FAMILIES OF THE DECEASED
2.1    SOCIO-ECONOMIC CHARACTERISTICS
The socio-economic characteristics assessment addressed the age of the deceased, marital status, number of
beneficiary households, sex composition of the beneficiaries, and their relationship to the deceased.
Beneficiaries By Sex-Urban                 Beneficiaries By Sex-
Rural
_Male
Female UJ% Mal
59%                                    Female     l430
According to the survey results, about 60% of the sampled beneficiaries from rural areas and 46% from
urban areas were below the age of twenty that indicates the existence of higher dependency and burden on
the heads of the households and the significance of the support. This finding could also warrant the size and
time over which the support should be extended.
Beneficiaries By Age Category-Rural
FDs                         Beneficiaries By Age Category-
Urban FDS   Less than
Above 35                                                        5 years
Years                                                            8
22%                                                             8
Above 35               6-10
Years                Years
32%                  13%
%                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11-20
1 0-20                          21-35          Years
Yeers                           Years          25%
28%                             22%
Marital status of the deceased was also investigated. The survey result showed that more than 63% of the
deceased from rural areas and 46% from urban areas were married. This also signifies that there are many
dependants (a wife and children). Table I presents the summary of the finding.
Table 1. Distribution of The Deceased By Marital Status
Status              Number of The Deceased
Urban (n=84)                      Rural (n=166)        %
Married             39                46.40           106                  63.85
Single              39                46.40           47                   28.31
Divorced            5                 6.00            12                   7.22
Widowed             I                 1 .20           1                    0.60
Total               84                100.00          166                  100.00
- 32 -



Some deceased have had more than one beneficiary household. This implies they were supporting in addition
to their nuclear families, other family members like their fathers and mothers. The survey result showed that
a significant number of the deceased in both urban and rural areas have more than one benefiting households.
The details of the findings of the survey are presented in Table 2 and the annex section.
Table 2. Distribution of The Deceased By Beneficiary Households
Number of HHs    Number of The Deceased
Urban (n-83)       _     _   _    Rural (n=168)    %
1                48                 58.5           87               51.78
2                26                  31.7           61              36.30
More than 2      8                   9.8            20               11.90
Total            82                  100.00        168              100.00        1
The age distribution of the deceased in both rural and urban areas is summarized and shown in charts below.
The Deceased By Age Category-        The Deceased By Age Category-
Urban                                  Rural
Less than                            Less than
20                                20 Years
7%                                   3%
Above 30                                           20-30
Years ( &20-30                       Above 20     Years
49   ,,fYears                       Years      41%
44%                         56%
All beneficiaries were not getting equal amount of support. Regardless of the size of the support, however,
all beneficiaries are given sufficient orientation about the utilization of the support extended. Assessment is
made to evaluate the amount of benefit extended to the households already obtained benefit.
Benefit Extended in Birr-Urban
Less than
5000
18%
Above 
10,000( 45000-
52% '-   10,000
30%
In both urban and rural areas, the majority of the beneficiaries obtained a significant amount of support that
exceeded Birr 10,000. The joint involvement of the beneficiaries committee, the respective woreda officials
and the community in general is in place in all areas in the verification of eligible beneficiaries. The process
was found to be transparent. The involvement of women (particularly for the families of the deceased) was
also observed to be significant as women were participating as committee members. In some places about
50% of the beneficiaries represented in the committee were said to be women.
-33 -



Prior to need identification, sufficient orientation is given to the beneficiaries as to how the support should be
utilized. The purpose of the support is clearly conveyed to the beneficiaries. As a result, diversion of the
support in favor of activities not covered by the package seems to be insignificant and all RTF and ERP
coordinators consulted indicated that there was no major problem with this regard.
All families of the deceased are eligible for support but prioritization is an important element. In some areas,
setting priority followed the application of criteria that take in to account the physical capacity of the
individual beneficiary, number of members in a household, and who is leading the household (elderly,
women).
In principle, the level of education is expected to be relatively better in urban than rural areas. But a
significant proportion of the beneficiaries in urban areas (47% of the sampled) were also found to be
illiterate. The level of primary level education was almost similar in both cases. The number of beneficiaries
with primary level education was relatively higher in both cases (believed to be implying children attending
school during the survey). Table 3 presents the finding.
Table 3. Distribution of The Beneficiaries By Level of Education
Level of Education   Number of Beneficiaries
Urban (n-238)                   Rural (n=656)    %
Illiterate           111               46.60         427              65.1
Read & Write         25                10.50         26               4.0
Primary Level        80                33.60         186              28.4
Secondary Level      18                7.60          17               2.6
Higher Education     4                 1.70          -
Total               238                100.00        656              100.00
2.2. OCCUPATION OF THE HOUSEHOLD MEMBERS
Only few beneficiaries had special skills in both rural and urban areas. This significantly affects the income
basket of these people, as they do not have diversified sources from other off-farm activities. Only 3.26% of
the beneficiaries in rural areas and 5.3% in urban areas have skills in food processing. This, however, is
believed to be not a promising venture even in the smaller towns in the area.
The absence of some special skills also calls for some training programs in the intervention package to bring
about impact on the income and then life of these people in the long term. It is also believed that most of the
beneficiaries were women (widows of the deceased) where some activities like metal work and
masonry/carpentry is not practiced. The result of the survey is summarized and presented in Table 4.
Table 4. Distribution of Beneficiaries By Special Skill
Special Skill        Number of Beneficiariesc
Rural (n= 717)                   Urban (n=375)   |_%
None                 624               87.00          296              78.90
Metal Work           1                 0.1                             __     _
Pottery              2                 0.3           10                2.70
Masonry/Carpentry    10                1.4           4                  1.10
Food Processing      26                3.26          20                5.30
Other                54                7.5           45                 12.0
Total                717               100.00        375               100.00
- 34 -



Beneficiaries were requested to estimate their annual income. It was found out that more than 90% of the
respondents in rural areas and about 71% in urban areas were earning less than Birr 1000 per annum.
This finding implies that most of the people from rural areas and a significant proportion from urban areas
were living at subsistence level. Only few people were getting an annual income exceeding 1000 birr. The
following chart presents the findings of the survey.
Estimated Annual Income-Urban     Estimated Current Annual Income-
Above                                AbovJeural
3000 Birr                            3000 Birr
10%                                   3%
1000-                               10003000
3000 Birr\= ,                           Birr
19%                                    5%
Less
than
1000 Birr                          Less than
71%                              1000 Birr
92%
Most of the respondents were women who lost their husbands. Some of them were observed attempting to
run some farming activities and support their family. Assessment was made as to how these people (the
heads of the family) were supporting their family.
The majority of those who replied from rural areas (82%) stated that government assistance is the major
source of support. This was also true for urban dwellers. Some support was also obtained from relatives. But
this does not seem a reliable source as most households may not raise enough income to give out to others.
Table 5 presents the finding of the survey.
Table 5. Distribution of HH Heads By Source of Income to Support The Family
Source of Income         Number of Respondents
Rural (n=91)    %            Urban (n=80)      %
Dependant on Relatives   4              4.39          2                2.50
Government Assistance    75              82.48        26               32.50
NGO Assistance           1               1.09         3                3.75
Earlier Saving           I               1.09         -
Other Sources            10              10.98        18               22.50
Total                    91             100.00        80               100.00
2.3. ASSET HOLDINGS
Land is the major means of production and valuable asset in rural areas. Recognizing this fact, assessment
was made if the targets of the survey did have some private grazing land. Despite the gap in assessing the
type, and the standard of the grazing land, about 22.5% of the respondents replied that they own some. Most
respondents (45% of those sampled) indicated that the private grazing land they owned was supporting more
than 10 animals. But this finding should be taken with caution and subject to further investigation as owning
a private grazing land that supports significant number of animals is unlikely in land scarce northern part of
the country.
- 35 -



Types of livestock owned by the families of the deceased in rural areas include oxen, cows, sheep, goats,
donkeys, mules and horses. A significant number of respondents also have poultry. Many households replied
that the number of livestock owned has increased as a result of the support by the program. Detailed findings
of the types of livestock and other assets owned are summarized and presented in annex section.
2.4. HOUSEHOLD NEEDS AND PRIORITIES
The major support requested by most of the rural families of deceased (first priority) was securing food.
Buying livestock was the major need for people from urban areas. Only few people from rural areas
prioritized getting job that generates some sort of salary. The summary of the findings and the detailed
results are presented in Table 6 and the annex section respectively.
Table 6. Distribution of Respondents By First Priority
First Priority              Number of Respon dents
Rural (n=167)    %           Urban (n=89)   %
Getting a Job               3                1.79        18             20.22
Getting Food                47               28.14       12             13.48
Buying Livestock            30               17.96      21              23.59
Start a Business            31               18.56      2               2.24
Getting Farmland            15               8.98       6               6.74
Other unspecified Needs     41               24.55      30              33.70
Total                       167              100.00     89              100.00
Most of the families of the deceased from rural areas expressed the opinion that they would like to be
involved in other off-farm activities to augment their income. As indicated in the annex volume of this
report, about 42% of the respondents consider business, including off-farm activities, as a top priority. A
significant number of the respondents also indicated that they do not need any off-farm activity. This could
be due to the fact that most of the people heading the household were women with no specific skill other
than farming and the male household heads (fathers of the deceased) could be old enough to cope up with the
mobility requirement of off-farm activities. The results are provided in the annex tables.
As observed during the focus group discussions, the type of off-farm activity chosen by most of the
respondents from both rural and urban areas was petty trading. This seems to be an area that attracts most
people, as entrance to the market is relatively easier, requires no specific and detailed training and could be a
promising venture in some areas.
Most of the respondents were women (widows of the deceased) and believed to have some skill in food
processing. The depth of the skill is, however, not investigated and the reply could imply the routine food
processing activity undertaken by every women. Even if the finding is acknowledged, the food-processing
venture may not be promising as most areas are rural and the towns in the study areas are too small to
generate market for the product. The result of the survey is summarized and presented in Table 7.
- 36 -



Table 7. Distribution of Respondents By Type of Off-farm Activities Needed
Type of Activity     Number of Respondents
Rural (n=113)                Urban (n=89)      _     _
Farming                               -           8                 8.99
Petty Trade          98               86.72       74                83.15
Masonry/Carpentry    3                2.65        -
Mechanic             1                0.88        -
Tailoring            1                0.88        -
Food Processing      6                5.30        -
Leather Work         2                1.76        5                 5.62
Other                2                1.76        2                 2.25
Total                113              100.00     89                 100.00
The reason for choosing the activities identified in Table 7, according to most people, was by assuming that
there would be a market for their product. The result also indicated that a significant proportion of the
respondents did have experience in the activities chosen.
2.5. ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENT
Respondents were asked what support they require most to start the off-farm activities chosen above. But
only few people from rural areas have responded to this question that seems to be not showing the overall
picture. Despite the number of the respondents, those who replied indicated that the need for business
training was their priority. Recognizing this fact, some business training programs were included in the
program package and have been conducted to orient these people about starting a business activity.
In urban areas the need for housing support was indicted to be the major support required. This could be due
to the fact that most people lost their houses during occupation and/or wanted to have some place to start the
petty trading or other activities anticipated.
It was also learnt that those respondents from rural areas required the support for relevant materials to take
off their business activity. Some respondents also asked for getting support for livestock purchase. A group
discussion made in Mentebteb kebele of T/Adiabo woreda indicated that some families of the deceased want
to get involved in trading small animals. The need for livestock support could be in line with this aspiration.
The need for farmland was also forwarded by respondents and all of them want to have access to the land
where they were living during the survey. Summary of the results are presented in Table 15 and the annex
section.
Families of the deceased from rural areas were asked to give their view as to how long the support should be
extended to bring about full rehabilitation. Only 12% of the respondents indicated that the support would
bring impact on their life in about six months time. For the majority of the respondents, at least one year's
support is required. This demand, however, seems to be not in line with the support package designed for
families of the deceased, as they are entitled to get support only once. Some information gap seems to exist
with this regard.
The orientation given by the concerned parties as to how the support should be utilized, the monitoring job
undertaken by the kebele/woreda RTF and the community themselves, and the ban on the utilization of the
fund extended for some feasts and memorial services in some areas are expected to have a significant impact
on the result. The time over which the support should be extended as viewed by the respondents from rural
areas is presented in Table 8.
- 37 -



Table 8. Distribution of Respondents By Time Required for Full Rehabilitation (N=162)
Time Required               Number of Respondents       %
Less than 6 months          19                          11.72
7-12 months                 92                          56.71
13-20 months                18                          11.11
21-30 months                22                          13.58
31-36 months                11                          6.79
Total                       162                         100.00
2.6.   HIV/AIDS AWARENESS
The issue of IfV/AIDS is one of the major components in the household rehabilitation program. Efforts to
create awareness and control the epidemic are almost in place in areas covered during the survey. All groups
of people and individuals consulted including the families of the deceased did get the orientation and have
the know-how. It was also observed that at kebele and woreda levels, there were HIV/AIDS prevention
committees and a regular orientation program was being conducted in schools, churches, market places and
other public gathering areas. It was indicated by some groups consulted that some improvements in
attitudinal change is being observed among the community.
Families of the deceased consulted in all areas covered by the survey did have sufficient information about
the 1IIV/AIDS epidemic including its major transmission mechanisms, and prevention methods. The result
of the survey also confirmed this as more than 98% of those replied from rural areas do know about the
pandemic. The majority of the respondents also indicated that some kind of training/counseling was given to
them. The findings of the survey are presented in the annex tables.
The major source of information in both rural and urban areas about HIV/AIDS was found to be meetings.
This indicates that significant attention was given by all the kebele/tabia officials to create awareness about
the pandemic. Mass media, particularly radio was also indicated by significant number of respondents to be
the major source of information.
All people consulted did know one or more of the transmission mechanisms of HIV/AIDS. Uncontrolled
sexual activity was the major transmission mechanism identified by most of the respondents followed by
using infected materials like syringe and blades.
All of the respondents also knew one or more of the prevention mechanisms that should be used to protect
one-self from being infected by the pandemic. One to one was the method identified by most of the
respondents.
The assessment made to identify what methods the families of the deceased were using to protect themselves
from the pandemic revealed that one to one is the method used by most of them followed by not using
infected materials (syringe/blade). It was, however, indicated that about 1.27% of the respondents from rural
areas and - % from urban areas were not using any prevention method. This could imply refraining from any
sexual activities as some widows of the deceased indicated during the group discussions that they were not
involving in any of it. Detailed results of the survey are presented in the annex section.
- 38 -



3. DEPORTEES
3.1.   BASELINE INFORMATION ON DEPORTEES
A baseline survey on deportees was carried out by UNICEF in Tigray in September, 2001. The survey
covered a sample size of 600 deportee households. Structured interviews and participatory methods were
applied for establishing the baseline information. The findings of the survey are summarized and presented
here.
The duration of stay in Eritrea of the interviewed deportees/returnees varies. However, the majority of them
has spent over 20 year in the country. This implies that many deportees/returnees - and especially the
children of the interviewees - have never lived in Ethiopia. This is a possible element of vulnerability: for
children, because they might have difficulties in adapting to the new environment, and especially in school.
For the family as whole, the loss of the family support networks after many years of absence adds to the
economic and social fragility. Youth (both boys and girls) also face difficulties of integration, especially in
urban areas.
Table 1. Duration of stay of deportees/returnees in Eritrea
| 0-5 years    6-10 years     11-20 years      Over 20 years
136           107            98              265
23%           18%            16%              44%
It was estimated that as a result of the Ethio-Eritrean conflict in May 1998, an estimated 95,000 Ethiopians
were deported from Eritrea of which about 75,000 are in Tigray. The results of the UNICEF survey indicate
that deportees are a fragile social group within Tigray. Since there are no major cultural disparities between
the deportees/returnee and local communities, and many already possess productive skills, their major
vulnerabilities are due to their complete loss of property, means of livelihood and lack of social networks to
fall back upon
While receiving the standard DPPC/DPPB food ration and cash grant, the study indicates that only 17% were
able to start income generating activities. The majority became--and remain--dependent on relief assistance.
Some women expressed their concern for the lack adequate food for their children; the planned reduction of
food distributions in IDP areas which affect deportees/returnees as well, might have concerning
consequences on the nutritional status of deportee/returnee children and other vulnerable categories,
especially the elderly.
The support from relatives of origin was found to be below expectations. The study indicates that most
deportee returning to their village/town of origin (75%), found little to ease the process of reintegration.
Only a minority of the respondents was able to receive actual material support from family members and to
find a stable source of income. The reasons for families not being able to provide support are "poverty" of
the (host) family (72%).
Despite commendable efforts-of the regional authorities, it has been difficult to ensure that all deportee
children go to school. The Regional Education Bureau adopted a policy of entry exams for children who do
not have documentation. However, some were unable to complete the exams and join school in time for the
current academic year (September-June). Other constraints to education include lack of money to buy
education materials and uniforms, and to a lesser extent, lack of places in schools. Most schools are
operating on double shifts already. In some schools in Mekele, over 70 children are found in a single
classroom.
- 39 -



Most of the deportees have problems with housing. To this effect, the initial relief package is exhausted in a
few months in order to pay for the rent. Increased urban poverty and social tensions are often experienced.
In rural areas, deportees receiving monthly food rations (approximately 19,000 were on the REST/WFP
distribution list until November 2001) have used their rations to pay for accommodation, sometimes only a
plastic shelter. Children and the elderly are the ones who suffer most of exposure to cold weather, especially
in Adigrat and surrounding areas.
When they were in Eritrea, most adult deportees were engaged in a number of activities, mostly unskilled
and were living in the urban areas especially in Asmara. They were petty traders, domestic and casual
workers, masons etc.
Access to employment opportunities for returnees/deportees will mostly depend on the overall economic
development the region. As mentioned earlier, major recovery programmes (ERP/WB) have targeted IDPs
and the families of the deceased. Recovery/rehabilitation of returnees/deportees has yet to be started. A
concerted action and strong is necessary. Previous poor and untimely response towards the plight of
returnees from Assab in Amhara Region (South Wollo) has brought about a difficult situation in which
integration and economic recovery appear unattainable.
Table 2: Engaged in income generating activities
Yes     No         n/v
Eastern zone      Rural        Hawzien         I 1     49
Sae Sae        10       50
Gantafeshum    2        38        17
Urban        Adigrat         15      103       5
Central zone      Rural        Ahferom        10       20
Urban        Axum            30      30
Adwa           2        58
Western zone      Urban        Shire           17      43
Mekelle           Urban        Mekelle        7        84        7
TOTAL                                         104      475       29
Percentage of total                            17%     78%       5%
The finding of the survey suggests that getting job opportunities is a priority for all deportees. Most left
Eritrea for economic reasons where, prior to the conflict, they had been productive members of the society,
able to support themselves. Most are now in conditions of dependency. The number of people who have
been able use DPPC/B cash grants to initiate a business or other economic activity is small (10%), as many
were compelled to spend the money for household utensils and furniture, sending children to school, paying
rent, etc. Women working in the Mekelle's market were interviewed in focus group discussions. As their
activities are traditionally low income generating and small scaled (tea/coffee making, selling of small items
etc.), competition is high and making enough to meet family needs is a major challenge. In many respects,
this condition of lost livelihoods mirrors the plight of the 1999 returnees from Assab to Amhara Region who
faced an exceptionally difficult situation in which integration and economic recovery appear unattainable.
For women and young girls especially, the inability to find a job or to start up a small business, exposes them
to increased risk of being involved in prostitution, especially in areas of high military presence and sexually
transmitted diseases, including H1V/AIDS.
- 40 -



3.2. POTENTIAL INCOME GENERATING ACTIVITIES (IGS)
Major income generating activities identified during the survey in both rural and urban areas are similar
except for few activities particularly applicable to rural villages. The summary of these activities is presented
in the following table.
No Income Generating Activity
I   Petty Trading
2    Running Tea Rooms
3    Livestock Trading
4    Local Brewing and Selling Food
5    Hides and Skins Trading
6    Tailoring
7    Butchery
8    Running Local Oil Mill
9    Metal Work
10 Poultry Farm
1 I  Group Run Grain Mill Project
12  Bee Keeping
Petty trading, running tea rooms, local brewing and selling food, tailoring, butchery, metal work, running oil
and grain mills were typical income generating activities practiced in urban areas visited. One can also find
most of these activities exercised in some rural areas located nearer to the towns. Bee keeping is an activity
particularly mentioned by rural IDPs in Irob woreda. Similarly rural families of deceased in T/Adiabo
woreda of Mentebteb kebele mentioned the possibility of involving in trading small animals like sheep and
goats. Achievement of good result by displaced women in Rama town involved in local brewing activities
has been observed during the fieldwork. It was also observed in some towns (Axum, Inticho, Adigrat) that
deportees particularly those in young ages were doing very well in running small tearooms and liquor bars.
3.2.1. Petty Trading
This activity does not require any specific training to initiate it. A little start up capital for initial investment
and some know how about running a business could be what is needed. But for reasonable result, a
preliminary assessment/knowledge about commodities demanded in that particular area needs to be
conducted by the person wishing to involve in the venture. Short orientation programs with regard to this
activity (record keeping, turn-over issues etc.) may also be an added value for its success.
Considering the prevailing situation in Tigray Region, petty trading does not look a promising venture as
most people were displaced and lost their property and relying on external support for their livelihood. This
certainly suppresses demand for the items. It can also be observed that many people may get involved into
this venture and make the items available on competitive basis and eventually lead to decline in prices.
3.2.2 Running Tea/Coffee Rooms and Local Brewing/Food Processing
These income-generating activities are promising particularly in towns located near the border and where the
military presence is significant. This situation is expected to generate huge demand, but may be short lived.
This is manifested by the fact that in some border towns visited, the business seems to be saturated as a result
of the involvement of several people in the venture. For instance, all houses in Gerhusemay town are
apparently converted into mini shops and bars to accommodate the demand generated. It was observed that
the venture is still promising in towns such as Rama where demand is generated from within the locality.
- 41 -



Besides the demand issue, these income-generating activities need significant initial investment for
equipment, and furniture, and running budget for house rent, utilities and other miscellaneous expenses. The
beneficiaries (the IDPs and Deportees) may not fulfill these inputs with the rehabilitation support provided.
Families of the deceased in urban areas may be in a better position to initiate this activity as the benefit
package obtained could cover the cost of initial investment and running costs. Intervention with this regard
should, however, take into account the initial investment issue and the specific situation of the area. A
blanket recommendation should not be made for all the target areas.
3.2.3 Tailoring and Metal Work
These income-generating activities require some training and people who are expected to get involved in
these activities need to have some background. Two categories of beneficiaries can be identified with this
regard: beneficiaries with some traditional know-how and people with no or little background but have the
interest want to initiate it with some support. The second group of people would certainly require some
training with this regard.
Providing trainings depends on the availability of resources and institutions (private/public) offering these
training programs. These factors determine the cost of the training, the duration and the number of people to
be trained. It seems most unlikely that training institutions are available in most of the affected areas putting
the second group of people on a disadvantaged position.
For those beneficiaries with some know-how of tailoring and metal work, provision of initial capital to
procure the equipment required is necessary. Tailoring seems to be a viable activity in some border towns
but metal work is mentioned only in one woreda i.e. Irob (apparently selling the services to the community).
Irob woreda is, however, not easily accessible to the nearest town, Adigrat, to create demand for its products.
This makes the proceed from this venture not promising and generates demand for the service only from the
surrounding locals. It can, however, be supported with minimum input and probably little training to improve
the already available knowledge. It is believed that people who will get involved in this venture do have
some know-how about metal work.
3.2.4. Grain Mills
This income-generating activity needs substantial initial investment and significant running cost afterwards.
The beneficiaries particularly families of the deceased who mentioned this activity do know the investment
required, but they suggested pulling resources together in the form of an association and initiate the activity.
The idea is commendable, but considering the background of the beneficiaries (most of them are women
who lost their husbands), it makes management of the project difficult. Besides this, investing all the support
on one investment opportunity increases the risk factor.
The investment seems to be viable in rural areas where the service is not yet adequately provided, but the
managerial capacity of the beneficiaries in rural areas in smooth running of the business should be seriously
looked at. Moreover, the tradition of the people in the area working together in harmony and run the business
needs consideration. The overall mandate to initiate this cooperation should be totally left to the beneficiaries
themselves.
3.2.5. Poultry Farming/ Bee Keeping
Poultry farming on commercial scale needs through knowledge about the business and requires strict
management. The risk is also very high when the initial investment required is taken into account. It seems
unlikely that the beneficiaries in both rural and urban areas (under the prevailing circumstances) can handle
poultry farming at commercial level. Keeping poultry at household level could be feasible but it may not
bring about significant and rapid change in the living standards of the beneficiaries. This can, however, be
improved with some orientation programs conducted where relevant addressing the management, marketing
- 42 -



etc. of the product. Besides, the possibility of integrating this venture with other income-generating activities
needs to be investigated.
Bee keeping is specifically mentioned by people from Irob woreda. There seems to be a traditional know-
how of producing honey in this woreda. It looks feasible to introduce modem bee keeping methods so that
production can be improved. Experience tells that the proceed from the sale of honey is also significant. But
creating demand for the product should be assessed and facilitated before initiating the activity.
3.2.6. Transport Services - Cart
Significant job creation has been observed in some areas by introducing this income generating activity by
some non-governmental organizations. This activity is particularly feasible for women with some
entrepreneurial motives and living in and around towns. It could be adapted to fit into Tigray Region's
situation. The animals required for the service are also donkeys. Some beneficiaries mentioned during group
discussions that this income generating activity is feasible in some selected towns/areas of the region.
3.3. RECOMMENDATIONS
Based on the results of the baseline survey, the following recommendations are made:
*  Continued relief assistance is required for many of the deportees. This includes food distribution,
temporary shelter and blankets to selected vulnerable families, the provision of educational materials
to deportee/returnee students, especially in areas where they do not access assistance provided to
IDPs. Priority should be given to larger families.
*  More sensitive and targeted assistance is required for single parent households. Advocacy is required
at all levels for a cessation of induced repatriations (in both countries). This echoes the recent appeal
by the UN Secretary General, requesting Eritrea and Ethiopia to ease conditions for respective
expatriate populations of both countries, thus ending the continuing rounds of forced and induced
repatriation.
*  Since late 2000, an increased number of children and youth living on the streets in Mekelle and
Adigrat has been reported. The extent to which deportee/returnee populations contribute to this
phenomenon is not quantified though empirical information suggests it is considerable. Authorities
are concerned that the arrival of deportees/returnees may contribute to the increase in juvenile crime.
While, the problem of streetism in Ethiopia is complicated and multi-faceted, the specific situation
of deportee/returnee youth should be more fully assessed as the basis for appropriate advocacy and
program response.
* Children have suffered unfairly during the various phases of the deportation/return from Eritrea. As
their parents have invested in their education while in Eritrea, the right to continued education
should be promoted not only with material support but also by clarifying policies and bureaucratic
process and ensuring that deportees/returnees are aware of their entitlements. For example, larger
families should benefit in the waiving or subsidizing of school fees.
* The humanitarian situation of deportees/returnees will require continuous monitoring by the regional
administration with the support of federal, local and international aid agencies. As
deportees/returnees lack an internal social organization on their own as they come from different
areas and experiences while in Eritrea, associative efforts should be encouraged such as women's,
vocational and youth groups.
- 43 -



* Long term interventions will have to address the problems of deportees/returnees within the context
of the development of the region and include the creation of stable income producing opportunities.
Deportees/returnees with technical/professional skills should be identified and matched with the
needs of the region. Additional vocational skills training should be provided to groups who have
similar interest and skills, to encourage them to set up businesses in the form of cooperatives.
* In urban areas, income-generating activities should target deportee/returnee women. A priority will
be mobilizing and organizing women towards the creation of cooperatives according to their skills.
Training on management, leadership skills, management of credit and specific technical skills should
be provided to these groups. Provision of credit aimed at supporting small income generating
initiative should be carefully planned and accompanied by training.
* In addition to viable vocational and skills building activities, deportee/returnees should be also be
involved in community-based Mine Risk Education activities given the continuing risks faced and
incidents occurring.
*  Younger girls should be targeted for vocational skills training that will allow them to find jobs,
accompanied by awareness training on HIV/AIDS and family planning. Girls and women involved
in prostitution should be prioritized.
*  In addition, the regional authorities should be supported in finding solutions for the lack of shelter,
through provision of semi-permanent housing materials in rural areas and investigate options for
low-cost housing in urban areas. Deportees/returnees should be specifically targeted in the regional
and federal level policies, aimed at improving access to housing and land.
3.4.   ESTIMATE OF FOOD ASSISTANCE
The total number of deportees is estimated at about 75,000 people. According to the information obtained
from the Tigray DPPB, food assistance was distributed for 20,000 deportees in the three zones of Tigray.
The food assistance was distributed by WFP which has already terminated. The DPPB indicated that food
assistance will be required for one year at least for the 20,000 deportees. Accordingly, the food assistance
requirement is estimated as follows:
Food Assistance Requirement for Deportees
Food Item       Quantity per     Duration        No. of          Total Food
month (kg)      (months)         Beneficiaries   requirement
(Quintals)
WheaVSorghum    15               12              20,000          36,000
Oil             0.7              12              20,000          1,800
FAMIX           2                12              5000            1,200
Assumptions:
*  Food assistance is required for one year.
*  25% of the deportees are children under five years old and pregnant and/or lactating mothers
(5000) need supplementary food assistance.
- 44 -



4. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.1. CONCLUSIONS
The baseline survey revealed that the first two years were the time when there was a high rate of
displacement from both rural and urban areas in Tigray Region. Most households in rural areas have lost
their livestock and few were trying to restore it by the support obtained from the program. For some of the
IDPs, fear of landmines and the destruction of houses were the major reasons identified by rural IDPs for not
returning to their original place. The majority of people from rural areas and all the displaced people from
urban centers have already returned to their original place and resumed their routine activities. The time of
return was years 2001/02. apparently after the termination of the conflict.
The urban centers covered by the survey had access to potable water supply, education and health services.
More than 80% of the people in rural areas had also access to education and health services. The quality of
the services in both cases is not investigated. But potable water supply was found to be crucial in areas like
Bademe.
The level of education in both urban and rural areas was low as more than 50% of those consulted from rural
areas were illiterate. About 75% of the people consulted in both rural and urban areas did not have any
special skills. Only few people did have skills in food processing, artisanship and masonry/carpentry.
The problem of housing was significant in areas like Bademe and Irob woredas. For instance, houses in four
kebeles around Gerhu-sernay were totally destroyed. In some cases the internally displaced people were
forced to stay in plastic sheets covered roofs and this had became a cause for fire hazard. The plastic sheets
used for roofing in Woretle kebele of Irob woreda were found to be old. No housing package was fully in
place for all the affected groups and areas. Only a pilot project was underway in Marta Kebele of
Gulomekeda wereda.
Most of the displaced people from rural areas (85.8%) did have their own houses before displacement. The
houses were constructed traditionally (Edimo) and only few of them did have roofs of corrugated iron sheets.
Most respondents from rural areas expressed their need to reconstruct their houses in relatively modern way
by using corrugated iron sheets and timber.
The fear of landmines was high on the problem list of all parties consulted in the region. No full-fledged de-
mining activities have started during the survey. The Rehabilitation and Development Organization (RADO)
was aggressively working to create awareness about landmines and provide counseling services to landmine
victims in the affected woredas of the region. The organization is conducting landmine awareness creation
programs in schools, and also by organizing a listening groups in kebeles (1 5 groups/kebele). The effect of
fear of landmines was vivid as three quarters of the people contacted from rural areas indicated that they had
farmlands not cultivated as a result.
All the displaced people consulted in urban areas and the majority from rural areas were getting food
assistance during the survey and this has been going on for more than 6 months. A significant number of
them had also access to the support even before the start of the conflict.
According to the survey, about 60% of the sampled deceased beneficiaries from rural areas and 46% from
urban areas were below the age of twenty that indicates the existence of higher dependency and burden on
the heads of the households and the significance of the support. The survey result showed that more than
63% of the deceased from rural areas and 46% from urban areas were married. This also signifies that there
are many dependants (a wife and children). A significant number of the deceased in both urban (41%) and
rural (48.2%) areas have more than one benefiting households. It was also learnt that most of the beneficiary
households are female headed except very few headed by males.
- 45 -



The major support requested by most of the families from rural areas (first priority) was securing food.
Buying livestock was the major need for people from urban areas. Only few people from rural areas
prioritized getting job that generates some sort of salary. The type of off-farm activity preferred by most of
the respondents from both rural and urban areas was petty trading. In urban areas, the need for housing
support was indicted to be the major support required.
Even though services like education, health and water supply have resumed in most of the rural areas and the
majority of urban centers, the quality of the services was not to the level expected. The supply of potable
water was not sufficient.
4.2. RECOMMENDATIONS
Based on the findings of the baseline survey, the following recommendations are made:
*  The landmines clearing activity should be resumed as soon as possible which otherwise will limit the
returnees to put the land under cultivation and accelerate the rehabilitation process.
*  Restoring basic services like water supply and education services (school reconstruction, furniture
availing etc.) are issues that should be given due consideration.
*  The reconstruction of houses should take place as soon as possible since it is one of the factors for
the return of the IDPs to their villages.
*  Some skills upgrading training programs needs to be identified and included in the intervention
package to fill the gap and help people generate income and accelerate the process of rehabilitation.
*  The RTFs organized at different levels are accomplishing tremendous jobs in the rehabilitation
process free of charge. This input is made at the expense of their time and effort. This calls for
extension of possible incentives for these RTF to maintain their support and commitment.
*  Future interventions should consider the price variations particularly livestock as the prevailing price
in some areas was 100% higher than the amount of money provided for that purpose.
*  Some IDP households are headed by women mainly because their husbands disappeared during the
Eritrean occupation. The where about of the disappeared persons is not known, not registered as
deceased and the family is getting only the benefit for displacement. Special support package may
need to be designed for these families.
*  Some families of deceased possessed land that can be put under cultivation. But due to lack of labour
the available land has not been utilized. A mechanism at local level should be sought to utilize this
resource (apparently a scarce resource in most areas).
*  Based on the proposed rehabilitation strategy for deportees, which is presented in this report, the
rehabilitation process should take place as soon as possible. It is worth noting that some of the
elements of the deportees rehabilitation strategy could be applicable to the urban families of
deceased.
- 46 -



CHAPTER TWO: AMHARA NATION REGIONAL STATE
REGIONAL PROFILE
The Amhara Nation Regional State (ANRS) has an area of 170,152 square kilometers. The population of the
region was estimated to be 16.7 million as of July 2001, which was about 26 percent of the total population
of the country. It is made up of 11 administrative zones, 105 woredas and 3051 kebeles. Close to 90 percent
of the population earn their living from agriculture and live in rural areas. The region has identified 48
woredas as food insecure in the region.
Food shortage and low income are common phenomena in rural areas. Reportedly, much of the production
comes from areas with adequate rainfall. About 48 woredas in the region are drought prone and are
identified as food insecure. The food insecure woredas are mainly in north and south Wollo, north gondar
and Oromiya zones. The majority of the people live on subsistent farming where crop production and
livestock husbandry constitute the main farm activities and the major sources of household income. The
annual household production is no more than 2.5 quintals of crops(average yield of cereals being I Q/ha and
of pulses 0.7 Q/ha), and the annual average household income from farm and non-farm sources is no more
than Birr 2000. Of this, income from farm activities accounts for well over 70 percent.
Many factors contribute to this unfavourable situation. Productivity of land and labour is low even though
the Region's resource base could boast of many high potential areas, a lot of water resources, and suitable
areas and conducive climate for crop and livestock production. Low use of agricultural inputs and improved
technologies; poor economic infrastructure ( roads, markets,.. etc.); population pressure and poor
management of natural resources ; and inadequate research and extension services are the other key
constraints.
The region is also affected by the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea - there are quite significant number
of families of deceased and deportees. The families of deceased are distributed all over the woredas in the
region. The majority of the families of deceased reside in rural areas and are engaged in farming and some
off-farm activities, while deportees are in urban centres.
1. FAMILIES OF THE DECEASED
1.1. BACKGROUND
In the Amhara Regional state, there are two ERP regional coordinating offices. These offices are positioned
in Bahir Dar and Dessie towns for Western and Eastern Amhara areas respectively. The Bahir Dar office is
responsible to coordinate ERP activities of North and South Gonder, East and North Gojam, Agewawi
Zones, and the Bahir Dar special zone. The Dessie sub-regional office also coordinates the activities of the
program in North and South Wollo, Wag Himra, Oromiya, and Semen Shewa Zones. In each zones,
technical task forces (TTF) are formed with members from different sector departments. Similarly, TTFs are
formed in each Woredas of the region to carry out routine ERP works, and monitor and evaluate the
disbursements of the benefit package for entitled beneficiaries.
The ERP support is released in a series of tranches. The status of the first tranche up until August 2001 was
as follows.
- 47 -



Table 1: The Deceased and their Families in Amhara (August 2001)
Zones       Total        Total        Total Money     Total Amount    Amount Paid to
Number of    Number of    Allotted in First  Transferred to  Beneficiaries
Deceased     Beneficiaries  Trench        zones/Woredas
Amhara      9442         18294        100864264       56488486.44     36219897.1
Region
N/Gondar    1607         3419         17234033.2      9570000         5839382.62
S/Gondar    1217        2331          13019806.6      7890000         2262374.17
N/Wollo     1369         2498         14618231.3      8085000         4973912.19
S/Wollo     1467        2630          15632618.1      8580000         5515529
E/Gojjam    949          1867         10271740.9      5610000'        4126590.7
W/Gojjam    835          1844         8849224.4       4840000         847988.48
Bahir Dar   196          298          2082989.14       1100000        0
N/Shewa     931          1645         9902072.94      5280000         NI
Wag Himra 285            651          3066465.14      1650000         2654878.4
Agew Awi    405          914          4277928.3       2765000         432460.8
Oromiya     99           144          1043062.73      550000          9566780.7
Unidentifie  82          53           866091.71       568486.44       NI
d          I_              _ _ __I_ _ __I  _ _ _ _ _ I_   I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Source: The Federal ERP Monitoring Unit, 2001.
It is observed from the table above that about 36% of the financial support was released in the first trench
until August 2001. Including the 64 percent not yet paid in the first trench, the number of beneficiaries who
are waiting for the release of their share is considerable. Thus, this study takes into account both paid and
unpaid beneficiaries from urban and rural areas. .
1.2. SOCIO-ECONOMIC CHARACTERISTICS OF BENEFICIARY HOUSEHOLDS
A total of 133 rural and 64 urban families of deceased households were covered by the survey. About 65%
of the deceased from rural areas were below the age of thirty, while in urban areas, those at this age
boundary are above 95%. As indicated in the figures below, the marital status of the deceased from urban
and rural areas significantly differs. Most of the deceased from urban areas were unmarried whereas 50% of
the deceased from the rural areas were married. This is basically due to differences in socio-economic and
cultural settings of urban and rural areas. As a result of this difference, the number of beneficiaries per
deceased also varies. More than 65% of the deceased reportedly had two or more beneficiary households in
rural areas but about 75% of urban deceased had only one beneficiary household.
Marital Status-Rural Deceased           Marital Status-Urban Deceased
Wdow ed
Widowed                                            0%
2% 0                                               Married
Divorced                                  Divorced     24%
Married
Unmarrie              49%
d
44%                                     Unmarried
74%
-48 -



The relationships of the beneficiaries with the deceased are illustrated in the following figures for rural and
urban areas separately. According to the results of the survey, 30% of the beneficiaries in rural areas are
brothers and sisters followed by mothers (2 1%) and fathers and children which explains the extended family
system in Ethiopia. The situation is somewhat different in urban areas where 30% of the beneficiaries are
reported to be mothers followed by fathers. This is mainly true for the unmarried and./or divorced deceased.
The Relationship of Beneficiaries with the  The Relationship of Beneficiaries with the
Deceased-Rural                          Deceased-Urban
Wife/Husb
Other  Spouse                           Other   andhii Brother/Si
Mother  7%     10% Child                        8%     6o/3%  ster
21% _911          16%                         _              18%
lrAbther
F a t h    .                ~~~39%/ W- 
Fath6%oll",   Brother/Si                               Father
16%             ster                                    26%
30%
In both urban and rural areas, the share of spouses as beneficiaries is relatively low which could partly be
explained by the fact that the percentage of unmarried deceased is high, especially in urban areas and that
most beneficiaries listed in the personal files of the deceased are mainly parents as well as brothers and
sisters who used to depend on them.
Central Statistical Authority and the people aware of the social strata of the rural areas consider every
individual above the age of ten as part and parcel of the active labor force stock of households. The sample
survey results indicate that about 20% of the beneficiaries are children below the age of ten while the
remaining 80% of the beneficiaries could in one way or the other contribute to agriculture or related non-
farm activities. It was found that about 41 % of the beneficiaries are within the age bracket of 20 to 35 years.
Mostly, people within this age limit are physically energetic and eager to enthusiastically involve in social
activities in the community and potentially learn and engage in non-traditional income generating activities.
On the other hand, about 64% of urban beneficiaries are with the age limit of twenty to thirty; where as about
26.6% and 9.4% are below twenty or above 30 years - details are provided in the annex volume of this
report.
The level of education has its own effect on the choice of kind of economic activity to engage in and the
level of efficiency. As indicated in table 2.2., of the total number of beneficiaries whose educational
background was reported, about 59% are found illiterate in rural areas and this figure is lower only by 6% in
the case of urban areas. Although the combination slightly varies, the share of beneficiaries who are within
or above primary schooling are about 33 to 34% of the total in both urban and rural areas.
Table 2: Distribution of Beneficiaries by Educational Background
Urban (n=117)         Rural (n=387)
Education Level Number of            Number of
Beneficiaries-        Beneficiaries % Share
Illiterate     62            53.00%  229          59.20%
Read & Write   15            12.80%  25           6.50%
Primary        27            23.10%  127           2.80%
Secondary       1 2          10.30%  6            1.60%
Higher education 1           0.90%   0            0.00%
Total         1i17          100.00% 587          100.00%
-49 -



Yet, the educational background of the sample beneficiaries is above the national and the regional average.
Thus, households of the deceased, particularly those in the rural areas do have relatively better educational
background, which could help them acquiring knowledge on identifying better income generating activities
and exploiting the opportunities. However, it is to be noted that education for children should be part of the
rehabilitation package since there is a potential for the children of the deceased to discontinue schooling due
to lack of support.
1.3.   SKILLS AND OCCUPATION OF RESPONDENTS
As to recent dates, a significant number of the beneficiaries and their families outside the support package do
not have special skills. Very few of the respondents reported that they do not have special skills and only few
of them have masonry/carpentry, food processing and some other minor skills. While this could be
acceptable in the case of rural households, the situation in urban areas is questionable since some of them are
governmental and non-governmental organizations employees, daily labourers in various activities, etc
which have not probably be reported. Thus, one should be careful in interpreting the results below.
Table 3: Distribution of Beneficiaries by Skill Type
Urban (n=507)            Rural (n=279)
Number of                Number of      l
Type of Skill  Beneficiaries  % Share   Beneficiaries   /O_Share
None           486          95.90%      237            84.90%
Metal work     0            0.00%       1              0.40%
Masonry/Carpent
ry             2            0.40%       7               .50%
Food processing 3     _     0.60%       6              2.20%
Other          16           3.20%       28              10.00%
Total          507         1100.00%     279            100.00%
With regard to the current occupation of rural respondents, amazingly only 32.5% of household members are
reported to be farmers, around 30% are engaged in non-farm activities (in addition to farming), whereas
others do not have any kind of occupation, either due to age limitations or other reasons. Despite the fact that
most of rural beneficiary households may not have special skills, they have already been involved in non-
farming activities of various types and it only requires providing them advice and some basic orientations to
pursue further in their areas.
3     Occu ation Skills of Beneficiaries in Rural
30%/ - _
25/ -    _  |               _ 
200/ -      1   
- 50 -



The survey result shows that 96% of the sample beneficiaries in urbanuu areas do not have any kind of
occupation, and only two individuals are engaged in metallic work or in house service. This seems rather
misleading and might be partly due to reporting problem from the respondents with the fear that they may
not be included for the rehabilitation program if information on occupation is provided.
It was estimated that about 65.5% of the rural and 43.8% of the urban households earn less than Birr 1000.00
per annum. The annual income includes only cash from petty trade, employment, sales of farm products etc.
and does not include the income of the beneficiaries in kind. To this effect, it is observed that more
households in urban areas get more cash income than rural households which is justified by employment,
petty trading, employment etc. Assuming, an average family size of five, the per capita income of these
segments of beneficiary households would be lower than 23.5 US dollar. This is less than a quarter of the
national per capita level of income. Only about 12 percent of both rural and urban households reported to
earn more than 3000 per household (about Birr 600.00 or 71 US dollars per capita) annually. Albeit the
figures seem to be meager, it is not very much different from the overall condition of the region.
Table 4: Distribution of Beneficiaries by the Level of Annual Income
Urban (N=80)               Rural (N=139)
Level of Income Number of Income          Number of Income
Earner           % Share   Earner            % Share
Less than 1000
Birr           35               43.80%    91                65.50%
1000 - 3000 Birr  3             41.30%    31                 2.30%
Above 3000 Birr 12              15.00%    17                12.20%
Total          80               100.00%   139               100.00
In Amhara Region, 48 woredas are identified as food insecure woredas. The food insecurity situation affects
both the rural centers (secondary towns) and the rural areas is estimated that about 61% of the rural and 34%
of the urban population of the region face risks of food insecurity. Among the food insecure woredas, Farta,
Lay Gaint and Tach Gaint (Gondar), Meket, Gidan, Gubalafto (North Wollo) are included. Some NGOs are
involved in development efforts in these woredas. In Farta, CARE and GTZ are working principally in the
provision of food aid. CPAR and FHI work in Lay Gaint, and FHI and AMELD are also engaged in food aid
in Tach Gaint. In North Wollo, SOS Sahel, SCF(UK), Oxfam GB and others are actively involved in
development efforts.
1.4. ASSET HOLDINGS
While the magnitude of asset holdings could be taken as a proxy for the stock of wealth of households, their
type or composition determines the degree of modernization or exposition about new ways of life and doing
things. The household asset holding is given in annex tables. The livestock holding is provided in the table
below.
As indicated in the table above, nearly half of the households do not currently own even an ox. It is as much
as 35% of the households that do have a single ox to unite with others and farm in spite of being primarily
occupied in agrarian activities. It is only 40.8%, 17.7% and 39.2% of the families that reported to have cows,
sheep and goats, respectively. Pack animals have economic importance in the region - they are either rented-
out and used as an income sources, or the households use them as a means of transport for the household
petty trading purpose. As indicated in the table above, only 27 and 6 of the 130 families have donkeys, and
horses and mules, respectively.
- 51 -



Table 5: Livestock Holding by Species
Type of   Size           Current Status           Additional Purchase
animal                                            Plans
No. of HiH     % Share   No. of HH     % Share
Ox        None           64             49.2      36            27.7
________ Only one        46             35.4      41            43.6
Only two       17             13.1      48            36.9
________ More than two  3             2.3       5             3.8
Cows      None           77             59.2      26            20.0
Only one       39             30.0      44            33.8
Only two       11             8.5       36            27.7
More than two  3              2.3       24            18.5
Sheep     None           107            82.3      53           40.8
Only one       5              3.8       2             1.5
Only two       8              6.2       16            12.3
More than two  10             7.7       59            45.4
Goats     None           79             60.8      75            57.7
Only one       10             7.7       12            9.2
Only two       13             10        26            20
_  More than two  28           21.5      17            13.1
Of the 130 respondents, only 44 (33.8%) have reported to have private grazing land. The vast majority of
them do not have grazing land even to lodge one additional animal. In most cases, they use communal
grazing land which is often without sufficient pasture for the animals. It was reported that about 69% of
those who claim to have a grazing land accommodate animals ranging from one to five where as others could
do more than that. The current grazing land status of the households considered in the study does not seem to
let securing the intended number of animals. However, the various discussions with the professionals,
beneficiaries and other stakeholders revealed that the situation should be seen in other dimensions.
Many parts of the Amhara Region is degraded with long years of traditional farming practices and left with
no or little forestry coverage. Ironically, proposed animal husbandry projects in terms of cattle fattening,
sheep and goat raring and other animal caring activities are rather likely to lessen problems of environmental
degradation than aggravate them. Recently, people are increasingly aware the need for modem way of
animal husbandry both in urban and rural areas.
In urban areas, the available option for cattle fattening, sheep, and goat raring is to strictly follow the modem
feeding and handling methods - cut and carry system. They have better opportunities to have access for
health facilities and by products of floor and oil mills, brewery, wood and other similar industries for animal
feeds. For instance, people as far as Debre Tabor use industrial by products from factories of Gondar town.
As experts in agriculture and environment argued, the severe drought occurring for years, for instance in
many parts of South Gondar, has been mainly due to backward and awkward ways of farming. Mountainous
and sloppy areas of Lay and Taich Gaint were ploughed for centuries with little or no conservation measures.
Highlands of Tach Gaint are highly populated and the per-capita land holding including the marginal lands is
about half a hectare. In such conditions, if rural families of deceased are encouraged instead to use these
marginal lands for animal husbandry with an application of modern cattle management methods, the
environment will improve considerably. Nowadays, peasants and NGOs operating in the different localities
are progressively producing a pulse called "GUAYA" for animal consumption. The National Livestock
Institute for instance uses the Lay Gaint Woreda as its broad research and demonstration area and introduces
- 52 -



modem of varieties of animal feed to the localities. The whole process is expected to have a positive impact
on augmenting the environment.
Others also argue that beneficiaries have been procuring cattle largely within their localities. This transfer of
ownership is not expected to have negative environmental impact at least in the short run and increasing use
of modern management techniques would take care of the situation in the future. In some areas like Lay and
Tach Gaint, the number of cattle population actually declined due to subsequent droughts. Most households
hold only one ox and per capita cattle holding is very small as focus group participants claimed. Thus, the
new purchases could be considered as a move to towards maintaining the previous status quo and it would
not bring about additional environmental problems.
1.5.   NEEDS AND PRIORITIES
The survey made an attempt to assess the needs and priorities of the families of deceased in the study area.
As indicated the table below, either the top or secondary felt need or priority of rural sampled households is
to acquire livestock. Opting for land is the second priority in rural areas although not significantly felt. As it
is evidenced from the percentage share figures, searching for food should not be considered a potential treat
for diverting ERP support to non-eligible ventures. Almost all the respondents who want to have access for a
plot of land, like to be allotted around the area where they are living.
Table 6: Priorities of Beneficiaries-rural
Type of         Rural Areas                          Urban Areas
undertaking     ISt priority  2nd priority  3rd priority  ISt priority  2nd priority  3rd priority
Find ajob       0           0.8          1.4         2.9         7          11.8
Getfood         4.7         10.2         13.2        8.8         10         23.5
Start business  5.4         9.4          29.4        42.6        38.3       23.5
Find land       10.9        29.1         23.5        1.5         5          5.9
Buy livestock   56.6        25.2         13.2        4.4         15         29.4
Others          22.5        25.2         19.1        39.7       25          5.9
Total           100         100          100         100        100         100
On the other hand, commencing business activities stands out to be top priority for urban respondents.
Striving to secure daily food requirement is also observed to be a serious issue in urban areas.
About 35% of the rural beneficiaries have already reported that they are interested in engaging in off-farm
activities. Of the off-farm activities, petty trade is preferred by more than 80% of the respondents. This is the
usual and traditional non-farming activity chosen by many people particularly in small towns and their
surroundings. The other 20% are to involve in other different activities including one in carpentry and the
other one in food processing. Even though, one may not have a complete list of viable non-farm
opportunities, masonry/carpentry, tailoring, leatherwork and other handicraft activities do have demand in
rural areas, yet due to orientation problems or cultural barriers and lack of skills, they are not within the
domain of beneficiary households. These beneficiaries attributed their experience and the availability of
adequate market for their preference.
- 53 -



Table 7: Distribution of Respondents by Reasons to Start Activities
Reasons                  Rural- % Share   Urban-% Share
Having Experience        48.9             69.1
Market Availability      36.2             23.5
Have Tools               0                0
No Farm Land             2.1              0
Others                   12.8             7.4
Total                    100              100
Either to commence or underpin both farming and non-farming activities, households reported the kind of
asset or service support they require as a fundamental requisite.
Table 8: Distribution of Respondents by Type of Support Required
Type of support               % Share of          % Share of
Respondents-Rural  Respondents-Urban
Training                      2.8                1.5
Tools/equipments/materials    29.5               7.6
Livestock                     25.4                3.0
Plot of land                  2.8                 7.6
Housing                       8.5                 24.2
Others                        31.0               56.1
Total                         100                100
About 30% of the rural respondents require tools and equipments for farming and materials for inaugurating
their petty trade activities, followed by livestock (25%) for dairy farming endeavors. On the other hand, it is
interesting to note that housing is becoming a need for the urban families of deceased - 24% of respondents
expressed their need for housing. Among those who need to have housing, 61% of them require building
materials for construction and 17% need the city councils to offer them land.
Even though, many of the respondents of both rural and urban areas have already declared that they do not
have special skills, their needs for training happens to be low. These beneficiaries might consider petty
trading; livestock management and other activities could be handled without any formal of training.
However, conventional ways of conducting business would no more have the chance to succeed in the face
of the fierce competition among given the increasing number of individuals engaged in similar activities.
Similarly, traditional ways of livestock production has no viable economic outcomes unless training backs it
on feeding, sanitation, breading and marketing.
1.6.   INCOME GENERATING SCHEMES AND TRAINING
A more detail scrutiny on income generating activities reveals that their type and magnitude vary depending
on the resource potential of different localities, degree of urbanization, the size of the market, education, skill
and experience of beneficiaries, the availability of training, and technical supports. In a focused group
discussion held in Bahir Dar among the relevant regional government institutions, it was disclosed that the
income-generating activities are very much related to the agriculture sector. Nevertheless, some variations
are observed between urban and rural areas on the kind of viable income generating activities.
- 54 -



1.6.1. Income Generating Activities in Rural Areas
Petty trading, bee keeping, traditional candle and wax production, sheep and goat caring, forestry, cash crops
like vegetables, sisals, and coffee, and similar other small-scale ventures provide a good source of living in
rural areas.
According to the focus group discussions with various stakeholders, beekeeping in modern management
allows to harvest to the level of 40 kg from one beehive (KEFFO) per annum while the traditional way
provides not more than 9 or 10kg. It costs about Birr 198.00 to purchase modem beehives. If training is
given to rural beneficiaries by rural technology diffusion sections of the department of agriculture in each
Woreda, beekeeping would be a very lucrative activity. In particular, Farta, Meket, and Debre Tobor
Woredas have a very good potential for beekeeping, as there are protected forest zones in the nearby areas.
According to the focus group discussion participants both from Debre Tabor and Farta Woredas, three
investors have already received license to engage in beekeeping within these forests.
Highlands, (or DEGA areas) have better resource potentials for horses and special donkies called BAZRA in
addition to cattle and sheep raring. For instance, in distant areas of Lay Gaint, Tach Gaint and WadlIla
Delanta of North Wollo, horses and Bazras help transporting people and their belongings from place to
place. Even civil servants including teachers and development works widely use the services of these
animals for pay. To this effect, there is a livestock package on developing the breads of Bazra.
In semi-highland, or WEYNA DEGA, and low land or KOLA areas, cattle raring including cows, goats and to
some extent horses and beekeeping are worthy investment ventures for rural families of deceased. In almost
all drought prone and degraded areas, cattle raring pay better than crop production as the Amhara Credit and
Saving Institution (ACSI) experts revealed. Similar to Gondar town and the suburb, there is also a good
potential for diary farming and cattle fattening in Gondar Zuria Woreda. Beneficiaries involved in this
activity can feed their animals by products of Dashen Brewery and from oil and grain mill factories from
Gondar town. Indeed, peasants are accustomed to grow grasses and a kind of pulse called Guaya for animal
feeding. Thus, without affecting the environment for grazing, it is possible to engage animal husbandry in a
productive manner.
Poultry does not demand huge investment and women and the elderly could easily handle it. The only thing
is to acquire certain poultry management skills from agricultural experts or development workers of around
their localities. Beneficiaries could find resources from their agricultural outputs or purchase maize and
other crops from cheaper areas. In this connection, focus group discussion participants in Debre Tabor and
Farta Woredas said that people around these areas purchase maize from Gojjam for their chicken at a
relatively low price.
1.6.2. Income Generating Activities in Urban Areas
During the focus group discussions, development practitioners in government institutions and NGOs
expressed the opinion that in and around urban areas (secondary towns), income generating schemes are
commonly related to dairy farming, cattle fattening, poultry, sheep and goats raring, retail trading, butchery,
butter trading, honey trading, housing for rent, grain trading, fruits and vegetables, tailor service, snacks,
small scale restaurants, petty trading, embroidery, artesian, masonry, carpentry, wood work and other similar
in house activities. These activities do not require huge initial investment and long years of experience or
formal training.
The scale of operation depends on the prevailing skill of beneficiaries and the available start-up capital.
However, each urban area has its own resource potential, market opportunities and geographic features,
which tend to determine viable income generating activities. For instance, there are items, which might be
considered worthless in certain localities, but valuable in others involving some transport costs. A typical
example might be transportation of grass from around lake Tana to Gondar town. According to the Orthodox
- 55 -



Church Development Organization, those people who are involved in transferring agricultural and industrial
products from cheaper areas to expensive ones are found profitable. Cart becomes a very useful means of
transportation and source of income in many towns of Amhara. Focus group participants from Lay Gaint
divulged that with a total cost of around Birr 5000, cart owners nowadays earn a daily income of Birr 30.00
and above. It requires around 20 months to recover the initial outlay if an individual is able to put aside Birr
250 per month from his total monthly income.
For instance, urban centers like Bahir Dar, Gonder, Lalibela and similar other towns are areas of high tourist
attractions. In these towns, local handicrafts, which allow featuring the cultural heritage of the country, have
a good market potential. These include, wooden articles, leather products, bamboo and pottery products. It is
also recommended that both the construction and service provision of small boats in the surrounding areas of
Lake Tana and Hique (Hike) for transport and fish harvesting purposes would be a viable investment by
privates or associations.
1.7. TRAINING NEEDS AND POTENTIALS
Many people are not able to identify and adequately exploit the available opportunities, which are not
beyond their capabilities. People lack entrepreneurial behavior and activities are not very much geared
towards markets. It requires initiating people to be visionary, develop their capabilities of examining wide
ranges of activities, and exploit viable opportunities rather than being dependent on certain dormant
activities they are accustomed for long. It was argued in many focus group discussions that it requires to
brain wash the people to avoid unwise moves towards appropriating the benefit as if they would invest the
resource in income generating activities but actually fail to do so. Training should go beyond equipping
people with basic technical knowledge and focus as well on such issues as business planning, market
searching, activity or product diversification, and quality improvement skills.
Even though, the training requirements of the respondent households of this particular study is low, a non-
governmental organization called the Amhara Development Association (ADA) conducted an assessment
through consultants on training needs in marketable basic skills. According to this study, substantial training
needs were reported in the production of fruit and vegetables, animal husbandry, construction, maintenance
and repair, waiter, wood and metal works, auto mechanic, business activities, office works etc. The study
further revealed that people having basic skills in the areas of food and beverage preparations, auto-
mechanics, electrician, radio and television repair, office and household furniture making, building and
carpentry, masonry, brick making, artificial insemination, fishery, irrigation techniques, seedling raising and
plantation have higher chance of employment in the region. Hlowever, traditional handicrafts like pottery,
weaving, black smith and similar other activities lack incentives for training because of cultural barriers.
Satisfying the stated training requirements calls for having the necessary institutional infrastructure. As
participants in different focal group discussions revealed training capacities and opportunities are very
limited in the Amhara Region. Neither the population has adequate ability of financing their training
requirements. However, for purposes of income generating activities for beneficiaries of families of
deceased, exploiting existing opportunities will help going longer distance.
There were 107 community skill-training centers in the region, which were able to train only 5561 persons
[BOEDaC, 1997]. The number of these centers has to grow considerably by now. There are local and
international NGOs who provide training on their own ways and criteria for a certain segment of the
population, which certainly include families of the deceased. In this regard, the contribution of the Amhara
Development Association (ADA) is placed on the forefront. Other NGOs such as Save the Children UK, the
Ethiopian Orthodox Church Development Department, ILDP, NORWAY Save the Children, and St. Paulo's
Children Care Center also contributes to this effect. At the Woreda level, there are rural technology
dissemination and animal husbandry sections under the department of agriculture. Schools at different levels
and other similar institutions have also training provision potentials that could be exploited.
- 56 -



Rational uses of the available opportunities and alternatives require an organized and integrated move of all
concerned bodies and above all the regional committee for coordinating the ERP activity should study the
appropriate modalities to this effect.
On the belief that the required finance is secured, most of the respondents estimated to require them 6-12
months (78.6%) to keep hold of a scale of operation where returning backwards is less likely. Only few of
them (15.7%) reported that less than 6 months will be sufficient. However, there are constraints apparently
observed in many cases, which might hinder not only new entrants in to the non-farm activities but also the
well-established incumbents.
In the midst of a destitute life in the rural areas of the Amhara Regional state, having adequate market
opportunities in the localities for income generating activities is usually difficult. In such circumstances,
technical supports should be provided for beneficiaries on how they could organize themselves to establish
market cooperatives. This will allow exporting their items from these remote localities to distant areas
having better marketing opportunities.
People engaged in micro and small-scale business ventures usually encounter many problems including poor
availability of technical services, inadequate vocational training facilities, low level of education, limited
exposure and weak entrepreneurial skills, lack of access to credit, information on markets and new and
cheaper technologies and negative attitudes towards cooperatives. In particular, most of the beneficiaries
have been engaging in conventional ways of living such as farming (in the case of rural areas) and
homemaking (in the case of urban areas). Mainly because of lack of business orientations they usually face
market problems reflected in terms of quality inferiority, failures to take account of seasonal demand and
price variations. Dairy farming, sheep and goat raring activities are affected by animal diseases due to lack of
health services in several places. In this regard, ACSI experts unveiled that some of their customers involved
in cattle raring fail to pay their obligations on account of seasonal animal diseases. Transport facilities are
not also developed to the level that allows exploiting the market opportunities away from their localities.
1.8.   HIV/AIDS AWARENESS
The survey result shows that about 96% and 92% of rural and urban respondents of this particular study are
aware of the prevalence of HIV/AIDS in rural and urban areas respectively while others have not either
heard about the disease or known the extent of its menace. The situation is a little bit exaggerated in the case
of rural areas. It is also indicated that about 62.5% of the respondents acknowledged that they have taken
training on HIV/AIDS.
With the prime objective of initiating and coordinating the activities of all parties involved in social
organizations in relation to HIV/AIDS, a secretariat office was established last year at the regional level in
Bahir Dar town. Secretariats and different committees are formed at different levels. Anti-AIDS committees
involving sector departments, NGOs, religious and other similar governmental and non-governmental
representatives were formed at the zonal, Woreda, Kebele, school and institution levels. Indeed, the regional
secretariat office established braches both at the zonal, Woreda and Kebele levels.
According to representatives of the secretariat from the region and other participants of the focused group
discussions, people are becoming aware of HIV/AIDS and its transmission medias though it may not be the
case in far distant rural areas. There are places such as Debre Tabor that AIDS victims from the town broke
the stigma and teach people about the disease. Even AIDS victims from Addis Ababa occasionally come for
the same purpose. In a focus group discussion held in Bati town, a consensus was reached among the people
that traditional harmful practices such as wife sharing among brothers accentuate the transmission of the
virus and they have to be prohibited by law. This explains the extent to which the society is committed to
campaign against long-years of tradition owing to the disease.
- 57 -



2. DEPORTEES
2.1. DEMOGRAPHIC CHARACTERISTICS
The demographic characteristics of deportees show that in general they have few members as compared to
the local residents (host community) as well as the national average. For example, the survey result shows
that in Kombolcha where the second largest number of deportees live, only 8.8% have more than four
members, 20% have four members, while 52% have only one member.
The number of female-headed households is also higher than the male-headed ones, the percentage being
55.4% and 46.6%, respectively. The age composition of deportees as generalized from the sample by
Tsegaye (2001:18) is found to be 1.5% under the age of five, 32.5% eighteen to fifty five years, and 6.9%
above fifty five years.
Age Composition                         Household Characteristics
35%  am5%6
30%                                                    M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Female-headed
This deorpicsrcue fdpr600/                                             households
Furthermore, se  og      oe      ta     te       e   nf55%  i          Male-headed
10%                50%                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~households
0%
<5 years 18-50 >55 years40
years                                -
This demographic structure of deportee households is attributed to the fact that, in many cases, the entire
household was not evicted together and thus each family member might have been registered separately.
Furthermore, since any on-going or expected assistance is based on official registration the family members
remained, at least in registration files, separated and independent households, while in actual fact they may
be living together.
There are also few incidents in which family members were registered separately for the purpose of
obtaining more than their share during the disbursement of the first government support upon arrival in
Ethiopia which was Birr 1,000 per single household head, Birr 1,500 for a couple and Birr 100 for each
child.
Another feature of the current household structure is high rate of divorce and separation. Besides the
separation during the process of deportation under adverse circumstances, the rate of separation and/or
divorce is reported to be high among deportees. The phenomenon is attributed to adverse circumstance of a
different kind. Many household heads are reported to have left for different places in search of employment,
in most cases to Afar Region, leaving their family behind. This condition is thought to have resulted in the
current unbalance between female headed and male headed households and the fact that the female
population in general is higher than the male.
- 58 -



2.2    DEPORTATION AND LOSS OF PROPERTY
As per the various focus group discussions with the deportees, the travel from Eritrea (Assab) to where they
finally arrived (various towns in Amhara) was arduous and formidable. It took more than a month on the
average and many have died on the way because of fatigue, starvation or disease or a combination of all.
According to one study report, 17% of the deportees reported that at least one member of their family was
separated during the deportation process and of these about 34% did not still know the whereabouts of the
missing family members(s).
It therefore goes without saying that these people were economically bankrupt, physically deteriorated and
psychologically afflicted upon arrival in Ethiopia.
According to the survey, the all the deportees claimed that they lost their property in the form of either
money, valuables, house furniture, clothes, houses (of residence or/and trade), established businesses and
means of production.
The losses of houses, businesses and means of productions are captured in the out put table of questionnaire
under the item column "others" and the percentage of respondents who so lost such properties amounts to
18.05% in the case of deportees in Amhara (see annex tables for details).
2.3    EDUCATIONAL STATUS OF DEPORTEES
Since the vast majority of the deportees were "economic migrants" who moved to Assab (then an important
port city of Ethiopia), aspiring for economic success by engaging in all sorts of jobs or businesses, only few
have higher level academic qualifications. The survey result shows that 15.8% of the deportees are found to
be illiterate. The majority of individuals in this category are women who are often disadvantaged. The vast
majority (51.30%) have primary education and those who got higher level education are 1 .30%of the sample.
This fining shows a disparity with a study made for ZOA Refugee Care, which reported that 34% of the
surveyed deportees were found to be illiterate and 22% have higher education. Although this disparity is
highly exaggerated, it could be assumed that those who have better educational qualification might have
either secured employment or might have left to other places (including the capital) looking for job at the
time of our survey which took places after nearly 2 years. Given the fluid nature of the current life situation
of deportees it is possible that there exists a perpetual movement and change of residence. This might be
even more applicable to those who have the hope and potential for securing employment elsewhere.
2.4    CURRENT LIVELIHOOD SITUATION
The current livelihood situation of deportees is precarious and fragile. According to our survey result, 47.2%
are daily labourers. Given the unreliability and unpredictability of daily labour, and the meagerness of the
income obtained, it is hardly possible to consider this category of deportees as having adequate and
consistent means of income.
Even among those who have been categorized as petty traders, some are cigarettes vendors, "Kolo " sellers
and the like whose daily profit could not exceed two Birr on the average.
The result of the survey shows that 34% of respondents earn less than Birr 50.00 per month, 50% of them
earn between Birr 51-120 and only 1.9% are reported to have a monthly average income of more than Birr
350.00 (annex tables for details).
- 59 -



Given the sky-rocketed current living cost and the fact that these people have to pay for house rents and other
expenditures out of this meager income, it would have been impossible to them to survive had it not been to
the relief support they were getting.
According to the survey 81.00% of deportees in Amhara live in rented houses, 15.10% live with relatives,
and 0.8% live in camps. Only 0.8% are reported to live in their own houses. Of those living in rented houses
91.10% pay less than Birr 50.00 per month for house rent. It should be noted here that it is not because house
rent is cheap that these people pay this amount, but it is because they are living in "dungeons", as one FGD
discussant in Dessie put it.
Indeed, it was disclosed during the focus group discussions that in most towns where large number of
deportees live, house rent was dramatically increased by about 30-50% as a result of the high demand for
houses.
A repot of a study done for Forum on Street Children Ethiopia (FSCE) stated that 10% of deportees have no
shelter at all and live in the streets and church yards, while others live in poor quality houses in untidy
corners of the towns (ELias 2001). This fact is also revealed in our survey result which showed that 2.40%
live in "other" conditions which is the category that includes deportees who have no shelter at all.
As one study report stressed and as it was repeatedly raised in focus group discussions (FGDs) with
deportees, inability to pay house rents at all or failure to pay timely on the part of deportees, is usually the
cause of conflicts between deportees and the host community, especially house renters. It is thus considered
as one of the drawbacks that worked against the social reintegration of the deportees with the host
communities.
It was reported in one of the focus group discussions that many deportees have left for the low lands of Afar
not only for the reason of looking for job opportunities, but also due to the fact that the hot climate is more
friendly to poor people as they are to worry neither about heavy clothes (blankets) for the night's wear,
jackets (pullovers) for the day's wear nor about houses (shelters) to pass the night in.
2.5    FOOD ASSISTANCE
Food assistance to deportees has been on and off for about two years till ZOA refugee Care started to
distribute food on a monthly basis since June 2001 and continued to do so for a little more than a year. ZOA
started its intervention in response to the result of an assessment on the nutritional status of deportees
conducted in September 2000. The result of this study showed that there existed a serious malnourishment
among both adult and child deportees. The report thus concluded recommending immediate provision of
food ration as well as free and adequate medical service among other things.
ZOA again conducted a study on the same issue, this time, a sort of impact assessment, only after five
months of the intervention, October 2001. The result was claimed to have revealed that the over all situation
of nutritional status of the beneficiaries has significantly improved, that death rate has reduced by 33% and
household income has raised, as a result of the intervention. Consequently, it was recommended that free
distribution of food should discontinue except to the aged and the disabled while the rest should be embraced
in an EGS (FFW) program and eventual sustainable rehabilitation.
Accordingly, ZOA stopped its food assistance as of July 2001 as per the recommendation, although it did not
give equal weight to other aspects of the recommendation i.e. the shift to EGS and rehabilitation. As a result,
deportees stayed for more than four months without either receiving food assistance or being given the
opportunity of involving in EGS (FFW). Besides, the reason for the discontinuity of the food assistance was
not made clear to them and the information gap made the deportees to conjure up all sorts of imaginary
causes for the discontinuation of the assistance.
- 60 -



It was only at the last week of December, during which tinie this study was going on that they got food
assistance again. This time it was from South Wollo DPPD and was only 12.5Kg of wheat without the extra
items that ZOA's assistance consisted of. 3 This aid by DPPD was not only insufficient but also did not seem
to last long. Indeed even personnel of Dessie DPPD did not seem to know how long the assistance would
last. In general the food aid had been intermittent except the 13 consecutive months of ZOA's intervention
and often than not the grain was of bad quality. On the whole, the food assistance. At present is neither
adequate nor reliable and thus, the situation calls for immediate and appropriate measures.
The food assistance provided to these deportees so far has been sporadic and inconsistent. The duration of
the assistance ranged from 3 to 12 months though not all deportees were addressed. Most significant food
assistance provided, both in terms of duration and number of beneficiaries was that of ZOA Refugee Care
which lasted for 13 consecutive months (from June 2000 to July 2001) and from which 7909 deportees
benefited. ZOA's assistance program consisted of 15 kgs of wheat/corn, 0.6 kgs of oil and 1.5 kgs of lentil
per person/month.
The outcome of our study showed that these people need food assistance before and during the rehabilitation
process including the training time. In focus group discussions with representatives of relevant government
line departments, NGOs and target groups (deportees) it was reported that one important factor that greatly
contributed to the not very successful attempt of rehabilitating about 500 deportees in Desie and Haik towns
by some NGOs was disregard to the necessity of a certain grace period during which time beneficiaries could
be provided with food assistance lest they consume part of their capital. The study therefore indicates that the
deportees need food assistance until the IGS the deportees would involve in become dependably profitable.
Rationale for the Suggested Duration of the Food Assistance
The suggested duration of the food assistance is 12 months. Reasons for arriving at this conclusion include:
The output of the questionnaire survey which shows that the majority of respondents (abou 60%) reported
that it will take them one year to be fully self reliant.
The assumption that during the last several months after the food assistance discontinued, they might have
been borrowing money and food items from friends and relatives and might have been indebted. Hence,
besides the required food consumption, they would also be obliged to pay back their debts and this might
adversely affect their eventual rehabilitation.
The recognition that the deportees, at least the majority of them, are going to involve in new type of business
after staying jobless or having been engaged in quite different activities and the transition may take some
time before they fully master the new activity and establish themselves.
The assumption that their new business engagement necessarily involves competition with people already in
the business and better established, requiring considerable " learning period".
25% of the deportees (3,718) are children and pregnant and/or lactating mothers that need supplementary
food assistance.
It is therefore believed that a 12 months grace period will highly contribute to the success of the
rehabilitation effort and the achievement of the sought objective; the eventual self-reliance of the target
groups.
The food assistance requirement is estimated using the WFP standard of the quantity and variety of food
intake required for a healthy and productive life of an individual person
3ZOA used to distribute 15Kg. of wheat/corn, 0.6 Kg. of oil and 1.5 Kg. of lentilper person per month.
- 61 -



Table 9: Estimated Food Assistance Requirement
Food items       Quantity        Total No. of  No. of      Duration of  Total amount
required         person/month    Deportees    children and  the         in quintal
in kg                        mothers      assistance in
months
Sorghum/wheat    15              14,879          _         12           26,782.20
Oil              0.75            14,879                    12           1,339.11
FAMIX            2.00            3,718                     12           892.32
2.6    ACCESS TO SOCIAL SERVICES
2.6.1. Potable water
Individual interviewees and discussants of FGDs confirmed that though they could not afford to rent houses
with piped water facilities, they normally buy buckets of water for domestic consumption, except laundering,
either from public water stands or from individuals (including their land lords/ladies) who own tapped water
points. This is what our statistical survey result confirmed since it showed that 78.6% of respondents
reported to get water from water taps owned by individuals, while 14.3% and 2.4% reported that they get
water from public water stands and protected well respectively (see annex tables for details).
2.6.2. Education
Regarding access to formal education of school-age children of deportees the survey shows that 65.5% are
reported to attend schools at various levels. It is assumed that targeted intervention of NGOs such as FSCE
which focuses on provision of school materials and uniforms for deportee children might have contributed
positively to the percentage of enrollment.
Accordingly to FGD participants, all government schools were cooperative with regard to enrollment of
deportees' children. It was pointed out that deportees' children were admitted to classes even without the
formal requirements of producing legal certificates from the previous schools since, in most cases, the )
deportation process didn't allow to go through such formal procedures. Instead the schools made deportee
students above the level of first grade to sit for entrance exams equivalent to the students' claimed grades.
2.6.3. Health
Respondents reported that in the first few months of deportation the morbidity and mortality rates of
deportees, especially children was high. The situation started to change to the better when government health
institutions started to provide medical assistance free of charge to deportees.
Even after this, deportees faced problems since they could not afford to buy prescribed drugs not available in
the pharmacies of the government health institutions. This problem was solved by the intervention of ZOA
Refugee Care, which started covering all medical expenses for deportees since June 2000.
Consequently, the percentage of deportees visiting "modern" health institutions raised to 96.8%. The rest
3.2% do not go to clinics or hospitals not because of money constraints but due to individual beliefs and/or
attitudes, religious or otherwise. (see annex tables for details).
- 62 -



2.6.4. Needs and Priorities
Only insignificant (negligible) number of deportees show interest to involve in any income generation
activity related to agriculture. This might be attributed to the fact that almost all deportees are accustomed to
urban life, at least after their migration to Assab.
Since the choice of IGS has to be seen from the perspective of the skill, knowledge and experience of the
individual deportee on the one hand and the availability of resources and market potential on the other, the
fact that agriculture-related IGS is not preferred by deportees in Amhara seems justifiable. Moreover, IGS
related to dairy farming, cattle fattening, sheep rearing and poultry require at least a place where the animal
can wait even if cut and carry (indoor feeding) system might be applied. Unlike families of deceased who
show real interest to involve in such activities, deportees do not even think of them since they do not have a
place for themselves leave alone for cattle. It is impossible to acquire land for the purpose at individual level.
On the other hand, deportees are absolutely repulsive to the idea of cooperatives any form of collective
ownership.
Therefore, the requirement of deportees which is initial capital for starting petty trades and service giving
activities deserves due attention. The vast majority prefers to be involved in petty trade, and urban based
service-giving activities. There was however an unanimous opposition to any rehabilitation strategy based on
any sort of cooperatives or group IGS. The reason for their resentment of group IGS seems two fold. First
people did not yet get over with the memory of the forced collectivization attempts of the Derg and the
unpleasant consequences thereof. Second, the not very successful attempt of two local NGOs, AARRDP and
DSCP, to rehabilitate 500 deportees by organizing them in to cooperatives is a current phenomenon that
could be cited as evidence for the dismal consequences of group IGSs.
2.6.5. HIV/AIDS
Deportees, are at higher risk of HIV/AIDS Efforts are being made by governmental and non-governmental
organizations to raise the awareness level of the community about HIV/AIDS. With the objective of
coordinating the activities of all organizations involved in social organizations in relation to HIV/AIDS, a
secretariat office was established last year at the regional level in Bahir Dar town with offices in other towns
in the region Anti-AIDS committees involving sector departments, NGOs, religious and other similar
governmental and non-governmental representatives were formed at the zonal, Woreda, Kebele, school and
institution levels.
According to the survey results, almost all the sample deportees (97%) have the knowledge of HIV/AIDS.
The sources of information include meetings (37%), radio (45%) and from friends.
3. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
In Amhara, families of deceased and deportees are the targets of the ERP. For this purpose, EPRMU branch
office in Bahir Dar and sub-offices in other towns have been established. The ERP has already disbursed the
assistance to most of the families of deceased but the deportees are still waiting for the assistance.
The survey results show that on average, about 50% of the deceased have only one single beneficiary
household, and about 35% of the deceased have two beneficiary households (spouse and parent headed
households). The remaining 15% of them have more than two household beneficiaries. The major
beneficiaries of the deceased are spouses with the children, if any, and parents.
It was learnt that both urban and rural families of deceased in the region wish to involve in off-farm activities
for diversifying their income sources and improving their food security situation. Among the off-farm
activities, petty trading has become the most preferred area. The prime reason for the selection of this
- 63 -



activity is that it does not require special skills and has been practiced by many people as a source of
additional income. About 56% of the respondents believe that they can generate income from petty trading
within 7-12 months and support themselves.
During the focus group discussions in Amhara reigion, the deportees expressed that they feel neglected and
abandoned. Some NGOs and WFP have provided food assistance to some of the deportees but mainly only
for 3-6 months. Most of the deportees are now in conditions of dependency. The needs assessment
indicates that the deportees are more interested in IGS activities. Among the various IGS, petty trading has
been considered as the major choice of the beneficiaries.
Based on the findings of the baseline survey, the following recommendations are made:
*  The beneficiaries, particularly deportees and urban IDPs and families of deceased have expressed
their wish to involve in income generating schemes. Petty trading has become the most preferred
activity by almost all categories of beneficiaries. However, the strategy should be based on business
plan as indicated in the strategy for deportees for details.
*  The rehabilitation of deportees is an immediate and critical issue. Therefore, based on the proposed
rehabilitation strategy of the deportees, which is presented in this report, the rehabilitation process
should take place as soon as possible. It is also worth noting that some of the elements of the
rehabilitation strategy of deportees could be applicable to the urban families of deceased.
*   Food assistance should be considered as one of the elements of the rehabilitaion strategy. Because,
there is a possibility that the beneficiaries will us the rehabilitation benefits for immediate food
requirement. Furthermore, the participation of the deportees (deportee committees) in the process of
needs assessment and prioritization needs to be encouraged.
- 64 -



CHAPTER THREE: AFAR REGIONAL STATE
REGIONAL PROFILE
The Afar Region in the north and north east of Ethiopia is located in the greatest rift valley and extends to
Eritrea and Djibouti. The region has five administrative zones and 29 woredas and 28 urban centers. The
region is further organized into 32 Kebeles (i.e. Urban Dwellers Association) and 323 farmers association
(Rural Kebeles). Rural household settlement pattern of the Afar is mainly structured along clan and /or tribe.
Settlement points are usually preferred in areas of abundant grazing and water resources. The local
community lives in a cluster of 8 to 10 hats in one place and in large settlements. Each tribal territory
contains segments froimn a large number of clans (Mllela). The clan is subdivided into local community
(Kidoh), and the next lower level is the extended family (Dahla), followed by the household (Burra).
The population of the Afar Regional state is estimated at about 1.7 million people, 90% of which are
pastoralists and 10% agro-pastoralists. Pastoralists entirely depend on livestock, while agro-pastoralists
practices some cultivatin in additional to livestock husbandry. The estimated livestock population is 116
million Tropical Livestock Unit (TLU) comprising a mixture of cattle, camels (usually herded by younger
men), sheep, goats and lactating cows (usually herded by women, girls and boys). Afar Region as other
pastoral/agro-pastoral areas in the country and other African regions is characterized by unpredictable and
unstable climatic condition as well as ecologically fragile environment Annual rainfall is between 200 - 600
mm with mean daily temperature of 30 - 50 degree centigrade at an altitude of between 100 - 1000 masl.
Apart from animal husbandry and limited cropping, trade is the next important means of livelihood. Trade
comprises marketilg of livestock by products, salt production and marketing, renting of animal power
(notably camel) and marketing of traditional crafts. Among the traditional crafts, which have economic
importance, are blacksmith, leather work, household utensils made of wood, grass and palm tree, carpet and
rope making. Some of the products that are produced by black smith are Gille and Debra which are
traditional weapons ( similar to dagger and spear), spade and axe. Various types of leather cases and
containers to hold Gille and to contain milk (Kodaca), water (Saar), butter (Okassa), and Grain (Graib) are
produced and marketed by the Afars.
Due to the Ethio-Eritrean border conflict, pastoralists and agro-pastoralists in woredas bordering E-ritrea were
displaced and lost the agricultural production, livestock. sources of livelihood, homes and belongings. The
livelihood of the pastoralists is based on movement of animals in search of water and grazing land. However,
due to the border conflict and the landmine concerns, their movements have been restricted and that
shortages of water and grazing have become serious in the region. Livestock marketing has also been
constrained by the border conflict.
The Regional ESRDF Office in Assaita serves as a PMU for the implementation of the household
rehabilitation sub-component. Unlike in Amhara and Tigray Regions, no disbursement was made to
beneficiaries in Afar until the undertaking of this survey. In June 2001, ESRDF-Afar Office had conducted a
rapid assessment of the status of urban IDPs and deportees in 20 towns of the region.
- 65 -



1. INTERNALLY DISPLACED PEOPLE (IDPS)
1.1. BACKGROUND
Internally Displaced People (IDPs) in Afar are the pastoralists and those who used to live in rural centers
(small towns) in the region. The total number of IDPs in the resgion is estimated at about 3,100 households
of which 408 are urban. It was learnt during the field visit that almost all pastoralists who reside in the
woredas bordering Eritrea have practically been displaced. During the conflict, they lost their livestock,
houses and other properties. Most importantly, they have lost the tradition of movement from one locality to
the other in search of water and grazing.
1.2. SOCIO-DEMIOGRAPHIC CHARACTERISTICS
The sex distribution of IDP household members shows that 52% are male and 48% are females. The age
group of the majority (62%) of the household heads are above 30 years old. While 37.8% and 39% were of
the age group between 16-30 and 5-15 years old, respectively. The marital status of the rural IDPs is not very
different from the urban IDPs. In rural areas, about 95.4% of the respondents reported that they were
married, while in urban areas, the finding indicates that --% of the respondents are married. The rate of
divorce is very low in the Afar Region due to the cultural and religious factors.
The educational status of the pastoralists has not been encouraging even before displacement. The finding of
the survey shows that 83% of the pastoral IDPs (household members) have reported to be illiterate, while
only 15% have primary education. The situation is better with urban IDPs where 40% of the households
members have primary education. This indicates that there are school aged children who are not going to
school for various reasons - children are herders in pastoral production system and unless a special mobile
education system is introduced, there problem will remain pervasive.
1.3. ACTIVITIES OF IDPS
Rural IDPs in Afar are mainly pastoralists whose livelihood depends on livestock production as well as some
cultivation, while the urban IDPs are engaged in non-farm activities. The survey result shows that 47% of the
urban and 72% the rural IDPs did not have any jobs even before they were displaced. There is also a
substantial decrease of activities in both urban and rural areas as a result of the displacement. The survey
finding indicates that mixed farming (livestock and crop) decreased from about 11% to 8%, livestock from
about 22% to 13%, while petty trade from decreased from about 4.5% to 1.0%.
Table 1. Activities of Pastoralists before and after Displacement (N= 202)
Activity                    % of Pastoralists Involved
Before displacement         After Displacement
Livestock and crop          10.9                        7.9
Livestock husbandry         21.8                        13.5
Livestock and petty trade   4.5                         1.0
Housewife                   15.8                        15.8
Nojob                       47                          61.8
Totals                      100                         100
- 66 -



In urban areas, most of the respondents reported that they did not have jobs before and after the
displacement. As indicated in the table 3.2 below, the number of those urban IDPs who were involved in
petty trade (20.3%) has decreased to 11 % and as a result the number of the jobless has increased (79%).
However, this survey result should be interpreted carefully since the respondents tended to report that they
do not have means of survival and they needed assistance.
The urban IDPs in Zone One of Afar Region are from Bure town. The displaced people moved to Manda and
Dubti towns during the conflict. Some of the IDPs were shopkeepers and small restaurant owners who are
mostly non-Afars. In general, the Afars live within the area where livelihood depends on livestock
production, livestock trading and transporting merchandise from the port to the inner cotntry by camel.
Table 2. Activities of Urban IDPs Before and After Displacement
Activity         Before Displacement   After Displacement
None             71.9                  79.3
Daily laborer    0.5
Petty trade       0.3                  10.9
Housewife        5.2                   8.8
Maid             0.5                   0.5
Other            1.6                   0.5
Totals           100                   100
1.4.   DISPLACEMENT AND PROPERTY LOSS
The conflict and the resulting displacement have different impacts on the urban and pastoral IDPs. The urban
IDPs who were traders and shop keepers have lost their shops and goods when displace. These IDPs were
able to re-establish their business after the aversion of the occupation.
On the other hand, the displaced pastoral IDPs from and around Bure town who mainly used to depend on
livestock production, livestock trading and transporting merchandise from Assab port were and are still the
most war-affected group. Their livestock were raided; they lost their permanent water sources and the
foothills grazing areas located both in Ethiopia and Eritrea, which are vital during the dry season to maintain
their livestock until the next rain season. The rainy season is the time when pastoralists intensify their
movement while during the dry season they limit their movement in water bank areas, which they apparently
lost during the war.
The pastoral IDPs have moved from war affected woredas to other woredas and/or to different kebeles
within the same woredas which are relatively free of landmines. According to the regional bureau of
agriculture, currently, there are a total of 33,301 IDPs (about 3,000Hs) in the region. Some of them were
displaced from Bure to Elidar and Logia, while those who used to live in Dalul, Erepti and Afdera moved
within the same woredas but different kebeles of the respective woredas shich are relatively free of
landmines. Due to the loss of the dry season grazing areas, their seasonal migration pattern and stocking and
de-stocking pattern have been disturbed. During discussions in Bure town, the 'urban' displaced group said
they are now left without cattle and they are only able to keep goats and camels that are more resistance to
water shortage. The presence of the army in the area was also affecting their production system. They also
indicated that the system of selling livestock when there is rain and keeping only restocking herd at the dry
season grazing area is disturbed as a result of losing the grazing and water points.
Both urban and pastoral IDPs have lost their property during displacement. According to the survey results,
out of 102 respondents 67% of them reported that they lost property of value Birr 2000 and above. Livestock
loss is the highest in the list of property lost (43%) followed by loss of household utensils (32.4% of all the
- 67 -



property loss). The loss of cattle (cows) among their herds has deprived them of having milk, their major
source of nutrition. This situation is intensified with the people (IDPs) living in the 'town' proper where
there is high demand for water. Women pointed out the problem they are facing in building the traditional
home, due to the palm trees. The details are provided in the annex volume of this report under the Afar
chapter.
1.5.   LIVESTOCK HOLDING
Due to the conflict, the herd size per household has been affected. The herd sizes of sample households
before and after displacement are provided in table 3 below. As indicated in the table, the herd sizes of
almost all livestock species have declined as a result of the losses of animals during the conflict, especially
camels and oxen. For instance, 70.7% of the households used to own 3 and more camels before the conflict.
However, after the conflict, only 13% of the households own this herd size. According to the survey results,
most of the households remained with I ox and I camel which is below the livestock holding before the
conflict. Similarly, the percentages of households owning large herd sizes has reduced in all species as
indicated in the table.
Since they are also forced to keep a smaller number of herds, their income from sales of livestock and their
purchasing ability of the necessity goods (grain, edible oil etc.) have decreased. This situation is causing
pressure on Afar women who are responsible for building and maintaining the family.
Table 3. Percentages of Sample Households Owning Livestock Before and After Displacement
Livestock Species   Herd size (heads)    Percentage of Households Owning Livestock
_____________________          Before               A fter
Camels               1                   12.2                 78.30
2                    17.10               8.7
3 and above          70.7                13.0
Totals               100                  100
Oxen                 1                   20                   90.9
2                    15                  9.1
3 and above          65
Totals               100                 100
Cows                 1                   3                    64.7
2                    3                   17.6
3 and above          94                  35.2
Totals               100                 100
Sheep                1                                        50
2                    8                   1 0
3 and above          92                  40
Totals               100                 100
Goats                1                                        43.5
2 -                  2.6                 4.3
3 and above          97.5                52.2
Totals               100                 100
Pack animals         1                   23.50                90
__________________   2                    29.4                10
____________________  3  and  above       47
Totals               100                  100
- 68 -



Estimates of Livestock Holding:
From the sample household survey results of table 3 above, the number of livestock owned by the total ID
households in Afar (3,100 households) is estimated in Table 4 below. According to the technical annex of
the agreement between the IDA and the Ethiopian government, the benefit package related to livestock is an
ox, a heifer, 3 small ruminants per household. The estimate in Table 4 shows the additional stocks that will
be acquired through the ERP support. It is evident from the table that the households have lost significant
number of their livestock of all species and restocking is required to sustain their livelihoods and restocking
of animals for those households who lost due to the conflict will not result in over stocking and adverse
environmental impact. Although a detail study on stocking rates and land carrying capacity in Afar is
required, it is envisaged that additional stocks of the ERP support will not result in overstocking. Moreover,
purchases of livestock for restocking will be made locally and negative environmental impact is not
expected. However, it should be noted that if the ID pastoral households that are concentrating in relatively
free of landmine areas do not return to their origin and continue sharing the grazing reserves and water
points, there will be a potential negative environmental impacts as a result of overstocking in the existing
areas.
Table 4: Number of Livestock before and after conflict
Camels      OXEN       Cows        Sheep       Goats      Pack
animals
Before      12,396     11,625      14,849      14,756     15,274      9,836
After       4,981      3,354       8,552       8,370      9,706       3,410
differences  7,415     8,271       6,297       6,386      5,568       6,426
ERP         -          3,100       3,100       6,200      3,100
1.6. LANDMINES
The woredas and kebeles bordering Eritrea are assumed to be landmine infested areas. The focus group
discussions with various stakeholders in Afar Region revealed that the movement of livestock is restricted
due to landmine fear. According to the results of the survey, the kebeles where 98% of the respondents lived
were occupied by Eritrean troops. About 60% of the respondents reported that there have been landmine
incidences in their woredas/kebeles. Some of them witnessed 1-5 people killed by landmines and up to 7
people injured. A large majority (73%) of the respondents expressed the opinion that the existence of
landmine in the woredas has been the concern of the community and has hindered the use the rangelands for
their livestock grazing. House damage coupled with landmine have been the reasons for not returning to
their origins, especially for the urban IDPs.
It was learnt during the survey that no full-scale de-mining activities have started except those done by the
army to free major highways and some farmlands and grazing areas. People have not yet returned to areas.
The effort of Rehabilitation and Development Organization (RADO) towards creating awareness about
landmines and the counseling provided to landmine victims is encouraging. The organization is conducting
landmine awareness creation programs in schools, and also by organizing a listening group in kebeles.
About 70% of the respondents reported that they had awareness training on landmine.
- 69 -



1.7.   FOOD ASSISTANCE
Even before the conflict, Afar Region is one of the food insecure areas of the country. Food security in the
region mainly depends on livestock which is a risky and not dependable economy due to recurrent drought in
the region. According to the survey, only 31% of the pastoral IDPs have received food assistance, while the
majority (69%) of them have not received at all. Of those who received food assistance, 50% of them
reported that they were assisted for 6 months and above, while 43% of them had the assistance for 1-3
months. The situation of food assistance is better in urban areas than rural areas mainly due to accessibility.
To this effect, 46% of the urban IDPs declared that they had food assistance from DPPB and WFP. About
75% of the urban IDPs reportd that they received food assistance for 6 months and above, while 18% of
them received for 1-3 months only.
In Afar, there are 3,100 ID households, mainly rural. The average household size (as indicated by the
regional ESRDF) is estimated at seven persons. Therefore, according to the Bureau of Agriculture of the
region, the total number of IDPs estimated at 33,301. The region claims that food assistance will be required
for the total number of IDPs for one year. To this effect, food assistance requirement is estimated using the
WFP standard.
Table 5: Estimated Food Assistance Requirement
Quantity        Total No.   No. of      Duration of   Total
Food items       person/month    of IDPs      children    the          amount in
required         in kg                       mothers      assistance in  quintal
months
Sorghum/wheat    15              33,301                   12           59,941
Oil              0.75            33,301                   12           2,997
FAMIX            2.00                         8,325       12           1,998
* Assumptions:
o Food assistance is required for one year.
o 25% of the IDPs are children under five years old and pregnant and/or lactating
mothers (8,325) need supplementary food assistance.
1.8.   ACCESS TO SOCIAL SERVICES
Access to social services is one of the problems in the Afar Region even before the border conflict with
Eritrea. Social services are among the poorest in the country. Schools, health facilities and potable water are
not easily accessed. The survey result shows that currently, 47% of the respondents (rural IDPs) use
unprotected water well, while others use rain-water and other unprotected water points. According to the
1994 census, only 3.2% of the population has access to piped water. It was learnt during the survey period
and from the literature that water-born diseases are among the common concerns in the region.
Rural                                   Urban
others                                     Pipe        Ppe
22%              Unprotect                  6DXO       6%
edWell
Ponds                 48%
13%   Prte                                      l
17%                                 880/a
- 70 -



Regarding education, 60% of the pastoral IDPs reported that their children do not go to school due the fact
that schools are not accessible, children herd animals and they cannot support the education of the children
(clothing, stationery, etc.). The 1994 national census suggests that only 7% of the population is literate, but
this figure should be higher since some improvements have been made in the education sector. As one of the
emerging regions, access to health is very limited in the region. About 54% of the IDPs reported that they go
to health facilities when the family members are sick. The remaining 46% prefer to visit the traditional healer
since it is cheaper and they believe that they can easily be cured.
1.9. MAJOR PROBLEMS, NEEDS AND PRIORITIES
An attempt was made to prioritize the major problems of pastoral and urban IDPs. The survey findings
indicate that 70% of the pastoral IDPs declared that food shortage is the major problem which is consistent
with the above finding related to food assistance. The next major problem of the pastoral IDPs were found to
be lack ofjob opportunities and shelter both. The problems of the urban IDPs reported are lack ofjob
opportunities, lack of shelter, lack of food and other public service with a percentage.
The survey indicates that the rural IDPs priority is petty trade. About 56% of the respondents declared petty
trading as a top priority followed by 26% of them who prefer mixed farming (livestock and crop) and 18%
livestock production only. Urban IDPs first choice was also similar to the rural IDPs - petty trading is a
priority. In addition to petty trading, finding a house and ajob have been the second choices for 44% of the
respondents. As expressed by the respondents, the choice of petty trading as a priority is mainly due to
previous experience of respondents and the assumption that there will be market for the business.
The presence of the Ethiopian army in the area has contributed to the demand for goods produced in small
towns of Afar. There seems to be also some expansion of the town and more movement of young girls both
deportees and from the neighboring regions in the highlands due to the increased opportunity of employment
in the newly emerging bars and other business activities.
1.11.  HIV/AIDS
HIV/AIDs is a concern in Afar where the military has settled. As the result of the military settlement, the
number of bars and commercial sex workers has increased in the region. Generally speaking, most of the
urban IDPs and pastoral IDPs are aware of the HIV/AIDS. About 87% of the pastoral IDPs declared that
they are aware of the epidemics and have gone to consultation meetings. In urban areas almost all
respondents claimed that they know about HIV/AIDS and had consultation by various organizations.
The sources of information about HIV/AIDS were reported to be various. About 60% and 65% of the urban
and pastoral IDPs, respectively learnt about the epidemics at community and kebele/clan meetings, 34% of
the urban and 43% of the pastoral IDPs have learnt through radio. It is interesting to learn here that quite a
large proportion of pastoralist are using radio which is encouraging for future development efforts in the
region. The detailed information about HIV/AIDS is given in the annex volume.
- 71 -



2. FAMILIES OF THE DECEASED
2.1. BACKGROUND
It was reported at the time of the survey that the number of families of deceased in Afar Region is estimated
at about 1,566 households. The benefit packages have not yet been disbursed in the region. In Assaita, in
discussions that involved Woreda administration representatives, elders, clan leaders and families of
deceased, the latter expressed their discontent about the situation. The various community members reported
that the families of deceased were informed about the deaths of their breadwinners and also the benefit
packages they will be receiving. However, the implementation has lagged behind. According to the ERPMU,
the implementation has delayed due to the remoteness and inaccessibility of the areas, certain cultural
problems and shortage of manpower.
As stated under the methodology, the sample size of the families of deceased in Afar Region is not large due
to the mobility of the respondents - 15 and 9 rural and urban families of deceased, respectively. However, it
can be noted that the situation of IDPs and families of deceased in Afar-Region are similar in many ways -
livelihood system, access to social services, needs and priorities and that most of the findings of the IDPs
could be applicable to families of deceased. The major findings of the families of deceased are presented in
this report, while the details are given in the annex volume of the report.
2.2.   SOCIO-ECONOMIC CHARACTERISTICS
According to the survey results, 93.3% of the rural deceased are in the age group of between 20-30 years,
while 55.% of the urban families of deceased are in this age group. It was also observed that 44.4% of the
urban families of deceased are above the age of 30 years.
Table 1: Distribution of age and Marital Status of Rural and Urban Deceased
Age Category      Rural %       Urban %     Marital     Rural %     Urban %
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ S ta tu s_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
< 20 years        6.7          --           Married     7.1         55.6
20-30 years       93.3          55.6        Unmarried   85.7        33.3
Above 30 years    ---           44.4        Divorced    7.1         11
The age and the marital status of the deceased have direct correlations. In urban areas where 44.4% are
above 30 years, 55.6% of them were married and 33% unmarried. In rural areas, 87% of the deceased were
unmarried which is justified by the age group as well - majority are between 20 - 30 years. Divorce rate is
not very high in both rural and urban areas.
According to the survey, 59.7% of the rural deceased have only one household beneficiary and the remaining
have two household beneficiaries. About 55.% of the urban deceased have on average one household
beneficiary, while the remaining have two. Regarding the relationship of the beneficiaries to the deceased,
44.6% of the rural families of deceased beneficiaries are sisters and brothers followed by parents (23%). In
urban areas, 7% of the beneficiaries 15% of the beneficiaries are spouses and children, while the main
beneficiaries are found to be brothers and sisters (26.7%) and parents (46.7%).
The sex distribution of beneficiaries in Afar Region shows that in the rural areas 57.1% are male and 42.9%
are female, while in urban 46.7% are male and 53.3% are female. It was observed that 91% of the rural
families of deceased beneficiaries are illiterate. This situation is better with urban families of deceased where
about 47% of them at least read and write and some have primary education.
- 72 -



2.3. NEEDS AND PRIORITIES
The families of deceased were asked to prioritize their felt needs in the short term. Accordingly, 50% of the
rural families of deceased consider that getting food is a priority, followed by finding a job and purchases of
livestock. The situation is more or less similar in the case of urban families of deceased as indicated in the
table below.
Table 2: Major Needs of Rural and Urban families of deceased
Rank    Rural                      Urban              %
Ist    Get food           50       Get food           50
2nd     Find job          33       Buy livestock      50
3r      Buy livestock     30       Start business     50
The future plans of the families of deceased to involve in productive activities were discussed during the
focus group discussions and also in the structured interviews. Accordingly, 41.8% of the urban families of
deceased expressed the opinion to involve in farming, while 50% of them wish to engage in petty trading.
The major reason for selecting such activities, according to the finding, is that the respondents have the
experience and believe that they could generate income in these type of activities.
2.4.   HIV/AIDS
The respondent in the rural areas confirmed that 93.3% have heard about HIV/AIDS and in urban areas
88.9% have heard about the epidemics. Meetings and radios are the major sources of information about the
disease. To this effect, 61.5% of the rural families of deceased declared that they have heard of the
HIV/AIDS in meetings, while 23% of them learnt through the radio.
In urban areas, 88.9% of the respondents have received counseling on HIV/AIDS, while in the rural sector
64.3% have training and 35.7% did not get counseling services. The majority of the respondents believe that
uncontrolled sexual relation is the major mean of HlV/AIDS. The knowledge on preventive mechanisms for
urban areas are thought to be no premarital sex (43.7%) and one to one (31.25%). Details are provided in
annex tables.
- 73 -



3. DEPORTEES
3.1. BACKGROUND
According to the initial assessment of the Afar Regional ESRDF, the total number of deportees is estimated
at 1,774 people. Most of the deportees residing in Afar Regional state used to live in Bure and Assab towns
before the conflict. Bure town was the major war zone and the town has been totally abandoned and the
dwellers displaced and property damage was reported. The area bordering Eritrea is heavily mined and as a
result there are still some incidents where livestock and people are victims.
The Bure town is now re-established with temporary accommodations (corrugated iron sheet wall and roof
houses). The town's proximity to the boarder where military bases are still functioning has made it an
insecure area. Moreover, discontinuity of the use of Assab port has left both Bure and Manda towns without
their usual trading activities. The presence of the Ethiopian army is the only thing that sustains the town.
Almost all the internally displaced people (333 out of 342) are from Bure town (ESRDF report).
The Tendaho large-scale cotton plantation and its location on the Assab -Addis Ababa route has contributed
for Dubti to be the center of employment and trade. While Dubti town (woreda capital) is located off the
road of Assab, the job opportunity in the cotton plantation has made it a well-established town as compared
to other towns in the region.
Logia town being close to the new regional capital (Samara Town) is getting the advantage of the city's
construction. For this reason, 435 out of 475 deportees of the woreda are living in this town. The deportees
here enjoy a better opportunity of employment in the construction sites, trading and restaurant work.
The categorization of internally displaced people from Bure town as 'urban' did not exactly fit the situation
of the town livelihood where there are only few shop keepers and small restaurant owners, while the majority
of the people of the town are pastoralists.
3.2    DEPORTATION
There are two types of deportees - the Afars and non-Afars, especially from bordering regions of Amhara
and Tigray. These deportees have also faced with different types of problems at the time of deportation and
at their present situation. When deported, they also lost their properties including cash, furniture, clothes and
other household utensils. To this effect, 32% of them declared that they lost household furniture and 22%
have lost clothes. The details are given in the annex volume of this report. During deportation, the Afars
were not allowed to leave Eritrea. One deportee said "even a child who has one of his parents an Afar was
not allowed to leave". This situation forced the Afars to return to their country crossing unofficial entry
points, thus missing registration by the International Committee for Red Cross (ICRC) and government
authorities. This situation has resulted in loses of initial identification and the immediate integration of the
Afars into their respective clans and they have been deprived from the 1000 Birr entitlement for the
deportees. The immediate integration is still creating difficulties in tracing Afar deportees that have spread
throughout the area and are constantly moving.
On the other hand, deportees that were not originally from Afar were forced to leave Eritrea. They were
handed over to the ICRC or have walked in groups to Ethiopia and reported to government authorities. This
formal deportation and entry have helped the deportees to get assistance and recognition as deportees.
3.3. SOCIAL INTEGRATION OF THE DEPORTEES
The social integration of the deportees depend on being an Afar or not. The Afars are able to integrate
immediately unlike those deportees from other regions whose lives have been discontinued from their origin
except some family ties. The integration of the deportees as observed by the survey team indicates that the
- 74 -



level of integration depends on the resource base of the deportees. Those deportees who had high level of
income (in the case of few Afars who had some money) are able to start re-establishing themselves by
getting involved in some trade activities. But those who did not have neither the capital nor any skill are still
marginalized with high dependency on external assistance.
These are deportees whose origin is mostly Amhara and Tigray. These non-Afar deportees are moving
around to other parts of the country looking for places to settle and employment opportunities. Generally,
this uncertainty of settlement has put them under the pressure of displacement and frustration while the Afar
deportees automatically settled and they are on the process of re-establishing themselves.
In the case of housing, while the Afars were able to live in their traditional housing that they are able to
build, the non-Afar deportees have to compete for the few houses in the towns. As indicated in the table
below, most of the deportees (69.7%) live in rented houses and others live with relatives and in camps. The
majority of them (45% of those who live in rented houses) pay a monthly house rent of Birr 50-100 which is
high in the Afar Region standard where houses are not as expensive as in other towns of the country. This
could however partly be explained by the fact that more deportees are competing for the few houses
available.
Table 1: Housing Situation
Housing                    No. of respondents     %
Rented house               62                     69.7
Own                        8                      9
With relatives              11                    12.4
Camp                        I                     1.1
Others                     7                      7.9
89                     l00
3.4.   ACCESS TO SOCIAL SERVICES
Access to safe water, as shown in survey output is very limited among the Afar deportees. Only 27.6% of
them have access to safe water from both tap and public water points. The remaining 62.9% get water from
other unprotected water sources, which implies that there is a high chance of vulnerability to water borne,
and water related diseases. On the other hand, their access to health institutions is high (94.4%). The
percentage of school age children attending school is 48.30%, which is much less than of Amhara which is
63.50%
The deportees in general do not have high educational level. The survey result shows that 35.3% are
illiterate, 6.6% can only read and write and 39.2% have primary education, 8.09% have secondary education
and only 0.98% have higher education. Consequently, the information on their pre- deportation occupational
status shows that 22.6% were petty traders and 1 1.30% of them were engaged in unskilled labor work. This
trend is not changed after deportation. Indeed the survey shows that even more people are involved in these
two fields after deportation as 30% are now petty traders and 25.8% are day laborers, though the type of
petty trade or unskilled work they were engaged and the amount of income they derive from these
occupations may vary greatly.
- 75 -



Table 2: Occupation Before and After Deportation
Occupation                Before                 After
Number      %          Number      %
None                      7           11.3        5          8-2
Daily labour              7           11.3        16         25.8
Petty trade               14          22.6        19         30.6
Cottage industry          2           3.2        2           3.2
House wife                6           9.7        2           3.2
House worker              7           11.3        9          14.5
Others                    19          30.6       9           14.5
Totals                    62          100        62           100
3.5.   FOOD ASSISTANCE
The survey result shows that only 6% of the deportees (mainly those who live in camps) have received food
assistance, while the majority (94%) of them have not received at all. Of those who received food assistance,
50% of them reported that they were assisted for 6 months and above, while 43% of them had the assistance
for 1-3 months. Therefore, their livelihood depends on daily labour and support from other individuals.
The discussions with the community members and the regional DPPB and ESRDF suggest that deportees in
the region need food assistance for one year. Accordingly, the WFP standard has been used to estimate the
food assistance for the total estimated number of deportees (3,000 households) for one year.
Table 3: Estimated Food Assistance Requirement
Quantity        Total No.   No. of      Duration of  Total
Food items       person/month    of         children    the           amount in
required        in kg            Deportees   mothers    assistance in  quintal
months
Sorghum/wheat    15              15,000                  12          27,000
Oil              0.75            15,000                  12           1,350
FAMIX            2.00                        3,750      12            900
Assumptions:
*  The total number of deportee households is estimated at 3,000
*  According to the national average of household size, the deportee household is multiplied by
5 and the total number of deportees is estimated at 15,000
*  Food assistance is required for one year.
*  25% of the deportees are children under five years old and pregnant and/or lactating women
(3,750)
The monthly income of the deportees is indicated in the graph below. According to the graph, about 40% of
the deportees get a monthly income of Birr 121-250. Only a few of them (7%) get above Birr 350 per month.
The future needs and priorities of the deportees are reported as petty trading which is related to their current
occupation. Although there is an opportunity of employment in the cotton plantation farm as daily labourers,
none of them indicated this area of occupation as a future means of livelihood because of the seasonal
employment nature of the plantation and also depends on the success of the cultivation.
- 76 -



HIV/AIDS is a concern particularly for the deportee young giris in Afar Region. Owing to lack of means of
livelihood and the presence of the military base in Afar, the number of young girls joining the commercial
sex business has been increasing There are some efforts being made by governmental and non-
governmental organizations to raise the awareness level of the community about H[V/AIDS. According to
the survey results, almost all the sample deportees (98%) have the knowledge of HIV/AIDS. The sources of
information include meetings (37%), radio (45%) and from friends.
4.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
The Ethio-Eritrean border conflict had a direct effect in the Afar Regional state. Pastoralists whose
livelihood depends on livestock were displaced from their domains of grazing and watering. The Afar
pastoralist that lived along the boarder of Eritrea in zones one and two depend on livestock production,
livestock trading, and transporting merchandise from the port to the inner part of the country, were and are
still affected by the war. There are also deportees from Eritrea who are waiting for rehabilitation support in
these localities. Some households also lost their breadwinners during the conflict. Furthermore, Afars and
non-Afars who were deported from Eritrea are living in the small towns of the region increasing the
economic and social pressure of the community. Most of the deportees in the region are not Afars and are
mainly from Amhara and Tigray Regions who before the conflict used to live in Assab town.
The survey result shows that the war-affected population in Afar Region are living in a very poor condition
in all social and economic parameters of livelihood. Most of them did not have food assistance and their
access to social services is very limited. A rapid assessment of the needs of deportees and urban IDPs in the
region was conducted by ESRDF. However, the ERP assistance has not yet reached the Afar war-affected
population due to various reasons.
Regarding food assistance, both the urban and rural respondents expressed that lack of food is among their
major problems. This situation will no doubt interfere with the rehabilitation program with the risk of using
the rehabilitation inputs for immediate needs of the households. Therefore, the ERP needs to solve the food
shortage problem in collaboration with DPPB, UN agencies and NGOs.
The needs assessment and prioritization of the beneficiaries in the region indicate that the pastoral IDPs
would like to get animals particularly camels and cows for milking. The urban IDPs and deportees would
like to engage in IGS, petty trading being the priority.
Based on the findings of the survey, the following recommendations are made:
*  The restocking of animals should take place based on the needs of the IDPs - camels and cows for
milking are often the priorities in the region
*  Expedite the assistance for deportees. The rehabilitation strategy and the project profiles presented in
this report could be followed in rehabilitating the deportees in the Afar Region
*  Families of deceased require assistance during the preparation of the business plan. They need to be
encouraged to use the benefit packages for productive economic activities
*  Food assistance is very critical to ensure that the rehabilitation program is successful and sustainable.
Otherwise, there is a danger of using the rehabilitation benefits for immediate food requirement.
*  Most of the pastoral IDPs have not returned to their domains due to fear of landmine and there is a
need to speed up the de-mining process.
* Almost all the pastoralists are illiterate. The ERP program should include education for the children
of the deceased as a component of the benefit package.
- 77 -



CHAPTER FOUR: ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF REHABILITATION
INTERVENTIONS
The complementarities between economic development and environmental sustainability have increasingly
become important in global economic development strategies. The World Bank has embarked on a major
effort to incorporate environmental issues into its lending and advisory activities. The government of the
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia (FDRE) has also promulgated environmental policy and strategies
to guide sustainable economic and social development in the country. To this effect, the present study has
given due attention to environmental impacts that the rehabilitation interventions might entail in the target
regions.
Potential negative social and environmental impacts and related mitigation measures were identified by a
multi-disciplinary team during project appraisal. PMUs were established in Tigray and Afar to manage the
household rehabilitation component for IDPs, deportees, and families of deceased in those regions, and in the,
Federal Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Commission and their regional bureau to manage the
household component in the other regions for deportees and families of deceased. Each PIU prepared an
implementation plan for its part of the project. Plans for IDPs set out the budgetary allocation process, the
process of community consultations which is used to prioritize needs to remain within budget constraints, the
process of delivery of cash and materials to beneficiary households and the screening and monitoring of
environmental and social impacts. Plans for deportees and families of deceased set out the process of
beneficiary identification, consultation to agree on a support package, flow of funds, and assessment of
potential negative social impacts. During implementation the PMU Task Force has tracked these potential
impacts with a view to mitigate them if it proved necessary. The starting point for the ESA was the
assessment of the mechanisms put in place by the Project Management Units (PMU) in addressing
potentially negative social and environmental impacts.
The following consultations were carried out to finalize and disseminate the PIPs:
*  Stakeholders Workshop (Tigray Regional State - Adigrat): A workshop was held with some 50
beneficiaries (42 men and 9 women) from Tabias in the Eastern Zone of Tigray in Adigrat on
January 28, 2001. The Workshop was opened by a regional official (Dr. Solomon Inquay, then Head
of Regional Social Affairs Bureau and now Regional Parliament Spokes Person). After general
briefing on the ERP objectives and operational mechanisms, beneficiaries were asked to provide
their views on the main aspects of the process where by assistance would reach beneficiary
households and on various implementation issues. Participants were divided into three groups and
discussed in detail: i) project implementation cycle, ii) housing reconstruction and iii) agriculture
and income generating activities. The output of the workshop was a detailed implementation manual
on the household rehabilitation component that describes: i)approaches and principles, ii)project
implementation cycle, iii) players and roles and iv) benefit packages. The workshop also updated
stakeholders on environmental and safeguard issues.
*  Focus group meetings with 27 people (15 men and 12 women) was carried out in an area where 2400
displaced households reside in January 2001 in Tigray and issues related to: i) overgrazing ii)
community management of rehabilitation process, iii) women's lead role, iv) monitoring and v)
partnership between government, private sector, NGO and community were discussed.
*  Rehabilitation Task Forces established at the local level(woreda and kebelle level) drawn from
woreda/kebelle administrations, technical bureaus (agriculture, health, education, etc),CBO
representatives (farmers, women and youth associations) are the key implementation support units
closer to the households. In less than three months after project effectiveness, the ERP has oriented
- 78 -



1086 persons in the regions of Tigray, Amhara, Afae, Oromria SNNP, Somali, Benishangul-Gumz
and Addis Ababa, who are members of local level rehabilitation task forces. The orientation for the
rehabilitation task forces focused on ERP - objectives and principles, project implementation cycle,
their own roles and the roles of other players, and the skills and information needed for specific
tasks(e.g. household assessment, environment screening, compiling community requests, etc.).
* The rehabilitation task forces at woreda and tabia/kebelle level in turn have informed the ERP
objectives and operational guidelines to the beneficiaries in various kebelle and sub-kebelle level
meetings carried out between March 2001 and November 2002. In fact, individual beneficiary
households have been visited by members of rehabilitation taskforces during need assessment and
advise was provided to 61, 000 IDPs, 69,000 families of the deceased and 71,000 deportees on the
choice of an appropriate agricultural or income generating activities.
Generally, environmental degradation is a concern in northern Ethiopia, especially in Tigray Region.
Deforestation and soil erosion are the major cause for land degradation and poor agricultural performance.
Some efforts are underway to combat the environmental degradation in the region. Some these efforts
include terracing and area enclosures. The case of Afar is different regarding environmental issues and is
related to stocking rate and the land carrying capacity. The equilibrium of the land carrying capacity and
stocking rate in pastoral systems, particularly in Afar, has been debatable in the existing development
literature. Therefore, further research will be generally needed to draw conclusions whether the land carrying
capacity and the stocking rates are compatible or not.
The findings of the study showed that most of the household rehabilitation interventions do not create
adverse environmental impacts. The ESA has addressed environmental and social issues by category of
beneficiaries and rehabilitation interventions:
1. INTERVENTIONS FOR INTERNALLY DISPLACED PEOPLE (IDPs)
The efforts of the government and the World Bank are geared towards assisting the IDPs to start normal
productive lives and benefit packages have been set for the rehabilitation of the IDPs. The benefit package
for IDPs includes agricultural inputs, housing reconstruction, IGS and household utensils. The agricultural
rehabilitation assistance for Tigray farming IDPs includes restocking, purchase of farm implements and
fertilizer, while for the Afar farming IDPs, the package also includes restocking, purchases of farm tools and
improved seeds. On the other hand, the rehabilitation assistance to an Afar pastoral IDP household includes
restocking with a camel, 2 heifers, and 5 small ruminants.
In Afar, the estimates of livestock holding before and after the conflict show that the households have lost
significant number of their livestock and restocking is required to sustain their livelihoods. Environmental
risks associated with restocking activities could arise from an increase in herd size, or from the introduction
of new species to local environment. Restocking in Afar is solely through local purchases, so the herd size is
not increasing and no new species of livestock is being introduced. Even with the proposed restocking, the
number of cattle owned by IDPs will be below pre-conflict levels. ,As a result, no incremental adverse
environmental impact can result from the restocking intervention. This is not to say that there are not
grazing problems in the Afar Region but only that the ERP is not exacerbating them. The planned Pastoralist
Project in Afar will address long term issues related to stocking rates, land carrying capacity and economic
development in pastoral Afar.
The ESRDF Afar Office in collaboration with woreda and kebelle rehabilitation task forces has carried out a
household assessment (HA) in four war affected woredas (Berhale, Erepti, Elidar and Dallol) and identified
5034 IDPs (households) requiring rehabilitation assistance in 2001. Of these households, 4124 (82%) are
pastoral IDPs who chose to be rehabilitated with restocking. The remaining 880 are urban IDPs who chose to
be assisted with income generation activities. Between July 2002 and January 2003, about 3000 pastoral
- 79 -



IDPs have received rehabilitation assistance. The maximum rehabilitation assistance provided was Birr 5000
per household for 900 destitute IDPs, who lost most of their livestock since they were in the boarder areas
during the war. With the maximum rehabilitation assistance, each pastoral IDP is expected to buy one camel,
five sheep/goats, two heifers, household items, and a mobile housing unit. The household assessments and
household allocations to each IDP were carried out in a participatory fashion involving the beneficiaries
themselves. Priorities were given to destitute pastoral households in occupied tabias/kebelles. In addition to
the ERP assistance, The ESRDF RO has provided 5 shoats to 2470 households in the war affected areas in
collaboration with FAO. The Bureau of Agriculture has also provided veterinary drugs and vaccines to those
IDPs in collaboration. The regional Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Bureau (DPPB) is also providing
food assistance in collaboration with WFP in areas affected by the drought.
Currently, there is an active food security project amounting to US$100.6 million being implemented in
selected 156 woredas of the regions of Amhara, Oromia, SNNP and Tigray ( where large proportion of ERP
beneficiaries reside). The major objective of this project is to build the resource base of poorer rural
households, increase their employment and incomes, reduce the real cost of food and improve nutrition level
of children under 5 years of age as well as pregnant and lactating mothers. This project is believed to
compliment the ERP beneficiaries by providing grants to communities or kebelles to increase household and
community assets and incomes by better management of rain fed agriculture (crops and livestock);
investment in small scale irrigation; better natural resource management through "zero tillage" technique on
farms, and catchments level activities to conserve soil, reverse soil degradation, improve water harvesting
and use, and improve distribution of labor; development of off farm enterprise; reduce stunting in children
under 5 years of age and improve child and adult nutrition through a community based child growth
promotion programme; and investment in training and development.
The pastoral development project, which is currently under appraisal, is expected to do most of the above
activities in the pastoral areas of Afar, Somali, Oromia and Southern regions.
The environmental risks associated with housing reconstruction for IDPs could be improper site selection
and drainage and sanitary problems, over use of local materials that can cause deforestation, and lack of
proper design and necessary structure. However, almost all the reconstruction activities are small scale and
will be executed in already developed areas. In addition, there is a shift in Tigray from the traditional beam
and earth packed roofing to a new type which is replaced by corrugated iron sheet roof covering and this
shift in using construction materials reduces the concern of adverse environmental impact. Moreover, the
IDPs will be fully involved in all steps of the reconstruction activities from planning to completion of the
reconstruction.
. Under the household rehabilitation component of ERP, IDPs are being assisted with agricultural
benefit packages (oxen, heifers, sheep, goats, farm implements, seeds and fertilizer), but the
procurement and use of pesticides was not included in the rehabilitation package, and none was found
during the ESA. Accordingly, no adverse environmental impacts are expected.
The use of fertilizer is not expected to cause any damage on the environment since the farmers get technical
assistance through the extension Unit of the respective regional bureausof agriculture on how to use them,
when to use them and in what quantities to use them.
2. INTERVENTIONS FOR FAMILIES OF DECEASED
The benefit package for families of deceased includes agricultural inputs and IGS. The needs assessment of
urban families of deceased revealed that IGS including petty trading, grinding mills are the priorities. For the
rural families of deceased, purchase of livestock is the predominant priority. Acquiring oxen for traction,
pack animals for the purpose of renting out and generating income, small ruminants for rearing and reselling
were identified as priority needs. Housing construction or maintenance, which is not part of the benefit
package, has also been identified as a priority. Regarding the environmental impacts of these and other
- 80 -



related rehabilitation interventions, the analyses provided for rehabilitation interventions of deportees and
IDPs are applicable.
3. INTERVENTIONS FOR DEPORTEES
Deportees are concentrated in urban areas of the country. It is estimated that about 80% of the deportees are
in Tigray Region, mainly concentrating in Mekale, Adigrat and other small towns. In Amhara Region,
deportees are residing in Bahir Dar, Kombolcha, Dessie, Debre Tabor, Gondar, Woldiya and Bati towns,
with the highest concentration in Kombolcha, Dessie and Woldiya. In Afar Region, Dubti, Assaita and Bure
are the major towns where deportees are concentrating.
During the survey, the needs of the deportees were assessed and identified on a participatory fashion.
Accordingly, income generating schemes (IGS) have been considered as the appropriate rehabilitation
interventions for the deportees. The deportees came up with a long list of IGS which include petty trading,
poutry, grinding mills, soap making, dairy farming, waste collection etc. Furthermore, housing was
identified as one of the rehabilitation interventions for this group of beneficiaries as they depend on their
relatives or live in rented houses.
Most of the IGS identified by the beneficiaries do not have adverse environmental impacts. For instances,
petty trading activities have no physical work on the environmental and as a result will not create any
adverse environmental hazards to the area.
According to the technical annex, shelter is not included in the benefit package for deportees. However, if
shelter (urban) is to be included in the benefit package, there could be certain environmental and social
issues to be considered - the land acquisition is an issue in urban areas; improper site selection could cause
drainage and sanitary problems etc. To this effect, before the construction of the houses, mitigation measures
should be thought. The mitigation measures include involving the beneficiaries in the process of appropriate
selection of sites and designs, housing construction following standard drainage system and urban planning.
- 81 -



CHAPTER FIVE: SOCIO-ECONOMIC IMPACTS OF THE
INTERVENTIONS - SAFEGUARD ISSUES
In general, the emergency rehabilitation interventions are not expected to cause unintended or negative social
and economic impacts. They instead are expected to have added economic and social values for the
beneficiaries and the local communities. Brief explanations are provided below:
The war-affected IDPs in Tigray have moved to neighboring woredas and no social problems were observed
as a result of the displacement. However, the woredas and tabias where they have moved to had limited
social services and economic opportunities even before displacement and the displacement has increased the
burden on the host community. Similarly, in Afar, the livestock owners have moved to other woredas and/or
kebeles within same woredas which are relatively landmine free. Traditionally, Afars share what they have
with others regardless of clan belongingness and pastoral IDPs did not have any social problems with the
local communities. However, the IDPs cannot continue sharing the scarce water and grazing resources which
suggests that the de-mining effort should be expedited and the rehabilitation interventions should be
implemented. It is imperative to note that the rehabilitation interventions of IDPs (agricultural rehabilitation,
IGS, housing reconstruction) will not have affects on the community and will rather reduce the burden of the
host communities on which the IDPs are depending.
Deportees are concentrating in urban centers of Tigray, Afar and Amhara Regions. They have been well
integrated with the communities sharing the scarce social services and economic opportunities in the
respective urban centers. However, the social integration of the deportees in Afar Region differs between the
Afars and non-Afars. The Afar deportees have been able to integrate immediately unlike those deportees
from other regions. It is important to note that the deportation has resulted in an increase of unemployment
and also in the number of commercial sex workers in the respective towns. Thus, the rehabilitation
interventions for deportees are expected to consider additional resources for social services and economic
opportunities in the urban centers where the deportees are concentrating. Additional employment
opportunities will also reduce the number of commercial sex workers which in tum may reduce the impact of
HIV/AIDS. This means that the rehabilitation interventions will not cause negative impacts but will instead
have added economic and social values.
The ERP interventions do not involve involuntary settlement of beneficiaries. The plan is that the IDPs in
both regions will eventually return to their origins and continue their usual productive economic lives.
However, there could still be some problems associated with to landmines, especially in some of the woredas
and tabias and this calls for speeding up of the de-mining process. In addition, IDPs displaced from the
disputable areas may face a problem to return and the peace and reconciliation program will be also
encouraged for the IDPs to return to their origins in the disputable areas. Regarding the deportees, the survey
attempted to investigate where they would like to settle when they get the assistance and most of them prefer
to stay in the same places where they are after deportation. Thus, there will not be any involuntary settlement
as a result of the rehabilitation interventions.
The project prioritization, planning and implementation are expected to be conducted in consultation with
the community and the beneficiaries so as to ensure continuity and sustainability of the interventions. The
participation of NGOs working on similar projects and geographical areas as well as local government
departments will also be encouraged. This will be consistent with the new decentralization policy of the
country which in principle encourages the participation of various stakeholders, including the community, in
decision making and development activities.
- 82 -



CHAPTER SIX: MONITORING AND EVALUATION
1. CURRENT PRACTICES
For projects/programs to be successful in impacting on the beneficiaries, appropriate monitoring and
evaluation should be in place. The M & E system should demonstrate how information flows at various
levels, the reporting period, the M & E formats and basic indicators, level of detail in reporting at the
different levels up the ladder, degree of responsibility of each stakeholder in the system, means of
transmitting feedbacks.
For the ERP M & E, there is already a structure (particularly in Tigray and Amahara) in place for reporting
of the process of the program implementation, which flows from Kebele to the Federal level. For instance,
in the Amhara Region, the Kebele Technical Task Forces (TTFs) are supposed to report to their respective
Woreda TTFs. The Woreda TTFs in tum report to zonal committees and the latter do to their respective sub-
regional ERP Management Units in Bahir Dar and Dessie. Both the Federal ERPMU and Disaster Prevention
and Preparedness Bureau (DPPB) of the region have the responsibility of monitoring and evaluating the
activities of the West and East Amhara ERP Management Units and the sub regional ERPMUs summit their
periodic reports to the former. The responsibilities of the various organs at different decision making levels
are outlined in the working manuals and the different directives. However, the systems actually being
implemented and the effectiveness of the monitoring and evaluation process in general greatly vary from
Woreda to Woreda.
In Tigray, a well-established reporting system is applied where the 'Kushet' RTF committee reports to the
Kebele RTF which in tum reports to Woreda RTF. The 'Kushet' RTF committee monitors the utilization of
the benefit by each individual beneficiary according to the priority set. In cases of diversions, in some areas
like Gulomekeda (Tigray), there is an agreement form that the beneficiary signs before getting the support.
This agreement obliges him/her to use the money according to the plan. In cases of diversion for other uses,
the total fund extended is to be re-paid by the beneficiary. The community structure is also playing
significant role in controlling the utilization of the support. Besides the regular reports coming from 'Kushet'
and Kebeles, the Woreda RTF are conducting regular random monitoring activities at Kebele and 'Kushet'
levels.
In general, the existing M & E practices have brought about successful results as it has been reported in the
evaluation report. However, there were certain problems that need to be resolved to be the foundation of an
effective M & E system for the rest of the life of the program.
2. CONSTRAINTS IN THE EXISTING M & E ACTIVITIES
Committee members at the Woreda level have their own responsibilities and assignments in their respective
offices, and the ERP task is an additional undertaking. In addition to this, the common free-rider problem in
committee works; lack of clearly defined guidelines and responsibilities to be enforced among members
caused lack of commitment on ERP activities in certain respects. The ERP activities seem to be undertaken
in an ad hoc basis and problems usually arise whenever committee members are altered.
Effective and proper follow-ups of the programs involve field trips in the different parts of each Woreda,
which could not be pursued in the absence of per diems and transport facilities. In spite of being felt as a
serious constraint, ERP has not allocated budgets for such and related activities. Owing to this, mostly, the
reports of the Woreda ERP implementing committees is based largely on books of accounts of their finance
departments and the activities of beneficiaries in the surrounding areas of the capital city of the Woreda.
- 83 -



3. PROPOSED MONITORING AND EVALUATION SYSTEM
As it is displayed in the diagram below, the behavior of the program requires at least four levels of reporting
beginning from the target groups at the community level to the federal bodies. There are three different M &
E activities.
*  Monthly flow-up by kebele RTFs and quarterly report at woreda level - currently, the kebeles report
to woredas on a monthly basis which is very important for the woeda to compile the information on
a quarterly basis.
*  Rapid assessment on certain issues which require special attention
*  Mid-term and ex-post evaluation which will be based on surveys
Quarterly Follow-up/ Monitoring
At the community and beneficiaries level, the follow-up of the input delivery and the proper use of the funds
should be done by the community committee themselves. Simple one-page forms need to be developed in
this purpose and would be filled quarterly by the community committee to monitor the following points:
-      new purchases,
-      remaining balance,
-      record of the use of the grant including intended and non-intended purchases.
The proper uses of benefits should be closely followed up at community level. For this purpose, a simple
one-page format needs to be developed to be filled by committees every month. Based on the monthly
reports of the Kebele,, the woreda ERP committee (RTA or TTF) might act accordingly if the situation
requires immediate measure. The woreda committee through its secretariat should organize and summarize
the monthly reports of the various community ERP committees and report to the regional ERP coordinating
committees. Depending on the nature of the findings of the Woreda M & E reports, the regional committee
either reports to the Federal ERPMU or take measures as required.
The regional coordinating committees should develop two types of formats for reporting the status of the
program implementation. On a quarterly basis, it needs to report to the Federal responsible bodies about the
actual disbursements, the overall functioning of the M & E system at the woreda and Kebele ERP committee
levels and major constraints to the Federal bodies. The second type of the report should take into account an
overview of the actual uses of the fund by beneficiaries in addition to the overall performance of ERP
committees at different levels. This report is expected two times per year.
The Federal ERP coordinating committees should provide its feedback within a reasonable period (but fixed
a priori) for the regular bi-yearly reports of the regions and immediate reaction might be worthwhile
whenever deemed necessary.
In order to effectively undertake the proposed monitoring and evaluation, it might require a permanent
employee or permanently assigned personnel to undertake the activities of ERP at the woreda level and be a
permanent secretariat for the ERP coordinating committee at the woreda level. The employee would be
primarily responsible to collect monthly reports of the community committees and organize them in a
manner that suits the demands of the regional ERP coordinating committees and avail them to the Woreda
ERP committee for discussion and approval. In addition, he/she could be responsible to assess the
functioning of the committee members vis-a-vis their responsibilities and reports to them for timely
corrections.
At the woreda level, ERP should allocate funds for per diems and transportation to conduct field trips and the
actual use of the fund might be justified through the submission of field reports to the regional level. There
should also be experience sharing among different Woredas that might be organized by the regional ERP
coordinating committees.
- 84 -



4. RAPID ASSESSMENT
In some instances, there could be a need to undertake a rapid assessment in order to explore the situation and
take immediate corrective measures. Thus, under such circumstances, the federal, regional or the woreda
level ERP coordinating or M & E committees may undertake field trips and make rapid assessments out of
plan. This needs its own arrangements and formats depending on the nature of the issue.
5. EVALUATION
A mid-term and an ex-post evaluation are proposed. The mid-term evaluation will be conducted on the mid
of the project life span and will make some recommendations for the further operatins of the program. When
the program terminates, an ex-post evaluation will be carried out which will be aimed at assessing the impact
of the program on the beneficiaries. Part of the samples that have been used for the evaluation of the 15'
disbursement could be re-used so as to monitor changes on a sample of households that would be followed
over the whole project life.
- 85 -



CHAPTER SEVEN: REHABILITATION STRATEGY FOR DEPORTEES
1. GENERAL REHABILITATION STRATEGY
1.1. NEEDS ASSESSMENT
Following the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea in May 1998, about 1 10,000 Ethiopians were deported
from Eritrea. The deportees are living all over the country, particularly in urban areas of Tigray, Amhara and
Afar. Most of the deportees are women, children and the elderly who have arrived with little possessions and
without means of survival.
According to the needs assessment conducted with deportees in Tigray, Afar and Amhara Regions, some
Income Generating Schemes (IGS) could be considered and developed to rehabilitate the deportees. The
results of the survey and the focus group discussions with deportees and other stakeholders revealed some
possible IGS.
Some of the potential IGS that were identified by the deportees in the three regions include the following:
*  petty trading
*  grinding mill and other produce processing activities,
*  soap making,
*  hand-pump mechanic,
*  Butter and honey trading
*  public stand-tap operator,
*  tailoring
*  artisan
*  Provision of cart service
*  Metal work
*  mechanic/garage,
*  mason/carpenter, plumbing, painting, and other construction activities,
*  activities in related with waste collection,
*  peri-urban vegetable/fruit production
The survey results also show that some of the deportees have the skills in some of the above activities.
Details on demographic and socio-economic features of the deportees are provided in the annex volume of
this report.
1.2. PREPARATION OF INDIVIDUAL BUSINESS PLANS
The establishment of the business plan and the detailed technical formulation of the Project should not be a
desk exercise done by experts. Past experience with deportees and other income-generating schemes shows
that this needs to be done in a participatory manner, with the beneficiary the main actor in the development
of the plan.
Simple forms should be prepared for the plan to address the following:
*  fixed assets and inputs required,
*  manpower requirements,
*  expected sales,
*  operation expenses,
*  loan repayment,
*  depreciation.
- 86 -



Simple financial and economic indicators need also be developed, and thresholds for these indicators could
be determined in relation with MFIs, banks, and organisations with experience in MFIs. Projects requiring
expensive fixed assets or with long return periods should as a rule be avoided. Attention should be paid to
the potential involvement of other household members (spouse, children) in the Project.
The focus groups discussions with some governmental and NGO staff who have been involved in the first
efforts of deportee rehabilitation show that there are lessons to be learnt from these experiences, specifically
those carried out by AARRDP and DSCP in Dessie town.
1.3. MARKETS AND FINANCIAL COST AND BENEFIT ANALYSIS FOR SOME IGS
Deportees are concentrating in the towns of Mekelle and Adigrat, Axum and Inticho of Tigray Region. In
Amhara, they are concentrating in Kombolcha, Dessie, Woldiaya, Bati, Bahir Dar and Gondar, while in Afar
they are residing in Assaita, Bure and Dubti. There are difference IGS taking place in these towns before and
after the conflict. It was observed during the survey in these towns that some of the deportees have also been
engaged some activities - tea/coffee shops and small bars, metal work and others which suggests that some
of the IGS could be viable to the deportees if supported financially and technically especially in providing
some basic training programs.
Generally, it was learnt that the IGS preferred by the beneficiaries include running tea/coffee shops, metal
work, tailoring and cart services, particularly in Mekelle, Adigrat, Kombolcha, Woldiya and Dessie towns.
Tea/coffee shops are promising, especially in towns located near the border and where the military presence
is significant in Tigray and Afar Regions. Tailoring and metal work seem to be a viable activity in some
border towns but metal work is mentioned only in one woreda i.e. Irob (apparently selling the services to the
community).
Furthermore, petty trading has been found as one of the potential IGS in Kombolcha, Dessie, Assaita towns.
The activities can also be replicated and implemented in other towns in the region for the internally displaced
people especially for those living in urban areas near and around the borders. They petty trading can
involve buying and selling of consumers' goods such as salt, sugar and tea, kerosene etc. Grain marketing is
also possible if the size of the capital permits.
The financial costs and benefits of some the selected IGS have been presented below. The current cost of
inputs and output have been considered for the estimates of the financial costs and benefits of the selected
IGS which are more or less applicable in the major towns of Tigray, Amhara and Afar Regions.
- 87 -



Indicative Financial Return and Cost Analysis for some IGS (Birr)
No   Project            Items                                       Amt.    Year
1          2       3        4       5
1    RUNNING            Expenditure
TEA/COFFEE         Equipment
Chairs (40 birr/unit)                        10     400
SHOPS              Tables (40 birr/unit)                        3       120
Cups (3 birr/unit)                           20     60
Kittle (40 birr/unit)                        3      120
Spoons (2 birr/unit)                        20      40
Stove (1500 birr/unit)                       1      1500
Shelf (500 birr/unit)                        1      500
Sub Total -Investment                               2740
Running Cost
Salary                                     2       2400       2400    2400    2400     2400
Waiter/Waitress (100 birr/month)             1      1200        1200    1200    1200    1200
Cooker (100 birr/month)                      1       1200       1200    1200    1200     1200
Guard (100 birr/month)                              6000        6000    6000    6000    6000
Consumables (500 birr/month)
Utilities                                          1200       1200    1200     1200    1200
Water (30 birr/month)                                1800       1800    1800    1800    1800
Power (150 birr/month)
Coffee/Tea Rooms Rent (200 birr/month)              2400        2400    2400    2400    2400
Maintenance/Replacement                             -           500     500     500     500
Sub Total - Running Cost/Year                       16200       16700   16700   16700   16700
Revenue/Sales (in Birr)
Tea - 0.25/unit - 100 units sold/day                7,800       7,800   7,800   7,800   7,800
Coffee - 0.75/unit - 50 units sold/day               11,700     11,700  11,700  11,700   11,700
Milk- 0.75/unit- 50 units sold/day                   11,700     11,700  11,700  11,700  11,700
Soft drinks - 1.75/unit - 10 units sold/day         5,400       5,400   5,400   5,400   5,400
Breakfast - 2.50/unit - 15 units sold/day            11,700     11,700  11,700  11,700   11,700
Sub Total - Sales/Gross Revenue                     48,300      48,300  48,300  48,300  48,300
Less Expenditure                                     18,940     16,700  16,700  16,700   16700
Net Revenue                                         29,360      31,600  31,600  31,600  31600
- 84 -



2    Tailoring          o  Material
*  Sewing Machine                     1      2,000
*  Training                          LS      1,500
o  Work Place
*  Room (150 birr/month)                     1,800       1,800  1,800    1,800   1,800
o  Running Cost (300 birr/month)                    3,600      3,600   3,600   3,600   3,600
o  Maintenance/Replacement                          -          250     250     250     250
o  Sub Total - Expenditure                          8,900      5,650   5,650   5,650   5,650
o  Gross Revenue - (30 birr/day)                    9,360      9,360   9,360   9,360   9,360
o  Net Revenue                                      460        3710    3710    3710    3710
3    Metal Work         o  Equipment                                LS      1,000      -
o  Training                                         1,500      -
o  Work Place (100 birr/month)                      1,200      1,200   1,200   1,200   1,200
o  Running Cost (200 birr/month)                    2,400      2,400   2,400   2,400   2,400
o  Maintenance/Replacement                          -          200     200     200     200
o  Sub Total - Expenditure                          6,100      3,800   3,800   3,800   3,800
o  Gross Revenue (25 birr/day)                      7,800      7,800   7,800   7,800   7,800
o  Net Revenue                                      1,700      4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000
4    Cart Services      o  Investment
*  Donkeys                           2       400        -       -       -        -
*  Cart                               1      1500       -       -       -        -
*  Feed (50 birr/month)                      600        600     600     600      600
*  Replacement/Maintenance                   -          500     500      500     500
o  Sub Total - Expenditure                          2500       1100    1100    1100    1100
o  Gross Revenue (20 birr/day)                      6,240      6,240   6,240   6,240   6,240
o  Net Revenue                                      3,740      5,140   5,140   5,140   5,140
5                       o  Revenue from sales                              15,000      15,000  15,000.  15,000  15,000
PETTY              o  Total Expense                                    12,576     12,576  12,576  12,576  12,576
TRADING       OF          Purchases of goods                           12,000     12,000  12,000  12,000  12,000
CONSUMERS          o      Labour (8 md/month*12*Birr 6)                576        576     576     576     576
GOODS              o  Gross Benefit                                    2,424      2,424   2,424   2,424   2,424
Note: The estimates provided for costs and benefits are similar for each year. However, it is assumed that they will change with price variations and
when the beeneficiaries capitalize part of their benefits every year.
- 85 -



1.4. PARTICIPATION OF THE DEPORTEES IN THE PROCESS
During the focus group discussions, deportees expressed the opinion that they have been abandoned.
Economic rehabilitation cannot be achieved without some degree of psychological rehabilitation, and
consultation with deportees on important issues is certainly one way to make them feel better recognized. It
is proposed that committees of deportees should be formed at town level to discuss rehabilitation issues with
the implementation organisation. More importantly, the committees should participate in the final review of
projects when they are submitted to financial support.
1.5. FINANCING
Procedures need to be developed with the MFI(s) involved to determine:
* the eligible amounts and duration of loans (4),
*  application procedures,
*  the conditions and duration of repayment, as well as possible grace period and other specifics,
*  the interest rate,
*  the guarantees,
*  the penalties triggered by incapacity to repay in due time.
1.6.   INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENT
It is possible that some of these capabilities may not be found within the usual implementation organisations
used by the ERP so far (the woreda/kebelle task forces). The first stage of the preparation of the detailed
action plan for deportees should therefore be to identify external organisations with these capabilities, and to
assess the required capacity building if any. There is a strong NGO presence in some of the concerned areas,
and some ofthem aie already active with deportees. NGOs and specialised micro-finance institutions (MFIs)
should therefore be included in the organisations whose capabilities will be assessed, and which may take
part in implementation. .
In Amhara Region there are several NGOs involved in IGS. Some of these NGOs include the Amarha
Development Association (ADA), Organization for the Rehabilitation and Development of Amhara
(ORDA), SOS Sahel, and others are involved in income generating schemes, particularly in food insecure
woredas (urban and rural) in Amhara Region. The Amhara Bureau of Trade and Industry is also
undertakeing income diversification assessment in some sample woredas of the region, which is financed by
Swedish International Development Agency (Sida). The Amhara Credit and Saving Institution (ACSI) is also
active in providing credit facilities for income generating schemes. In Tigray Region, there are various
NGOs involved in the rehabilitation of the displaced, particularly the Relief Society of Tigray (REST) and
others. Dedebit Rural Credit Institute is also providing credit facilities. However, there are such few
institutions in Afar Region. Afar Pastoral Development Association (APDA) through which the
rehabilitation program could be implemented. Furthermore, the relevant government organizations, such as,
Bureau of Trade and Industry, Agriculture, BoLSA could be involved in the rehabilitation process.
4    In accordance with experience gained with MFIs throughout Africa, most loans should be short-term, with a
duration in the order of 6 months.



1.7. SELECTION OF PILOT TOWNS
The rehabilitation program should start with pilot towns of the different regions. The selection criteria of the
pilot towns could be presence of NGOs undertaking similar projects, the concentration of the deportees,
availability of micro financing institutions. The deportees should be provided with the budget constraint - the
ceiling of the benefits that they can get from the program so that they can prioritize their needs. With the
budget constraint they have, it is possible to encourage them to seek additional resources from MFIs or other
sources to start their business. The experience of the program in the pilot towns can be replicated to other
towns.
1.8. PROVISION OF TRAINING
One of the basic criteria rules for project development and selection should be that the beneficiary has
already some basic technical knowledge of the activity he/she is willing to launch. As a rule, technical
training requirements should therefore be limited. Training will mainly aim at developing basic skills in the
following domains:
* basic accountancy: simple forms (5) and rules must be developed and addressed at training stage,
*  finance: relations with the MFI, loan application, loan repayment, guarantees, penalties,
*  monitoring of the economic performance of the activity,
*   legal framework if required.
Where technical training is needed, existing organizations will be used. Apprenticeships may also be
developed where feasible (construction activities).
1.9. FOOD ASSISTANCE
Past experience with deportees shows that where people did not receive food support and had a grant to
rehabilitate, they used part of this grant to purchase food, which hampered the rehabilitation efforts.
Deportees should therefore get food assistance during the training and rehabilitation period. Except for the
most vulnerable households, the delivery of the food assistance should be made conditional, for example, to
the following:
*  effectiveness of the involvement of the household in the project preparation,
*  effective attendance to the training sessions,
*  effectiveness of the first repayments of the loan.
Based on the findings of the survey, the deportees require 6-12 months to start generating income and help
themselves. Therefore, the food assistance could be planned for this period.
1.10. SHELTER
In addition, the regional authorities should be supported in finding solutions for the lack of shelter, through
provision of semi-permanent housing materials in rural areas and investigate options for low-cost housing in
urban areas. Deportees/returnees should be specifically targeted in the regional and federal level policies,
aimed at improving access to housing and land.
5     This is not the complex accountancy needed for a formal cooperative or company. The aim is to allow the
project initiator to monitor his own activity with simple indicators.



1.11. PREPARATION OF ACTION PLAN
Prior to implementation, the stages described above should result in the preparation of a detailed action plan,
establishing the following:
* budget,
*  "menu" of eligible activities, resulting from the market studies,
* implementation arrangements for each region, including technical support, financing, training, with
details on the functional relations between Regional PMUs and other partners involved,
* modalities of fund channeling taking into consideration the likely involvement of Micro-Finance
Institutions,
* food aid requirements and identification of associated donors,
* assistance package for vulnerable households.
1.12.  MONITORING
Monitoring includes the following two aspects:
Daily follow-ups of the project development and implementation: this would be done by each the
implementation organisations selected at zone/town level and would comprise of the following:
*  assistance in project development, establishment of the business plan with the beneficiary, assistance
in loan application;
*  assistance in project implementation; where feasible, participation of the deportee committee in this
assistance should be sought;
*  monitoring/evaluation by the ERPMU at regional and federal levels of the proper implementation of
the program and of the good performance of initiated income-generating project. The baseline
gathered on deportees for the ESAwill be used in this purpose, with check surveys every two years
conducted on the same households that have been initially sampled.
2. REHABILITATION STRATEGY FOR THE VULNERABLE GROUPS
The general strategy for the rehabilitation of deportees is presented in the previous section. Ideally, the
strategy proposed might be utilized in the rehabilitation process of the deportees in general but specific
strategies are of paramount importance if designed for the most vulnerable groups - orphan, elderly and
disabled.
2.1.   NEEDS AND PRIORITIZES
Since orphans, the aged and the disabled are hardly able to participate and become part of respondents in an
assessment that does not particularly and exclusively target them, it is difficult to capture their specific needs
and priorities. Furthermore, it is believed that either the family head and/or the oldest in the family were
reached during the assessment process. It has, however, been possible to acquire considerable information
regarding these groups and their needs from focus group discussions, key informants, interviews and reports
of studies that targeted these groups.
A simple questionnaire could be designed to specifically investigate the need of these target groups. Previous
interventions of similar cases by other organizations could also be assessed to determine the type, and
amount of their needs and priorities.



2.2. REHABILITATION PLANS
The preparation of a rehabilitation plan for these vulnerable groups should pay special attention to the
particular physical and mental conditions of the members of the group. Since there is no homogeneity among
the members of the three target groups regarding their physical and mental capacities, skills and interests, it
is important to treat them accordingly. To make the planning of the intervention participatory and needs
oriented, either the members of the target groups themselves or their guardians (patrons) or both should be
involved in the process from the outset.
2.3. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENT
The regional Emergency Rehabilitation Office will have the capacity to undertake the determination of the
number of the beneficiaries and finalized the needs assessment process. The input of organizations involved
in similar interventions within the region and/or from other regions in the past could be exploited to
substantiate the needs assessment.
NGOs and multilateral organizations targeting these groups have already started various types of
interventions in some areas of which some are aiming at long term rehabilitation programs. For instance, in
Amhara Region, Forum for Street Children Ethiopia (FSCE) Dessie branch is supporting 389 children of
which 197 are under the age of five. The support includes provision of supplementary food for the under
fives and school materials for the rest. UNICEF in collaboration with the Labor and Social Affairs
Department of South Wollo zone has targeted 500 orphans of which it has trained 227 in various skills
including hotel catering, typewriting, electricity, tailoring and auto mechanics. It has also started provision of
a seed capital, equipment and furniture on loan to the trained. Hope Enterprise, Ethiopian Orthodox Church
(EOC) Children's Homes, Ethiopian Evangelical Church Mekan Iyesus (EECMY) and Dessie Street
Children Project (DSCP) have enrolled some orphan or abandoned children in their orphanages and/or
training institutions. In Tigray similar efforts are being made by various organizations including UNICEF,
REST, EOC and EECMY.
Help Age International, ZOA Refuge Care, Agency for Assisting Refugees, Returnees and Disabled People
(AARRDP) are also engaged in relief and rehabilitation of deportees in general and the most vulnerable in
particular. These organizations are, therefore, potential partners for ERPMU to work in collaboration with in
its effort to rehabilitate these particular social groups.
2.4. PROVISION OF TRAINING
It can plausibly assumed that the elderly and the disabled have some sort of training and experience. They
might have already been engaged in one or another form of activites and probably need only refreshing skills
and/or upgrading courses relevant to the IGS they intend to involve in. However, the orphan and abandoned
or separated youth of relevant age need to be trained in new skills that will enable them start some IGS and
generate income. The experiences of UNICEF/LSAD and Hope Enterprise could be good examples.
More importantly, most of the organizations involved in the rehabilitation endeavor have conducted needs
assessments so as to identify viable income generating schemes and the required training that enables
beneficiaries to involve in the IGS they choose although some of the assessments were conducted at post
intervention period. It is, therefore, recommended that ERPMU make use of the various study reports with
some adaptations and also work in collaboration with these organizations regarding the training schemes.



2.5.   ORPHANS
Information obtained from secondary sources revealed that quite a number of children are either orphaned,
separated from their parents during deportation or abandoned by their parents due to economic stress the
deportation entailed. According to UNICEF sponsored study conducted in 1999, about 1363 children who
are separated from their parents were identified in Tigray. Another study on deportees revealed that 15
deportee street children were identified in Mekelle town that are orphaned and were between 15-17 years of
age.
Other studies of deportees by ZOA, FSCE and AARRDP also indicated that divorce and family
disintegration is increasing among deportees living in Amhara, which implies the increasing rate of children
that need immediate support and economic and psychological rehabilitation.
The special rehabilitation program should identify and exclusively focus on orphans, abandoned children (by
one or both parents) and children separated from their parents/families during deportation. IG Activities
identified during the assessment by the deportees are mainly not compatible to the need of the under age
children. Thus, for children of less than 14 years of age, the basic and primary need is getting adequate food,
proper accommodation, clothing, a school facility and basic health services.
It is, therefore, recommended that
*  Attempts should be made to unite the children with their relatives in Ethiopia (if any) and provide
the necessary materials, and support there (probably using the tracing service provided by the Red
Cross Society to locate the relatives). If the reunion is successful, the relative/patron of the child
should take all the responsibilities with regard to supporting the child/children. In cases where the
child is of adequate age, this option could be assessed with him/her involvement.
*  Orphan, abandoned or separated children under the age of 14 should be able to get sponsorship
programs or be entrusted to orphanages and children's homes that existed in different parts of the
country.
*  Children who are 14 and above should be provided with appropriate training that will enable them
create jobs and generate income. They should be provided with start up capital under the
guardianship of close relatives or friend of the family or relevant organization. In cases of absence of
a guardian a permanent accommodation should be established for this group as well.
*  The provision of start up capital (or loan) should be in such a way that the guardian (individual,
institution) take full responsibility to see to it that it is spent on eligible expenditures and repayments
are regularly and timely made.
2.6.   THE ELDERLY (AGED)
According to available information, there are about 331 elderly deportees above the age of 60 in South
Wollo zone alone, while there is a feeling that more number of deportees are stationed in Tigray. The on-
going census will establish the actual figure of the deportees in general and the aged in particular.
Despite the similarity in age, however, it is assumed that some of the members of this group (the elderly)
are mentally active than others and are capable of managing their own business if supported and engaged
in schemes of their preference.



For those whose old age has impaired their capacity, however, it is recommended that
* They be provided with rehabilitation support through able bodied close relative they trust will
run the intended IGS on their behalf,
.
The relative chosen as patron or assistant by the beneficiary should be made to vow his/her
commitment and sign for the loan or support money together with the beneficiary.
* Should the aged deportee incapable of working as well as assigning a patron or assistant, he/she
should be entrusted to NGOs who give support to such people.
* The planning of rehabilitation for the aged deportees should take into account experiences of
NGOs such as Help Age International. Other NGOs focusing on the aged should also be
contacted. ZOA Refugee Care who has planned to build 300 houses to alleviate the housing
problem of deportees might also be consulted on how the housing project could involve the
elderly.
* Forming an association of the elderly could be investigated so that they pull their resources
together and run the business jointly or with few people. If external support may be required, this
could also reduce the manpower need to run the activities.
Elderly with no relative/patron and unable to get involved into any self supporting activity
should be accommodated in places established for this purpose (if available). This can be done
by the government or NGOs or by the collaboration of the two.
2.6.   THE DISABLED
Physically disabled people are not always and necessarily incapable of working and supporting themselves.
Indeed, some of them have valuable skills to depend on for their livelihood. It is, therefore, necessary that the
ERPMU identify the skills, potential and interest of the disabled person(s) as a precondition for designing a
rehabilitation strategy.
Accordingly, it is recommended that:
An association of the disabled could be formed so that they pull their resources together and run the
business jointly or with few people. This could be viable particularly in running workshops, and other
handcrafting activities. If external support may be required this could also reduce the manpower need to
run the activities.
* The disabled person could name another person (a friend or relative) to run on his/her behalf the
IGS he/she intends to involve in. In this case the provision of assistance money (loan) should
oblige the co-signing of both the beneficiary and his relative (guardian) to comply with the
requirements set. The guardian should be willing to take the responsibility of timely repayment
of the loan.
In cases of failure to live up to the expectation on the part of the guardian, appropriate measures should be
taken based on the wishes of the beneficiary.
The disabled with no relative/patron and unable to get involved into any self supporting activity should be
accommodated in places established for this purpose (if available). This can also be done by the government
or NGOs or by the collaboration of the two.
The financial requirement for all the three target groups depends on which alternative is selected. Thus, a
financial needs assessment should be done for all the alternatives proposed to determine the assistance.



2.7. MONITORING
Monitoring of the rehabilitation process for the most vulnerable is also a factor of the alternative selected.
Thus, a clear monitoring system should be in place for all the alternatives. Monitoring could be
*  Regular reports to the region's ERP on the progress of the beneficiary by the responsible,
supported by constant follow-ups and visits by the ERP staff and/or relevant institutions in the
area on the proper functioning of the IGS and take corrective measures if need be.
*  The monitoring activity should also make sure that the disabled beneficiary is actually benefiting
from the IGS and that implementation is going as per his/her wishes.
A long-term rehabilitation strategy should be investigated with the hosts of the beneficiaries (orphanages, the
relatives, the family) during the monitoring process.
The Detailed Baseline Information Is Provided in the Annex Volume of This Report.



