Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T 7402-ET
TECHNICAL ANNEX
FOR A CREDIT OF SDR 180.2 MILLION
(USD 230.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
FOR AN
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
November 9, 2000



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(exchange rate effective as of November 9, 2000)
Currency Unit             =               Ethiopian Birr
US$1                                      8.25
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 8 - July 7
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                           Country Assistance Strategy
CSWs                          Commercial Sex Workers
DPPB                          Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Bureau
DPPC                          Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Commission
EDP                           Ethiopian De-mining Project
EEPCo                         Ethiopian Electric Power Cooperation
EMSAP                         Ethiopia Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project
ERA                           Ethiopian Roads Authority
ERP                           Emergency Recovery Project/Program
ERPMU                         Emergency Recovery Program Management Unit
ESRDF                         Ethiopia Social Rehabilitation and Development Fund
FMU                           Financial Management Unit
H-IMA                         Humanitarian Mine Action
ICB                           International Competitive Bidding
ICR                           Implementation Completion Report
IDA                           International Development Association
IDPs                          Internally Displaced Peoples
ILO                           International Labour Organization
Kebele                        The kebele is the lowest administrative authority in the regional
government hierarchy in Ethiopia
MEDaC                         Ministry of Economic Development and Cooperation
NCB                           National Competitive Bidding
NGO                           Non-governmental Organization
OAU                           Organization of African Unity
PIP                           Project Implementation Plan
QCBS                          Quality and Cost Based Selection
RSDP                          Road Sector Development Programme
RTF                           Rehabilitation Task Force
TGE                           Transitional Government of Ethiopia
Tabia                         The tabia (known as kebele elsewhere in Ethiopia) is the lowest
administrative authority in the regional govemrnent structure in
the Tigray Region
TGE                           Transitional Government of Ethiopia
TRRA                          Tigray Rural Roads Authority
UJNDP                         United Nations Development Program
UNMAS                         United Nations Mines Action Service
UXO                           Unexploded Ordnance
WFP                           World Food Program
Woreda                        The woreda corresponds to a district under the regional
administration structure in Ethiopia
Vice President                 Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director               Oey Astra Meesook
Sector Manager                 Jeffrey S. Racki
Task Team Leader               Robert J. Roche



ETHIOPIA - EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
I.      BACKGROUND  AND  STRATEGY ..............................................................I
A.         Circumstances of the Conflict ..............................................................I
B.         Humanitarian  Impact .............................................................lI
C.         Damage Assessment ..............................................................4
D.         Economic Impact ..............................................................5
E.         Government Response ..............................................................6
F.         International Response ..............................................................7
II.    IDA  RESPONSE  AND  STRATEGY ..............................................................8
A.         Elements of IDA  Response ..............................................................8
B.         Rationale for IDA  Involvement .............................................................                                  10
C.    Lessons Learned from the Previous Ethiopia Emergency Recovery
and Reconstruction Project ..........................................................                                         10
D.         Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement in De-mining Projects ................1  I
111.  PROGRAM DESCRIPTION AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ....... 11
A.         Program   Objectives ..........................................................1  I
B.         Program   Coverage and Implementation  Period ........................................................... 12
C.         Program   Costing and Financing ..........................................................                                    12
D.         Rationale for ERP  Design ...........................................................                                         13
E.         Overall Program   Implementation  Arrangements .......................................................... 16
Appendix la: Household Rehabilitation .20
Appendix I b: Rehabilitation of Community Infrastructure .34
Appendix 2: Hiv/Aids Prevention, Care and Support .36
Appendix 3: Support for De-Mining Activities .40
Appendix 4a: Rehabilitation/Improvement of Road Infrastructure .44
Appendix 4b: Reconstruction/Rehabilitation of Power Supply Infrastructure .52
Appendix 5:  Procurement .................................................                                                               54
Appendix 6:            Financial Management, Auditing  and Reporting ............................................. 58
Appendix 7:  Monitoring And Evaluation and Social and Environmental Aspects ............... 60
Appendix  8:    Project Cost and Financing .................................................                                             62
Schedule A:            Timetable of Key Project Processing  Events .................................................  66
Schedule B:            Status of Bank Group Operations for Ethiopia ................................................. 67
Schedule C:            Summary  of IFC  Programs for Ethiopia .................................................                           68
MAP                        IBRD No.31158






I. BACKGROUND AND STRATEGY
A.  Circumstances of the Conflict
1.  On May 6, 1998, fighting broke out between the armed forces of the Governments
of Ethiopia and Eritrea along the common border of the two countries. The conflict
continued for more than two years and was characterized by relatively short bursts of
extremely heavy fighting resulting in significant casualties. On June 18, 2000, the two
governments signed an Agreement on the Cessation of Hostilities.
2.   The Agreement on the Cessation of Hostilities was brokered by the Organization of
African Unity (OAU) with the support of the United Nations, the United States, and the
European Union. Under the terms of the Agreement, both parties agreed to cease all
military attacks and seek a resolution to their disputes through peaceful and legal means.
They also agreed to modalities of deployment, whereby Ethiopian troops would withdraw
to positions under their civil administration prior to May 6, 1998, while the Eritrean army
would maintain its troops at a distance of 25 km (defined as "artillery range") from
Ethiopian positions. An international peacekeeping force, sponsored by the United
Nations, would be established to patrol the area between the two re-deployed armies, to
monitor the implementation of the Cessation of Hostilities Agreement and to support
efforts to accommodate the return of displaced civilians in both countries.
3.   On September 15, 2000 the UN Security Council authorized the deployment of up
to 4,200 peacekeeping troops, including military observers to the region, and mandated
the mission till March 2001. It is expected that all the military observers will be deployed
shortly (some are already in place in both the countries). The redeployment of the
Ethiopian and Eritrean troops is expected to begin within two weeks of the deployment of
the peacekeeping troops. Eventually, an international body to be agreed by both countries
will lead the settlement of disputes.
4.  Prior to the war, the Government had reduced the size of military spending to less
than 3 percent of its GDP. As a direct consequence of the conflict with Eritrea, outlays
for defense expenditures increased to 13.3 percent of GDP and the armed forces are now
estimated to have increased about fourfold since 1998.
B.  Humanitarian Impact
5.   The main areas of tension during the conflict on the Ethiopian side, along the 1,000
km border between the two countries, were: (i) Badme and Sheraro, in the western border
area between the Tekezze and Mereb rivers (Western Zone of Tigray Region); (ii)
Tsorona, Zalambessa and Alitena in the central border section (Eastern Zone of Tigray
Region) near the main road leading from Ethiopia to the Eritrean capital of Asmara; and
(iii) Bure in the eastern border section (Zone 1 of the Afar Region) on the main road to
the Eritrean Red Sea port of Assab. These were among the main areas that people were
displaced from. According to the latest estimates provided by the Government of
Ethiopia, approximately 330,000 people were displaced in the Tigray Region and 34,000
from the Afar Region bringing the total number of Internally Displaced Peoples (IDPs) to
about 364,000. These IDPs include people who were living within artillery range of the
-1-



Eritrean border and were displaced during May 1998-June 2000, either as a preventive
measure or as a result of fighting in their areas of origin, and who were unable to return
to their homes due to the presence of landmines and/or unexploded ordnance (UXO),
proximity of their homes to Eritrean forces, or because their homes, water supply, or
other essential resources and infrastructure were damaged or destroyed. These IDPs
remain in settlements or are integrated locally with host families in areas close to their
areas of origin, and are almost entirely dependent on humanitarian assistance. It is
estimated that almost 50 percent of the total IDP population may still be displaced.
6.   Another category of people include about 76,000 persons of Ethiopian origin who
had been residing in Eritrea and have returned/been deported from there as a result of the
conflict; another 33,000 are expected to come into Ethiopia in the near future which
would bring the total number of deportees/returnees to about 110,000. The overwhelming
majority of these returnees/deportees are women, children and the elderly who have
arrived with few possessions and most have no means of supporting themselves.
7.   The Government also considers the conflict-affected population to include those
families that as a result of civilian, including militia, war casualties, have lost their main
bread winner. According to the latest Government estimates, this amounts to about
36,000 civilians, including militia, who were bread winners and whose families (about
144,000 people) are, as a result, on the verge of destitution.
8.   In addition to the loss of agricultural production for the rural displaced population,
many of the displaced lost their other means of livelihood as well. Many people left their
homes with few personal belongings, and lost most of their livestock. Most were unable
to support themselves. Almost half of the displaced people from non-farm (urban') areas
had previously been permanently employed. The other half had been engaged in casual
labor and earned non-dependable income. Cross-border petty trade, which previously
made up a significant portion of the local economy in border areas and included livestock
sales as well as sales of vegetables, spices, etc. was completely suspended. This has
resulted in significantly reduced access to cash for the displaced and those living close to
the border.
9.   Apart from the stress created by the war environment, most of the displaced came
from areas that are chronically drought affected, and quite a few of them have been
dependent upon external assistance for a number of years. In areas where the displaced
have taken temporary shelter, they continue to place a heavy burden on host
communities. Two years of hosting the displaced has strained health, education, and
water and sanitation infrastructure in these areas. A lot of the host families, who were
already at the end of their coping strategies, have been relying upon assistance
themselves due to the fact that they suffered significant reduction in crop production due
to erratic distribution of rain during the 1999 meher (harvest) season. These host
communities have also been affected by the war and the closing of the border with Eritrea
to small-scale trade, and have few opportunities for income generation.
'The minimum population size for a non-farmn (urban) center in Ethiopia is 2,000.
-2-



10. After the cessation of hostilities in June 2000, displaced civilians have started
returning to their homes, often in or next to hazardous areas contaminated by
landmines/UXO, in order to resume agricultural activities (mostly without official
sanction). In the last three months, for instance, health facilities in the Tigray region
received a greater number of civilian landmine/UXO casualties-among whom are a high
number of children and young adults -than in the previous twelve months. It is
suspected that more casualties are unreported since they occur far from health facilities
and are thus not treated. Also, some of the social infrastructure has been damaged and
schools, clinics and water supply schemes are in need of reconstruction and
rehabilitation. Roads and power supply facilities have also been damaged. In some areas,
houses have been damaged; building materials (particularly roof beams) have been taken
away to be used in the trenches.
11. The presence of landmines and unexploded ordnance from recent hostilities,
therefore, poses a significant risk throughout the conflict area, particularly in the "no
man's land" that runs between the trenches along the two confrontation lines (May 1998
and May-June 2000). Dense minefields containing a mix of anti-tank and anti-personnel
mines laid out more or less in "conventional patterns" contaminate trench lines.
Unmarked and possibly unrecorded nuisance minefields and point targets can also be
expected outside the trench lines throughout the conflict area. Ethiopia has reportedly
removed and/or destroyed a large number of mines during the conflict or immediately
thereafter. However, it does not have sufficient technical means to conduct mine
clearance to international humanitarian standards, and consequently a significant residual
risk remains. In addition, the risk of unexploded ordnance of conventional nature in the
former battle area is high. In light of the above, the mine/unexploded ordnance
contamination in areas adjacent to the Temporary Security Zone and in it would pose an
immediate threat to the safe deployment and operation of the UN peacekeeping mission,
as well as to the resident and returning populations and associated humanitarian relief
efforts. If unmitigated, it will impede post-emergency rehabilitation and reconstruction
efforts. The extent of the problem is beyond the current mine action capacities of the
country and requires substantial support from the international community.
12. As part of the peacekeeping operation, the United Nations Mine Action Service
(UNMAS) is preparing a mine action plan to help mitigate the threat posed by landmines
and unexploded ordnance. The U.K. Department for International Development (DflD)
has provided funding for an NGO, the Halo Trust, which is responsible for surveying the
Temporary Security Zone and adjacent areas along the border for landmines and UXO in
preparation for the deployment of the UN peacekeeping troops. At present the Ethiopian
De-mining Project (EDP), a non-combatant unit in the military together with two teams
from the Halo Trust, is undertaking this emergency landmine/UXO survey along the
border area between Ethiopia and Eritrea.The survey commenced in early October 2000
and is expected to take three months to complete.
13. Another area of concern is the increased risk of HIV/AIDS transmissions in the
war-affected communities and the armed forces. The concentration of such a large
number of relatively well-paid military personnel coupled with the inflow of commercial
sex workers and the establishment of informal family arrangements has exposed
communities in Tigray and Afar to considerable health risks. These risks have been
-3-



exacerbated by the ongoing re-deployment of military personnel in the vicinity of the
civilian population deeper inside Tigray following the Cessation of Hostilities
Agreement. Regular troops are generally bivouacked alongside communities rather than
confined to separate facilities or garrisons. This risk is compounded by the potential
spread of the disease to other parts of the country. The planned demobilization of war
veterans along with routine redeployment of active units of the armed forces to other
parts of the country further increases the risk of accelerated HIV/AIDS transmission rates
throughout the country.
C. Damage Assessment
14. The Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Commission (DPPC) at the Federal
government level has been coordinating the effort to assess the damage caused by the war
and mitigate its effects. Through its bureaus at the regional level, it has worked closely
with the regional governments in Tigray and Afar and various NGOs (such as the Relief
Society of Tigray) to determine the extent of the damage.
15. Direct damage and destruction due to the conflict took place in seven woredas in
Tigray and seven woredas in Afar bordering Eritrea. According to Government estimates,
the internally displaced people, in addition to their displacement, have lost their
properties including livestock, stored grains, production tools, household utensils, etc.
Their residential houses have either been destroyed by heavy artillery or set on fire.
Estimates of the actual magnitude of losses incurred by the IDPs require extensive survey
and field visits which have not been possible due to the presence of land mines and UXO
in many areas. Estimates in Table 1 below are, therefore, based on preliminary
assessments and certain assumptions. In addition, some social infrastructure such as
education, health, water supply and animal health facilities have been destroyed or
damaged. There has also been destruction and damage to commercial enterprises such as
flour mills, flour factories, hotels, shops, bars, bakeries, poultry farms, cattle fattening
centers, etc. Furthermore, government administrative buildings in certain areas as well as
religious institutions have been destroyed or damaged by the conflict. Apart from the
above, the border town of Zalambessa has been totally destroyed including houses,
commercial enterprises, water pipelines, power and telecommunication facilities, and
social infrastructure. Roads and bridges have been heavily destroyed or damaged both in
the war-affected areas as well as certain other parts of the country due to additional heavy
traffic movement to serve the war front. Power supply infrastructure has also been either
destroyed or damaged in the war-affected areas. The estimated cost of destroyed public
and social infrastructure is well over US$200 million.
-4-



Table 1: Preliminary Damage Assessment by the Government
Types of Facilities                Units
Health Facilities                  35
Education Facilities               80
Water Supply Facilities             143
Water Pipes                         130 km
Animal Health Facilities           31
Warehouses                         5
Government administrative buildings   18
Commercial Enterprises             5,623
Religious Institutions             52
Asphalt Roads (heavily damaged)    431 km
Gravel Roads (heavily damaged)      1,903 km
Asphalt Roads (moderately damaged)   313 km
Gravel Roads (moderately damaged)    1,255 km
Bridges
Power supply infrastructure
Livestock                          38,420
Beehives (not including Afar)      5,262
Poultry (not including Afar)       21,269
Honey and butter (not including Afar)  41,704 kg
Stored Grains (not including Afar)  70,880
quintals
Farm Implements
Household Goods
Rural Housing
Non-Farm (Urban) Housing
Pastoral Housing
TOTAL
Note: Currently, the Regional Government of Tigray is undertaking a comprehensive
assessment on the damages to individual households which would be utilized to update and
refine the damage assessment figures.
D. Economic Impact
16. The consequences of the war on the overall economy have been significant. After
two decades of falling per capita income during the Derg regime, peace combined with
macroeconomic stabilization and reforms led to GDP growth averaging some 6 percent
per annum since 1992. Consumer price inflation averaged 3.3 percent a year during
1992-99 and domestic bank financing of the fiscal deficit turned negative in 1994-95 and
remained so until 1997-98. The fiscal deficit (including grants) fell from 8.5 percent of
GDP during 1991-92 to about 2 percent during 1997-98. This period also saw a major
reorientation of public expenditure from defense to social sectors and vital infrastructure.
17. These favorable trends began to be reversed with the outbreak of the conflict in
May 1998. Defense spending which had reached a low of 2.5 percent of GDP in 1996-97
rose to 8.7 percent in 1998-99 and as high as 13.3 percent in 1999-00. Consequently, the
-5-



fiscal deficit had risen to 6.9 percent in 1998-99 and to almost 12 percent in 1999-00.
The preemptive demands of defense expenditure over the last two years were financed by
cuts in discretionary recurrent expenditure and in capital expenditure. Capital
expenditures which had steadily grown to 10.4 percent of GDP in 1996-97 had slipped to
6.7 percent in 1999-00.
18. The burden of the conflict is exacting a progressively heavier toll on private sector
development. Economic uncertainty and balance of payments constraints have eroded
investor confidence in general as evidenced by the significant fall in new investments that
have commenced operations. Data drawn from the Ethiopian Investment Authority
indicate that these fell from a high of 2.9 billion birr in 1997-98 to 1.1 billion birr in
1998-99 and to 0.5 billion birr in the first nine months of 1999-00. Finally, the balance
of payments came under severe pressure with foreign exchange reserves declining by
nearly $100 million between 1998-99 and 1999-00, bringing import cover to as low as
two months. The government prevented any sharp depreciation in the exchange rate
through a number of controls and non-price barriers, further impairing private sector
activity.
E.  Government Response
19. The Federal Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Commission has taken the lead
in responding to the emergency needs arising from the war and has worked in close
cooperation with the regional sector bureaus such as health, water, education, agriculture,
and its regional bureau of disaster prevention and preparedness in the two regional
administrations in Tigray and Afar, along with national and international NGOs. The
DPPC has played a central role in organizing and coordinating joint needs assessment
with the UN Country Team, NGOs, and donors, and is responsible for preparing
consolidated appeals for international assistance and managing the allocation and
delivery of relief resources.
20. In the Tigray Region, assistance to the displaced is coordinated by the Tigray
Emergency Coordination Committee, which is composed of the Regional Government
Administration including its sectoral bureaus, the Disaster Prevention and Preparedness
Bureau (DPPB) and relevant NGOs. In the Afar Region, most of the displaced who were
living near Bure and Elidar have been served through the Regional Administration as
well as some local and international NGOs and indirectly by a few of the UN agencies.
21. The Government has also been providing assistance to the deportees/returnees from
Eritrea through a national fund which it administers, chaired by the DPPC Commissioner,
with contribution from Ethiopians inside the country and in the Diaspora. The
deportees/returnees have been provided with food, clothing, drugs and other basic needs
in transit centers (in most cases, school buildings). While some of the deportees are still
living in transit centers, others (about 21,837 people) have been facilitated to return to
regions of their choice to settle in. This has been done with the provision of a basic
reintegration package comprising cash, food and other basic necessities such as essential
household goods. However, this has not been enough to re-establish their livelihoods and
the Government has appealed for external assistance.
-6-



22. The Government has also undertaken some initial de-mining operations in the
conflict zones through the Ethiopian De-mining Project, a non-combatant unit in the
military.
23. Following the Cessation of Hostilities Agreement, the Government has approached
the Bank-on an emergency basis-for assistance in putting together a comprehensive
package of interventions to cope with the aftermath of the conflict on the country. The
Government's proposal for assistance to rehabilitate the war-affected areas and people
includes providing housing reconstruction and basic household goods for IDPs in the
war-affected areas and income generation support including agricultural and business
development inputs for IDPs, deportees/returnees and families of deceased primary bread
winners throughout the country, reconstruction and rehabilitation of health and education
facilities with attendant inputs such as drugs, books, etc., and rehabilitation and
reconstruction of potable water supply facilities, animal health facilities, road
infrastructure, bridges, and power supply infrastructure.
F.  International Response
24. The DPPC issued its Appeal for the Year 2000 for Victims of Natural Disasters and
Internally Displaced Persons on January 21, 2000 which outlined a program of assistance
for the displaced, which included relief food aid as well as shelter, water and sanitation,
health care, education, and livestock support. In support of the Governnent's appeal the
UN Country Team subsequently issued an appeal and relief action plan with proposals
for US$27.5 million in combined food and non-food assistance for the IDPs. As of June
2000, donor response to this request amounted to US$19.7 million meeting 80 percent of
the food requirements but only 22 percent of the non-food requirements. The non-food
assistance included construction and rehabilitation of water points, emergency education
assistance, provision of medical supplies, distribution of shelter materials, mine risk
education, and agricultural interventions. An Updated Appeal for Rehabilitation and
Recovery Programmes for the Internally Displaced Persons was issued by the UN
Country Team on August 22, 2000. Like the January 2000 appeal, it is intended to
supplement the Government's ongoing efforts to provide assistance to the displaced
population and is projected to cover the period from September 2000 to January 2001.
The additional funds requested total US$15.1 million for food assistance and US$15.3
million in non-food assistance to meet the most critical and urgent needs.
25. A joint UN office has been maintained in Mekele (capital of the Tigray Region)
since March 1999 with the full time presence of WFP and UNICEF, supported by UNDP.
The WFP has been providing assistance to 272,000 people displaced by the conflict since
April 1999. Since July 2000, food distributions were extended to an additional 15,500
newly displaced. So far the United States has been the largest donor of relief food to
assist IDPs and returning populations. In 1999, the European Union, Ireland, Canada,
Japan, the Netherlands and Norway all contributed to the emergency operation. The water
and environmental sanitation needs of IDPs who are unable to return and remain
displaced are being addressed from the funds received from the UN Country Team appeal
of January 2000. Basic shelter assistance has also been provided to about 4,000
IDP/returnee families by UNICEF since May 2000. The UN Country Team has also
initiated a series of studies and actions in the Humanitarian Mine Action (HMA) sector
-7-



since June 1999 to mitigate the landmine and UXO threat to civilians. Since October
1999, UNICEF has provided technical support to a landmine and UXO awareness project
targeting displaced populations in the Tigray Region. The Relief and Development
Organization, a local NGO, together with the Tigray Regional Authorities have
implemented this project. UNDP has provided a platform for collaborative action,
presenting an HMA Strategy paper to the Government of Ethiopia. It has also provided
technical assistance to the Conflict Management Center of the OAU, the Ethiopian De-
mining Project, the Ethiopian Physiotherapists Association, and the Prosthetic Orthopedic
Centre and has carried out field studies on the nature of the landmines/UXO pollution and
the implications of these threats to Ethiopian civilians and the UN/OAU peace support
mission.
26. With regard to USAID, in May 2000 a Disaster Assistance Response Team was set
up in Ethiopia to coordinate and manage the Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance
response to the drought emergency. Since the signing of the Cessation of Hostilities
Agreement between the two countries, and the earliest movements of the IDPs back to
their homes, the Disaster Assistance Response Team has also begun to prepare for
providing humanitarian (non-food) assistance for rehabilitation of conflict-affected areas
and populations. It is understood that within the USAID Ethiopia office, efforts are
underway to identify areas in which, with Government approval, resources from current
projects in health, population and nutrition, human and institutional development, and
agriculture and natural resources could be reprogrammed to meet the most urgent
rehabilitation needs arising from the conflict.
II. IDA RESPONSE AND STRATEGY
A.  Elements of IDA Response
27. After registering encouraging progress through the mid-90s, the Ethiopian
economy experienced significant setbacks in the past two years due to the cumulative
impact of the war and a multi-year drought. Underlying these immediate difficulties are
the persistent challenges associated with transforming the economy of one of the world's
poorest agricultural economies, and the added burden of an AIDS epidemic that has
already caused widespread suffering and threatens the integrity of Ethiopia's economic
and social fabric.
28. The last Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), in 1997, had led to a major increase in
the lending program in support of a government that was seen to be implementing a
coherent and well-sequenced poverty strategy. This lending program was underpinned by
sector investment programs in roads, health and education and with major investments in
agriculture and power. The Bank's initial reaction to the outbreak of the conflict with
Eritrea in May 1998 was to continue programs in both countries with the expectation that
the dispute would soon be resolved. However, as this did not happen and following
intense fighting in February 1999, the Bank decided in April 1999 to defer all new
lending to both countries. The Bank continued to be fully engaged in both countries
through non-lending assistance and preparation of lending operations. Disbursements on
the existing portfolios continued as did routine supervision missions for all projects.
-8-



However, implementation in some key areas, notably the health and education sector
programs, slipped considerably.
29. The Bank's objective in the immediate post-war period is to help the country deal
as quickly as possible with the human, material and financial destabilization caused by
the war, while simultaneously re-engaging on core development issues. An Interim
Support Strategy is being presented to the Board with this operation to describe the
Bank's strategy in greater detail for the post-conflict transition over the next twelve to
twenty four months. This strategy is designed to:
* address the immediate human, infrastructure and economic emergency, and to set the
economy back on a path of sustainable economic growth;
* tackle weaknesses in the management of the IDA portfolio, which have accumulated
during the war, and which require urgent attention if an ambitious program of new
interventions is to succeed; and
* initiate long-term Bank assistance in three areas of critical structural importance in
the Ethiopian economy-food insecurity, the spread of HIV/AIDS, and systemic
weaknesses in Ethiopia's capacity to produce and deliver essential services.
30. Four emergency operations are currently under preparation. These projects would
provide up to US$700 million in new IDA credits to address the impact of the conflict: an
Emergency Recovery Project (US$230 million) to help the war-affected people to rebuild
their lives and resume productive economic activities, reconstruct and rehabilitate
destroyed and damaged infrastructure to restart the provision of services and support
macro-economic stability in the country; an Emergency Demobilization and
Reintegration Project (US$170 million) to demobilize and reintegrate 150,000 veterans;
an Emergency Support Credit (US$250 million) yet to be prepared to support the
macroeconomic stabilization program agreed upon with the Fund and help put Ethiopia
back on a sustainable growth path by addressing specific policy constraints; and a
Fertilizer Supplemental Credit (US$50 million) to sustain food production.
31. In addition to focussing on immediate emergency needs and on tackling the
institutional underpinnings of IDA portfolio management, the Bank's interim strategy in
FY01 /02 will address three key medium-term issues-food insecurity and agricultural
inputs, HIV/AIDS and weak institutions/inadequate human capacity. Improving the
management of the IDA portfolio was begun in October 2000 with a joint Government-
Bank Country Portfolio Performance Review and a joint review of the Sector
Development Programs for Health and Education to identify weaknesses and develop an
action plan to improve implementation.
32. The Bank is also re-engaging in the critical area of HIV/AIDS (US$59.7 million for
EMSAP was approved by the Board in September 2000), and accelerating the preparation
of a food security project. The Government is preparing an Interim Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) in collaboration with the Bank and the IMF, currently scheduled
to be considered by the Boards of the Bank and the Fund in late December 2000. The
balance of payments support credit under preparation will support this strategy. Finally,
the staff of the Bank and the Fund are also preparing a HIPC Decision Point document
-9-



which could be considered by the Boards of the two institutions in late December along
with the I-PRSP.
B.  Rationale for IDA Involvement
33. The Emergency Recovery Project would address the immediate needs of the war-
affected people (about 620,000 people). It would also help the country restart its
economy. The Bank's involvement is justified by the amount of resources required, the
sustainable development focus of the Project, and the need to monitor the macro-
economic impact of the Emergency Recovery Program.
C.  Lessons Learned from the Previous Ethiopia Emergency Recovery and
Reconstruction Project
34.  An Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Project (Cr. 2351-ET) was provided
to the Transitional Government of Ethiopia (TGE) in March 1992 for an amount of
US$150 million equivalent. The Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Project was
part of the multi-donor financed Economic Recovery and Reconstruction Program, which
was prepared to reverse the social and economic situation resulting from almost two
decades of devastating civil war and economic mismanagement that the TGE inherited
when it came to power in May 1991. The overall Economic Recovery and Reconstruction
Program was co-financed by the TGE, several multilateral and bilateral donors, and
reallocation from existing IDA credits. The project was financed with a new credit from
IDA (Cr. 235 1-ET) which was designed to cover the part of the Economic Recovery and
Reconstruction Program for which no funds were available from the rest of the donor
community and ongoing IDA projects. About US$80.7 million was reallocated from
seven existing IDA credits to finance some parts of the overall Program. The overall IDA
contribution to the Program, therefore, amounted to US$230.7 million.
35.  The broad objectives of the project and the overall Program were to assist Ethiopia
to jump-start its economic and social recovery and to lay the basis for the follow-up
adjustment program. The specific objectives of the project were to support: (i)
reconstruction of roads, power, telecommunications, and civil aviation facilities as well
as rehabilitation of social infrastructure at the community level; (ii) inputs for public
industrial enterprises and construction materials; and (iii) road transportation and
petroleum products.
36.  Overall, the Implementation Completion Report of the project notes that the project
has achieved its objectives satisfactorily and that these achievements are sustainable. The
economy substantially recovered-in the four years ending 1994/95. GDP at constant
factor grew by 64 percent, and all sectors in which the project participated have been
growing. The importation of goods financed from the proceeds of the credit has assisted
the Government to rehabilitate, reconstruct, maintain, and operate priority sectors of its
economy damaged by the civil war. In the social sector, the Social Fund succeeded in
rehabilitating social infrastructure for about 2.1 million of the poorest and most
vulnerable population.
-10-



37. The key lessons learnt from this project were:
* Commitment and ownership of the borrower is critical for the successful
implementation of emergency recovery projects.
+ Staff of implementing agencies need to be trained early in procurement and
disbursement procedures with periodic refresher courses during project
implementation.
* The Bank should be flexible and ready to review its procedures for procurement and
disbursement since in an emergency situation speed of implementation is as critical as
accountability.
+ Delegation of authority to a dedicated and well-equipped Project Management Unit
under a strong manager with proven record and motivated staff, coupled with an
action-oriented Inter-sectoral Committee proved to be an effective administrative
arrangement.
* Programs under the full control of communities are more likely to be sustainable.
* The smaller regravelling contracts of the roads component would have been better
suited to domestic contractors or Ethiopian Roads Authority (ERA) force account
units rather than ICB (international competitive bidding) contracts.
D.  Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement in De-mining Projects
38. Lessons learned from previous experience with de-mining projects suggest that the
Bank should: (i) have a clear plan to ensure that rehabilitation activities are undertaken
only where de-mining has been completed; (ii) ensure that experienced quality assurance
is part of mine clearing; and (iii) given the Bank's limited expertise in de-mining, involve
relevant international organizations.
III. PROGRAM DESCRIPTION AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A.  Program Objectives
39. The overall objectives of the Emergency Recovery Program are to assist the
Government of Ethiopia to:
+ help the war-affected people to rebuild their lives and resume productive economic
activities;
* reconstruct and rehabilitate destroyed and damaged infrastructure to restart the
provision of services; and
* support macro-economic stability in the country.
40. Specifically, the Emergency Recovery Program would support the following key
activities:
* help the internally displaced people, deported/returned population and the households
of casualties of war who were the main bread winners to rebuild their lives and
resume productive economic activities; and rapidly rehabilitate and reconstruct
destroyed and damaged social infrastructure in the war-affected areas in order to
resume the provision and efficient and effective delivery of basic services;
-11-



* HIV/AIDS prevention, care and support for the civilian population in the war-affected
areas;
* humanitarian de-mining of war-affected areas in order to enable the return of the
displaced population and the rehabilitation of their homes and livelihoods; and
* rehabilitate road, bridge and power supply infrastructure that were damaged as an
indirect consequence of the war.
B.   Program Coverage and Implementation Period
41. Program activities would essentially be spread across those areas that were most
affected by the war. These include seven woredas2 in the Tigray Region namely Irope,
Golomahada, Ganta Afshome, Aheferom, Mereblehe, Tahati Adiabo, and Kafta-Humera
and seven woredas in the Afar Region i.e., Elidar, Dallol, Berhele, Afdera, Arefti, Manda
and Bure. In addition, interventions related to addressing other damages of the war, i.e.,
dispersal of the deportees/returnees, households that lost their primary bread winner (i.e.,
civilian, including militia, casualties), accelerated damage to road infrastructure, and
damages to the power supply infrastructure, would also cover other parts of the country.
42. The Program will be implemented over a period of three years from January 2001
through December 2003.
C.   Program Costing and Financing
43. Program Costing and Financing Plan: The Government's overall Emergency
Recovery Program is estimated to cost US$555 million, of which IDA would finance
US$260 million made up of US$230 million to be provided through a new credit and
US$30 million to be reallocated from existing IDA credits to cater to the emergency
requirements. The Emergency Recovery Project consists of the IDA credit of US$230
million and the Government's counterpart contribution of US$13.1 million bringing the
total project cost to US$243.1 million.
44. Counterpart funding requirements from the Government were limited to US$13.1
million by excluding counterpart funding requirements for the quick disbursing category.
The counterpart financing will, therefore, come mainly from in-kind community
contributions for the household rehabilitation component, in-kind project management
and support, and from payments for a part of the civil works under the road
rehabilitation/improvement component.
2 The administrative structure in Ethiopia at the regional and sub-regional levels of government is as
follows:
- At the regional level, there is a Regional Government Administration. For administrative purposes, a
region is divided into zones, woredas, and kebeles.
- Below the regional administration is the zone which has the zonal administration authorities.
- Below the zone is the woreda (or district) which has the woreda administration authorities.
- Below the woreda is a kebele (known as a tabia in the Tigray Region) which is the lowest
administrative authority in the regional government hierarchy.
-12-



45. The new credit (US$230 million) will finance the following components:
household rehabilitation (for IDPs in Tigray, deportees/returnees, and families of
deceased bread winners), de-mining, and roads. The proceeds from reallocations of
existing credits (total of US$30 million) will finance the following components:
household rehabilitation (for IDPs in Afar) and community infrastructure (US$17.5
million from the ESRDF), HIV/AIDS (US$2.5 million from EMSAP), and power
(US$10 million from Energy II).
46. The Government expressed its intention of seeing the Emergency Recovery
Program as an umbrella program to be financed by a multiplicity of donors. It is expected
that other multilateral and bilateral development partners will finance the gap between the
Program cost and the IDA contribution through parallel financing or co-financing from
reprogramming of their existing portfolios and from newly committed funds in the future.
Table 2. Emergency Recovery Program Costing Table
(In Million US$)
Component                [GOE's Total  IDA   IDA Financing
Program   Financing    from
Requirements from New Reallocations
Credit  of Existing
Credits
1. Rehabilitation of Households and Community  280      110        17.5
Infrastructure
i2. HIV/AIDS Prevention, Care and Support      3                   2.5
De-mining                                     40         30
4. Reconstruction
- Rehabilitation/Improvement of Road         170        86
| Infrastructure                              55                    10
- Reconstruction/Rehabilitation of Power Supply
Infrastructure
l5. Institutional Strengthening                7         4
| TOTAL                                      555        230        30
Table 3. Emergency Recovery Program Financing Plan
(In Million US$)
ERP Total Costs                                   US$ Million
Government of Ethiopia                                13.1
IDA (new credit)                                     230.0
IDA (reallocation from existing credits)              30.0
Total Financing                                      273.1
Financing Gap                                        281.9
D. Rationale for ERP Design
47. As noted in the Project objectives there are two related aspects to the Emergency
Recovery Program: (i) macro-economic stability; and (ii) restoration of people's homes
-13-



and means of production. The Project harmonizes these two requirements by providing
foreign exchange for the purchase of goods based on a positive list of imports as is the
standard procedure for emergency recovery credits and by the deposit of the local
currency proceeds from the sale of this foreign exchange into an Emergency Recovery
Program Fund Account to be utilized for the household rehabilitation component. Similar
arrangements are proposed to finance the benefit packages of soldiers that are
demobilized under the Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project.
48. A link between the quick disbursing component and the implementation of the
household rehabilitation component will be maintained through the phasing of the quick
disbursing component. Approximately 40 percent of the component will be disbursed
initially to the Government. Additional funds will be made available to the Government
in two more phases, in each case after the Government has provided IDA with:
* a list of eligible beneficiaries identifying the amount of funds for each and the agreed
goods and services to be acquired by each eligible beneficiary;
* verification that a sample of the eligible beneficiaries (to be agreed between the
Government and IDA) have received their payments in accordance with the certified
list; and
* verification that a sample of the eligible beneficiaries (to be agreed between the
Government and IDA) have acquired the goods and services intended.
In addition, the Government will not later than the first quarter of Project
implementation, and quarterly thereafter, carry out a review of activities under the
household rehabilitation component, submit to IDA, and act upon the findings and
recommendations of the review.
49. Scope of IDA Assistance for Household Rehabilitation: The Government has
identified an indicative minimum package of assets and inputs necessary for individual
households' subsistence and economic activity. The Government has further identified the
eligible beneficiary groups i.e. all IDPs, deportees/returnees and households with
deceased bread winners and costed the Program on the assumption that all beneficiaries
would require the entire package of support. However, it is possible that individual
households may already possess some of the assets and inputs identified in the package.
This could only be confirmed through detailed beneficiary assessments which would
validate the actual "financing gap" at the household level and might also reveal
divergences between the indicative minimum package and specific household preferences
and choices. Such surveys would take considerable time and would militate against the
emergency nature of the Program and the need to move rapidly to restore productive
activities. Consequently, the approach that has been adopted is to establish the average
minimum financing gap-about 50 per cent-that is expected to prevail at the household
level. This level of financing would then be provided as indicative budget constraints to
affected communities which would subsequently establish priorities for household
emergency rehabilitation within the communities. During the process of allocating
financial resources within a community the remaining household needs would be
identified and donor financing sought by the Government to bridge the "gap".
-14-



50. Safeguards to Ensure the Proper Use of Funds under Household Rehabilitation: To
the extent possible, benefit packages would be disbursed in cash payments by local
government representatives to individual households. There will be three important
safeguards built into the process to ensure that the funds are utilized for the purposes
intended. First, there will be a comprehensive system of verification at the woreda level
and below. This system of community monitoring already exists and has been utilized in
the recent past; for example, the Regional Government of Tigray has been providing cash
and inputs to 18,300 households after July 2000 and has utilized the woreda and tabia
structures to ensure that the cash was used for the purposes intended. In this instance, the
tabia Rehabilitation Task Force (RTF) along with the tabia baito3 would be responsible
for: (a) monitoring and verification of the use of the allocated funds to the beneficiary
households; and (b) submitting an implementation report and initiation of the next steps
in rehabilitation assistance to the woreda. Second, given that a substantial portion of the
households are dependent on food assistance and could potentially use the cash for
consumption purposes, the Government, with the assistance of bilateral and multilateral
partners, will ensure the availability of sufficient food assistance at the time that the cash
payments are provided for rehabilitation activities. Third, for certain assets and inputs,
e.g., where the availability of sufficient supply might be problematic and result in
shortages or price increases, the Government will take proactive steps to encourage
and/or ensure sufficient supply response from the private sector. The Government and
IDA have agreed that the situation will be closely monitored during implementation to
ensure that the funds are utilized for the purposes intended.
51. The remaining Project components such as de-mining, road
rehabilitation/improvement and institutional strengthening would be disbursed using
traditional IDA disbursement mechanisms.
52. The Government will actively discourage people from returning to their homes
until they are declared safe from mines and UXO and will ensure that the household
rehabilitation component in the war-affected areas strictly follow an implementation plan
that allows people to return only to areas that are declared safe. The household
rehabilitation component would continue only as long as de-mining done according to
international humanitarian standards, as confirmed by an independent quality control
unit, precedes resettlement of displaced persons in areas determined by the current de-
mining survey to be unsafe for civilian occupation.
53.  The community infrastructure, HIV/AIDS and the power rehabilitation components
will use existing accounts, resources and procedures as outlined in the Development
Credit Agreements (DCA) for the three projects from which funds are being reallocated
i.e., ESRDF, EMSAP and Energy II.
54. Conditions of Credit Effectiveness: The following are the conditions which would
need to be fulfilled by the Government before the Credit can be declared effective:
3 Baito is the local council at tabia level in the Tigray Region.
-15-



* the Borrower has established a financial management and accounting system for the
de-mining and institutional development components of the Project in the Emergency
Recovery Program Management Unit (ERPMU), acceptable to IDA;
+ the Borrower has adopted a Project Implementation Plan - PIP (the PIP would include
details of procurement and disbursement arrangements, performance indicators and
other administrative, financial and organizational arrangements) in form and
substance satisfactory to IDA;
* the Borrower has established the ERP Fund Account; and
+ the Borrower has established the ERPMU and the Tigray Project Management Unit
(PMU), with the key staff as specified in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 of the DCA.
E.  Overall Program Implementation Arrangements
55. The Program will be managed, coordinated and implemented by an Emergency
Recovery Program Management Unit housed in MEDaC and accountable to the Minister,
MEDaC. The ERPMU will be responsible for collating information from the respective
regions on overall implementation progress of the Program, facilitating action to resolve
constraints and expedite implementation, keeping a record of disbursements, and carrying
out ex-post expenditure reviews. The ERPMU will also undertake, through its
procurement unit, the non-community based procurement (for de-mining, etc.). The
ERPMU will be staffed by a senior manager, procurement specialists, financial manager
and accountants, and lead persons for each component including household rehabilitation
inside the war-affected areas, household rehabilitation outside the war-affected areas,
community infrastructure, HIV/AIDS, road and power rehabilitation and reconstruction,
and de-mining. The Financial Manager will supervise the operation of the Special
Account (for de-mining and other imported goods ) and the local currency account of the
Project.
Household Rehabilitation Component
56. The ERP is a Federal Government program but will be implemented in each region
with institutional arrangements tailored to the types and numbers of beneficiaries.
Coordination of Program activities in the Tigray and Afar regions will be as follows.
There will be a Program Management Unit (PMU) at the regional level which will be
responsible for overall Program management and monitoring and will be accountable to
the President of the Regional Council and through him to the Federal ERPMU.
57. Tigray Region: The Program Management Unit would manage the implementation
of the Rehabilitation Component in collaboration with the participating woredas for the
household rehabilitation component and ESRDF for the community infrastructure
component. The PMU in Tigray would be headed by an experienced project manager and
staffed by a procurement officer and at least three project officers. In addition a Financial
Management Unit (FMU) within the Finiance Bureau would be staffed by a financial
manager and at least one accountant. Each of the seven participating woredas in the
Tigray Region would use the Rehabilitation Task Force (RTF) at the woreda level (that
has already been set up in the region to deal with the post-conflict emergency)
-16-



comprising the woreda chairman, woreda staff of the relevant regional bureaus (such as
agriculture, works and urban development, and labor and social affairs), and women and
youth associations. Also, each woreda would establish an ERP Unit by appointing/hiring
a woreda program coordinator, at least two field tearns that would provide training and
back-up support to the tabia baitos (i.e., tabia councils), and an accountant to supervise
disbursements and keep financial records. At the tabia-level in each participating tabia,
the Rehabilitation Task Force (which has also been established) and consists of the
chairman of the tabia baito, the Development Agent4, representatives of women and
youth associations, and community representatives from the kushet5 would be used.
58. Afar Region: The Afar Regional Administration would establish a coordination
committee to guide and monitor the program. The Regional ESRDF Office would serve
as a PMU for the implementation of the household rehabilitation sub-component.
59. Other Regions: The Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Commission would be
the Federal coordinating and management body for the household rehabilitation
component for the deportees/returnees and families of deceased civilians including militia
in the other regions. The DPPC would report to the ERPMU. Regional PMUs would be
set up in the other regions as required to implement this component. The PMUs could be
located in relevant regional bureaus and may involve zonal and woreda finance offices
depending upon the local government level at which the majority of beneficiaries reside.
After deportees/returnees and families of deceased civilians including militia have been
identified, the relevant Regional Administrations will propose a strategy for working with
them in their communities similar to that described for Tigray and Afar.
60. Monitoring: The process of reconfirmation of beneficiaries, verification of benefit
packages, flow of funds to the beneficiaries and verification of the use of funds for
purposes intended would be implemented in accordance with the Project Implementation
Plan. Within six months after the deposit of funds into the Emergency Recovery Program
Fund Account, and semi-annually thereafter the Government would submit to IDA: a list
of beneficiaries identifying the amount of funds to be disbursed to each beneficiary and
the goods and services which the beneficiaries have agreed to purchase with the funds
provided; verification that a sample of the beneficiaries have received cash payments in
line with the certified list; and verification that a sample of the beneficiaries who have
received cash have utilized the funds for the purposes intended.
Community Infrastructure Component
61. For this activity, the financing will come from the reallocated proceeds of the
ESRDF Credit (Cr. 2841 -ET). The ESRDF through its Regional Office in both the Tigray
and Afar Regions will be responsible for the implementation of these activities.
HIV/AIDS Component
62.  This component will be financed from the Ethiopia Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS
Project (Cr. 3416-ET) and will follow the implementation modalities that have been
agreed between the Government and the Bank under EMSAP. The management and
4 Staff from the Bureau of Agriculture are responsible for agricultural extension activities.
5 A Kushet is a group of villages that make up a tabia.
-17-



coordination of this component, therefore, will be the responsibility of the regional
HIV/AIDS secretariat. The implementation of the activities under the component will be
the responsibility of the local units of the regional sector bureaus namely health,
education, agriculture, trade, industry and transport, tourism, culture and information, the
army, local HIV/AIDS Boards, NGOs and the private sector.
De-mining Component
63. The ERPMU would be the decision-making and oversight authority for the de-
mining component. It would supervise the implementation of de-mining and be
responsible for ensuring that the activities are carried out in accordance with international
standards, based on independent monitoring and verification by a quality assurance unit
within the ERPMU. The mine clearance activities would be undertaken by the Ethiopian
De-mining Project (a non-combatant unit in the military) under contract to the ERPMU.
The ERPMU and the EDP will work together to coordinate de-mining activities in the
war-affected areas with the household rehabilitation sub-component.
Rehabilitation/Improvement of Road Infrastructure
64. Activities related to this sub-component would be managed and implemented by
the Ethiopian Roads Authority which has the requisite technical and managerial capacity
to undertake this work. ERA will do this in coordination with the relevant Regional Rural
Roads Authorities. In this context, ERA would function under the broad guidance of the
Federal and relevant regional governments.
Rehabilitation/Reconstruction of Power Supply Infrastructure
65. This sub-component will be financed from a reallocation from the ongoing Energy
II Project (Cr. 3019-ET) and its implementation will be carried out by the Ethiopian
Electric Power Corporation (EEPCo).
Component Description and Implementation Arrangements
66.  Separate technical appendices by component/subject describe the components and
associated implementation arrangements, subject, etc. These are as follows:
List of       Program Components                        Financing Instrument
Appendices
Appendix IA    Household Rehabilitation                 New ERP Credit (for
activities in Tigray) and
ESRDF (for activities
in Afar)
Appendix I B   Rehabilitation of Community Infrastructure  ESRDF
Appendix 2     HIV/AIDS Prevention, Care and Support    EMSAP
Appendix 3     Support for De-mining Activities         New ERP Credit
Appendix 4A    Rehabilitation/ Improvement of Road      New ERP Credit
Infrastructure
Appendix 4B    Reconstruction/ Rehabilitation of Power Supply    Energy II
Infrastructure
Subject Areas
Appendix 5     Procurement
-18-



List of         Program Components                           Financing Instrument
Appendices                                                 I
Appendix 6      Financial Management, Auditing and Reporting
Appendix 7      Monitoring and Evaluation and Social and
Environmental Aspects
Appendix 8      Project Cost and Financing
-19-



Appendix JA: Household Rehabilitation
APPENDIX 1A: HOUSEHOLD REHABILITATION
67.  The overall objective of the rehabilitation component is to provide assistance to the
war-affected population in order to rebuild their lives and resume productive economic
activities and have access to basic services. This would be achieved through the
following two sub-components: (a) household rehabilitation to include housing
reconstruction and provision of basic household goods for IDPs in the war-affected areas
and income generation support including agricultural and business development inputs
for IDPs, deportees/returnees and families of deceased primary bread winners throughout
the country; and (b) rehabilitation of community infrastructure such as education, health,
water supply and animal health facilities.
68.  Component Cost: The amount that will be financed through the Program for the
household rehabilitation component is US$1 18.8 million with US$116.5 million to be
financed through this Project and US$2.3 million from reallocated funds from the
ESRDF. Of the US$116.5 million from this Project, IDA will finance about US$ 110
million and the Government US$6.6 million through community contributions.
69. The following benefit packages for the household rehabilitation component and
corresponding implementation arrangements including provisions for procurement and
financial management are described in this appendix.
* Agriculture Rehabilitation Assistance for Farming Households in the Tigray Region
+ Housing Reconstruction Assistance for Farming and Urban Households in the Tigray
Region
* Agriculture Rehabilitation Assistance for Pastoralist and Farming Households in the Afar
Region
i Housing Reconstruction Assistance for Pastoralist, Farming and Urban Households in the
Afar Region
i Income Generation Assistance for Urban Households throughout the Country
70.  The costing of the rehabilitation assistance packages was based on an indicative
analysis by the Government on the level of assistance required to restore productive
capacity and reconstruct houses; actual choices by individual households may vary from
the packages discussed below.
71. The average rehabilitation assistance package for all categories of beneficiary
households financed under the Project is Birr 2,400 (except for housing reconstruction
assistance which will be provided to only those IDPs who have had their homes
destroyed or damaged). Maximum ceilings have been set for the different categories of
beneficiary families. For IDPs this is Birr 5,000, for deportees/returnees it is Birr 6,000
and for the families of deceased civilians including militia, this would amount to a
maximum cash payment of Birr 10,000 per household.
72.  The housing reconstruction/rehabilitation assistance package in Tigray ranges from
Birr 3,000 for homes that sustained minor damages, Birr 7,000 for homes that were
heavily destroyed and Birr 15,000 for homes that require reconstruction because they
were completely destroyed. The housing needs in Afar do not require reconstruction
-20-



Appendix 1A: Household Rehabilitation
activities. As the beneficiaries are largely pastoralist, they will be provided with
traditional mobile houses which are estimated to cost Birr 500 per unit. All of these
beneficiary households in both Tigray and Afar will also receive assistance in getting
basic household items such as dining utensils, sleeping materials and water containers.
This package costing around Birr 600-800 would be provided to each household that had
its home destroyed or damaged.
Table 4: Eligible Beneficiaries for Rehabilitation Assistance Packages
Beneficiaries          Agricultural   Pastoral      Income       Housing         Household
Rehabilitation  Rehabilitation  Generation    Reconstruction  Items
Assistance    Assistance    Support       and
Package       Packages      Package       Rehabilitation6
IDPs
Rural
- Own farm             /                                                        /
- Do not own farm                                  /             I              /
- Pastoral                           4                           1               1
Urban (non-farm)                                    4            1               1
Deportees/ Returnees
Urban (non-farn)                                    4
Families of Deceased
Bread winners
Rural
- Own farm n
- Do not own farm                                  I
Urban (non-farm)
Benefit Package 1:    Agriculture Rehabilitation Assistance Package for Farming
Households in the Tigray Region
73. The war-affected areas in the Tigray region are within the central, eastem and
western administrative zones of the region. As in the rest of Tigray, more than 85 percent
of the population are rural, all of whom depend on mixed farming for their livelihood.
Mixed farming comprises crop-livestock production, where livestock provides traction
power, manure, food (milk and meat) and cash income while cropping is the source of
feed for livestock, food for the family and a limited source of cash income through output
sale. Thus, the ownership of traction oxen and milking cows is an important survival
mechanism for subsistence households of the Tigray region. Depending on the agro-
ecological zone, small ruminants (sheep and goats) and apiculture (bee keeping) play a
vital role as income sources and security for farm households. The average farm area in
Tigray is 1.2 ha which is small. Most farmers depend on manure application, terracing
and crop residues to maintain soil fertility. Inorganic fertilizers are applied to only about
one-third of the crop area in the region with application concentrated in the wetter parts.
Pesticide application is not common to the region. Eligible beneficiaries are: (i) an
6 Only those people who owned houses in the war-affected areas in Tigray and Afar and had these
destroyed or damaged as a result of the war will be eligible for assistance on housing reconstruction or
rehabilitation.
-21-



Appendix IA. Household Rehabilitation
estimated 62,000 war-affected IDP farm households in the Tigray region; and (ii) a yet-
to-be-determined number of farm households who lost their primary bread winner.
74.  Agriculture Rehabilitation Assistance: A typical rehabilitation assistance package is
set out below. Actual allocations will depend on the "gap" between assets that individual
households currently have and what they need to establish their farming activities. The
following is an indicative package, actual items will depend on household choice.
*  all rural farm households to purchase an ox, plough set7, hand tools8 and seeds9. In
addition, the household would utilize the cash to purchase either a heifer or small
ruminants and a beehive; and
*  about 40 percent of the households to purchase inorganic fertilizer consisting of 100
kg of a mixture of DAP and Urea.
75.  It is expected that the purchase of small stock (e.g., sheep and goats, as well as
bees) will particularly benefit women farmers, as there has probably been an increase in
the number of female headed households during and after the conflict.
Benefit Package 2:    Housing Reconstruction/Rehabilitation Assistance for
Farming and Urban Households in the Tigray Region
76. Housing Reconstruction/Rehabilitation Assistance: The overall objective of this
sub-component is to provide the war-affected rural farm and urban (non-farm) IDPs (this
could also include households that lost their primary bread winner) with a minimum
affordable housing unit through reconstruction and rehabilitation of houses that were
destroyed or damaged during the war. The activities in this sub-component would
include: (a) reconstruction of housing units that are completely destroyed; (b) major
rehabilitation for those housing units that were heavily damaged; and (c) minor
rehabilitation. Cash grants will be provided to eligible beneficiaries based upon the level
of damage to each house.
77.  The Tigray Regional Government has proposed a shift from the traditional earth
packed masonry houses to a new type of housing which would involve corrugated iron
sheet roof covering. The major reason for this shift is the constraint in getting the thick
wooden beams that are used to support the earth roof given that the big trees from which
these beams were made are not readily available in the region anymore. However
communities will be given the option of using their preference in material selection.
78. Household Items Assistance: In addition to the assistance provided for household
reconstruction, assistance will also be provided for basic household items such as dining
utensils, sleeping materials and water containers. Some displaced households would
typically have received these items in the form of non-food relief but it is expected that
7 Plough set includes maresha, wogel, yoke, degger, mofer and strings.
8 Farm hand tools include a hoe, axe, a sickle, slasher and spade.
9 The estimated teff seed is sufficient for 0.5 ha of land, while sorghum and barley for 0.25 ha of land each.
The household choice would mainly be based on the agro-ecological location, individual preferences and
previous experience.
-22-



Appendix JA: Household Rehabilitation
given the long period of usage (up to two years) most of these items would have been
extensively utilized and degraded.
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
79. A Program Management Unit will be established at the regional level in Tigray
which will be responsible for overall Program management and monitoring and will be
accountable to the President of the Regional Council. At least one staff member of the
Tigray Region PMU would be located in each of the three affected zones in order to be
able to closely monitor implementation.
80. For the Tigray Region, while the regional PMU would oversee and co-ordinate the
implementation of the Household Rehabilitation sub-component, actual implementation
would occur at the community and household level to ensure that benefits are targeted to
the needs of qualified beneficiaries and that the beneficiaries use cash advances as
agreed. Consequently, there is need for implementation support to be provided at the
local government levels closer to the households. It will, hence, be necessary that each of
the seven participating woredas in the Tigray Region use the Rehabilitation Task Force at
the woreda level (that has already been set up in the region to deal with the post-conflict
emergency) comprising the woreda chairman, woreda staff of the relevant regional
bureaus (such as agriculture, works and urban development, and labor and social affairs),
and women and youth associations. Also, each woreda would need to establish an ERP
Unit by appointing/hiring a woreda program coordinator, at least two field teams that
would provide training and back-up support to the tabia baitos (i.e., tabia councils), and
an accountant to supervise disbursements and keep financial records. Local NGOs may
be employed to undertake some or all of the responsibilities of the woreda project unit.
Operational costs including salaries, allowances, office administration and transportation
could be financed by the Project.
81. At the tabia-level, the Rehabilitation Task Force (which has also been established)
consists of the chairman of the tabia baito, the Development Agent, representatives of
women and youth associations, and community representatives from the kushet. The
tabia baitos would be the main local govermment entity providing support to the
communities in formulating their benefit packages and following up to confirrn that the
agreed productive goods are in fact purchased by each household. Independent
monitoring will be conducted to check that Program funds reach qualified beneficiaries
and that cash advances are used for the agreed purposes.
82. IDA and the Government would agree on an indicative total allocation for the
Tigray region for the first year of the Program for income generation support and housing
reconstruction. The allocation for income generation support would be computed per
woreda based on: (i) the affected number of eligible beneficiaries that can return to their
homes and start farming; (ii) the average per capita allocation for eligible beneficiaries
subject to caps for housing reconstruction and income generation support; and (iii) IDA's
financing percentage for the household rehabilitation sub-component (50 percent). The
allocation for housing would be based on agreed unit costs and an estimate of the number
of houses in each tabia that require minor, major and complete reconstruction.
-23-



Appendix IA: Household Rehabilitation
83. Once the woreda allocations are established, the allocation amounts would be made
available to the woreda RTF. For those woredas, where the beneficiary household data is
available at the tabia level'0 the woreda would be expected to specify tabia allocations on
the basis of the same formula described in the previous paragraph. For those woredas
where such data is not available by tabia, alternative methods of identifying approximate
affected beneficiary households would be utilized. Thereafter, each tabia baito would
work with each community in its jurisdiction to allocate resources between the eligible
households, trying to fill the gap between what people have and the minimum necessary
to restart their farms and businesses, and to reconstruct and refurbish their homes for
occupancy. Each tabia baito would fill out a table for each community listing the eligible
households and the productive goods and housing reconstruction work that each agrees to
purchase with its cash advance. When the tabia baito and community are satisfied that
their resource allocation has been divided fairly, tabias would submit their proposals for
approval to the woreda administration for approval and forwarding to the Regional
Finance Bureau for transfer of funds to the woreda for disbursement by the tabia baito.
84.  Based upon an aggregated list of agreed beneficiaries for each woreda, and the total
funds required, the woreda RTF would request the regional Bureau of Finance, which
would be responsible for managing and administering a regional project account, to
transfer the required funds for each woreda to a woreda project account at the zone. The
woreda accountant would then collect the money from the zone and disburse it to the
respective tabia baitos. The tabia baito would then distribute the funds to the affected
households that were deemed eligible to receive the rehabilitation assistance packages.
85. The tabia RTF, along with the tabia baito, would subsequently be responsible for:
(a) monitoring and verification of the use of the allocated funds to the beneficiary
households; and (b) submitting an implementation report identifying remaining needs to
reconstruct housing and re-establish farming and business activities.
86.  Individual sectoral departments/bureaus at the woreda, zonal and regional levels
will provide support as needed. For example, for housing reconstruction, the Bureau of
Works and Urban Development may provide technical assistance (e.g. standard designs,
standard BOQs (Bill of Quantities) based on level of housing destruction and standard
unit cost breakdowns). Similarly, where households indicate need for fertilizer supply,
the Bureau of Agriculture would assist in facilitating fertilizer supply and distribution or
procuring from private fertilizer distributors to deliver the required quantities to each
woreda.
Accounting, Audit, and Reporting Arrangements and the Flow of Funds
87.  One project account, at the regional level, and seven other woreda project accounts
(for the seven war-affected woredas) at the zonal level will be opened (if no bank
facilities exist in the woredas). The regional Bureau of Finance and the woreda office of
finance will be responsible for the administration and accounting of the regional project
account and woreda project accounts at the woredas respectively. The woreda project
accounts at the zonal level will be used to pay each community, through the tabia baito,
as per the verified and approved comrnmunity project proposal according to an agreed
' On average, each woreda has around 20 tabias.
-24-



Appendix JA: Household Rehabilitation
schedule. Appropriate manuals will be prepared to explain the technical, procurement and
financial flow procedures to woreda officials and community members. Capacity
enhancement through training, hiring of experienced staff and provision of equipment
and vehicles will be made based on the result of capacity assessment of the Bureau of
Finance.
88. In terrns of the flow of funds, once the approval of the woreda council is obtained,
the regional department of finance would make the funds available to the woreda
accountants for distribution to implement agreed upon activities. The woreda accountants
would distribute these funds to the tabia baitos which would then distribute the funds to
the beneficiary farm households.
Procurement Arrangements
89.   The following would apply:
* Individual beneficiary households would purchase their agreed agriculture
rehabilitation package, typically an ox, farm hand tools, plough set, seeds, and either
a heifer or small ruminants and beehives.
* Individual beneficiary households would also purchase all housing construction
items. In terms of facilitating the supply of materials, the regional Bureau of Works
and Urban Development will have the responsibility of ensuring the adequacy of
supply in order to minimize the effect on the market. For the key materials (roofing
sheets, eucalyptus poles) that are required in a large quantity, the regional PMU will:
(i) contact local producers/workshops to ensure that the materials are produced
sufficiently and of the required quality and are made available to the beneficiaries;
and (ii) transport and stock of materials closer to the beneficiaries will also be
considered where needed.
* As household items are not locally available in adequate quantities, they may need to
be bought by the Regional Administration and distributed according to individual
household needs.
* One experienced procurement person would be hired to work in the PMU in the
region as an anchor for following the market, facilitating the flow of goods, carrying
out procurement activities, supervising, and assisting others when needed.
90. Supply Response: To reduce the pressure on the market at a critical time, the
Project would:
* Encourage farmers to buy the needed livestock from outside the war-affected areas by
paying for the transportation and travel costs. These costs are included in the
implementation costs on the basis of an assumption that 30 percent of the needed
draft oxen and heifers and 50 percent of needed sheep and goats will be purchased
from outside the region. In this case, the community-level networks can be very
useful by forming groups for oxen purchases.
-25-



Appendix 1A: Household Rehabilitation
* Due to shortage of wood in the region, the wooden parts of the plow need to be
imported from other regions (Oromia and Amhara). The supply of wood is usually
controlled by private traders and stocks are limited. The Regional Governnent would
need to disseminate market information of the demand for such parts to traders ahead
of time to enable them to stock the required quantities.
Benefit Package 3:   Agriculture Rehabilitation Assistance for Pastoralist and
Farming Households in the Afar Region
91. In the Afar region, 34,000 people were displaced from their areas of origin, of
which 28,500 are rural. Of the displaced rural people, 1,500 people are farmers who are
engaged in irrigated crop production and 27,000 are pastoralists. The displaced people are
scattered in Elidar, Dalol, Berhale, Afder, Areft and Logia. Therefore, the total number of
displaced rural households is about 7,000 households of which the number of pastoral
households is about 6,700 and the number of farming households is about 300. The urban
displaced households number about 1,300. All of these IDP households (excluding the
urban IDP households) would be eligible to receive the agriculture rehabilitation
assistance package. Other than the IDPs mentioned above, rural farm households who
lost their primary bread winner due to the conflict would also be included in the
agriculture rehabilitation assistance that will be provided; this number is yet to be
determined.
92. Agriculture Rehabilitation Assistance for Pastoralists: Pastoralists in Afar depend
on keeping a large herd of livestock for their livelihood. According to estimates
calculated from the animal population in the region, the average herd per household is
composed of about 10 cattle, 6 sheep, 10 goats and 4 camels. This herd is the sustainable
means for food (milk and meat) and cash income from sale. The following is a typical
rehabilitation assistance package which is indicative, actual items will depend on
household choice. With the rehabilitation assistance package beneficiary households
could buy a camel, 2 heifers, and 5 sheep or goats. Actual allocations will depend on the
"gap" between assets that individual households currently have and what they need to
establish their activities.
93. Agriculture Rehabilitation Assistance for Farmers: A typical rehabilitation
assistance package for farmers is set out below. Actual allocations will depend on the
"gap" between assets that individual households currently have and what they need to
establish their farning activities. The following is an indicative package, actual items will
depend on household choice. The quantities of agricultural inputs, particularly seeds and
fertilizer that will be provided as part of this package are for three hectares of land (which
is the average farm size in the Afar region). Pesticides are not included in the package.
With this rehabilitation assistance package, the beneficiary households could purchase
the following:
* An ox, a heifer, 3 sheep or goats, hand tools, plowing set, seeds and fertilizer.
* Farm hand tools include a hoe, axe, a sickle, slasher and spade.
* 20 kg of Sorghum (for 2 ha) and 10 kg of millet (for 1 ha) seed will be provided.
-26-



Appendix 1A: Household Rehabilitation
* 100 kg and 50 kg per hectare of Urea and DAP since the farmers are involved in
irrigated farming.
Benefit Package 4: Housing Reconstruction/Rehabilitation Assistance for
Pastoralist, Farming and Urban Households in Afar Region
94. Housing Reconstruction/Rehabilitation Assistance The housing needs in Afar do
not require reconstruction activities. As the beneficiaries are largely pastoralist, they will
be provided with traditional mobile houses which are estimated to cost Birr 500 per unit.
95. Household Items Assistance: In addition to the assistance provided for household
rehabilitation, assistance will also be provided for basic household items such as dining
utensils, sleeping materials and water containers. Some displaced households would
typically have received these items in the form of non-food relief but it is expected that
given the long period of usage (up to two years) most of these items would have been
extensively utilized and degraded.
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
96. Given the limited capacity of the local authorities in the Afar region to implement
this activity, the implementation responsibilities will be undertaken by the ESRDF
Regional Office which has implemented similar rehabilitation programs. Current
personnel will be supplemented with fixed term contract staff to ensure adequate capacity
in accounting, procurement, engineering and community participation to implement the
component. The existing mechanism for the flow of funds under the ESRDF will be used.
97. For each affected pastoral community, a committee (could be clan elders) will be
selected by the community in the presence of an ESRDF representative. The committee,
along with ESRDF staff, will assist each community to allocate resources between
eligible beneficiary households as described above for the household component in
Tigray Region. Once the Regional Rehabilitation Task Force has approved the
community beneficiary assessments, the ESRDF Regional Office will distribute the funds
to the agreed beneficiaries. The community committee will also work closely with the
ESRDF representative and livestock specialists in the Bureau of Agriculture to facilitate
the supply of livestock in the markets for the beneficiaries to purchase. If the livestock
are not locally available in adequate quantities, the ESRDF Regional Office may assist by
paying transport fees for the beneficiaries to purchase livestock outside the region, or take
other appropriate measures.
98. Individual departments/bureaus at the woreda, zonal and regional levels will
provide support as needed. For example, the Bureau of Agriculture will monitor the
agriculture rehabilitation assistance package part of the rehabilitation Prograrn in Afar.
This Bureau could also consult with suppliers to facilitate the delivery of improved
sorghum and pearl millet and fertilizer to the communities of the beneficiaries.
-27-



Appendix JA: Household Rehabilitation
99.  With respect to rehabilitation of housing, besides the ESRDF Regional Office
which is the implementing agency, the regional DPPB will also be responsible for
assessment, verification and subsequent approval of the replacement of the mobile
houses.
Institutional Capacity Assessment
100. The existing ESDRF capacity will be used in implementing the Program in close
consultation with the Regional Government and beneficiaries. The institutional capacity
of the ESRDF Regional Office to implement the Program is assessed to be adequate if
additional contract staff are engaged.
Accounting, Audit, and Reporting Arrangements and the Flow of Funds
101. The financing for this activity would be obtained from reprogramming resources
from the ESRDF project. The ESRDF Regional Office will be responsible for the
management of the Project Account to be opened at the regional level. However, the
regional DPPB will assign one financial staff who will help in distribution of funds to the
beneficairies and documenting receipts for the reconciliation.
Procurement Arrangements
102. Regarding fertilizer supply, the Regional Bureau of Agriculture would consult with
suppliers to facilitate the delivery of fertilizer in the required quantities to each affected
woreda. The relevant woreda agriculture offices would arrange storage facilities for the
fertilizer. The delivery of fertilizer from woreda centers to kebele levels would be
handled by the community and individual farmers. Similar arrangements will be used for
delivery of improved seeds.
103. For the housing activity, the ESRDF Regional Office will facilitate the distribution
of the mobile housing units to the beneficiaries along with the DPPB. The elements of the
mobile housing units will be purchased and assembled by the individual beneficiaries.
The woreda level administrative structure will also assist in this process.
Social and Environmental Impact
104. It is expected that the agriculture rehabilitation assistance package and housing
reconstruction and rehabilitation in both the Tigray and Afar Regions will have no
appreciable environmental impact overall. The restocking rate of livestock envisaged will
be small compared to the pre-war level. The application of inorganic fertilizer would be
limited. Pesticides will not be included in the rehabilitation package and therefore, since
its use is not anticipated there will be no adverse environmental impacts in that respect. In
the Tigray Region, however, the possible impact on the environment due to the potential
use of wood to provide wooden beams as construction material would need to be
analyzed carefully. This will be confirmed through a social and environmental
assessment to be conducted in the first six months of the Project.
-28-



Appendix 1A: Household Rehabilitation
Monitoring and Evaluation
105. The objectives of the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) are to: (i) evaluate the
progress in resettling the planned number of households in the areas from which they
were displaced; (ii) assess the flow of cash to the households in an efficient and timely
manner; (iii) assess the supply bottlenecks and the functioning of input markets; (iv)
assess institutional and market constraints that may affect the efficiency of the activities;
(v) ensure use of funds for the intended purposes by the households; and (vi) provide
feedback to the regional government and Federal government. The monitoring and
evaluation will be based on well structured, random, community, household, and market
surveys in all locations of the war-affected people on a regular basis (3-6 months
depending on the schedule of the implementation in each area). The information collected
would then be compiled and recommendations made to resolve constraints and to assure
smooth implementation of Project activities under this sub-component.
Implementation Risks
106. In the Tigray Region, with respect to the agriculture rehabilitation assistance
package, actions would need to be taken to carefully monitor the functioning of the input
market to ensure the delivery of quality inputs, at the right time at a suitable price. This is
especially critical given the large nature of the Project, the short time for the
implementation and the flow of funds to the affected households. The markets involved
include the livestock market supplying oxen, heifers, goats and sheep, the seed market
supplying teff, barley and sorghum seed, the fertilizer market, and the farm implements
market. Risks of failure of the input markets may arise from: (a) unavailability of inputs
in the local markets at the beginning of the cropping season leading to loss of cropping
season or delays in planting time; (b) high prices of inputs as a result of increased
demand for inputs. In this case, farmers will not be able to buy the specified quantity of
inputs. Given the above, a contingency plan, satisfactory to IDA, to deal with any
bottlenecks in the supply of inputs would need to be developed by the Government.
107. In the Afar Region, since the number of beneficiaries is relatively small, pressure
on the market is unlikely.
Action Plan
108. The implementation plan for both regions will need to be phased based on three
considerations: (i) Implementation should only commence in areas which are declared
free of mines. Data in this regard will become available as the de-mining survey is
completed. However, it is assumed that substantial portions of the areas from which
people were moved to avoid artillery fire are free of mines and activities could commence
immediately in those areas; (ii) People would need to be able to move back into their
houses in order to engage in their main economic activities. Consequently, those areas
where there was only minimal damage to homes would be primary areas for the first
phase of returnees; (iii) The determination of benefits packages and the release of funds
to households needs to be completed in time to allow households to purchase assets and
inputs prior to the next planting season i.e., in May-June. An action plan based on the
above considerations should be developed by November 30, 2000 by the Government.
-29-



Appendix IA. Household Rehabilitation
Benefit Package 5:   Income Generation Assistance for Urban Beneficiaries
throughout the Country
109. The objective is to support identified households with the assets and inputs which
will assist them in undertaking income generating activities. The target household group
includes non-farm (urban) IDPs (about 22,200 households), deportees/returnees (about
38,000 households to date and another 16,500 expected in the next few months,
principally in Tigray and Amhara regions), and households with deceased bread winners
who do not own farms, and, hence, are unable to benefit from the agricultural package of
support which has been described earlier. The target household group will be largely in
the Tigray region (non-farm urban households; deportee/returnee households and
households of deceased bread winners). In addition, significant concentrations of
deportee households have been identified in Amhara, Oromia, Addis Ababa and Dire
Dawa.
110. Income Generation Assistance: Eligible households would be entitled to use the
benefits package for two purposes:
* for households which were previously engaged in income generating activities,
replacement of fixed assets and acquisition of inputs which are required for the first
cycle of production or for households engaging in new income generating projects
(especially deportees), acquisition of new assets and inputs;
* undertaking training which will improve their ability to undertake or participate in
income generating activities.
111. The rehabilitation assistance packages for deportees/returnees and families of the
deceased would be determined based on the following considerations:
(a) In the event that some of the households of the deceased own land on which
they would like to farm, then they will receive an equivalent of the agricultural
rehabilitation package (i.e., that specified for the Tigray and Afar Regions as
applicable).
(b) If the deported/returned households and families of deceased do not own land
but would still prefer to be engaged in rural activities, then they would qualify for
income generation and support to undertake rural-related activities.
(c) Those deported/returned households that would prefer to settle in urban areas
and those families of deceased that already reside in urban areas would be eligible
to receive income generation and support for non-farm activities in urban areas.
112. Further, to the extent that communities are submitting proposals for income
generating activities, the following additional considerations will apply:
* Group formation: Income generating activities are carried out both at the household
level but more often by groups of households. Eligible households will be allowed to
"pool" together the grant eligibility and thereby attain a higher limit for purchase of
assets/inputs for group activities.
-30-



Appendix JA: Household Rehabilitation
* Preparation of proposals for income generating activities/projects and implementation
support: There are several variables that impact on project viability including demand
for the products, competition from alternative suppliers, costs of production, quality
of the products etc. In preparing projects, the impact of many variables needs to be
projected. Income generating projects, especially those being undertaken by a newly
formed group, require a high degree of implementation support in the initial phases.
Special consideration will need to be given to the provision of support to income
generating activities either from the relevant regional Bureaus (e.g. the Bureau of
Trade and Industry) or from relevant NGOs (e.g. REST in Tigray).
* Further, where the household/group of households identify that part of the
Government's grant should be utilized for purposes of training, the household/group
would be entitled to take the training at an eligible training institution.
113. The Governmnent would identify one or more eligible NGO in the concerned
regions; this would be primarily in Tigray and Afar but would need to include some other
regions (Amhara and Oromia) as well some large cities (Addis Ababa and Dire Dawa)
where the majority of the deportees are present. The Government would identify an
appropriate administrative fee to be paid to NGOs which assist communities in the
formulation of income generation proposals. Similarly, the Govermnent will identify
eligible training institutions which can participate in the provision of training activities
under this component.
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
114. For qualified beneficiaries In Tigray and Afar, the process described for the
agriculture rehabilitation assistance package will apply.
115. For affected households in other regions, the Regional Administrations of those
regions to where the deported/returned population have returned (apart from Tigray and
Afar) and where the families of the deceased reside will be responsible for implementing
the household rehabilitation packages that these people may be eligible for. The main
regions, in this instance, are Amhara and Oromia, and the city administrations of Addis
Ababa and Dire Dawa.
116. A Regional Project Management Unit would need to be established in the regions
as required to implement this component. The PMU could be located in the relevant
regional sectoral bureaus and may involve zonal and woreda finance offices depending
upon the local government level at which the majority of beneficiaries reside. The PMU
would report to the President of the Regional Council and through him to the Federal
Emergency Recovery Program Management Unit in MEDaC. The Regional PMU would
be responsible for identifying affected beneficiaries in the woredas and making
appropriate allocations to the woreda level. In general, the relevant beneficiaries
(deportees/returnees or households of deceased bread winners) would be required to form
community groups and identify persons who take the lead in putting together proposals.
The proposals would be reviewed and approved by the Regional PMU in conjunction
with the relevant woreda.
-31-



Appendix JA: Household Rehabilitation
117. The regional Bureau of Finance will disburse the agreed funds to the beneficiary
communities based on the approved project proposals. The involvement of zonal and
woreda finance offices will be determined on a case-by-case basis depending upon the
level at which the majority of beneficiaries are residing.
118. Persons from the Regional PMU would make follow-up visits to confirm that
beneficiaries have used the funds for the agreed purpose. They would then make this
information available to Regional Government authorities and the ERPMU.
Start-up Action Plan for Household Rehabilitation
For Tigray:
*  Finalize organization, management/staffing of PMU including decision on decision to report to  Nov30
Regional Steering Committee chaired by the Regional Administrator or his designee.
*  Appoint a suitably qualified project manager and core PMU personnel.                     Nov30
*  Prepare a plan for establishing a Project Finance Unit within the Regional Finance Bureau and  Nov30
appoint a suitably qualified financial manager and procurement officer with experience in
World Bank procedures.
*  Prepare a plan for establishing Woreda Project Units and appoint/recruit personnel including a  Dec31
coordinator, accountant, and the field teams needed to interact with tabias and households.
*  Conduct a participatory workshop to refine the implementation arrangements at the woreda-  Nov30
tabia level, preparing and testing a field handbook. Define and implement flow of fund
arrangements to Woreda project accounts and safeguards.
*  Initiate the household component in at least one woreda to refine implementation arrangements  Nov30
and training materials, involving core teams from other woreda for training purposes.
*  Prepare and implement plan for strengthening Regional ESRDF Office to manage the
implementation of the ERP Community Infrastructure Component.                            Dec31
For Afar:
*  Prepare a plan for strengthening Regional ESRDF Office to manage implementation of the ERP   Nov3O/Dec 31
Household and Community Infrastructure Components and recruit requisite personnel.
For both Afar and Tigray:
*  Prepare a listing of households by tabia and woreda for Tigray and by pastoralist community for  Nov30
Afar estimating the number of IDPs in each and the initial budget for rehabilitation grants for
each.
*  ESRDF Regional Offices to prepare a listing of community infrastructure in the war affected  Nov30
area to be rehabilitated including 1) identification of all community infrastructure to be financed  Dec31
by all donors in the war affected area including a description of the works, cost and location,
and 2) preparation and packaging of contract documents for community infrastructure including
schools, clinics, and water.
*  Prepare an operational manual for PMU and ESRDF office in Tigray and ESRDF office in Afar    Ops manual
including I) staffing (management, accounting, procurement, technical for planning, design, bid  Dec31
doc preparation & evaluation of tenders, construction supervision, etc.) 2) number and cost of
contract staff, vehicles and equipment (existing and to be purchased), and 3) operational
procedures.
*  Prepare proposal for the household component start-up phase (agriculture/household inputs and    Sketch Nov30
housing reconstruction) in one or two Woredas. Describe 1) method of beneficiary assessment,
2) benefit package for agriculture/household inputs and housing rehabilitation, 3) model  Full
contract between the woreda and household which defines the agreed package of benefits and  Dec15
commitment by the household to use cash advances for the intended purpose, 4) procurement
arrangements/procedures for any goods purchased by government for households, 5) safeguards
for cash payments, 6) staffing/management arrangements at Woreda level including inputs from
technical Bureaus, 7) number of beneficiaries, 8) budget for first three months, 8) monitoring
-32-



Appendix IA: Household Rehabilitation
and evaluation methods.
*  Prepare standard bid docs for each type of contract to be employed in project.           Dec15
.  Prepare procurement plan for all contract packages to be awarded in project.             Dec15
.  Prepare procurement manual.                                                              Dec31
-33-



Appendix 1B: Community Infrastructure Rehabilitation
APPENDIX 1B: REHABILITATION OF COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE
119. The major objective of this sub-component is to rehabilitate, reconstruct, equip and
furnish the damaged or destroyed social infrastructure at the community level and restore
the resumption of delivery of basic services. Infrastructure rehabilitation will be
complemented by a set of activities to assist internally displaced people to rebuild their
livelihoods. The rehabilitation of IDPs through provision of essential farming inputs and
support to reconstruct their houses will enable them to begin farming and other activities
again. It is hoped that with these packages the pre-conflict situation would be restored
and effective delivery of services would be possible.
120. Description of Activities: This sub-component specifically addresses the restoration
of basic infrastructure at the community level in the education, health, and water supply
sectors and also of animal health facilities. To date the following have been identified: (i)
rehabilitation and reconstruction of 80 schools, 26 health facilities, 5 veterinary clinics,
26 animal health posts, 127 medium and deep water wells, 15 springs and I warehouse;
(ii) furniture and equipment; and (iii) replacement of 130 kms of water supply pipeline
and a water tanker. The funds for these activities will come from reprogrammed
resources from the ESRDF project. The total cost of this sub-component is estimated to
be US$15.2 million.
Table 5: Summary of Estimated Cost for Social and Economic Infrastructure for the
Tigray and Afar Regions
L No                  Component                        Birr (Millions)
1.  Ed_ucational Facilities                   _70._4
2.  Health Facilities                                      22.5
3.  Water Supply                                           23.3
4.  Agricultural Infrastructure                            4.97
5.  Contingencies     _4.29
Total                    _                             125.46
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
121. In the Tigray Region, beneficiary communities and the woreda and tabia level
administration will participate during the whole process of planning and implementation.
Specifically, the responsibility for implementing this sub-component would be with the
ESRDF Regional Office. The rehabilitation and reconstruction, i.e., the civil works
contracts will be carried out by private contractors, with supervision by staff from the
education, health, water supply and agriculture bureaus and by the Bureau of Works and
Urban Development. At the provisional and final acceptance stages, a joint review and
certification with the Bureau of Works and Urban Development would be needed, while
for other (interim) payments supervision by the sector bureau would suffice. The ESRDF
Regional Office would also responsible for procuring furniture, equipment, and medical
and educational supplies.
122. In the Afar Region, this activity would also be implemented by the ESRDF
Regional Office.
-34-



Appendix IB: Community Infrastructure Rehabilitation
Institutional Capacity Assessment
123. Both the ESRDF Regional Offices in Tigray and Afar have adequate capacity and
expertise in implementing similar rehabilitation programs. However, the office in Tigray
may have to be strengthened with the engagement of some additional staff.
Accounting, Audit, and Reporting Arrangements and the Flow of Funds
124. In both Tigray and Afar, a separate project account will need to be set up in the
ESRDF Regional Office for the purposes of this sub-component. The ESRDF Regional
Office will be responsible for administering and managing this account.
Procurement Arrangements
125. As this sub-component will be financed through the ESRDF project, it will follow
the procurement procedures already identified in that project. Procurement under this
sub-component needs to be simple, efficient and transparent. The procurement method
for works (for the reconstruction of completely damaged facilities) will be NCB and
quotations will be used for rehabilitation work (for repairing partial damages). Mostly
NCB and shopping will be used for the procurement of furniture, textbooks, and
equipment. A procurement plan will be prepared for this sub-component.
Social and Environmental Impact
126. The activities under this sub-component simply involve the rehabilitation of
existing facilities that were damaged or destroyed. Therefore, no adverse environmental
impacts are envisaged.
Monitoring and Evaluation
127. Relevant monitoring indicators with regard to the status and progress on the
implementation of agreed procurement plans and other work programs would include:
tasks related to rehabilitation and reconstruction of facilities, procurement of furniture,
equipment, medical supplies, textbooks, etc.; proportion of procurement activities
delayed, and completed as planned; level of disbursements as compared to the plan,
efficiency in the use of the project account facilities (e.g., the frequency and quality of
replenishment applications); indicators for the effectiveness of project management-
outcomes of meetings, and follow-up actions, etc. In addition, a set of indicators would
be identified for performance monitoring: access/coverage of services and quality of
services in the base and target year, e.g., the number of classrooms /student places,
enrolment, pupil:section and pupil:teacher ratio, text book:pupil ratio, etc.
Action Plan
128. All actions needed to quickly start the implementation process, e.g., detailed
assessment or verification of the extent of damages of the facilities to be rehabilitated and
preparation of the bill of quantities and costing and sequencing of activities have to be
undertaken. The ESRDF Regional Offices need to assess the capacities of their own
technical staff or consider the use of local consultants to carry out these investigations
(including condition survey/inspection, design and contract documentation). Further
breakdown of the values of the components: civil works (repairs and new construction),
furniture, equipment, textbooks, medical supplies, and services would also be needed.
-35-



Appendix 2: HI VIAIDS Prevention, Care and Support
APPENDIX 2: HIV/AIDS PREVENTION, CARE AND SUPPORT
129. The main objective of the HIV/AIDS component is to reduce HIV infection and
spread by scaling-up HIV/AIDS related interventions for the army and the displaced
population as a result of the conflict. HIV/AIDS interventions in the conflict areas will
involve prevention, care and support. The extent to which the various intervention
measures are applied would depend on the type and nature of the target group. The target
groups for HIV/AIDS intervention under the ERP include people displaced as a result of
the conflict, deportees/returnees, Commercial Sex Workers (CSWs), the military and host
communities.
130. The HIV/AIDS component will include the following four activities:
(i) Strengthening services for the displaced persons at the local level: According to the
figures given by the government a total of about 68,745 rural and approximately 22,230
urban households have been displaced in Tigray and Afar. Some have already returned
and most of the displaced from rural areas are expected to return to their villages or to the
vicinity over the next year to 18 months depending upon mine clearance progress in those
areas. About 38,000 households have been deported and 16,500 households are expected
in the next few months. All of these households are expected to be resettled mostly in
urban areas. The majority of the displaced will remain for some months in temporary
centers requiring a special arrangement for the provision of HIV/AIDS preventive, care
and support services.
(ii) Provision of services to the military, demobilized soldiers and CSWs: The military is
a special risk group whose sexual behavior would affect the community and vice-versa.
IEC, provision of condoms, voluntary counseling and testing and easy access to the
treatment of STDs and opportunistic infections are important intervention measures. It is
reported that the number of commercial sex workers have increased with the increasing
number of soldiers. These CSW are mostly concentrated in market towns in the vicinity
of the military camps. They become common sources for sexually transmitted infections
and HIV unless they are encouraged to demand condom use by their partners and
provided with female condoms. In addition to the peer group discussions and education,
CSWs will have easy access to male and female condoms.
(iii) Care and support to those affected and infected: Those known to be affected should
be given easy access to the treatment for opportunistic infection and extensive
community education campaigns should be launched to reduce stigmatization.
Communities need to be supported to take care of the sick and orphans and families
whose livelihood have been adversely affected by the death of the bread winner. Income
generating schemes by communities to care for those affected and infected will be
supported under this component.
(iv) Coordination and management: The regional HIV/AIDS secretariat, and the Boards
and focal units at zonal and woreda levels will be the coordinating units for this
HIV/AIDS component. The implementation of HIV/AIDS prevention, care and support is
complex when multisectoral and multiple implementers are involved. The situation
-36-



Appendix 2: HI VIAIDS Prevention, Care and Support
necessitates the installment of an elaborate institutional arrangement for coordination.
Sector ministries, NGOs and the private sector need to be engaged in the implementation
of an HIV/AIDS program. The capacity of these institutions will be strengthened by
providing support to improve their skills through training and financial support in an
attempt to scale-up their activities at the community level.
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
131. This component will be financed from the Ethiopia Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS
Project and implementation modalities will follow what has been agreed under EMSAP.
The overall management and coordination of this component will be the responsibility of
the regional HIV/AIDS secretariats. The implementation of the activities under the
component will be the responsibility of the local units of sector bureaus namely health,
education, agriculture, trade, industry and transport, tourism, culture and inforrnation, the
army, local HIV/AIDS Boards, NGOs and the private sector. Specific roles and
responsibilities of the various implementers will be defined. The implementing agencies
will submit quarterly reports and statements of financial expenditures before additional
funds are released.
132.  The coordination of HIV/AIDS activities in the region is the responsibility of the
secretariat of the HIV/AIDS Regional Board which is given the status of a bureau under the
regional government. In the Tigray Region, the Board is chaired by the Social Sector Head of
the Tigray Regional Government and the Secretariat is composed of the head of the Secretariat,
Departments of Surveillance and Research, Program Development and Evaluation, IEC and
Social Services and Administration and Finance. The Secretariat has at present four technical
staff and four administrative and support staff with accounting and management diplomas.
133. The HIV/AIDS Organization and Management structure includes the Regional
Board and secretariat, Zonal and Woreda Boards and focal units. The zonal and woreda
secretariats are housed in the Zonal and Woreda health departments and offices in the
Tigray Region. It is expected that HIV/AIDS focal units and offices will be established in
the respective zones and woredas within a year to facilitate the coordination of all
HIV/AIDS activities and this could be accelerated with additional resources from this
component. HIV/AIDS boards are established at tabia/kebele levels to effectively
coordinate HIV/AIDS activities in their respective communities.
134. The military will have an organizational structure of its own to accommodate its
special needs. Generally, the military has a well established organizational structure
which would be used to scale-up HIV/AIDS interventions. HIV/AIDS focal units will be
created at the command level to coordinate HIV/AIDS activities and manage funds
including accounting, financial and Program reporting to the regional HIV/AIDS
secretariat every quarter before the next quarter tranche is released. The activities related
to CSWs will be coordinated by the focal unit of the Woreda HIV/AIDS Board in close
collaboration with woreda health and social affairs offices.
-37-



Appendix 2: HI VIAIDS Prevention, Care and Support
Institutional Capacity Assessment
135. The regional secretariat and the focal points in the beneficiary zones and woredas
will be strengthened in terms of manpower and material resources to effectively
discharge their coordination responsibilities.
Accounting, Audit and Reporting Arrangements and Funds Flow
136. Generally, the financial management will be guided by the processes and
procedures established for EMSAP. The amount required for the HIV/AIDS component
(US$2.5 million) will flow from the special account of the central coordinating unit to the
regional HIV/AIDS secretariat's Bank Account every quarter based on quarterly regional
plans. Special commitment may be requested by the secretariat for payments to be made
through letters of credit for items to be procured using international shopping and/or ICB.
Each implementing agency will submit quarterly financial and Program reports and the
secretariat will consolidate all the financial reports for submission to the central
coordinating unit. With respect to the flow of funds, they flow directly to the regional
secretariat from the central account and the regional secretariat will allocate the funds
based on agreed yearly action plans. The Project Implementation Manual (PIM) prepared
for EMSAP will be used to delineate the processes and responsibilities for general
management, procurement, and financial management and control including terms of
reference for internal and external audits acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement Arrangements
137. As this HIV/AIDS component is financed and implemented under the EMSAP, the
procurement will follow the procedures set out and agreed under EMSAP. Much of the
procurement for the HIV/AIDS component will be through International Shopping and/or
ICB essentially following the Bank's Procurement Guidelines for all IDA-financed
activities. As much as possible, simplified procurement and disbursement procedures for
community-based investments will be used. In order to facilitate the speedy import of
items required urgently for diagnosis, treatment and institutional strengthening, items
valued at less than US$100,000 equivalent contracts may be made based on international
shopping and national shopping procedures, respectively, per IDA Procurement
Guidelines (clauses 3.5 and 3.6) or through procurement from the United Nations (i.e.,
IAPSO, UNFPA, UNICEF, WHO). Major items to be procured through international
shopping and ICB include drugs and medical supplies, diagnostic equipment and
vehicles.
Social and Environmental Impact
138. The HIV/AIDS component is expected to reduce the social impact of HIV/AIDS in
the target populations. The project is not expected to create any serious negative impact
on the environment because the activities of health institutions and service providers will
incorporate standard measures for the safe disposal of medical waste. Waste disposal
facilities such as incinerators exist in health institutions.
-38-



Appendix 2: HI VIAIDS Prevention, Care and Support
Monitoring and Evaluation
139. Indicators for the HIV/AIDS component would be as follows:
* Output indicators
-  access of target groups to treatment of STI and opportunistic infections will
increase by 40-50%
-  80% of health centers and hospitals will have regular screening and testing
facilities
-  80% of the implementing units have implemented agreed action plans
* Process indicators
-  90% of HIV/AIDS Councils at various levels are rendered functional
-  85% of the target groups have access to condoms
-  80% of the health institutions have established reliable HIV/AIDS information
system
* Impact Indicators
- 60% of the soldiers and CSWs used condoms during their last sexual contact
-  80% of the target groups will be aware of HIV/AIDS and its prevention
Action Plan
Activity                           Responsibility       Date of
Accomplishment
1    Establish and/or strengthen Regional,   Regional HIV/AIDS    December 31, 2000
zonal, woreda and kebeleltabia Boards,  Board
Secretariats and Focal Units
2     Submission of action plans and budgets  Regional secretariat   January 15, 2001
to the regional secretariat by all  and focal units
implementers
3.    Submission of regional action plans and  Regional Secretariat   January 22, 2001
budgets to central coordinating unit
4     Transfer of funds from the center to the  Central Coordinating   January 31, 2001
regional secretariat account       Unit
5    Regional level launch workshop      Regional Secretariat   November 30, 2000
6     Zonal level launch workshop        Zonal Board and      December 4, 2000
Focal unit
7     Woreda level launch workshop       Woreda Board and     December 11,2000
Focal unit
8    Community level launch workshop     Woreda and           December 18, 2000
kebeleltabia and focal
units
9     Supervision                        Regional Secretariat   Starting February
and focal units     2001
-39-



Appendix 3: De-mining
APPENDIX 3: SUPPORT FOR DE-MINING ACTIVITIES
140. Need for De-mining: The threat comes from three broad sources: (i) mines, (ii)
UXO, and (iii) improvised devices. Stake mines which are found in large numbers on the
Ethiopian/Eritrean border, if triggered, discharge metal fragments in a 360 degree arc,
killing anyone within 13 feet with the potential to kill/injure at a distance of about 75
feet. Other types of mines are also found in Ethiopia, e.g., the bounding mines, which are
very difficult to see as only the fuse protrudes above the soil. These mines discharge
lethal fragments up to 100 feet and can inflict severe injuries up to a distance of 300 feet.
UXO refers to any explosive munitions which has not been initiated and the range of the
term is vast, encompassing everything from a bullet to a 3,000 lb bomb. An improvised
device or booby trap is one of the most vicious devices designed to kill or injure and
which detonates unexpectedly when a person or vehicle approaches or disturbs what is
apparently a harmless object. Booby traps can be found anywhere and can look like
anything, they are designed to catch the unwary and the curious such as children. Anti
tank mines are also found in Ethiopia but the designed pressure required to initiate the
blast is around 300 pounds. However, if the fuse is corroded it can be detonated by a
human being or animal. Anti tank mines are generally "protected" by antipersonnel mines
to prevent people from trying to clear them.
141. According to various sources of information, including local NGOs and the UN,
the level of contamination by mines and UXO in the former battle area in Ethiopia is
severe. There are defensive minefields laid in depth, nuisance mines laid by both armies
as they retreated, booby traps, air dropped sub-munitions, iron bombs and the whole
range of artillery and infantry ordnance.
142. IDPs have spontaneously been going back into former battle areas despite being
advised not to return by the governnent/local authorities, to check on their houses and
collect vegetables and fruits. It is reported that personal injuries have sharply increased,
and large numbers of livestock have been killed. More than half of the victims of
landmines or UXO are reported to be children despite mine awareness efforts conducted
by a local non-government organization, the Relief and Development Organization in
cooperation with UNICEF, in the three contaminated zones in Tigray. A relatively high
degree of mine awareness exists among the population. However, although there is,
reportedly, some evidence that the behavior of certain groups around mines and UXO has
changed this is not quantifiable as no baseline survey has been conducted so far.
143. Lessons Learned from Previous De-mining Projects: Lessons learned from previous
experience with de-mining projects suggest that the Bank should: (i) have a clear plan to
ensure that rehabilitation activities are undertaken only where de-mining has been
completed; (ii) ensure that experienced quality assurance is part of mine clearing; and
(iii) given the Bank's limited expertise in de-mining, involve relevant international
organizations.
144. De-mining Efforts to Date: Small scale de-mining operations have already been
started for military purposes and to clear routes and adjacent areas of visible mines. It
should not be considered as safe for the return of the displaced persons. Many IDPs who
have returned to their farms have taken enormous risks to cultivate their land and graze
-40-



Appendix 3: De-mining
their cattle. DflD has provided funding for an NGO, the Halo Trust, which is responsible
for surveying the Temporary Security Zone and adjacent areas along the border for
landmines and UXO in preparation for the deployment of the UN peacekeeping troops.
At present the Ethiopian De-mining Project together with two teams from the Halo Trust,
is undertaking this emergency landmine/UXO survey along the border area between
Ethiopia and Eritrea.The survey commenced in early October 2000 and is expected to
take three months to complete.
145. The Ethiopian De-mining Project was created in 1995 through a USAID assistance
program intended to establish a humanitarian de-mining capacity within Ethiopia capable
of responding to the threat imposed by hundreds of thousands landmines and UXO in
certain parts of the country. The proposed institutional arrangements foresaw the
development of a viable humanitarian de-mining structure, so EDP was established as a
non-combatant unit in the Ministry of Defense, distinct from the Army's Corps of
Engineers. Despite financial constraints, EDP has contributed significantly to the
reduction of the landmine/UXO threat to civilians in Ethiopia, and has demonstrated the
commitment of the Ethiopian government to address the problem. The recent conflict
between Eritrea an Ethiopia has considerably increased the need for humanitarian de-
mining in the country, and so would require EDP to expand its capacity and to improve
its capability of meeting international standards.
146. Component Objective and Description: The objective of the de-mining component
is to mitigate the threat of landmines and UXO and to create an environment conducive
for the safe and sustainable return of civilians to their homes and livelihood. The Project
will provide financial support for the actual clearance of mines and unexploded ordnance
and restoration to productive use of priority areas.
147. Specific tasks will include:
(i) establishment of a Humanitarian Mine Action quality assurance unit within the
Federal Emergency Program Management Unit in MEDaC;
(ii) provision of Humanitarian Mine Action equipment and materials;
(iii) training of personnel of the Ethiopian De-mining Project (500 persons);
(iv) landmines and battle area clearance, and disposal; and
(v) identification (level 2 survey) and marking of hazardous areas.
148. The Federal ERPMU in MEDaC would be the decision-making and oversight
authority for the de-mining component. The ERPMU would be responsible for: (a)
setting the standards for mine clearing works; (b) reviewing the standard operating
procedures and safety regulations of mine clearing agencies; (c) conducting quality
assurance tests to ensure compliance of mine clearing agencies with accepted
international standards for humanitarian mine clearance and UN guidelines; and (d)
ensuring that all mine clearing activities are carried out and all mines cleared under the
Project are promptly destroyed in accordance with appropriate safety standards and
guidelines.
-41-



Appendix 3: De-mining
149. The mine clearance activities would be undertaken by the Ethiopian De-mining
Project (a non-combatant unit in the military) under contract to the ERPMU. The
ERPMU and the EDP will work together to coordinate de-mining activities in the war-
affected areas with the household rehabilitation sub-component.
150. Current quality assurance standards for de-mining set out in ISO 9000, are being
reviewed in order to be adapted to humanitarian mine action. The ERPMU will institute a
quality assurance program which will be tailored to the Humanitarian Mine Action needs
in Ethiopia in consultation with international experts.
151. This component has been prepared in consultation with EDP, UNMAS and other
United Nations Humanitarian Mine Action advisors. It is expected that the duration of de-
mining activities under the Project would be for about two years. The estimated cost of
the component is about US$30 million which IDA will finance. The Government intends
to seek grant funding from its other development partners to finance de-mining activities.
If grant funds for this purpose are secured then IDA financing for this component would
be reallocated for other project needs.
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
152. The ERPMU would supervise the implementation of de-mining and be responsible
for ensuring that the activities are carried out in accordance with international standards,
based on monitoring and verification by a quality assurance unit within the ERPMU. The
ERPMU would also be responsible for coordinating de-mining activities in the war-
affected areas with the household rehabilitation sub-component, as well as for collating
information on overall implementation progress and preparing progress reports. The
Ethiopian De-mining Project which is currently carrying out de-mining in the war-
affected areas would do mine clearance under contract to the ERPMU. The Project will
provide the necessary support to adapt the Ethiopian De-mining Project to meet the needs
of the Program including technical assistance, training and equipment through the
ERPMU.
153. The Government will actively discourage people from returning to their homes
until they are declared safe from mines and UXO and will ensure that the household
rehabilitation sub-component in the war-affected areas strictly follow an implementation
plan that allows people to return only to areas that are declared safe. The household
rehabilitation sub-component would continue only as long as de-mining done according
to international humanitarian standards, as confirmed by an independent quality control
unit, precedes resettlement of displaced persons in areas determined by the current de-
mining survey to be unsafe for civilian occupation.
Accounting, Audit and Reporting Arrangements and the Flow of Funds
154. A Special Account for de-mining operations and all foreign exchange denominated
expenditures related to rehabilitation will be opened in the Federal Emergency Recovery
Program Management Unit at MEDaC and managed by the Financial Manager. The
operation of this account will be as per Bank procedures.
-42-



Appendix 3: De-mining
Procurement Arrangements
155. The procurement for this component will be done by the procurement unit at the
Federal ERPMU which will contract the EDP to undertake mine clearance activities.
There will be a very strong quality assurance process to ensure that the de-mining is
carried out according to international humanitarian de-mining standards. This quality
assurance program will be developed in consultation with international experts, and
approved by the Government and financing organizations.
Social and Environmental Impact
156. This component is expected to have a significant positive environmental impact
through its contribution to de-mining a significant area of land, a large part of which is
arable.
Monitoring and Evaluation
157. A plan for monitoring and evaluation will be developed after the completion of the
survey being done by Halo Trust and the EDP. The information from the survey will
provide a baseline of what currently obtains on the ground.
-43-



Appendix 4A: Road Rehabilitation/Improvement
APPENDIX 4A: REHABILITATION/IMPROVEMENT OF ROAD
INFRASTRUCTURE
158. The Reconstruction Component will consist of the following two sub-components:
(i) Rehabilitation/Improvement of road infrastructure; and (ii) Reconstruction/
rehabilitation of power supply infrastructure.
159. The overall objectives of the Roads Sub-component are to assist the Government of
Ethiopia to: (i) rapidly rehabilitate and restore destroyed or damaged road infrastructure
in the war-affected areas; (ii) rehabilitate critical road sections and bridges that have
suffered serious damage due to an increase in heavy unexpected traffic and/or the
diversion of traffic from the original import/export route to new routes; (iii) rehabilitate
roads to ensure operational efficiency in the implementation of relief program activities
and facilitate the flow of imported humanitarian cargo in selected chronically drought-
affected areas; and (iv) carry out emergency heavy maintenance of priority roads whose
improvement had been slowed down by the war leading to further deterioration of large
sections. The road improvements would also contribute to reducing infrastructure-related
market and distribution costs by reducing road transport costs, and create additional
employment for the war-affected populations to the extent that labor intensive methods
are utilized.
160. ERA expects to implement the Roads Sub-component within the objectives and
strategy developed and implemented for the Government's Road Sector Development
Programme (RSDP) and supported by IDA. First, the Roads sub-component provides an
opportunity for arresting further deterioration of the roads affected by the war by
removing the additional road maintenance backlog created. Second, by targeting
investment at the restoration of key road and bridge infrastructure facilities which have
further deteriorated as result of the war, it would contribute to restoring the condition of
the network and to establishing a more effective flow of goods and services countrywide
which has been otherwise hampered by the protracted conflict. And third, it would have a
considerable impact on improving accessibility to other more remote and poverty-
stricken regions of the country.
161. The improvements would restore pavement conditions to levels capable of catering
to an increasing traffic for about 5 to 7 years. The roads included under this sub-
component represent about 8 per cent of the main gravel road network and 8 percent of
the asphalt road network in the country. This is expected to increase the percentage of
roads in good condition and improve permanent accessibility of the network. In addition,
activities under the Roads sub-component will result in further strengthening districts'
capacity for road maintenance for the roads under their jurisdiction and respond to
emergency situations. The involvement of private domestic contractors in the works on
about 61 0-km of main roads, and more than 60 percent of the 500-km regional rural road
works, would contribute to enhancing the capacity of domestic contractors to participate
in future road works.
-44-



Appendix 4A: Road Rehabilitation/Improvement
Physical Investments and Rationale for Selection
162. The following activities will be included under this sub-component:
(i) Rehabilitation of primary and secondary roads to satisfy needs under the following
main categories:
* Roads affected by war totaling about 668 km including Wukro-Zalanbessa (55 km),
Gondar-Humera (80 km), Shire-Tekeze (100 km), Mekele-AbiAdi-Adwa (190 km),
Negelle-Filtu-Dollo (150 km) and Gondar-Tekeze-Shire (93 km);
* Roads that have deteriorated due to increased traffic flows in the general northern
area, as well as traffic diverted from the main road to the Port of Assab to the existing
road to the Port of Djibouti. The priority roads include: Gohatsion-Dejen (41 km),
and Dejen-Debre Markos (50 km);
* Roads connecting to persistent drought areas and serving an increased and constant
flow of relief cargo. The priority roads include Arbaminch-Jinka (80 km) and Goba-
Meslo-Bitata (120 km); and
* Roads sections with slowed down improvements in the past two years due to the
effects of the war including: Shashemane-Alaba (50 km), Robe-Ali Gassera-Ginir (50
km), Awassa-H/Mariamn (80 kmn), Bedelle-Metu (60 km), Wolkite-Hossaina (67 km),
and Jimma-Bonga (40 km).
(ii) Improvement of approximately 500 km of Regional Rural Roads in the war-affected
areas which have been impacted by increased traffic movement as a result of the war. The
works to be executed mainly by labor-based techniques will draw on the ongoing
programs executed in the regions with technical support from the ILO.
(iii) Procurement of equipment to replace road maintenance equipment missing after the
border closure at Assab, and procurement of spare parts for repair of equipment required
to strengthen regravelling, resealing and routine maintenance units in areas such as,
Adigrat, Gondar, Debremarkos, Combolcha and Dire Dawa districts which are unable to
resume normal operations.
(iv) Procurement of steel bridges (Bailey bridges) to replace bridges damaged during the
protracted conflict with Eritrea, as well as replenishment of ERA's stock of Bailey
bridges to increase its timely response to emergencies such as bridge washouts.
(v) Reconstruction/installation of selected bridges including the Abay Bridge and the
bridge on Dire Dawa-Dewelle and various roads.
(vi) Pre-construction investigations and Construction Supervision: ERA has already
assessed the condition of the roads with its 1999 traffic volumes to provide the basis for
the appraisal estimates. However, additional services to be provided include: (a) road
condition surveys to be carried out by the PMS unit of ERA to confirm the scope of
improvements required, prior to award of contracts; and (b) consultancy services required
for the supervision of works to be undertaken by both ERA force account units and by
(mainly) domestic contractors. In addition, the Regional Administration of Tigray has
-45-



Appendix 4A: Road Rehabilitation/Improvement
requested that ILO be contracted to continue to provide technical advisory services for
the implementation of the labor-based road works in the region.
Component Cost
163. The total cost estimate of the Roads Sub-Component is US$91 million, excluding
taxes and duties, over the program period. The Government of Ethiopia will cover taxes
and duties of the equipment, spares and steel bridges to be procured and erection cost of
steel bridges. The total value of the Govenment's counterpart contribution net of taxes
and duties is estimated US$4.9 million. IDA's contribution would amount to US$86.1
million. The ILO's initial technical advisory services for preparation of the Regional
Rural Roads component are estimated at US$25,000.
Table 6: Cost of the Roads Sub-component
(In Million Birr)
Item No.     lLength                                               Surface             Total Cost Total Cost
No.  Road Segment                                     Total Proposed   Type   Cost/Km  Incl. Taxes   Net of
I                                   ~~~~~~~~~~Taxes+Con
___ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ ___ -   ___ ___ ___ __ _         _  ____I    tingencies
Category I: Rehabilitation and Spot Improvement of roads
Group A: Roads Under War Affected Zone
Al. Force Account Operation
I Wukro - Zalambessa                               120        55 Asphalt        0.413      22.715      22.477
2 Gondar - Tekeze - Shire                           305        93 Gravel        0.204      18.972      18.773
3 Gondar - Humera                                   250        80 Gravel        0.204      16.320      16.149
ISub - Total                          675       228                           58.007      57.398
A2   Contract Works
4 Mekele - Abiadi - Adwa                            190       190 Gravel        0.240      45.600      45.121
5 Negele - Filtu - Dollo                           340        150 Gravel        0.240      36.000      35.622
6 Tekeze - Shire                                    140       100 Gravel        0.240      24.000      23.748
lSub- Total                           670       440                          105.600     104.491
lTotal A                             1345       668                          163.607     161.889
Group B: Roads Deteriorated Due to Diverted Traffic
B I  Force Account Operation
1 Gohatsion - Dejen                                 41        41 Gravel         0.204       8.364       8.276
2 Dejen - D/Markos                                   70        50 Asphalt       0.413      20.650      20.433
l  Total B                            ill        91                           29.014      28.709l
Group C: Roads Under Persistent Drought Affected Zones
C1  Force Account Operation
I Arbaminch - Jinka (Light)                         125       40 Gravel         0.030       1.200       1.187
2 Arbarninch - Jinka(Heavey)                        125        40 Gravel        0.204       8.160       8.074
Sub - Total                           250        80                           9.360       9.262
C2   Contract Works
3 Goba - Meslo - Bitata                            230        120 Gravel        0.240      28.800      28.498
Sub - Total                            230       120                          28.800       28.498
Total C                               480       200                          38.160      37.760
Group D: Other Critical Roads
Dl   Force Account Operation
I9 Shashamane - Alaba                          |    550         0 Asphalt       0.413      20.650      20.433
-46-



Appendix 4A: Road Rehabilitation/lImprovement
Item No.     |                                Length            Surface            Total Cost Total Cost
No.  Road Segment                                   Total Proposed   Type   Cost/Km  Incl. Taxes   Net of
Taxes+Con
tingencies
2 Awassa - H/Mariam                              193        80 Asphalt       0.413     33.040      32.693
3-I Bedele - Metu                                115        60 Asphalt       0.413     24.780      24.520
4 Wolkite - Hossaina                             127 61  Gravel              0.204     13.668      13.525
5 Jimma - Bonga                                  100        40 Gravel        0.204      8.160       8.074
I Sub - Total                        585      297                        100.298      99.245
D2  Contract Works
12 Robe - Gassera - Ginir                         153        50 Gravel        0.240     12.000      11.874
Sub - Total                         153        50                         12.000      11.874
Totai D                             738       347                        112.298      111.12
Group E: Rural Roads                                     500 Gravel        0.040     20.000      19.790
Total E                                       500_              0.040     20.000      19.7901
Total l               2674      18061                       363.079    359.267
Category 11: Procurement of Equipment and Spare Parts          -                            235.151    195.958
I            I                                 I      I 
Category IlI: Procurement of Steel Bridges & associated items                               138.591     115.492
Category IV: Bridge Construction on Abay and D/Dawa - Dewele Road
4.1 Abay River Bridge                                                                    25.000     24.738
4.2 Bridge on D/Dawa - Dewele Road                                                       20.00(     19.7901
Total IV               _                                     45.000      44.528
Categor y V: Supervision Fee for Contract Projects
5.1 Main Roads _                                                                         36.178     33.088
5.2 Rural Roads Supervision (Program Management)                                          2.582      2.364
5.3 Rural Roads Pre-Construction Study (ILO)                                              0.206      0.236
Total V                                                                   38.966      35.688
Total (I-V)                        2674r   1806r                         820.787    750.933
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
164. The sub-component will be managed and implemented by the Ethiopian Roads
Authority in coordination with the Regional Rural Roads Authorities of Tigray and Afar
as applicable. With regard to ERA, its responsibilities will be carried out through its line
departments and district offices under the General Manager. ERA is comprised of three
main departments as follows: (i) Regulatory and Engineering Services Department,
which discharges its responsibilities through three Divisions: Planning and Programming,
Contracts Administration, and Design, Research and Network Management; (ii)
Operations Department, which has responsibility for force account maintenance,
emergency road construction and maintenance, and associated logistics support; and (iii)
Human Resource and Financial Management Department. Under its Planning and
Programming Division of the Regulatory and Engineering Services Department, ERA
has established six Branches responsible for Planning and Program Management,
Programming and Budgeting, Monitoring and Evaluation, Management Information
Systems (MIS), Environmental Management, and Rural Roads Technical Support. Since
-47-



Appendix 4A: Road Rehabilitation/lmprovement
the start of the RSDP, ERA has also set up a Program Advisory Office (PAO) under the
General Manager. Staff of the PAO are supported by an RSDP Advisor (a senior highway
engineer/civil works contract administration specialist) funded by the European Union
(EU). The PAO advises the General Manager on matters related to program coordination,
including the coordination of TA and related multi-donor support and interests. The Road
Fund is now functioning through the Road Fund Administration under its General
Manager, and the Road Fund Board comprises representatives of the Federal
Government, Regional States, ERA and local stakeholders.
165. Based on lessons learned from the previous emergency project, Force Account
Units of ERA districts and mainly domestic contractors will execute the expected works.
ERA engineers and supervising consultants to be recruited by ERA will supervise the
works. ERA will manage the procurement, implementation, supervision and monitoring
of the whole works to ensure the quality of the works completed. The Ministry of
Defense will provide assistance for de-mining activities as and when required. Where
necessary, specialized services will be contracted for de-mining ahead of the road and
bridge works.
Annual Project Implementation Plan
166. ERA will prepare a Sub-component Project Implementation Plan to detail the
institutional, as well as procurement and implementation arrangements and schedules.
Institutional Capacity Assessment
167. ERA has demonstrated ample capacity for the management of the RSDP phase
including the administration of 95 contracts, 63 of which are ongoing and the rest are
being processed with financing by the Government and different donors. The capacity
therefore exists in ERA for contract administration and processing, and to provide
support and technical advice to the Regional Authorities as required.
168. The organizational setup of the Tigray Rural Roads Authority (TRRA) and four
other regions have recently been assessed with GTZ technical assistance, and a separate
report has been prepared. The TRRA has successfully implemented rural road
rehabilitation and maintenance programs by force account. In addition, the ILO is
currently implementing a technical assistance program of labor-based road rehabilitation
and maintenance in the Tigray and Amhara regions with Italian Cooperation financing.
The lessons learnt from the latter support have shown that, the scope of the program will
be beyond the capacity of the TRRA technical staff for administration and supervision,
and the force account units for sole execution. Additional consultancy support is
therefore to be provided under the sub-component to TRRA, as a continuation of the ILO
technical assistance services. TRRA will also be fully supported by the Rural Roads
Technical Support Branch of ERA which will coordinate the overall program activities
related to rural roads.
-48-



Appendix 4A. Road Rehabilitation/Improvement
Accounting, Audit and Reporting Arrangements and the Flow of Funds
169. ERA maintains entity accounts and is required to submit audit reports on such
accounts annually. For the purpose of this sub-component: (i) ERA and the RROs will
maintain accounts and records in accordance with International Accounting Standards to
enable all Project resources and expenditures to be clearly identified and accounted for;
(ii) these will be audited in accordance with International Standards on Auditing by the
Audit Services Corporation or any other independent auditor acceptable to IDA; and (iii)
the audit report and the audited financial statements, together with a management letter
covering the auditor's review of ERA's internal control structure, will be submitted to
IDA within six months of the end of the period to which they relate.
Procurement Arrangements
170. Procurement processing will be started soon after appraisal to facilitate the early
start of activities after effectiveness. The activities to be started include for selected
urgent contracts, the advertisements, tender/bid and specifications preparation and
approval, pre-qualification and invitation of contractors, as well as preparation of TORs
and RFPs, identification and shortlisting of qualified consultants, to be followed by
evaluation of consultants' proposals and final selection. A procurement plan is being
prepared.
171. Government policy (by Letter of Sector Policy dated December 16, 1997) is to
encourage participation of domestic contractors in the road maintenance and construction
program. Under the sub-component, a major portion of the works contracts will be
awarded to private contractors (domestic mainly). The rest of the works will be executed
by ERA District Force Account units since all the units are expected to be more readily
mobilized in all districts, in view of the emergency nature of the works. The works will
be executed under the supervision of private consultants, and by appointed engineers of
ERA, only when considered to be most expedient, e.g., to oversee the installation of
Bailey bridges. The supervision consultants will be required to certify the correctness of
works quantities and amounts to be paid, submitted in payment certificates by
contractors, as well as by ERA force account units. Consultants will also be invited to
participate in pre-construction investigations, works preparation and quantification. ERA
will also purchase selected road maintenance equipment and construction materials
including Bailey Bridges. The ERP Procurement Manual to be ready by December 2000,
prepared in accordance with Bank Guidelines, describes the procedures to be adopted for
all procurement under the ERP as a whole.
172. In the case of works to be executed by contractors, the works will be awarded to
contractors using mainly National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, in accordance
with IDA Guidelinesfor Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January
1995, Revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999.
173. Consultancy services will be awarded to qualifying consulting firms mainly
through Quality and Cost based Selection (QCBS), and in special cases with prior
approval of IDA through Sole-Source Selection or qualified individuals, depending upon
the nature of the services concerned, in accordance with IDA Guidelinesfor the Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, Revised
-49-



Appendix 4A: Road Rehabilitation/Improvement
September 1997, and January 1999. The specialized technical advisory service to be
provided by ILO will be obtained through direct contracting with prior approval of IDA.
174. For specialized equipment and construction materials such as Bailey Bridges, ERA
will procure them by ICB, or NCB mainly, Direct Contracting, Shopping (National and
International) as appropriate, depending upon the items concerned, based on a
procurement plan agreed in advance with IDA, and in accordance with IDA Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, Revised January and
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999.
Social and Environmental Impact
175. Two social issues are pertinent: (a) access to construction period employment by
local residents in the Project area; and (b) potential for increased transmission of
HIV/AIDS along the roads under this sub-component. The first concern, which is the
access to unskilled jobs associated with improvement of the roads, will be addressed
through an employment action plan for the main roads, and the labor-based technology
applied for rural roads improvements.
176. The risk of HIV/AIDS infection along the road improvement corridor is to be
addressed as part of ERA's recently developed strategy for the overall RSDP in Ethiopia.
The Environmental Management Branch of ERA has already developed a prevention
strategy that targets awareness creation in both the head office and construction projects.
This, together with the program being coordinated at the national level, will contribute to
minimizing the risk of transmission of the virus among road construction personnel.
177. There are no major environmental issues anticipated under this sub-component,
since it represents rehabilitation of existing roads only, with no changes in the alignment.
If there were any it would be limited in scope and duration. The potential impacts of the
activities are well known and can be effectively addressed through design, low cost
mitigation measures and proper construction monitoring. The contracts will include
specific environmental provisions and contractors will receive a briefing concerning these
requirements during the site visit. The Environmental Management Branch of ERA will
monitor the environmental mitigation actions, and provide advice as necessary.
Monitoring and Evaluation
178. A baseline survey will be carried out to measure the indicators early after Credit
effectiveness, and before implementation of the major works under the Sub-component.
The comparison between baseline and future values measured half-yearly during
implementation, and annually as part of ERA's program of RSDP monitoring, would
provide a basis for the assessment of impacts. ERA will submit quarterly progress reports
through its Monitoring and Evaluation Branch to IDA covering all the activities, under the
sub-component. Performance indicators agreed with ERA and the Regional Rural Roads
Organizations will be measured so as to provide a basis for evaluating the impact of the
activities and to see whether the objectives are achieved. For the purpose of this sub-
component, six indicators have been identified, namely, vehicle operating cost saving,
road roughness, reduced travel time, traffic flow, and kilometers of road
improved/maintained. IDA supervision missions will also follow up on the
-50-



Appendix 4A: Road Rehabilitation/Improvement
implementation of activities. The Supervising engineers and ERA, as required, shall also
monitor environmental mitigation measures. Within 3 months of the completion of the
Program, ERA will prepare its own inputs for the project implementation completion
report (ICR) and submit to IDA.
Studies and Technical Assistance Needed for Implementation
179. The ERA PMS Unit and the Planning and Programming Division will carry out
final surveys to confirm the condition of roads and quantities of works required for the
improvement of the main roads. In addition, during appraisal, ERA requested, and the
ILO confirmed that it would provide support to the TRRA under its ongoing program
financed by the Italian Cooperation. The consultants will carry out pre-construction
investigations including assessment of road conditions, preparation of contract documents
and training requirements. Technical advisory services will be continued under this
Project. It will include: provision of training, supervision and management of the regional
rural road works.
Action Plan
180. ERA shall: (a) Prepare the procurement plan and submit to IDA for review and
comment by October 20, 2000. The plan will be agreed upon and included in the project
implementation manual (see below) by December 2000; (b) Prepare the
implementation/operations manual including arrangements and schedule for the baseline
studies and submit to IDA for review and comment by November 15, 2000; and (c)
Prepare RFP/TORs and bid documents for goods, works and consultants and submit to
IDA for review by November 30, 2000.
-51-



Appendix 4B: Power Reconstruction/Rehabilitation
APPENDIX 4B: RECONSTRUCTION/REHABILITATION OF POWER SUPPLY
INFRASTRUCTURE
181. The following activities will be financed under this sub-component:
Rehabilitation and reconstruction of power supply facilities: The aim is to rehabilitate and
reconstruct damaged power supply facilities, in the four towns of Zalambessa, Adigrat,
Bure, and Mekele in the war-affected areas. It involves the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of 65 Km of 15 Kv line, 27 Km of 0.4 Kv line, and 6 Km of street lights
along with the replacement/provision of 29 pieces of 50 and 63 KVA transformers, 2
pieces of 450 Kw diesel generators and, 550 Single phase customer connection in the
above-mentioned four towns. Some activities have already started in this regard in
Mekele and Adigrat that could be considered for retroactive financing.
Replacement of EEPCo's goods lost in Assab: The intention is to enhance the
implementation progress on: (1) the Ghedo - Gimbe transmission line works; (2) the
rehabilitation of the Koka and Tis-Abay power plants and substations; and (3) new
customer connections and maintenance of distribution line by replacing the Ethiopian
Electric Power Corporation's goods that were lost in the Assab Port after closure of the
border due to the conflict. The loss of these goods has severely hampered the country's
power infrastructure development program.
182. This sub-component would be financed by reprogramming resources of about
US$10 million from the ongoing IDA-financed Energy II Project.
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
183. The Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation, EEPCo will be the responsible agency
for implementing this sub-component. EEPCo already has an established unit (PMU)
responsible for coordination of project management activities for IDA-financed projects.
The existing set-up will be used for project co-ordination and management purposes. The
procurement of equipment will be done by the Procurement Division of EEPCo together
with the Engineering Department, Operations Support and the PMU. The rehabilitation
and reconstruction activities will be carried out by EEPCo's Regional Offices
Construction Unit and Power System Department (cost centers by themselves), while
technical supervision and verification of works done will be the responsibility of the
Engineering Department at the HQ of EEPCo. Co-ordination of the works, payment
processing and reporting will be the responsibility of the PMU. Quarterly progress
reports will be submitted.
Institutional Capacity Assessment
184. EEPCo is implementing the ongoing IDA-financed Energy II Project and its
implementation capacity is assessed to be adequate.
-52-



Appendix 4B: Power Reconstruction/Rehabilitation
Accounting, Audit and Reporting Arrangements and the Flow of Funds
185. Current accounting and reporting arrangements under the Energy II project will be
used for ERP. In addition, EEPCo will have to report to the Federal ERPMU on the status
of its activities on the ERP. EEPCo will have its accounts, including its financial
statements, special account, and statements of expenditure audited by an independent
auditor acceptable to IDA.
Procurement Arrangements
186. Since this sub-component will be implemented as part of the ongoing Energy II
project, the procurement procedures agreed in that project will apply. The procurement of
equipment will be done by the Procurement Division of the Corporation together with the
Engineering Department, Operations Support and the PMU.
Social and Environmental Impact
187. The activities would not have any adverse environmental impact as construction
activities would involve rehabilitation and reconstruction not new construction. The
potential impacts of the activities are well known and can be effectively addressed
through design, low cost mitigation measures and proper construction monitoring. The
contracts will include specific environmental provisions and contractors will receive a
briefing concerning these requirements during the site visit. The EEPCo PMU will
monitor the environmental mitigation actions, and provide advice as necessary.
Monitoring and Evaluation
188. Quarterly progress reports will be submitted by the EEPCo PMU responsible for
coordination of project management activities for IDA-financed projects. Monitoring
indicators would include: km of distribution line reconstructed; number of customers re-
connected; km of street lights reinstalled; Ghedo - Gimbe transmission line works
completed as initially planned; customers connection and distribution line maintenance
enhanced as initially planned; rehabilitation works on the power plants and substations
restarted and completed; and the power shedding problem resolved.
-53-



Appendix 5: Procurement
APPENDIX 5: PROCUREMENT
Procurement Arrangements
189. Flexible Procurement Arrangements: Special attention has been paid to devise
procurement arrangements and procedures commensurate with the emergency nature of
the Project. In addition, the need has been recognized for simple mechanisms to facilitate
acquisition of materials and resources by households (farm, pastoralists, urban, etc.) in
dispersed locations. The arrangements devised are aimed at efficient procurement that
underpin quick disbursement and distribution of goods and money, mixing procurement
on the local market in the war-affected areas with procurement and distribution from
regional, national and international levels.
190. Manual of Procurement Procedures: A manual of Procurement Procedures under
the ERP is being prepared by the Borrower with assistance from the Bank. Bank
procurement guidelines and policies will be followed. The procedures for community-
based procurement have also been used, where applicable. Detailed procurement
arrangements are explained for each component in the relevant Technical Annex.
Types of Procurement
191. IDA will provide financing for goods on a positive import list, the proceeds of
which will be used to finance the household rehabilitation component. IDA will also
finance the goods, works and consultant services needed to implement the road
rehabilitation/improvement and de-mining components, and to operate the PMUs.
192. Community-based Procurement: Procurement for the Household Rehabilitation
component will follow Government procurement procedures. Each community will enter
into a simple agreement with their local government which sets out the benefit package
for each qualifying household. The contract will provide for release of funds to the
recipient who will, in turn, procure the specified items from the local market. For some
materials not locally available in adequate quantities, the PMU at the Federal level (or the
regional administration, as expedient) may award contracts and the regional
administration may undertake distribution of such goods. The release of funds will be
phased, where needed, with progress on the implementation. The committee approving
the package of support to the household etc. will, through the woreda level task force,
supervise and finally record satisfactory completion of the support program by the
recipient. This arrangement is similar to an arrangement already in use in some regions.
Another level of monitoring mechanisms operated by the Regional Administration will
provide further safeguards for ensuring that the money is used for the end use for which it
was approved. The PMU at the Federal level will have procurement audits conducted
every six months and agree with the Bank on any improvements needed in the system.
This procedure will be utilized for control of use of the counterpart funds allocated for
these components. Since counterpart funds are to be used, Bank guidelines and
procedures will not apply.
193. Positive Import List and Project Related Procurement: For the remaining
procurement, the tasks can be readily defined and procurement plans prepared. Relevant
Bank guidelines and procedures will operate for goods, works and services. Procurement
-54-



Appendix 5: Procurement
plans will be prepared and will provide the basis for agreement with IDA on the proposed
packaging and the optimal methods of procurement. Most of the procurement plans (to be
included in the Implementation Manual) will be ready by December 2000 and will
facilitate early implementation of the emergency project. The portion of the credit that
will be utilized for eligible imports, including retroactive financing, will require: (a) use
of a positive list, and (b) observance of the Bank's procurement principles. ERA's
procurement activity includes Force Account work for selected areas where justified and
enhancement of capacity in those cases where local contractors may not be available. The
use of Force Account will be monitored carefully.
194. Procurement methods will be subject to flexible limits on aggregate amounts to be
procured, thus giving the Borrower the option to choose the most suitable method of
procurement for any given case and to use easily accessible procedures such as national
competitive bidding, local and international shopping or direct contracting or force
account (with specific safeguards and controls). This will apply to "Other Procurement"
mentioned below.
Institutional Arrangements for Procurement
195. For those components where community-based procurement methods will apply,
selected items only will require to be procured by the management either by the Regional
Administration or the PMU at the Federal level. The sectoral bureaus at the regional level
have adequate capacity to procure the few items that they will need to procure.
196. The non-community based procurement (de-mining, etc.) would be undertaken by
the PMU at the Federal level (except Roads for which ERA will be responsible). At least
two procurement staff will be recruited in the Federal ERPMU. Special arrangements will
be made to recruit staff by redeployment from other IDA-financed projects who are well
versed in Bank procedures. They will conduct procurement for the relevant components
of the Project, except for the roads component (to be done by ERA) but including eligible
imports (and retroactive financing) and will also be responsible for the quality and
timeliness of procurement in the Project as a whole, including the roads component
implemented by ERA. They will prepare procurement plans for the items to be procured.
They will also monitor that adequate number of staff are always in position in each
individual component implementation unit and that all are afforded procurement training,
as needed. They will monitor use of Force Account by ERA. They will initiate periodic
procurement audits and take follow up action.
Procurement Procedures
197. IDA financed credit will be utilized for goods, training, consultancy, and operating
costs under the Project. Procurement for all IDA financed activities will be carried out in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits (January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and
January 1999). Consulting services by firms or individuals will be awarded in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers (January 1997; Revised September 1997; Addendum Effective
January 1, 1999. Simplified procedures for Emergency projects will be used, wherever
needed.
-55-



Appendix 5: Procurement
198. Consultant selection for assignments will be addressed through competition among
qualified short-listed firms and individuals in which the selection will be based on
Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) by evaluation of the quality of the proposal
before comparing the cost of services to be provided. In addition, selection shall also be
done based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ) and other methods as provided for in the
guidelines. Shortlists for contracts estimated to cost under US$100,000 may be
comprised entirely of national consultants if a sufficient number of qualified (at least
three) are available at competitive costs. However, if foreign firms have expressed
interest, they will not be excluded. Contracts less than US$100,000 each for firms, and
US$50,000 for individuals, could be contracted on the basis of CQ, and may be awarded
on a single source basis only in exceptional circumstances, after adequate justification
and prior review by IDA.
199. Procurement of goods will be carried out in accordance with Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1996, August 1996,
September 1997, January 1999). Contracts of individual value US$200,000 equivalent or
above will be awarded on the basis of ICB. Small value goods procurement contracts
(individual value of less than US$200,000) equivalent will be awarded on the basis of
NCB. Contracts up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$200,000 equivalent maybe
procured under community participation arrangements using the simplified formats set
forth in the Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for Community-
based Investments. Contracts less than US$30,000 each may be awarded through
National Shopping using approved procedures. The procedure to be adopted here is to
award fixed price contracts on the basis of written solicitation issued to at least three
qualified suppliers after evaluation of bids which would be received in writing.
200. Procurement of works will be carried out in accordance with Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1996, August 1996,
September 1997, January 1999). Larger contracts of individual value US$500,000
equivalent or above will be awarded on the basis of ICB. Small value works procurement
contracts (individual value of less than US$500,000) equivalent will be awarded on the
basis of NCB. Contracts up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$200,000 equivalent
maybe procured under community participation arrangements using the simplified
formats set forth in the Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for
Community-based Investments. Contracts less than US$30,000 each may be awarded
through National Shopping using approved procedures. The procedure to be adopted here
is to award lump sum fixed price contracts on the basis of written solicitation issued to at
least three qualified civil works contractors after evaluation of the bids which would be
received in writing.
201. Construction of certain infrastructure works and community facilities by Force
Account will be necessary, with certain safeguards. This is considered an acceptable
alternative to competitive bidding because the works are small and scattered, in many
instances in remote locations where experience has shown that contractors are either not
interested or their costs are unreasonably high. The works would be carried out by ERA.
The ERA has the needed construction plant to undertake this work. It is recognized that
contractor capacity may not be adequate. However, to ensure adequate usage of local
contractor capacity, the procurement plan for each year will use a judicious mix of force
-56-



Appendix 5: Procurement
account and local contractors, preference being given to local contractors and to keep
them fully loaded. The Force Account arrangement is however justified where the
organization, implementation and management of very small contracts is facilitated by
the flexibility provided by this method. Transparency and the establishment of true costs
of Force Accounts operations will be monitored by IDA Consequently, works that meet
the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Procurement Guidelines and subject to
utilization of local contractor capacity may be carried out by Force Account.
202. Training activities will comprise hiring consultants for training programs.
Procurement of these will also follow IDA procurement guidelines.
Prior Review Thresholds
203. For procurement of goods, all cases valued at US$200,000 or more will require
prior review by IDA.
204. For Works, all cases valued at US$500,000 or more will require prior review by
IDA.
205. The Bank will review the selection process for the hiring of consultants proposed
by the borrower for those consultancy contracts to be awarded to firms and individuals.
Prior review will not be required for contracts worth less than US$100,000 for firms and
contracts worth less than US$50,000 for individuals. However, IDA will review (a) all
Terms of Reference of contracts, regardless of value, (b) all single-source hiring, (c)
assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA, (d) amendments of contracts
raising the contract value above the prior review thresholds.
Risk Assessment
206. Overall Risk Assessment is rated as High.
207. The main components requiring procurement work will be (a) ERA, (b) de-mining,
and (c) some limited procurement by the Afar and Tigray regions. ERA will conduct the
procurement through its existing organizational set up which is assessed as quite
conversant with bank procedures. Besides a portion of the work will be on Force
Account. The Tigray and Afar regions will use existing procurement arrangements;
Tigray will hire an additional procurement officer. For the rest of the procurement, the
ERPMU will recruit three procurement specialists, initially for 2 years. To mitigate risk
in setting up a new organization for this purpose, government will re-deploy staff
experienced with bank procurement from ongoing bank-financed projects.
208. Frequency of procurement supervisions proposed: One every six months, including
special procurement supervision for post review and audits.
-57-



Appendix 6: Financial Management
APPENDIX 6: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, AUDITING AND REPORTING
Overall Program Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Arrangements and Flow of
Funds
209. At the regional level, a Financial Management Unit (FMU) will be established in
the PMU, headed by an experienced financial manager, and staffed with appropriate
accountants. This FMU will be responsible for managing the Project Account and the
flow and use of funds advanced, especially for the household rehabilitation component.
Where the quantity and amount of transactions justifies it (such as in Tigray) FMU staff
will be attached to the Regional Finance Bureau, or even the Zonal Finance Department
to provide assistance. Funds will flow from the Federal local currency Project Account in
MEDaC to the appropriate Project Account in the Regions. Appropriate records will be
kept of the funds flow to each of the decentralized units, and the use that has been made
of these funds (e.g. the number and type of households rehabilitated). Each person or
household to receive support will be included on a listing of eligible beneficiary
households in their community which specifies their beneficiary packages. Funds would
be released, to the extent possible in cash, by the woreda finance offices according to an
agreed schedule and disbursement records will be maintained there for post review.
210. Two Special Accounts will be established in Foreign Exchange in the National
Bank of Ethiopia managed by ERA according to normal procedures acceptable to IDA
for the road rehabilitation component of the Project and by the ERPMU for the de-mining
and institutional support components. Local currency funds received from the sales of
foreign exchange for eligible expenditures from the positive list of imports, to be utilized
for the Household Rehabilitation Component, will be deposited in an Emergency
Recovery Program Fund Account in the National Bank of Ethiopia. The local currency
proceeds will then be sent to the decentralized units according to a calculation of
anticipated expenditure over the coming six months.
21 1. Financial management as well as disbursement of funds for the rehabilitation of
road infrastructure would be under the responsibility of the Finance Division of the
Human Resources and Finance Department of the Ethiopian Roads Authority. ERA's
Regional Rural Road Authority will manage the Program bank account at the regional
levels and would be responsible for effecting payment to contractors, beneficiaries, etc.
as required.
212. The community infrastructure, HIV/AIDS and the power rehabilitation components
will use existing accounts, resources and procedures as outlined in the three DCAs of the
ESRDF, EMSAP and Energy II projects from which funds will be reallocated for these
components. The ESRDF, EMSAP and Energy II projects will establish special project
accounts for their contribution to the ERP, and otherwise use existing procedures as
outlined in their respective DCAs. The DCA for the ESRDF project will be amended to
allow financing of the household rehabilitation component in the Afar region.
-58-



Appendix 6: Financial Management
Auditing
213. For the road rehabilitation, and de-mining components, financial statements will be
audited annually according to internationally accepted auditing procedures. For the
household rehabilitation component, local currency funds received from the sales of
foreign exchange for eligible expenditures from the positive list of imports will be
deposited in an ERP Fund Account. Standard Government financial procedures and flows
will be followed thereafter for the use of the ERP Account funds for the household
rehabilitation component. The annual auditing of the ERP Fund Account could be
potentially time-consuming given the dispersed geographical location of the source
documents (which could be either at the regional or sub-regional level). Consequently,
the Government has agreed to supplement its audit capacity by engaging external auditors
to assist it. For these audits independent private accounting firms with relevant
experience and competencies acceptable to IDA will be recruited on a competitive basis.
Joint Government/IDA supervision missions will make spot checks on a small sample of
the beneficiaries at their place of residence to verify the use of the funds disbursed.
Retroactive Financing
214. In order to generate sufficient funds for the initial phase of the household
rehabilitation component and to cover previous eligible expenditures, retroactive
financing of up to 35 percent of the total Credit from June 18, 2000 has been agreed, on
an exceptional basis. The Government has been provided with a list of the documentation
that would be required in order to claim for reimbursements for imports from the positive
list that it has paid for (local currency funds received from the sales of foreign exchange
for eligible expenditures from the positive list of imports will be used to finance the
household rehabilitation component). In addition, a joint Government and Bank team is
being formed to compile and review the list of positive imports and related procurement
documentation totaling US$40 million to be disbursed as soon as the Credit is effective.
-59-



Appendix 7: M&E and Social and Environmental Aspects
APPENDIX 7: MONITORING AND EVALUATION AND SOCIAL AND
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
Monitoring and Evaluation
215. Monitoring and evaluation will be tailored to the household/community infrastructure, de-
mining and road reconstruction components.
216. Household Rehabilitation: Monitoring for the household rehabilitation component will
consist of two parts. One will be periodic checks based on random sampling of communities and
households to ensure that beneficiaries received the cash that was due to them and that they used
it to purchase the agreed income generating assets and housing reconstruction materials. These
surveys will be used to confirm that funds generated from sales of goods on the positive import
list are used for the intended purpose before subsequent phased disbursements are released. The
other will be to determine if the support packages were sufficient for the beneficiary households
to restart their farming and other income generating activities and to better sustain themselves.
Prior to credit effectiveness a preliminary field survey will be conducted in the war-affected areas
to confirm beneficiary needs and housing reconstruction requirements, and to refine the terms of
reference for a social and environmental assessment. Within six months of credit effectiveness a
social and environmental assessment will be carried out to establish a baseline; it will be repeated
later to measure the impact of the Project. Field checks on beneficiary receipt and use of funds
would be undertaken by the Tigray PMU, by the participating woreda and tabia, and by the
ERPMU through independent auditors. The social and environmental assessments will be done by
external institutions or independent consultants.
217. Community Infrastructure: Monitoring of community infrastructure will be based on post
reviews to confirm that the agreed works have been constructed to specification and that
provision has been made to maintain them. Monitoring and evaluation would be undertaken by
the ESRDF Regional Offices in Tigray and Afar Regions, and by the ERPMU through
independent auditors.
218. De-mining: Monitoring for de-mining will include (i) oversight of the training being
provided to the expanded Ethiopian De-mining Project to ensure that personnel are trained to do
their jobs safely and effectively, and (ii) quality assurance by the quality control group within the
ERPMU to confirm that the de-mining work contracted to the EDP is done to agreed standards. A
team of international de-mining experts will review and advise on the implementation of the de-
mining program at least annually.
219. Road Reconstruction: Monitoring of road works and bridge construction will be based on
post reviews to confirm that the agreed works have been constructed to specification and that
provision has been made to maintain them. In addition, a baseline survey will be carried out to
measure the selected indicators before each part of the works is completed, and repeated
afterwards to measure the impact. For the purpose of this sub-component, indicators would be
vehicle operating cost saving, road roughness, reduced travel time, traffic flow, and kilometers of
road improved/maintained. Monitoring and evaluation would be undertaken by the ERA's
Monitoring and Evaluation Branch, and by the ERPMU through independent auditors.
-60-



Appendix 7: M&E and Social and Environmental Aspects
Key Performance Indicators
Rehabilitation
* Transfer to households of at least 60% of the finances needed by the estimated 360,000
internally displaced persons within the war affected area to return to their homes and to restart
farming and other income generating activities.
*  Transfer to households of at least 60% of the finances needed by the estimated 11 0,000
deportees/returnees and 36,000 families of deceased civilians to restart/initiate income
generating activities.
De-mining
* De-mining carried out in the war affected area to allow at least 85% of the IDPs to return to their
homes, farms and pastures.
Reconstruction
* Rehabilitation/improvement of at least 500 km of primary and secondary roads.
* Improvement of at least 500 km of regional rural roads in the war-affected areas.
. Procurement of at least 1,500 meters of Bailey bridges to replace bridges damaged during the
conflict and to replenish ERA's emergency stocks.
Environmental and Social Aspects
220. The Program is classified as environmental category B because no component is expected
to have a significant environmental impact. The only construction that is envisaged is the
reconstruction and rehabilitation of war-damaged roads, bridges, housing, and community
infrastructure. In addition, the Project is expected to have a major positive environmental impact
through its contribution to de-mining a significant area of land, a large part of which is arable.
Rehabilitation assistance to the various groups of war-affected people will be designed to be
responsive to the needs, characteristics and aspirations of these people. The household
rehabilitation program will strive to address these specified needs and aspirations in a flexible
manner. For the household rehabilitation component, a preliminary field survey will be conducted
in the war-affected areas to confirm beneficiary needs and housing reconstruction requirements,
and to refine the TOR for the social and environmental assessment. The social and environmental
assessment will assess the potential environmental impacts associated with beneficiaries returning
to their communities, reconstructing their homes, and restarting their farming activities. In so
doing, relevant mitigation measures will be translated into implementation guidelines. The social
and environmental assessment will also be used to establish a baseline from which to evaluate the
success of the Project in re-establishing people in the homes and livelihoods.
-61-



Appendix 8: Project Cost and Financing
APPENDIX 8: PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Table 1: Project Cost by Component
Project Cost By Component            Local           Foreign           Total
US$ million      US$ million     US$ million
Rehabilitation (import list)             7.0            105.5            112.5
Demining                                 2.6             26.4             29.0
Reconstruction (roads)                  12.6             69.5             82.1
Institutional Strengthening              2.3              3.0              5.3
Total Baseline Cost                        24.5            204.4            228.9
Physical Contingencies                   1.3              3.2              4.5
Price Contingencies                      2.3              7.4              9.7
Total Project Costs                        28.1            215.0            243.1
Note 1: The Government's overall Emergency Recovery Program is estimated to cost US$555 million, of
which IDA would finance US$260 million made up of US$230 million to be provided through a new credit
and US$30 million to be reallocated from existing IDA credits to cater to the emergency requirements. The
Emergency Recovery Project consists of the IDA credit of US$230 million and the Govemment's
counterpart contribution of US$ 13.1 million bringing the total project cost to US$243.1 million.
Note 2: Project costs exclude taxes and duties estimated at US$11 million.
Table 2: Project Cost by Category
Project Cost By Category       Local           Foreign           Total
US$ million     US$ million      US$ million
Goods (import list)              0.8            109.1            109.9
Works                           15.2             33.7             48.9
Goods                            0.3             42.2            42.5
Institutional Support            3.6             30.0             33.6
Operations                       1.6              0.0              1.6
Community Contributions          6.6              0.0              6.6
Total Project Costs                28.1           215.0            243.1
-62-



Appendix 8: Project Cost and Financing
Table 3: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount                Financing
US$ million           Percentage
Goods (import list)               109.9                 100%
Part A
(a)                             40.0
(b)                             45.0
(c)                             24.9
Works                              40.0                  90%
Part C (roads)                  40.0
Goods                              42.5         100% Foreign, 90% Local
Part B (de-mining)               2.4
Part C (roads)                  37.8
Part D (institutional support)   2.3
Consultants                        33.2                 100%
Part B (de-mining)              27.6
Part C (roads)                   4.0
Part D (institutional support)   1.6
Unallocated                         4.4
Total                             230.0
Table 4: Estimated Disbursements
(US$ Million equivalent)
Estimated Disbursements (Bank FYJUS$M)
FY             00/01         01/02       02/03
Annual            60           120          50
Cumulative        60           180        230
-63-



Appendix 8. Project Cost and Financing
Table 5: Project Cost by Financier
Project Cost By Category        GOE               IDA              Total
US$ million      US$ million      US$ million
Goods (import list)                 0              109.9             109.9
Works                              4.9              44.0             48.9
Goods                               0               41.1             41.1
Consultants and Training            0               35.0             35.0
Operations (GOE financed)           1.6              0                 1.6
Community Contributions             6.6              0                6.6
Total Project Costs                13.1            230.0            243.1
Table 6: Project Cost by Component
Project Cost by Component    Base    Contingency    Total        GOE        IDA
US$m        US$m        US$m       US$m       US$m
Rehabilitation (import list)    112.5       4.0       116.5         6.6      109.9
Household Benefits             52.0         1.9         53.9        0         53.9
Housing Reconstruction         50.0         1.6         51.6        0         51.6
Unallocated                     2.8         0.0          2.8        0          2.8
Community Contributions         6.2         0.4          6.6        6.6        0
Operations                      1.5         0.1          1.6        0          1.6
De-mining                      29.0         1.0        30.00        0         30.0
De-mining Services             25.0         0.9         25.9        0         25.9
Equipment and Vehicles          1.7         0.0          1.7        0          1.7
Consultants and Training        2.3         0.1          2.4         0         2.4
Reconstruction (roads)         82.1         8.9        91.0         4.9       86.1
Works                          42.0         6.9         48.9        4.9       44.0
Equipment and Vehicles         36.3         1.5         37.8        0         37.8
Consultants                     3.8         0.5          4.3         0         4.3
Institutional Support           5.3         0.3          5.6        1.6        4.0
Equipment and Vehicles          1.5         0.1          1.6        0          1.6
Consultants and Training        2.3         0.1          2.4         0         2.4
Operations (GOE financed)       1.5         0.1          1.6         1.6       0.0
Total Cost                    228.9        14.2       243.1        13.1      230.0
Note: Project costs exclude taxes and duties estimated at US$11 million.
-64-



Appendix 8: Project Cost and Financing
Table 7: Procurement Arrangements
(Non ICB/NCB Aggregated as Other in US$ Million Equivalent)
._______________                             PROCUREMENT METHOD
International  National
Competitive Competitive            Consulting
Bidding      Bidding     Other    Services   N.B.F.      Total
Positive List of Imports                           109.9                           109.9
(109.9)                         (109.9)
Services                                           25.9       9.1                  35.0
(25.9)     (9.1)                (35.0)
Vehicles and Equipment     40.0                    1.1                             41.1
(40.0)                  (I. 1)                          (41.1)
Operating Costs                                                          8.2        8.2
Civil Works                             19.5       29.4                            48.9
(17.6)     (26.4)                          (44.0)
Total                      40.0         19.5      166.3       9.1        8.2       243.1
(40.0)      (17.6)     (163.3)     (9.1)               (230.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
- N.B.F. (not Bank financed)
-65-



Schedule A: Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
SCHEDULE A: TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
(a)  Time taken to prepare and process the project 2 months
(b)  Identification                           September 11 -21, 2000
(c)  Appraisal - Negotiation                  October 4 - November 2, 2000
(d)  Planned Board Presentation               December 5, 2000
(e)  Planned Effectiveness                    January 1, 2001
(f)  Planned Closing Date                     December 31, 2003
Names of staff who worked on the project:
Robert Roche             Team Leader
Gaiv Tata                Co-Team Leader
Assaye Legesse           Agricultural Crop Specialist
Elizabeth Adu            Lead Counsel
Eshetu Yimer             Financial Management Specialist
Gebre Okubagzhi          Senior Health Specialist
Getahun Gebru            Senior Operations Officer - Social Sector
Hagos Araya              NGO Officer
John Riverson            Senior Highway Engineer
Matthew Verghis           Senior Economist
Mohammed Ahmed           Livestock Specialist, ILRI
Negede Lewi               Senior Operations Officer - Roads and Energy
Perla San Juan           Program Assistant
Pierre Pont               Social Development Specialist - Post Conflict
Samuel Haile Selassie    Procurement Analyst
Siaka Bakayoko           Senior Financial Management Specialist
Subhash Dhingra          Senior Procurement Officer
Sudeshna RoyChoudhury   Consultant
Yeshi Gizaw              Team Assistant
Yitbarek Tessema         Operations Officer - Water and Urban
-66-



Schedule B: Status of Bank Group Operations for Ethiopia
SCHEDULE B: STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS FOR ETHIOPIA
Closed 61
Projects
Active                                                                                                       Difference Between
Projects
Last PSR                                                 Expected and Actual
Supervision Rating bI           Original Amount in US$             Disbursements
Millions
Project ID  Project Name                Development Implementation  Fiscal   IBRD      IDA   GE  Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig.  Frm
Objectives    Progress    Year                                                     Rev'd
P000733   AG. RESEARC & TRAIN          HS                S         1998          0      60     0        0     50.2      9.3
P000758   CALUB ENERGY DEV. PR         U                 U         1994          0     74.3    0        0     58.7      61
P000732   EDUCATION SECTOR             S                 U         1998          0     100     0        0    69.9    18.3
INVESTMENT
P000736   ENERGY II                    S                 S         1998          0     200     0        0    149.1    33.6
P000771   ESRF I                       S                 S         1996          0     120     0      11.5    47.9      62
P069886   ETHIOPIA HIV/AIDS PROJECT  #                             2001          0       0     0        0        0        0
P000756   HEALTH SECTOR                S                 U         1999          0     100     0        0     85.4    32-3
P000753   NAT. FERTILIZER PROJ         S                 S         1995          0     120     0       0.1    19.7    16.2
P000752   NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT   U                     S         1995          0      22     0        0     11.3    12.7
P000734   ROAD REHABILITATION          S                 S         1993          0      96      0       0     30.8    36.5
P000755   ROAD SEC. DEV. PROG.         S                 S         1998          0   309.2     0        0   238.2   114.1
P000764   WATER SUPPLY DEV&REH         S                 S         1996          0     35.7    0        0     18.2    22.5
P050342   WOMEN'S DEVELOPMENT          #                           2001          0       5     0        0        5        0
INITIATIVES PROJECT
Total:        0   1242.2    0      11.6   784.5   418.5
-67-



Schedule C: Summary of IFC Programs for Ethiopia
SCHEDULE C: SUMMARY OF IFC PROGRAMS FOR ETHIOPIA
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
(In US$ Millions)
Held                     Disbursed
FY         Company Loan  Equity Quasi Partic  Loan Equity Quasi Partic
Approval
0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1999 Sheba       5.00   3.57    0       0
Tannery
Total Pending      5.00   3.57    0       0
Commitment:



MAP SECTION






1                                               45~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~BRD 311 58
15                 /              /                    /                        Red                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REPUBLICr
t                                                          CCtoC~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ERITR'~~~~~~~~~~~~~A-        REP. OF YEMEN 
S   U   D   A   N                    \5         0y lce    A~j~d'F                                                                                                            I        
I' ~~~~~~~.  .  _  em         N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YE M  EN                                                                /    TIGRAY
/  Deb~~~~~~~~~    R~~~~~,  Guelone                                                               / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AFARI  jIBdIJO
Sobek            -N?el~e,,                                                                                                      AMHARA               D0                               - 
ALd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OAI
(00  ~~~~~~~Ad~Z-A FA'R                                                                                                                                di A.6'
~~oeWee                     Tobor               I~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~b          /   DJ~IBOU,T4_            G, u                                                                             SOMALI   -
~~Aleroliel  B,ehirDe  ~~~,,  Tenle0, eooJ'~~~T Te    ~   Deorele ~OROMIYA                                                                     SML 
/        h  ~onji~                     Lre          KogboT.                                                                                       \S..N.NAR.5.
\U0NSHNGML                                         l                                                                                                          
10                 ,                                  Aio       eye   ee       Dbe1                                                                                                             KENYA           /61
heAb    Uiele  IOC                                   er    jcgr eeloeGANDA                                                         
lu                   T~~ Rc      el      g   Al         A          Ddl       ~       DR    WA  '
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6\                                                                                                                                      ETH IOPIA
.-~~00,             0'-SopDube                G,yo TA,l10               C~MC
?GAM         dL ,C C                                     LSe%e                                                                                   Mr-I,eGre,ee      ICL-- -  - - -                        ASPHALT, ALL-WEATHER ROADS
hl,e  E0opr                                             C/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A4AiIi           ,/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~GRAVEL, ALL-WEATHER ROADS
Dererlore  Chide 'Ae,L~~~~~~' -  heel,ereCC   A0~~~~~ ,                             ,      ,//                         -      RURAL AND! ORRUAL   DRY-WEATHEREATHROADSD
\..    Micon  __                                                   Kebri Deher       /                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 SELECTED TOWNS
j  vi                                                                                                                        -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATE! REGION (UNOFFICIAL 1994 BOUNDARIES)
SUDAN    *~~~   s!C$~~f.,\LPR.s:~ ch          ->    D                 m-1 l."2                                      'DCC /                                                                      INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIRS
-~~~~  ~ ~       ~        ~         ee,e ~~~~~~~Sl,ilirdi            2/  e0                                                                100        20         3000
/I                        ~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
/' T~~~~~                                                                                                                 C                       TUe rrep e'oepreAobehy IleMOp fledge EflelolTEe World Oe~~~~~~~~~~~~4-Thi -    p,d.d b h M.  J, fT4W.,d .A
I' ~~~~~~~~~ ~K   E  N   Y   A                                                                                                                                                         -  L41ANC Scep - f-I 6C-p-, O h el0;Wr   C ~~,C



