                            Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)

                                                                                         Report No: AC108
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 06/05/2003
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: ETHIOPIA                                       Project ID: P067084
Project: EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND REHAB.                  Task Team Leader: Robert J. Roche
PROJECT
Authorized to Appraise Date: August 15, 2000            IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: December 5, 2000                         IDA Amount ($m): 230.00
Managing Unit: AFTU1                                    Sector: Other social services (61%); Roads and
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)      highways (19%); Power (18%); Central government
Status: Lending                                         administration (2%)
                                                        Theme: Conflict prevention and post-conflict
                                                        reconstruction (P); Macroeconomic management
                                                        (P); Access to urban services for the poor (S); Rural
                                                        services and infrastructure (S)


I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The objectives of the Emergency Recovery and Rehabilitation Project (ERP) are to: i) help the
war affected people to rebuild their lives and resume productive economic activities, ii)
reconstruct and rehabilitate destroyed and damaged infrastructure to restart the provision of
services; and iii) support macro-economic stability in the country.Towards this end, the original
project includes ERP funding for: (a) household rehabilitation (IDPs in Tigray,
deportees/returnees, and families of deceased bread winners); (b) de-mining; and (c) roads.
Proceeds from the reallocation of existing credits are to finance the following ERP components:
(d) household rehabilitation (IDPs in Afar) and community infrastructure from ESRDF; (e)
HIV/AIDS from EMSAP; and (f) power supply rehabilitation from Energy II.

Due to a shortfall of funds under ERP, the following activities will be implemented under the
restructured Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project (EDRP): (a) rehabilitation of
the remaining 29,000 deportees/returnees throughout the country; (b) rehabilitation of 2000
non-pastoral IDPs in the Afar region, including reconstruction of 880 homes; (c) rehabilitation of
other IDPs in the war affected area that may need assistance following implementation of the
border settlement; (d) reconstruction of 887 homes and 273 businesses in Zalambessa; and (e)
settlement of the Mille-Assab road contract claim. The MOP and an ESA report for the revised
EDRP have been prepared; an environmental analysis for activities in Zalambessa is being
carried out according to EA procedures for the ongoing ESRDF and Energy II Projects.

I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
 (i) Household Rehabilitation: The ERP household rehabilitation component is designed to help
 the war-affected population to rebuild their lives and resume productive economic activities. It
 provides assistance to IDPs along the border with Eritrea through income generation support to
 farming, pastoralist and urban households; housing reconstruction; and provision of basic
 household goods. It also provides income generation support to deportees and to families of

                                                    2
                                                                                                 ISDS



deceased militia throughout the country. Income generation support consists of agricultural
packages for farming and pastoralist households, and training and startup financing for small
businesses for urban households. The agriculture package allows farm households to purchase
livestock (including an ox, heifer and small ruminants), tools, seeds and beehives, and
pastoralist households to purchase livestock (including a camel, heifers, and small ruminants).
Communities determine the cash ceiling that each household can receive, based on an overall
budget for the community, and limits set on the individual households by the project. Support
for the remaining 29,000 deportees/returnees and IDPs, as well as the housing construction
program in Zalambessa will be funded under the revised EDRP

(ii) Community Infrastructure Rehabilitation: Activities under this component are designed
to rehabilitate and reconstruct destroyed and damaged community infrastructure including
education, health, and water supply, administrative and animal health facilities in the
war-affected areas in order to resume basic services. The implementation of the community
infrastructure in Zalambessa will be guided by the ESRDF operational manual and
Environmental and Social Management Plan and a Resettlement Policy Framework.

(iii) HIV/AIDS prevention, care and support: This component aims to reduce HIV infection
and spread by scaling-up HIV/AIDS related interventions for the army, commercial sex workers
and the displaced population as a result of the conflict. The HIV/AIDS component includes the
following four activities: (i) strengthening services for the displaced persons at the local level;
(ii) provision of services to the military and commercial sex workers; (iii) care and support to
those affected and infected; and (iv) coordination and management support to the regional
HIV/AIDS secretariat and the Boards and focal units at zonal and woreda levels which are the
coordinating units for the HIV/AIDS component.

(iv) De-mining: The objective of this component is to carry out de-mining in war-affected areas
to enable the return of the displaced population and the rehabilitation of their homes and
livelihoods. Specific tasks will include: (i) establishment of a humanitarian mine action quality
assurance unit within the Federal Emergency Program Management Unit; (ii) provision of
humanitarian mine action equipment and materials; (iii) training of personnel of the Ethiopian
De-mining Project (500 persons); (iv) landmines and battle area clearance, and disposal; and (v)
identification (level 2 survey) and marking of hazardous areas.

(v) Reconstruction/Rehabilitation of Road Infrastructure: This component would help to: (i)
rapidly rehabilitate and restore destroyed or damaged road infrastructure in the war-affected
areas; (ii) rehabilitate critical road sections and bridges that have suffered serious damage due to
an increase in heavy unexpected traffic and/or the diversion of traffic from the original
import/export route to new routes; (iii) rehabilitate roads to ensure operational efficiency in the
implementation of relief program activities and facilitate the flow of imported humanitarian
cargo in selected chronically drought-affected areas, and (iv) carry out emergency heavy
maintenance of priority roads whose improvement had been slowed down by the war leading to
further deterioration of large sections. The proposed road improvements would also contribute
to reducing infrastructure-related market and distribution costs by reducing road transport costs,
and create additional employment for the war-affected populations to the extent that labor

                                                           3
                                                                                                                 ISDS



 intensive methods are utilized. All road reconstruction works under ERP are only rehabilitation/
 maintenance activities carried out on the existing roads, without changing their alignment or
 width. Eligible expenditures under the Mille-Assab road contract claim will be financed under
 EDRP.

 (vi) Reconstruction/Rehabilitation of Power Supply Infrastructure: Activities under this
 component include: (i) rehabilitation and reconstruction of damaged power supply facilities in
 the four towns of Zalambessa, Adigrat, Bure, and Mekele in the war-affected areas; and (ii)
 replacement of the Ethiopian Electric Power Corporation's goods lost in Assab after closure of
 the border due to the conflict which has severely hampered the power infrastructure
 development program. The power supply rehabilitation activities will be financed from a
 reallocation from the on-going Energy II project (Cr. 3019-ET), and its implementation is being
 carried-out by the Ethiopian Electric Power Authority (EEPCo). This component is to
 rehabilitate and reconstruct damaged power supply facilities. The power rehabilitation work at
 Mekele, Adigrat and Bure have been completed. A major part of the fund for this component
 goes to procurement of goods that are envisaged for the reconstruction of damaged power supply
 facilities. Since the power rehabilitation works involve only a change of poles and replacement
 of distribution lines, safeguard and environmental issues related to resettlement, acquisition of
 land, loss and damage of property will not be triggered. EEPCO has a set of regulations for the
 construction of distribution lines which include details on safety aspects. The social issues
 related to this component is the potential for increased transmission of HIV/AIDS. In connection
 to this, EEPCO has developed HIV/AIDS prevention strategy that targets awareness creation in
 the project areas. It has also prepared a Resettlement Framework for dams and transmission
 lines under Energy II project, which clarifies the principles for social impact mitigation, via
 compensation for loss of properties and livelihood, and relocation or resettlement, monitoring
 and evaluation and grievance resolution mechanisms. The existing set-up will be used for
 project coordination and environmental management purposes. The Environment and social
 monitoring unit of EEPCO will monitor the environmental and social mitigation actions.

I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project beneficiaries include 63,000 IDP households, 68,000 families of deceased and 71,000
deportee/returnee households from Eritrea. About 90% of the IDPs reside in Tigray regional state and the
remaining in Afar. About 30% of the families of the deceased militia reside in Tigray, 25% in Amhara,
20% in Oromia, 15% in Southern Nations Nationalities and Peoples regions and 10% in other regions of
the country. About 75% of deportees live in Tigray and 17% in Amhara Region.


B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)

Comments: The Emergency Recovery Project (ERP) has been classified as a "B" due to its potential environmental and
social impacts resulting from reconstruction/rehabilitation activities under the community, power, and road infrastructure
reconstruction/rehabilitation components.


C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on    for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)

                                                      4
                                                                                                        ISDS


                                     Policy                                         Triggered

    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                         Yes    No       TBD

    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                 Yes    No       TBD

    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                  Yes    No       TBD

    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                    Yes    No       TBD

    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                Yes    No       TBD

    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                 Yes    No       TBD

    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                        Yes    No       TBD

    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                            Yes    No       TBD

    Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                 Yes    No       TBD

    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                      Yes    No       TBD



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Potential safeguards issues relate to (i) rehabilitation activities under the household rehabilitation
component; (ii) community infrastructure rehabilitation; (iii) rehabilitation/reconstruction of road
infrastructure; (iv) reconstruction/rehabilitation of power supply infrastructure; and (v) the fact
that Zalambessa is located in a tense section along the border with Eritrea. There will be no
issues related to medical waste management under the HIV/AIDS component since the latter
focuses only on support for services to affected persons as well as coordination and management
support to the regional HIV/AIDS secretariat, among others.

II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
In light of the recommendations presented in the ESA report, cumulative impacts are not
anticipated as a result of ERP activities.

II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
In light of the recommendations presented in the ESA report, long term impacts in the project
area are not anticipated.

II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
This project was designed to respond to the emergency needs of the population at the time;
hence, alternatives were not considered.

II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Potential negative social and environmental impacts and related mitigation measures were identified by a
multi-disciplinary team during project appraisal. PMUs were established in Tigray and Afar to manage
the household rehabilitation component for IDPs, deportees, and families of deceased in those regions,
and in the Federal Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Commission and their regional bureaus to
manage the household component in the other regions for deportees and families of deceased. Each PMU

                                                       5
                                                                                                         ISDS



prepared an implementation plan for its part of the project. Plans for IDPs set out the budgetary
allocation process, the process of community consultations which is used to prioritize needs to remain
within budget constraints, the process of delivery of cash and materials to beneficiary households and the
screening and monitoring of environmental and social impacts. Plans for deportees and families of
deceased set out the process of beneficiary identification, consultation to agree on a support package,
flow of funds, and assessment of potential negative social impacts. During implementation the PMU
Task Force has tracked these potenital impacts with a view to mitigate them if it proved necessary.

The ESRDF through its regional offices in Tigray and Afar regions are responsible for the
implementation of the community infrastructure component. ESRDF has an operational manual that
provides criteria for an environmental screening of each project during its appraisal, in order to identify
potentially negative environmental and social impacts at early stage. As part of a request for a
Supplemental Credit and in order to comply with current WB safeguard requirements, ESRDF has
produced an Environmental and Social Management Plan (after completion of an Environmental and
Social Assessment) and a Resettlement policy framework in June 2002. The ESRDF safeguard
procedures adapted to ERP will be followed in assessing potential social and environmental impacts in
Zalembessa for the community infrastructure.

The Environmental Management Branch of the Ethiopian Roads Authority will monitor the
environmental mitigation actions, and provide advice as necessary to mitigate the impact of road
rehabilitation/reconstruction.


The power rehabilitation work involves only a change of poles and replacement of distribution
lines, safeguard and environmental issues related to resettlement, acquisition of land, loss and
damage of property will not be triggered. EEPCo has an established Unit (PMU) responsible for
coordination of project management activities for IDA financed projects. The existing set-up will
be used for project coordination and environmental management purposes. The Environment and
social monitoring unit of EEPCO will monitor the environmental and social mitigation actions.

In June 2002, the Borrower prepared an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment Report
(ESA report) to ascertain the potential environmental and social impacts of ERP. It was
concluded that generally, the rehabilitation activities do not show adverse environmental and
socio-economic impacts.

The Governments of Ethiopia and Eritrea have signed letters confirming that they would honor
all debts to IDA regardless of the final disposition of land between the two countries and related
assets that they may have financed.

II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The main stakeholders in this project are federal, regional and local government agencies; affected
communities, individuals, and NGOs. The federal agencies coordinate all components of the proposed
project and ensure that the project fulfills effectively and efficiently its mandate. Regional agencies are
responsible for the overall management and monitoring of the program in the respective region. Program
implementation in the regions is supported by Regional Steering Committees and Rehabilitation Task
Forces which are established at local levels where the majority of the affected beneficiaries reside. NGOs
provide technical assistance, training, and advisory services to target beneficiaries in planning income
generating activities. The target community members are participating in decision-making on beneficiary

                                                     6
                                                                                                        ISDS



assessment and prioritization of assistance.

The project was effectively disclosed between negotiations (Nov00) and effectiveness (Feb01), during
which time the project design was refined with the participation of the beneficiaries. In the ensuing
twelve months local government task forces identified all beneficiaries, informed them about their
opportunities under the project, and agreed on individual household benefit packages. Potential social
and environmental negative impacts were identified during project appraisal, and tracked during
implementation, with a more formal check carried out during the Environmental and Social Assessment.
The biggest risk on the project was that beneficiaries would not make informed decisions, would not
obtain the funds due them, and/or would not purchase the agreed goods. For this reason the ESA was
delayed six months to combine it with an assessment of the first $40 million release of household
rehabilitation funds.

The revised ESA report for ERP will be disclosed to the affected communities, NGOs and other relevant
stakeholders at the same time the revised ESA report for the revised EDRP project is disclosed.

E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy.
Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.


[ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
         in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
         technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
         similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
         safeguard issues.

F. Disclosure Requirements

Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                        Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              9/5/2001          6/15/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          5/28/2003         6/9/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           5/23/2003         6/4/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive        Not Applicable Not Applicable
Directors (For category A projects)

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                       Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                            Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable

Pest Management Plan:                                                     Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable

                                                    7
                                                                                                    ISDS



Date of "in-country" disclosure                                        Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                         Not Applicable Not Applicable

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                             Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                        Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                         Not Applicable Not Applicable

If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.

Signed and submitted by              Name                                               Date
Task Team Leader:                    Robert J. Roche                                    June 3, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:


Approved by:                         Name                                               Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Serigne Omar Fye                                       June 3, 2003
Sector Manager/Director              Jaime M. Biderman                                  June 3, 2003

