Document of
The World Bank                 I         c up
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.2293-AF
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
OF
AFGHANISTAN
March 2, 1979
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Official Rate
US$ 1.00    =      40.00 Afghanis (Afs)
Af  1.00    =      US$ 0.025                                       A
Measures
1 m         =      3.28 feet
1 m2        =    l).76 sq. ft.
1 km2       =      0.38 sq. mile
1 hectare   =      2.47 acres
1 jerib     =      0.19 ha
Fiscal 'rear
March 21 through March 20



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
I.     THE EDUCATION SECTOR ........             ........................  1
Socio-Economic Background ......              .....................  1
Development and Reform of the Education
and Training System ........            ........................   1
Educational Issues  .........           .........................   3
- Equity .      ........................................  3
- Quality .............         ..........................  3
-Primary Teacher Training .....               .................  3
- Vocational Training  ......            .....................  4
- Adult Education .......           ........................  4
Education Development and Strategy .....               .............  4
Manpower Requirements and Educational Outputs .... ...  6
Administrative and Financial Capabilities ............  7
- Public Administration  ......            ...................  7
- Education Finance .......            ......................  7
Ongoing IDA Projects and Lending Strategy ....               .......  8
II.    THE PROJECT ..........           ...............................   9
Introduction ..........           ..............................  9
A                  Objectives and Scope ................................  9
Teacher Training .................................... 11
Demonstration Schools ................................ 12
Academy for Teacher Trainers and
Administrators, ATEA .12
Staff Training Requirements for Project
Institutions .13
Feasibility Studies and Pre-investment Designs .14
Technical Assistance .15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents
Page No.
III.  PROJECT COST, FINANCING,  IMPLEMENTATION
AND DISBURSEMENTS .................................          15
Cost of the Project ...............................          15
Project Financing ....................-.-.--.-.              18
Recurrent Expenditure .............................          19
Implementation ........       ............................   19
Administration ........       ............................   19
I'V.   BENEFITS AND RISKS ................................         22
Benefits and Risks ................................          22
Key Implementation Dates ..........................          23
V.    CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....         ................  24
ANINEXES
1. CHARTS, TABLES AND SCHEDULES
Chart 1      Present Structure of the Education
and Training System ......................         26
Chart 2      Education Pyramid, 1977 ....       ..............  27
Tables 1.1  Comparative Education Indicators .... .....    28
1.2  Budgetary Expenditures on Education ......         30
1.3  Projected Capital Expenditures on
Education at All Levels, 1977-1992 ........        31
1.4  Projected Recurrent Expenditures on
Education at All Levels, 1977-1992 ........        32
2.1  Primary Teacher Requirements,
1977/78 to 1992/93 ........................       33
2.2  Teacher Educator Requirements,
1977/78 to 1992/93 ........................       34
3.1  Technical Assistance ....        .................  35
4.1  Unit Capital Costs and Areas per
Student   ..................................       36
4.2  Contingency Allowances ....        ...............  37
4.3  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .......        38
Chart 3      Implementation Schedule ....       ..............  39
2.  RELATED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE ......         40
General Reports and Studies Relating to Education
Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Selected Working Papers
MAP



AFGHANISTAN
BASIC DATA (1977)
Area                                                         250,000 sq. miles
Total Population (estimation)                               14.0 million
Current Rate of Population Growth                           2.2 % p.a.
A
Per Capita GNP                                              US$ 160
Literacy Rate                                               12%
Primary School Enrollment as a Percentage                   29% a/
of Age Group 6-13
Secondary School Enrollment as a
Percentage of Age Group 14-17                           8% a/
Higher Education Enrollment as a
Percentage of Age Group 18-22                           1% a/
Central Government Expenditures on
Education as a Percentage of Total
Government Expenditures                                11.6%
Central Government Expenditures on
Education as Percentage of GDP                          1.8%
£              a/ gross enrollment ratio



A
&
a



AFGHANISTAN
Glossary
MOE              Ministry of Education
MOHE             Ministry of Higher Education
TTI              Teacher training institute
ATEA             Academy for teacher trainers and administrators
PIU              Project Implementation Unit
CUME             Construction Unit, Ministry of Education
MOP              Ministry of Planning
MOF              Ministry of Finance
MOM              Ministry of Mines and Industry
MOAG             Ministry of Agriculture
MOPH             Ministry of Public Health
GAAED            General Authority of Agricultural Extension
and Development



w
A



I. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Socio-Economic Background
1.01      Afghanistan is one of the poorest countries in the world, with a per
capita GNP of $160 in 1976. Up to two-fifths of the population earn less than
the poverty income threshold of $85 (World Bank estimate). One out of three
infants dies before the age of five and the life expectancy at birth is
only 35 years. Nearly 90% of the population is illiterate and particularly in
rural areas, where over four-fifths of the Afghans live, virtually all women
above primary school age lack any opportunities for further education or
training.
1.02      Afghanistan's current low state of social and economic development
is linked to the rugged topographic and climate conditions of the country,
which constrain the productivity of agriculture and herding, the major economic
activities, and make communications especially difficult. Additionally, the
tribal pluralism, conservative traditions, and prevalence of nomadism and
feudal land tenure arrangements have contributed to the slow pace of moderniza-
tion. However, the Government's development priorities in recent years have
consisted of promoting a modern public sector and providing infrastructure to
support it, particularly in the urban centers, rather than developing the
rural areas and meeting basic needs. This approach has led to a 3.1% annual
growth of per capita GNP from 1966-76, although income per capita in the
villages is only half the level reached in the towns.
1.03      In April 1978, shortly before the present project was appraised, a
revolution terminated the existing republican regime and established the
Democratic Republic of Afghanistan under a Supreme Revolutionary Council.
The new Government has announced the following objectives and policies, inter
alia, to be pursued: (i) implementation of land reforms, expansion and
improvement of irrigation; (ii) improvements in domestic and foreign trade;
(iii) strengthening of the public sector, especially in the exploitation of
natural resources; (iv) creation of sound public administration; (v) ensuring
equality of rights of women; (vi) promotion of domestic private investment in
medium and small industries and enterprises; and (vii) reform and expansion of
education, training and health care. A new five-year development plan begin-
ning in FY79/80 is to be prepared outlining specific investment priorities and
targets to replace those of the 1976-82 national plan.
Development and Reform of the Education and Training System
1.04      The development of the Afghan education system from a Koranic
indigenous tradition to a modern system which would support economic growth
and social development began with implementation of four five-year education
plans between 1957 and 1976. These plans stressed successively:
(a) expansion of primary education with particular emphasis on
rural development needs;



- 2 -
(b) increased expansion of secondary and technical education;
(c) equalization between educational levels and regions and
reduction of illiteracy; and
(d) qualitative improvements.
1.05      Following the "Education Policy Statement 1975," a fifth plan, the
Seven-Year National Education Development Plan, 1976-82, extended primary
education from six to eight years and correspondingly reduced secondary
education from six to four years.  The plan provided for more rapid expansion
of primary education, and a more balanced distribution of secondary general
enrollments, but with emphasis on vertical expansion to provide more years of
schooling, as opposed to improving the low level of participation in basic
education. For higher education, the stated objectives were to increase
substantially enrollments in technical fields to adjust the supply of graduates
to manpower requirements. A new ministry with responsibility for higher
education (MOHE) and pre-service teacher training was established. Teacher
training courses were extended from one to two years for primary school
teacher training and from two to four years for secondary school teacher
training, undertaken at the post secondary level. In principle, considerable
administrative authority was transferred to the 29 provincial directorates
(28 provinces and Kabul City), but in practice the system remains highly
centralized.
1.06      In the three years prior to the introduction of the reforms in the
school year 1975/76, enrollments increased annually at about 4%, 6% and 7%
respectively, for primary, secondary and higher education, while during the
last two years, annual growth rates have changed to about 7%, 1% and 30%,
respectively. Enrollments for 1977/78 were approximately 889,000, 94,000 and
16,000 for primary, secondary and higher education, respectively, representing
about 29%, 8% and 1% of the relevant age groups. Such expansion has not been
matched, however, by progress in redressing inequalities in educational
opportunity by region and by sex or in improvements in education provision.
1.07      The government intends, effective March 31, 1979, to eliminate grades
11 and 12 from the secondary school level and to divide the present basic edu-
cation system (grades 1-8) into two cycles, grades 1 to 4 and grades 5 to 8.
Under this arrangement, schools with grades 1 to 4 would be provided in smaller
villages and schools with grades 1 to 8 would be provided in larger, more
centrally located villages.  As the teacher training institutes (TTIs) in
this project would continue to train teachers for both cycles, the impact of
this change upon the project will be restricted to changes in the curriculum
of the TTIs corresponding to changes in the primary school curricula resulting
from the inclusion of subject matter now taught at the secondary school level,
as the length of primary and secondary schooling will be reduced from 12 to
10 years. The committee that has been established to coordinate curriculum
development in the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Higher Education



(para. 2.0_) will ensure that the necessary adjustments in the curricula of
the TTIs will be made.
Educational Issues
1.08      Equity.  Participation rates for 1977/78 in primary and secondary
education at 29% and 8% are among the lowest in the world, and girls comprise
only 16% and 13%, respectively, of total enrollments in these levels. Inequal-
ities are also widespread among provinces; participation rates at the primary
level range from 85% in Nimroz to 20% in Zabul for boys, and 58% in Kabul City
to 1% in Wardak for girls; in secondary education, Kabul City is far ahead
with over 50% and 30% participation for boys and girls, respectively, as
against Badghis and Oruzgan with about 4% and 0.1%. The wide range in par-
ticipation rates can be attributed mainly to the very mountainous terrain,
dispersed population and underdeveloped communications systems as well as to
the continuing conservative attitudes to schooling in remote areas. Repeater
and attrition rates are high at 24% and 7% respectively for primary and 20%
and 7% for secondary education. Only 9% of the secondary school enrollment
is in vocational schools and of these only about 5% are girls.
1.09      Quality.  The increases in enrollments that have taken place have
occurred with very little improvement in quality. Little progress has been
made on the first education plan objective of reforming curricula to relate
to the needs of rural development, and curricula in primary and secondary
education have remained literary. The high proportion of unqualified teachers--
about 50% in primary, 21% in secondary education--is another important contri-
buting factor to lack of improvement in the quality of education. Indeed, in
the teacher training institutes, an ill-adapted curriculum, a lack of modern
teaching methods, equipment and textbooks as well as obsolete buildings and
poor administration, have resulted in low standards of performance even among
those who are considered qualified teachers in primary and secondary schools.
Only about 15% of the existing primary school teachers are women. The average
pupil/teacher ratio for primary at 37:1 is acceptable but there are wide
variations across the country; contrariwise, the average for secondary general
education at 18:1 is low and could well be raised to 25:1. Most schools are
in poor physical condition and are lacking in equipment and textbooks.
Centers for curriculum and textbook development, science upgrading, audio-
visual aids and radio/TV attempting to support educational development are
scattered in obsolete buildings with equipment shortages and are ineffective.
Educational administration is also weak at central, provincial and institu-
tional levels.  Educational planning and evaluation in the Ministry of Educa-
tion (MOE) and in the provincial directorates is poorly developed; supervision
is inadequate, and trained personnel and the means to follow through on
setting and maintaining standards throughout the country are lacking.
1.10      Primary Teacher Training.  In 1977/78, primary teacher training was
provided for 4.822 post-secondary level students (50% girls) in 14 TTIs
located in 12 provinces, with an annual output of about 2,400 graduates. The
curriculum is too literary-oriented and the institutes lack both facilities
and equipment for training in natural sciences, crafts and home economics.
These TTIs are housed in inappropriate, badly maintained and vastly overcrowded



-4-
buildings. Administration of the institutes is generally very poor; standards
on planning, discipline, hygiene and environment are very low. The current
output of teacher trainers is limited to 25 annually from the existing Academy
for Teacher Trainers in Kabul, which is housed in unsuitable and obsolete
buildings. In-service training for about 800 teachers annually is conducted
in the TTIs in an attempt to upgrade progressively the approximately 13,000
unqualified teachers.
1.11      Vocational Training.  Several ministries conduct training courses
for employees or future employees, but vocational training remains still at an
embryonic stage. Among the most important courses are those conducted by the
Ministries of Public Health, Agriculture (Extension Department), Finance
and Defense and some State enterprises.
1.12      Training of nurses, midwives and auxiliaries is offered in schools
operated by the Ministries of Public Health and of Higher Education. Para-
medicals, auxiliary dentists, x-ray technicians and laboratory, pharmacy and
sanitary technicians are trained in schools of the two Ministries and of the
Institute of Public Health. The training program is not effective in dealing
with the present problems of: (i) a shortage of auxiliary nurse/midwives and
female nursing personnel; (ii) a maldistribution of existing personnel; and
(iii) a maladjustment between course content and job requirements.
1.13      Training of agricultural extension staff is the responsibility of
the General Authority of Agricultural Extension and Development (GAAED) of the
Ministry of Agriculture, which also directs the extension services for farmers
and coordinates the extension activities of other Government agencies as well.
The secondary level agricultural vocational schools of the MOE, being financed
by the second IDA education credit, will supply most of the new entrants to
field extension work. Deficiencies in the in-service training of extension
staff and in the coordination of farmer training programs at all levels, the
management of the training centers, orientation and follow-up courses, and
the development of training material are of major concern to the Government.
1.14      Adult Education.  Very little progress has been made on the reduction
of illiteracy which is estimated at an extremely high 88%. Programs are
organized by the National Directorate of Adult Education and the Afghan
Women's Welfare Society, both responsible to the MOE, and are administered by
the provincial directorates. The four main target groups are: (i) farmers,
(ii) cooperative members, (iii) women, and (iv) new migrants to urban areas.
Teaching methods have been faulty and the levels of motivation and enthusiasm
required for success have yet not been instilled into the people.
Education Development Strategy
1.15      A result of the April 1978 political revolution has been the crea-
tion of a completely new framework for national development and for the
evaluation of sectoral issues and strategies. The chronically severe socio-
economic problems that have caused Afghanistan to remain one of the least
developed countries of the world and that beset the education/training
sector remain of course as before, but early indications are that the will of



- 5 -
the new Government to tackle these at source is strong. IDA has been specially
requested by the new Government to assist with the development of appropriate
strategies and approaches to help overcome deficiencies in the school system,
in related training subsectors including industry, health and agriculture, and
in the field of management and administration.
1.16      The main issues/problems to be tackled by the new Government include
in summary: (i) low schooling enrollment (less than 30% of the relevant age
group in primary schools); (ii) less than 5% of eligible girls in primary
school; (iii) almost 90% illiteracy; (iv) inadequate curricula; (v) poor
school buildings, (vi) poorly trained teachers; (vii) low efficiency; (viii)
insufficient teaching materials; (ix) skewed school place distribution against
rural areas; (x) inadequate staffing of health services; (xi) unsystematized
agricultural extension and farmer training service, under-provided in both
personnel and materials; and (xii) an all pervasive poor planning anid manage-
ment infrastructure.
1.17      The main thrust of IDA's critique of the school system and suggested
lines for its improvement are contained in the Bank's 1978 Economic Report.
The new Government has accepted this critique as a basis for a program of
change. New priorities have been articulated which put a premium on achieving
goals that include universal literacy, generalizing basic learning cipportuni-
ties, and expanding and improving the efficiency of training subsectors
(industrial/vocational, agriculture and health) as part of a general. effort to
democratize educational opportunity and attack poverty in rural and urban
areas.
1.18      As a first step in devising viable detailed strategies, IDA partici-
pated with the concerned ministries in a sector study in September/October
1978, the results of which will be submitted to and discussed with government
in mid 1979. It is expected that the Government will publish a new education
plan by September 1979. In the meantime, planning targets have been set by
the MOE based on growth rates of 8%, 6%, and 4% at primary, secondary and post-
secondary levels, respectively, which if realized would result in pc.rticipation
rates of 51%, 10% and 2% of the respective age groups by 1987.
1.19      Obviously a considerable effort will be required to achieve the
proposed development objectives, particularly at the primary level. Steady
expansion is required not only to increase very low participation rates but
also to keep pace with an annual population growth of 2.2%. The very strong
effort required to achieve equalization of opportunities (and rational school
location) will be assisted by the use of planned school mapping; in this
regard increased numbers of women are being encouraged to enter primary school
teaching to improve girls' participation in primary schooling, particularly
in rural areas where parents are reluctant to send their daughters to schools
with all-male teaching staffs. In addition, the establishment of smaller,
terminal satellite schools (4 grades) related to full, centrally located
schools with the complete range of grades (1 through 8) could serve students
in the earlier grades in a wider geographical area. The existing primary
schools could be converted to full grade 1 to 8 or to satellites, depending
on their locations and catchment areas.



- 6 -
1.20      A major effort will be required also to improve qualitatively the
system and to implement curriculum reforms adapted to the needs of economic
and social development. In a country where the rural population amounts to
85% of the total and where some 70% of the labor force is engaged in agricul-
ture and crafts accounting for about 57% of the nation's total production, it
is imperative that education make a more important contribution to the national
economy through more direct influence in the development of agriculture, live-
stock and crafts. The primary school will contribute towards the above national
objectives by the upgrading of natural sciences, crafts and home economics, and
by gearing them to local development needs to make the school more meaningful
to everyday family life and problems.  The proposed project would support this
reform. A well-maintained school garden with demonstration plots for seeds
and forest nursery, vegetables and fruits, would influence not only pupils but
their parents as well. Similarly, increased emphasis on science and technical
subjects is warranted in secondary general education.
1.21      To achieve the desired qualil:ative improvements in education, the
Government has rightly given immediate priority to raising the low standards
of the teaching force. The Government"s proposals in this respect include:
(i) the replacement as soon as possible of existing unsuitable primary teacher
training institutions with properly equipped facilities; (ii) the expansion on
a regional basis of the primary teacher training network to meet the proposed
annual increase of 8% in primary school enrollments, which will require
at net annual addition to the stock of teachers of about 3,000 initially,
increasing to some 6,000 by 1987/88 ancd over 9,000 by the 1990's (Annex 1,
Table 2.1); (iii) increasing the proportion of women in primary teaching, from
the present low proportion of 15% by providing not less than 50% of places in
primary teacher training for women, so as to improve girls' participation in
primary schooling; (iv) development of a new curriculum to equip the newly
qualified teachers to implement a reformed primary school curriculum; (v)
upgrading the approximately 13,000 unqualified teachers through vacation
programs in the teacher training institutes; and (vi) expanding the output
of qualified teacher trainers to match the needs of the teacher training
iinstitutes.
MIanpower Requirements and Educational Outputs
]L.22     An analysis of the match between educational outputs and the man-
power requirements of the economy is constrained by a lack of data on popula-
tion and employment. The prevalence of nomadism and subsistence agriculture,
the increasing migration of workers to Iran, and the difficulty of obtaining
information on Afghanistan's military labor forces further limit the manpower
analysis that can be undertaken at this time. The population census that
iis scheduled to commence in 1979 and an ILO employment survey for which the
report is now in draft are expected to aid considerably in estimating man-
power requirements.
:1.23     The proposed introduction of educational reforms in primary schools
to initiate pupils into manual and elementary skills will constitute an
important step in orienting the educational system towards more practical
instruction and in preparing students for subsequent job-related training



- 7 -
appropriate to the developing economy. At the secondary level, indications
are that the current rate of output of general secondary school graduates is
quantitatively adequate to meet the needs of the economy for this level of
manpower. At an annual rate of growth of general secondary school enrollments
of about 6%, as currently planned by the Government, the output would remain
adequate into the 1980's to satisfy the manpower requirements at this level as
well as meeting the needs for intake into higher education, including the
expanding network of teacher training. The greatest needs at the secondary
level are curriculum reforms in general secondary schools and to increase the
proportion of secondary students enrolled in vocational programs, so as to
better meet labor force requirements.  A precise quantification of this needed
increase, or definition of training needs, is not possible at this time but it
is likely that the present low ratio of enrollments in vocational programs
(about 9%) will need to be increased to about 25%. The annual projected rate
of post-secondary level growth of 4% appears appropriate to meet the needs
for professional level workers without promoting major labor market imbalances,
but will require further review based on determined needs for individual
disciplines. A better understanding of training needs at the secondary and
post-secondary level is expected to emerge from the IDA education sector study,
while precise training requirements in specific areas will be identified
through studies under this project.
Administrative and Financial Capabilities
1.24      Public Administration.  Strengthening the Government's inadequate
educational planning and management capabilities as well as school administra-
tion is an immediate requirement if implementation of a program of expansion
and improvement of the education system is to be achieved. One of the Govern-
ment's priority objectives is the strengthening of public administration
generally. For the education sector, proposals include arrangements for the
training of a strong cadre of educational administrators, while also building
up planning capabilities within the education ministries. This project would
support both of these measures. Some time-lag is inevitable before such
measures have the desired impact in improving management capability but they
should, in time, greatly facilitate the effective implementation of the
Government's development plans.
1.25      Education Finance.  While enrollments at all levels of the education
system increased about 5.7% per year from 1971/72 to 1977/78, total expendi-
tures on education grew about 11% per year in real terms. From 1974 to 1978,
education absorbed an average of about 16% of the Central Government's
recurrent budget each year and an average of about 4.5% of the annual capital
expenditures. The total public expenditures on education, however, have
remained less than 2% of GDP.  As this share falls short of that achieved by
most other developing countries, Afghanistan should be able to increase the
proportion of its national income devoted to education.
1.26      If the Government expands enrollments 8% per year at the primary
level, 6% at the secondary level and 4% in higher education (para. 1.17),
and provides additional teaching materials, total recurrent expenditures on
education could amount to nearly Afs 8 billion in 1977 prices by 1992, or



-8-
about 30% of the Government's recurrent budget in that year. This projection
assumes that recurrent expenditures by the Central Government would remain
the same proportion of GDP as in 1977 and that GDP would increase 6% per
year, a rate slightly below that foreseen in the 1976/82 Plan. If, as
appears desirable, Government expenditures relative to GDP are increased
from their current low level, the proportion of such expenditures devoted to
education would be reduced accordingly. To provide new student places for
the expanding enrollments, capital expenditure in 1992/93 would amount to
slightly more than Afs 2.5 billion. The total expenditure on education
(capital plus recurrent) would then reach Afs 10.5 billion by 1992/93, or
about 3.3% of GDP.  This proportion is still below the share of national
income devoted to education in many other developing countries, implying that
the financial consequences of quantitative and qualitative improvements in
Afghanistan's education system should be acceptable.  At present the implica-
tions of the projected reform in the structure of the education system, which
the Government has decided upon recently (para. 1.07) on the total expendi-
tures for education are not clear. Because the combined capital and recurrent
expenditures for secondary education under the present structure amount to
only 14% of the total capital and recurrent educational expenditures forecast
for 1992, any savings resulting from the proposed reduction of the secondary
school system to two years will not alter too significantly the above expendi-
ture estimates. Moreover, much if not all of such savings can be expected to
be reallocated to establishment of primary schools with grades 1-4. The
overall effect on expenditures is therefore not likely to differ significantly
from the above estimates based on the present education structure.
Ongoing IDA Projects and Lending Strategy
1.27      IDA lending in education thus far has placed particular emphasis on
agricultural vocational training and improvement of primary teacher training.
The second education credit, 674-AF, provides financing of construction and
equipment for four new agricultural secondary schools and expansion and
equipment for three existing agricultural secondary schools of the MOE. The
credit also provides financing of the pre-investment designs for primary
teacher training and the strengthening of curriculum development, education
material designs and teaching methodologies. The first education project
in Afghanistan (Credit 68-AF), which included assistance for construction and
equipment of three teacher training institutes and four vocational schools,
was cancelled in July 1970 before any construction took place at the request
of the Government, following education policy changes.
1.28      Because the existence of a sound primary school system is a prere-
quisite for the effective development of all educational levels, the present
strategy is to continue to concentrate in this project on means to expand and
upgrade the quality of the primary school system, while also improving admin-
istrative capabilities. For this reason, the proposed project would assist in
implementing the Government's proposals for the construction and equipping of
primary school teacher training institutes, related demonstration primary
schools, and an institution that would train primary school teacher trainers
and educational administrators. At the same time, within the scope of the
project, attention would be given to improving local capabilities in (i)
education project implementation, (ii) education planning and school mapping,
and (iii) evaluation and supervision of primary teaching.



- 9 -
1.29      As the currently proposed project would have a major impact on
meeting the immediate needs of the primary school teacher training subsector,
other priority areas would be considered next, to include assisting in: (i)
improving the stock of primary schools and providing adult education centers;
(ii) developing agricultural extension and farmer training centers; (iii)
providing training related to the basic health care program for rural areas;
and (iv) developing specialized technical institutions for which feasibility
studies and a preinvestment design are included under this project.
II.  THE PROJECT
Introduction
2.01      The proposed project was prepared by the Government within the
context of the second education credit and following exploratory talks with
an IDA reconnaissance mission in October 1977 and a preparation assistance
mission in March 1978. The project was appraised during June 22 - July 13,
1978 by Messrs. A. Andonyadis (architect, mission leader), J. McCabe (educa-
tion planner), R. Prosser (economist) and Ms. C. Fallert (YP economist).
Messrs. B. Liese (health training PAS) and E. Nicholson (agricultural training
consultant) joined t-he mission during July 1-12. All the items requested
by the Government and which had been previously identified were appraised.
Some items identified by the reconnaissance mission were, in agreement with
the Government, deferred to a possible fourth project (FY 1980) due to their
lack of preparedness. These include the items related to the National
Education Materials Center and the agricultural extension schools. Others
such as the nursing schools were dropped because they were already in advanced
stages of construction and alternative sources of financing were available.
Objectives and Scope
2.02      The project is designed to assist in carrying out the government's
strategy to regionalize and improve primary teacher training, to supply
urgently needed teachers and educational administrators and to facilitate the
training of women teachers. About one-half of all student places, including
boarding accommodations, are set aside for female trainees. The project also
includes: (i) feasibility studies to determine training needs and required
training facilities in the areas of management and planning, public and
private sector accounting, mining, and for paramedical personnel, and (ii) a
preinvestment design for training facilities related to the proposed improve-
ment and expansion of the agricultural extension service. The project would
comprise:



- 10 -
(a) architectural design, construction, furniture and equipment for
a national network of modern Teacher Training Institutes (TTI)
Students Places                    Boarding Places
Teacher             Renovation and                         Estimated
Training             Supplementary                            Annual
Institutes Provinces   Facilities  Replacement New Total   Output  Renovated New Total
Kabul I    Kabul City        -                     243   960    460          -     515   515
1,435
Kabul II   Kabul City        -                     242   960    460          -     720   720
Ghazni     Ghazni            -              -      720   720    340         -      540   540
Bost       Helmand           -            123      597   720    340          -     540   540
Sheberghan Jowzjan           -              -     480   480    230          -      360   360
Kunduz     Kunduz          240             96      624   960    460       180      540   720
E4azar-
-i-Sharif  Balkh           635              -       85   720    340       270      270   540
Total          875          1,654   2,991 5,520  2,630        450   3,485 3,935
7 Demonstration
schools for TTIs:
Same as above           612 /1            -   3,672 4,284    480          -        -      -
1 academiy for
teacher trainers
and administrators
(ATEA) /2   Kabul City  -               25      305   330    300          -      250   250
'1  Modernization required only for existing Kabul I demonstration school.
/2   Located on the same campus with Kabul I TTI.
(b)  technical assistance related to the above (26 man/years of
experts and 40.5 man/years of fellowships); and
(c)  technical assistance (4 man/years) for feasibility studies
leading to possible design for:
(i) an institute of management and planning
(ii) a school of accounting
(iii) a school of mining
(iv) paramedical training institutions.
(d) technical assistance (1 man/year) for a pre-investment design
of an agricutural extension staff training and resource center.



- 11 -
Teacher Training (MOHE)
2.03      Five of the project TTIs would replace five existing institutes
which train some 2,500 students in very overcrowded and totally unsuitable
conditions (para 1.09) and would provide an increase in the combined capacity
of these institutes of about 1,800 student places; two project TTIs would
be an addition to the system. Altogether, these institutions will provide
suitable accommodation for about 5,500 students. It is expected that about
60% of the teacher trainees in each of the two Kabul TTIs will be women, with
about 50% women students in the other TTIs. Boarding accommodation, which
is a prerequisite for the functioning of these regional institutes, would
be provided for 75% of students in all TTIs, except in Kabul I which has a
higher percentage of students attending from the immediate vicinity and where
boarding is proposed for 54% of enrollments. The first output of 2,600 trained
teachers from project TTIs scheduled for spring 1985 would meet about 55% of
that year's additional primary teacher requirements (Annex 1, Table 2.1).
In-service training to upgrade the present approximately 13,000 unqualified
teachers would be provided in short concentrated vacation courses in the
project institutes.
2.04      Candidates for admission to the TTIs would be secondary school
leavers. An ample number of qualified candidates is expected to be available
to ensure that these institutions will operate at capacity. Training in the
five specializations (Dari, Pashto, social science, mathematics and natural
sciences) 1/ would be completed in four semesters of eighteen weeks each,
with a thirty-four hour week. A well-balanced curriculum comprising academic
and professional studies will be developed to enable the newly qualified
teachers to implement the reformed primary curriculum. Thus, training in
natural sciences, crafts and home economics would be upgraded as key disci-
plines for orienting primary school courses (especially in the upper grades)
towards community development based on agriculture, livestock and crafts,
upon which Afghanistan's economic development will continue to rely. Emphasis
would be placed on the role of the garden as an outdoor laboratory as is
intended also for primary schools. The garden would include rotation plots
for vegetables, soft fruit and tree fruit sections, and forest seed beds.
Teachers would be trained and encouraged to assume a leadership role (espe-
cially the natural sciences, crafts and home economics teachers) with a
view to fostering community development.
2.05      Because the TTIs are the responsibility of the Ministry of Higher
Education (MOHE), while the primary schools for which the TTI trainees would
be prepared are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Education (MOE),
close cooperation between the MOHE and the MOE is essential, especially on
curriculum development, in-service training, supervision of training, practice
teaching, placement of teachers and evaluation. The Government has established
a coordination committee for this purpose, representing the two ministries
concerned. The Government has agreed to forward to IDA, within four months
1/   The Government has indicated that emphasis would also be placed on the
importance of the local languages in the training of the teacher trainees.



- 12 -
follciwing the signing of the Credit Agreement, an outline of amended curricula
for the TTIs and their related demonstration primary schools (para 2.06), to
reflect reforms to upgrade natural sciences, crafts and home economics. The
Government has also given an assurance that a program to supply required
textbooks to the TTIs will be sent to IDA within one year following the
signing of the Credit Agreement. Curriculum development experts whose
services are proposed for inclusion in the project, will assist the Government
with textbook preparation, while printing will be undertaken in the printing
facilities available to the government. In addition, a wide-ranging approach
to incorporating population education in the curricula of the TTIs and the
primary schools is planned. In particular, the important implications of the
inter-relationships between population growth and health and personal welfare
are to be included wherever appropriate in social studies, mathematics,
natural science, home economics and other subjects.
Demonstration Schools (MOE)
2.06      As part of this project, a new demonstration school of 17 classes
(kindergarten and two classes each for grades 1-8) with about 600 places,
would be provided on the campus of each of the seven TTIs, and the existing
demonstration school on the Kabul I site would be refurbished. The experience
in providing elementary skills training for grades 7 and 8 in these schools
will be of particular importance as a guide to effective introduction of these
courses throughout the country. Accordingly, the reform and upgrading of
natural sciences, crafts and home economics in the curriculum would be high-
lighted in the demonstration schools; well-managed school gardens, elementary
science and craft rooms and a practical, meaningful home economics curriculum
would be featured. To ensure adequate practical training opportunities for
the trainees, other existing primary schools in proximity to the teacher
training institutes would also be used.
Academy for Teacher Trainers and Administrators, ATEA (MOHE)
2.07      An academy with 330 places would be provided within the campus of
the Kabul I TTI to replace the existing obsolete academy. A one-year course
would be offered to selected university graduates to train (i) as future TTI
teacher trainers of the specialisms of the TTIs, and (ii) as educational
administrators for future central, regional and institutional administrative
and supervisory positions. In order to assure full capacity use of this
national institute, boarding accommodation would be provided for 75% of the
students.  Women would comprise 20% of the enrollments.  The eventual annual
output of about 270 teacher trainers and 30 administrators will be sufficient
to meet the medium term needs of primary teacher training institutes from the
early 1990s and to improve administration of the education system (Annex 1,
Table 2.2). In the short term, about 180 of the total spaces would be uti-
lized for the training of teacher trainers while the surplus of accommodation
will be used for the training of a strong cadre of education administrators
and planners to implement the Government's education expansion program.
Following two semesters of sixteen weeks each with a twenty-five hour week,
successful graduates would receive a diploma.  About one-third of training
time for teacher trainers would be devoted to common core subjects, one-third



- 13 -
to pedagogy and one-third to their chosen specialism.  The course for admin-
istrators would retain a practical emphasis and trainees would devote one-
third of their time to common core subjects and the remainder to educational
administration, including planning, implementation of plans, evaluation and
supervision. In-service training for teacher trainers, administrators and
supervisors would be provided in seminars and during vacations for about 100
annually.
2.08     As it is extremely important that the most suitable teacher trainees
are selected in the first instance and that the curriculum in the TTIs is
continuously reformed in a realistic manner, it is essential that a good
evaluation system of the training program, including a teacher tracer component
is introduced in the TTIs and the ATEA. The tracer component which will
follow teacher trainees from educational guidance to vocational orientation
and job placement to career development, would prove helpful in maintaining
the relevance of the curriculum. Technical assistance is provided for one
year of expert services to assist in the development of the system which will
be under the responsibility of the department of teacher training of the MOHE.
The Government has provided an assurance that a detailed description of the
tracer component of the proposed evaluation system will be sent to IDA for
review and comment one year prior to the opening of the project institutions
and that it will transmit annually to the Association the results of the
tracer studies for five years following the first outputs of trained teachers
and administrators.
Staff Training Requirements for Project Institutions
2.09      When in full operation in the 1985/86 academic year, the project
TTIs would require approximately 370 teacher trainers. About 100 of the
trainers will be staff from the existing TTIs which are to be replaced, and
the remaining 270 will join the system from project-financed fellowship
training abroad as well as from the ATEA (para 2.07), having its first output
at the end of 1983/84 academic year. In order to assist in the training of
teachers in the development of syllabi for natural sciences, crafts and home
economics for primary schools and the TTIs, and in the initial teaching of
these subjects in the project's eight institutes, ten man/years of experts
will be provided under the project; two experts in natural sciences and home
economics for two years each, and two experts in crafts and pedagogy for
three years each. The experts will be phased with the 10-month training of
11 Afghans in curriculum development, 3 in natural sciences, 4 in crafts, 1
in home economics, and 3 in pedagogy and the 3 to 4-month short training of
another 56 current and future teacher trainers for a total of 25 man/years of
fellowships.
2.10      Following the training abroad of the fellows in courses of 10
months, they will be assigned on their return to the ATEA where, together
with the experts, they will train teacher trainers for the TTIs; the latter
will already have undertaken the 3 to 4-month course programs at suitable
institutes (para 2.09). When in full operation, the ATEA will require, in
addition to the 11 Afghan specialists, approximately 16 full-time equivalent



- 14 -
teaching staff who are expected to be recruited without difficulty from among
university graduates and teachers and who will be trained under the fellowship
program.
2.11      An additional expert.would be provided for 1.5 years to develop a
syllabus in educational administration which will be introduced into the ATEA
and to initiate training of administrators for the TTIs and the ATEA; 4.5
man/years of fellowship training for about 13 future administrators and
senior administrative staff of the TTIs and ATEA are included for improved
educational administration of the institutes as well as for preparing staff to
teach educational administration. Six man/years of fellowship training in
librarianship are also included.
2.12      For the effective implementation and the continuous monitoring of
the technical assistance program, five years for a teacher training expert are
also provided to coordinate the program and to ensure the timely recruitment
of the experts, and the synchronization of the fellowship training with the
recruitment of experts. As the timely implementation of the above technical
assistance program is crucial for the success of the teacher training item of
the project, the Government has agreed to provide (i) a draft program for the
selection of candidates for the 10-month fellowship training in curriculum
development and teacher training scheduled to start in September 1979 and for
the recruitment of experts to be synchronized with the return of the trainees,
will be sent to the Association for comment within four months following the
signing of the Credit Agreement, and (ii) similar programs for the selection
of candidates for the remaining fellowship training and for the recruitment
of experts sufficiently in advance of the scheduled recruitment and training
to permit IDA to comment thereon.
Feasibility Studies and Pre-investment Designs
2.13      The proposed feasibility studies would include (i) a review of
management/administration training needs leading to the possible design of
related items including institutes of management and administration to be
sponsored by the Ministry of Planning; (ii) a review of accounting training
needs leading to the possible design of relevant training institutions to
be sponsored by the Ministry of Finance; (iii) a review of mining training
needs leading to possible designs for a school of mining to be sponsored by
the Ministry of Mines and Industry; and (iv) a review of health manpower
training needs leading to the possible design of related paramedical and
nursing training institutions to be sponsored by the Ministry of Public
Health .
2.14      The proposed pre-investment design would be for a national agricul-
tural extension staff training and resource center to rehouse the Ministry of
Agriculture's Department of Extension in Kabul and to provide facilities to
backstop the improvement and expansion of the national extension service.
2.15      Five man/years of technical assistance are included in the project
for the preparation of the four feasibility studies and the pre-investment
design (one man/year each).  The Government has agreed that draft terms of



- 15 -
reference will be prepared by the ministries involved, in cooperation with
the experts, and will be sent to the Association for comment within twelve
months of the signing of the Credit Agreement.
Technical Assistance
2.16      The program of technical assistance would amount to about 31 man/
years of experts and 40.5 man/years of fellowship training. The proposed
program is detailed in Annex 1, Table 3.1, and is summarized below:
(a) Staff training needs for the project institutions
(paras 2.09, 2.11, and 2.12)    Experts:  16-1/2 m/y
Fellowships: 35 m/y
(b) Institution building in the Ministry of Education, com-
prising 2 years of expert services in educational plan-
ning and 6 months in school mapping; fellowship training
for 5 Afghans in educational planning (20 m/m) and school
mapping (6 m/m) to replace the experts, and for another
4 Afghans in evaluation/observation of training in general
and in specialized subjects for the primary schools and
TTIs (80 m/m); and one year of an expert for the develop-
ment of an evaluation system for the project institutions
(para 2.08)                        Experts:  3-1/2 m/y
Fellowships: 9 m/y
(c)  Feasibility studies and pre-investment designs (paras
2.13 and 2.14)                     Experts:  5 m/y
(d) To assist the Project Implementation Unit in the imple-
mentation of the physical aspects of the project, 4 years
of expert services in construction administration and
2 years in procurement.            Experts:  6 m/y
2.17      The technical assistance program referred to in (a) above would
complement ongoing assistance for existing and future staff of the TTIs and
the ATEA being provided by other agencies, notably USAID and UNDP/Unesco.
III.  PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION
AND DISBURSEMENTS
Cost of the Project
3.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at Afs 1,280.2 million or
US$32.0 million equivalent. The estimated total cost and foreign exchange
components by main project items are summarized below:



- 16 -
Afs Millions         US$ Millions         % of Base-
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total   Line Cost
Teacher training:
- One teacher training       93.3   73.5  166.8   2.3    1.9    4.2           16.8
complex comprising a
teacher training insti-
tution of 960 places
and an academy for
teacher trainers of
330 places
- One teacher training       68.8   53.3  122.1   1.7    1.4    3.1           12.3
institution of 960
places
- Twc, teacher training    150.8  108.8  259.6   3.8    2.7    6.5            26.1
institutions of 720
places each
- One teacher training       58.6   42.3  100.9   1.5    1.0    2.5           10.1
institution of 480
places
- Expansion and renovation
of a teacher training
institution of 960 places  82.6   60.8  143.4   2.1    1.5    3.6             14.4
- Expansion and renovation
of a teacher training
institute of 720 places    61.9   47.4  109.3   1.5    1.2    2.7             11.0
Techniical assistance:
- Educational                 7.6   43.2   50.8   0.2    1.1    1.3            5.1
- Institution building        1.9   12.3   14.2   0.0    0.3    0.3            1.3
- Project implementation    8.4   14.0   16.4   0.1    0.3    0.4              1.6
- Five Studies                1.8   10.2   12.0   0.0    0.3    0.3            1.3
Base:Line cost              529.7  465.8  995.5  13.2   11.7   24.9         100.0
Contingencies:
- Physical                  52.3    42.9   95.2   1.3    1.1    2.4          9.6
- Price Increase            99.1    90.4  189.5   2.5    2.2    4.7         19.0
Sub-itotal                 151.4   133.3  284.7   3.8    3.3    7.1         28.6
Total Project Cost         681.1   599.1 1280.2  17.0   15.0   32.0



- 17 -
3.02      A breakdown of estimated project costs into local and foreign cost
elements by categories of expenditure is summarized as follows:
% of
Afs Millions           US$ Millions          Baseline
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total           Cost
Construction:
Academic and communal
facilities            253.1  142.4  395.5    6.4    3.5    9.9           39.7
Boarding                  91.3   51.3  142.6    2.3    1.3    3.6           14.3
Staff housing             28.1   15.8   43.9    0.7    0.4    1.1           4.4
Site development          37.3   20.9   58.2    0.9    0.5    1.4           5.9
Subtotal        409.8  230.4  640.2   10.3    6.7   16.0           64.3
Professional services:    31.8    0.0   31.8    0.8    0.0    0.8              3.2
Furniture:                  61.2   36.0   97.2    1.5    0.9    2.4            9.8
Equipment:                  13.9  125.1  139.0    0.3    3.2    3.5           13.9
Subtotal         75.1  161.1  236.2    1.8    4.1    5.9           23.7
Technical assistance:       13.0   74.3   87.3    0.3    1.9    2.2            8.8
Baseline cost            529.7  465.8  995.5   13.2   11.7   24.9          100.0
Contingencies:
Physical                  52.3   42.9   95.2    1.3    1.1    2.4           9.6
Price increase            99.1   90.4  189.5    2.5    2.2    4.7          19.0
Subtotal        151.4  133.3  284.7    3.8    3.3    7.1           28.6
Total project cost         681.1  599.1 1280.2   17.0   15.0   32.0
3.03      Basis of Cost Estimates.  Project cost estimates exclude any identi-
fiable import duties and taxes. Estimated civil works costs for the proposed
project are based on unit prices derived from current contracts of an equivalent
quality of construction envisaged for the project institutions and provide for
durable construction, reduced maintenance requirements and basic installations
such as sanitary facilities, water supply and electricity. Furniture and
equipment costs are based on current CIF prices and are adjusted upward to
include local transportation and installation. Costs for the professional
services are based on current operating costs of the Construction Unit of the
Ministry of Education, which is assigned the responsibility for all designs
and site supervision (para 3.09). The costs of the technical assistance
components are based on prevailing international remuneration of specialists
and costs of fellowship training abroad, estimated at US$5,000 and US$1,000



- 18 -
per man/month respectively. Baseline cost estimates have been adjusted to
reflect the anticipated prices of January 1, 1979.
3.04      Contingency Allowance.  The project cost includes a contingency
allowance for unforeseen physical additions equal to 10% of the estimated cost
of civil works, furniture and equipment and professional services and 5% of
the estimated cost of technical assistance. The project cost also includes
price escalation contingencies calculated for the period beginning January. 1,
1979 in accordance with an agreed schedule of implementation. Annual rates
of price increases for various categories of expenditures are indicated in
Annex 1, Table 4.2. Prices are expected to increase during the project
implementation period by about 17.8% for civil works, 15.5% for furniture,
19.0% for equipment, 9.0% for professional services and 18.5% for technical
assistance.  Accordingly, aggregated price increases are estimated at about
18% of baseline cost.  Total contingencies are estimated to be about 28.6% of
the baseline cost and 22.2% of the project cost including contingencies.
3.05      Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange component
is US$15.0 million equivalent or about 47% of the total project cost.  The
calculations of the foreign exchange component are based on the expectation
that: (i) about one-half of the civil works contracts will be awarded to
foreign firms, (ii) professional services for the design and supervision of
construction will be provided by the Construction Unit of the Ministry of
Education, (iii) all equipment will be imported and (iv) almost all of the
furniture contracts will be awarded to local manufacturers. The resulting
foreign exchange content of each category of expenditure is as follows:
(i) civil works 36%, (ii) furniture 37%, (iii) equipment 90%, (iv) profes-
siona:L services 0% and (v) technical assistance 85%.
Project Financing
3.06      The proposed credit of US$21.0 million would finance 100% of the
project's estimated foreign exchange costs and about 35% of the estimated
local costs. In the event that external financing obtained for any part of
the technical assistance program would result to any savings, such savings
would be reallocated to another component within the project.



- 19 -
Government              IDA           Total
US$M    %           US$M    %          US$M
Construction                     6.7    42           9.3    58         16.0
Furniture                        0.4    15           2.0    85          2.4
Equipment                        0.3    10           3.2    90          3.5
Professional services            0.8   100           0.0      0         0.8
Technical assistance             0.3    15           1.9    85          2.2
Baseline cost                 8.5    34          16.4    66        24.9
Contingencies:
Physical                      0.9                 1.5               2.4
Price increase                1.6                 3.1                4.7
Total contingencies              2.5    35           4.6    65          7.1
Total project cost              11.0    34          21.0    66         32.0
Recurrent Expenditure
3.07      When in full operation in 1984, the project institutions will
require recurrent expenditures of about 135 million Afs per year, or 4% of
total estimated recurrent expenditures on education at that time. Since
about one-third of the enrollments of the project institutions are replace-
ments rather than additions to total enrollments, the marginal or incremental
recurrent costs attributable to the project institutions in the first year
of full operation will only amount to about 65 million Afs, or 19% of the
increase in total education recurrent expenditures in that year. In view of
the high priority the Government attaches to the project, there should be no
difficulty in meeting these recurrent costs.
Implementation
3.08      Construction of all project institutions is scheduled to be completed
by May 1982 (Annex 1, Chart 3) and all equipment and furniture is scheduled to
be installed by October 1982. The technical assistance component, however,
would continue until June 1984. In order to allow sufficient time for sub-
mission of the final withdrawal applications for the last parts of the tech-
nical assistance, the Closing Date would be December 31, 1984.
Administration
3.09      The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established for the implementa-
tion of the second education project, will be responsible for the day-to-day
management, coordination and supervision of the project. The PIU director
would report directly to the president of the Construction Unit in the Ministry
of Education (CUME) who would have overall responsibility for the project and



- 20 -
for liaising with IDA. The Department of Teacher Training of the Ministry
of Higher Education will be responsible for the day-to-day administration of
the technical assistance program related to teacher training. The proposed
feasibility studies and the pre-investment designs will be under the direct
administrative control of the respective relevant ministries and agencies for
whom the studies and the design would be conducted.
3.10      Preliminary architectural designs and site plans for five project
institutions have been prepared by the staff of CUME, strengthened by an
architect and a structural engineer financed under the second education
project, Credit 674-AF.  Similar designs and plans for the remaining two
project institutions are being prepared by the same group. To minimize
delays in execution and to adhere to the agreed schedule (Annex 1, Chart 3),
the Government has agreed that: (i) the PIU will be reinforced by an expert
in construction administration for four years, and by experts in equipment
specifications and procurement for a total of two man/years which w-Lll be
accomplished with the aid of the technical assistance program (para 2.16 d).
Furthermore, government has begun the task of strengthening CUME, which is
responsible for the preparation of the construction documents and sLte
supervision of the project insitutions.
3.11      Sites.  Suitable sites of about 100,000 m2 for each new project
institution have been selected and existing institutions have sufficient land
for their expansion requirements. All sites will have sources of drinking
water and water for general use and irrigation.  Where the supply of municipal
electricity is inadequate, which is the case in about 50% of the sit:es, an
on-site power generator will be provided. At present, five sites belong to
the Government and local municipalities and procedures for their transfer
to the MOHE are underway. The site selected in Ghazni and the site for the
expansion of the TTI in Balkh belong to private individuals from whom they
are being acquired. Topographical surveys of all sites except those in
Sheberghan and Balkh have been made. Similar surveys of the two latter sites
are underway.
3.12      Civil Works.  The private construction industry in Afghanistan is
going through a period of stagnation while Government-sponsored public
construction companies are entering into the sector. The recent bidding for
the construction of the seven secondary agricultural schools of the second
project did not give satisfactory results; out of the four participants,
three were public companies and only one private; the bid offers were not
complete and in particular offers for electrical and plumbing installation
were not included; unit prices were about 50% higher than appraisal estimates,
including contingencies. The government, in agreement with the association,
is negotiating contracts with the lowest evaluated bidder for each project
school. Proposals for contract awarding, including negotiated price and time
of completion of construction are expected to be sent for review and approval
by the Association shortly. Any cost overruns will be met by government
funds.
3.13      At present it is unlikely that the local industry will have the
capacity to carry out civil works contracts of the size of project institu-
tions and for the entire construction program of the project without undue



- 21 -
delays. In order to encourage participation in bidding by local contractors,
the institutions will be divided to the extent feasible into separate packages
for the various types of works and for building groups for bidding purposes.
At the same time, the government, in order to encourage the participation of
foreign bidders under ICB, has agreed that measures will be taken to facili-
tate the operation of foreign firms in the country by allowing importation of
skilled labor, prefabricated construction components, equipment, etc.
3.14      Bank Review and Approval.  Preliminary equipment lists with quanti-
ties and estimated costs have been prepared for the majority of the instruc-
tional facilities. The government has agreed to forward to IDA for review
and comment within six months completed and updated lists of equipment with
corresponding quantities and estimated costs. The government has also agreed
to forward to IDA for review and comment within four months following the
signing of the Credit Agreement, an outline of amended curricula for the
project teacher training institutes, the demonstration primary schools and
the academy for teacher trainers and administrators, to reflect reforms for
the upgrading of natural sciences, crafts and home economics in primary
schools and for adapting them to the development needs of Afghanistan.
3.15      Procurement.  Civil works contracts (amounting to about US$20.8 mil-
lion including contingencies) would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding.. Local civil works contractors will be granted a 7-1/2%
margin of preference. Supplementary civil works contracts of less than
US$200,000 equivalent will be awarded on the basis of local Government proce-
dures which are acceptable to the Association. The aggregate amount of
contracts to be awarded under local procedures, however, will not exceed
US$2.0 million equivalent. Due to the limited number of local construction
firms capable of undertaking construction contracts of the size of the project
institutions (about US$2.5 million equivalent including contingencies) it is
estimated that up to one-half by value of the civil works contracts (para
3.13) may be won by foreign firms.
3.16      Equipment and furniture items (amounting to about US$7.5 million
including contingencies) would be grouped to the extent possible in large
packages to permit bulk procurement. Contracts for furniture and equipment
in excess of US$100,000 would be awarded on the basis of TCB. Small items
or groups of items estimated to cost less than the above figure, or items
of specialized nature for which ICB would not be practical, would be procured
under normal Government procedures, which are satisfactory to the Association
and would include, to the extent possible, quotations from at least three
manufacturers or suppliers; these items should not exceed an aggregated total
of US$1.5 million corresponding to about 20% of the total.
3.17      Draft tender and contract documents for furniture/equipment and
civil works would, on completion, be forwarded for IDA review and approval;
IDA's approval of tender evaluation documents would be required prior to the
award of all contracts under ICB. IDA reimbursement for all other contracts
would be contingent upon IDA approval of tender evaluation documents subse-
quent to contract awards.



- 22 -
3.18      Disbursements.  Disbursements (Annex 1, Table 4.3) would be on the
basis of:
(i)  Civil works:  58% of total expenditure;
(ii)  Furniture and equipment:  100% of foreign expenditures
and of local expenditures ex-factory; 85% of local expendi-
tures of such imported items procured locally;
(iii)  Technical assistance:  100% of foreign expenditures or
85% of local expenditures.
These percentages would be adjusted if required to assure continued financing
from the available credit funds for the entire period of implementation.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits and Risks
4.01      The project would make a significant contribution towards improving
the quality of the education system at the critical primary school level. The
major benefits are expected to be (i) an annual supply of about 2,600 well-
trained primary school teachers urgently needed to meet the primary school
expansion; (ii) an initial annual supply of about 180 teacher trainers
increasing to 270 to match the expanding requirements of the primary teacher
training institutes; (iii) an initial annual output of about 120 educational
administrators, decreasing progressively to 30, required for the planned
expansion and improvement of the education system; (iv) an improved planning
and implementation capability in the Ministry of Education; (v) reformed
curricula for the primary schools and correspondingly for the primary teacher
training institutes to relate primary education more effectively to community
and development needs; and (vi) identification of training needs and required
training facilities in management and planning, accounting, mining, paramedical
services, and the agricultural extension service.
4.02      An inherent risk, in view of the size of the technical assistance
component, is that of ensuring the timely implementation of the program. The
risk has been mitigated by the provision under the project of a teacher
training expert to coordinate the major elements of the technical assistance
program related to the primary teacher training during the five years of
implpmentation. There are two further risks related to physical implementa-
tion.  The major one is the possibility of delay in view of the limited
capacity of the local construction industry to undertake civil works contracts
of the size of the project institutions. The measures agreed upon to encourage
participation in bidding by small local contractors as well as to facilitate
the operations in the country of foreign bidders should help to alleviate
this problem. A risk of delay also exists due to the limited technical
capabilities of the project implementation staff. The assistance in project



- 23 -
implementation to be given through technical assistance under the project as
well on the strengthening of CUME agreed upon by the Government should reduce
this risk.
4.03      Key Implementation Dates
Dates for All Project
Institutions
Civil Works
- Completion of site acquisition
and topographical surveys                  December 31, 1978 (for five institutions)
March 31, 1979 (for two institutions)
- Completion of preliminary
design and site plans                       October 31, 1978 (for four institutions)
April 15, 1979 (for three institutions)
- Bidding                                     August-October 1979
- Commencement of construction                November 15, 1979
- Completion of construction                  April 30, 1982
Equipment/Furniture
- Completion of preliminary
equipment lists                             November 30, 1978
- Completion of final lists and
bid documents                               December 31, 1979
- Completion of installation of
major furniture and equipment               September 30, 1982
Technical Assistance
- Submission of a draft
program for teacher training fellow-
ships to begin September 1979               June 30, 1979
- Commencement of the long course
fellowship training in natural
sciences, crafts and home economics         September 30, 1979
- Submission of draft terms of
references for the feasibility
studies and a draft work program
for the pre-investment design               April 30, 1980



- 24 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND CONCLUSIONS
5.01      During negotiations, the Government has provided assurances that:
(i)  Outlines of reformed curricula for natural sciences, crafts
and home economics courses to be introduced into the TTIs
and the ATEA will be sent to IDA for review and comment
within four months following the signing of the Credit
Agreement (para 2.05);
(ii)  A program to supply required textbooks to the TTIs will be
sent to IDA within one year following the signing of the
Credit Agreement (para 2.05);
(:iii) A detailed description of the tracer component of the
proposed evaluation system will be sent to IDA for review
and comment one year prior to the opening of the project
institutions and that it will transmit annually to the
Association the results of the tracer studies for five years
following the first outputs of trained teachers and admin-
istrators (para 2.08);
(iv)  A draft program for the selection of candidates for the
10-month fellowship training in curriculum development and
teacher training scheduled to start in September 1979 and
for the recruitment of experts to be synchronized with the
return of the trainees, will be sent to the Association
within four months following the signing of the Credit
Agreement and that similar programs for the selection of
candidates for the remaining fellowship training and for the
recruitment of experts will be sent sufficiently in advance
of the scheduled recruitment and training to permit IDA
comment thereon (para 2.12);
(v)  Draft terms of reference for the feasibility studies and the
pre-investment design will be prepared by the ministries
involved, in cooperation with the related experts and will
be sent to the Association for comment within twelve months
of the signing of the Credit Agreement (para 2.15);
(vi)  The Project Implementation Unit will be reinforced by an
expert in construction administration for four years,
and by experts in equipment specifications and procurement
for a total of two man/years which will be accomplished
with the aid of the technical assistance programs (para
3.10); and
(vii)  In order to encourage the participation of foreign bidders
in civil works under ICB, it would facilitate their opera-
tion in the country by allowing importation of skilled



- 25 -
labor, prefabricated construction components, equipment,
etc. (para 3.13).
5.02      The project constitutes a suitable basis for a Credit of US$21.0
million to the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan.



I
i



AFGHANISTAN III
PRESENT STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
Age: 3-5    6     7      8     9      10    11    12    13         14    15    16    17          18    19    20    21    22    23
Teacher Training
General-
Secondary
Schools
Primary Schools                                                                       University
Vocational & -
Technical
Schorols
Industrial Management
Rel igious Schools
rt X
World Bank- 19252     1
Note: The government intends, effective March 31, 1979, to abolish grades 11 and 12
and to divide primary schooling into two cycles, grades 1 to 4, and grades 5 to 8.



DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
EDUCATION PYRAMIDa/, 1356 (1977)
103 7                                               1
BOY S1 148 6                                                                     GIjRLSbI                           16]
Hiqher TotallI                                                                                                                               531  30j
Boys    12,737                                         .13971  206                                                                                                                                    16
Girls    3,990                                                                                                                                 3      206
16,727 (2%)                                                                                                                          1,612| 307                                              15-
3,706     844                                             14
5,240        2,527
16, 528                 2,213                                         12 -
Boys    81.607                                                                                                               19,291 8                   2,833                                         11
Girls    12,655                                           i0880                                                                                          3,3S5 I  I
94, 262  (9%)
24,908                           4,214                                         9-
46.726                                                7,679                                        8
60,113             .                                                     0, 72                                  7-
Primary Totab                                                                   64,379                                                                                                              6
Boys   748,394                                                        79,77611                                                                                                                         5-
GirlS   141,071
889,465 (89%)                         105,7261                                                                                                                     651                          4-
11 7,0125                                                                                                                    22,505                                 3-
1 18,147                                                                                                                                  2,6                        2~
1 56,502                                                                                                                                                                   31,313                2
140:000           120,100                             8 0,000                     .,.      40,000            20,000               S               2S,OOC            40,000
l,, Ircl.dmin9 general schono s, vocational schools, teacher trainiing pre-service courtes third level institutes and university                                                                                    rnlD
b/ Grand Total 1,000,454                                                                                                                                                                                            ri
rt x
Source: Ministry of Education, Department of Planning, Educational Statistics, 1356 (in print) and                                                                                      World Bank -19253           t. 1-|
Ministry of Higher Education, Department of Planning.
November 1978
a                                                                                                                     ,



-28-                                                      Annex 1
Table 1. 1
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS
MlAIlCII 1 , 1979
GNP/ :    ON?P:  TOTAL:%  OP PUBLIC :                :PRI. :AV.PRI.   ::SEC
;CAFITA: DEVDTEO:PUBLIC: EDUCATION    :LITER-    PRI. :COMPLE- :STU- :SCH.TEACH:PROGRESS-: SEC. :STU- :HIGHER:
AT       TO EDU. :  EXP.: RECURRENT    :ACY         ;ENROLL:TIDN        :DENTS:SALARY INMION RATE :ENROLL:DENTS:ENROLL:
:MARKET: (PUBLIC:DEVOTED:EXP ALLOCATED:  RATE :RATIO :RATE FOR:PER   :RELATION :FROM FRI. :RAT1O :PER   :8ATIO0
FOP. :PRICES: ERP.    :  TO        :      TO:        ( F 0?    NET   :PRI.SCH.:TEACH: To GNP/ :T0 SEC. : NET   :TEACH- GROSS:
YR: MI LLS.1 (US$): ONLY) :  EDU. :PRI. SEC. HI. :ADJLTS): (5)  :CYCLE(%) :ER                  CAPITA   :   M           (5)   :ER      ()
P   ADVANCED
AUSTRIA         74    7S5F 4,870F    5.3Y   eS5EY  2AM   S1Y  15Y   99               99        93D       260      2.00       990       SID      19D   16.65Y
CANADA          75  22.8  7,135         7.3    16.7      30   37    26       99      99        97        19       2.0        99        90       18     16.00
GERMANY F.REP.75  61.8  6,670           5.0    10.2      31EY 64*- 26EY  9,)         90        99        23EY      ...       99?       84Y      22C   20.26Y
JAPAN           75 111.6  4,490         4.3E  20. 7E   400Y 37UY IIUT   99           990       99C       25       2.08       99C       95XY   20C   24.6EY
NETHERLANDS    75  13.7  9,425          9.4    22.40    21   39    25    UIj         95        95        29       2.0        97        80       20     12.00
NEW ZEALAND   73   3.1F 4,280?          5.2    . ..      39   24    29       99      99        99        26       .          99        67       19     24.00
NORWAY           76   4.0  9,043        7.2    14.4      54   24    15       9 9     99        99        16       1.5        99E       82       II     11.00
SWEDEN          76   8.2  9,150         8.9    14.0      23   29    12       09      99        99        16       .          90?       85C      13     30.OOC
U.K             75  56.0  3,780         7.1    13.9      26   41    18       99      99        ...       24       2.0         ...      68       17     21.00K
U.S.A.          76 214.6  7,950         9.4    15.9    . ..   72-* 28        9UE     99        99        22       ..,        99        93       19     24.00
EUROPE
GREECE           76   9.1  2,590         2.6    10.4     37   26   21        1168    99        620       3 1     2,0         TOE       80      27      15.00
IRELAND         74   3.1F 2,390F        5.1    13.90    43?  4lP   14Y    98        108KV      99A      35       . ..        95A       65XY    19      15.47Y
PORTUGAL        75   9.6  1,570         4.4    17.9      52   27    13    .10        96        55        21      3.0         70        29       14      7.60
RCMANJIA        75  21.2  1,240         4.0      6.4     36    19   13    9!]        101K      ...       21      ...         98        49      22      10.00
SPAIN           74  35.3F 2,750F    2.48  15.2A   49Y  22Y  15Y   94A    115KV                 . ..      35A     ...         .. .      78K?    30      17.68Y
A FRl104
ALGERIA         77  16.9       9900     7.5    14.3FV  42    ..   21         35      789       45        39       4.0        55        26X      13      6.00
BENIN           74    3.IF   130F    7.2N  36.0Y   470  230   10D    IID             449Y      708      saY      25.05       436       11KV    398      0.74V
BOTSWANA        76    0.7      410      4.0    19.2      53   20    14        3      729       95       32        3.0        60        12      22       0.30
BURUNDI         74    3.7F   110F    2.5    19.9Q    479  418   12R    10            209       30?      38       10.0        14         2K     18       1 .0
CAMEROON        76    7.7      314      3.7   21.5       33   43    20       ..      60        45        52      4.0         2.0        90     24       0.9OCY
C.A.R.          74    1.8F   220?       3.00   17.00    56B  198 .....    79XY                 25        69V     ...         18         SKY    278Y   0.21V
CHAD            75   4.0       120       3.0    10.0     78   22   . .       IS      2998?    30         EBB?    18.0         a         2KB?   30       0.01BV
C0NGO)B)        74    1.3F   510?       6.0    19.3      40   32    21    507    1339          63        63       6.0        48        33X     22       3.40
EGYPT           78  38.2       310      5.9N    ...      30   32    25      44       76        80       31        ...        79        45      20       12.00
ETHIOPIA        77  29.0       100      2.4    12.5   41       31    14      10      26        . ..     50        .          63         8a     38        .
CARON            74   Q.5F 2,54Cr       5.00  20.60   250   90   liD    ...   100?             25C       46C      9.0        18A       31Y     21C      0.29Y
GAMBIA          78   0.5       170      3.3    11.9      46    25      6     10      27        90        33      ...         92        13      25        ..
GHANA           74   9S9F    530 F       ...   19.7Y   439  22Y  20Y9                60K?      628       30?     ...         148       35KV    ISCY    1.09?
GUINEA          76   4.7       IBOF     4.3N9            30   3 1    30      .       30K       64       45        12F        86        13X     26       4.00
IVORY COAST    76   7.0        610      6.8   23.1       33   46    13       'JA    50         86       43       7.0         47        17XY   26       1.64Y
KENYA           76  13.8       240      5.9   26.0       67   23    10       40      60?       60?      34        6.0        30        16      2?       1.0
LESOTHCO        75    1.2      160     12.0?  23.0       49    lB   20      40       85        50       52        7.ON       el        10      26       1.00
LIBERIA         75    1.5      410      2.4    13.2      27    15   20       7.i     58        ...      35        2.0        ...       12      26       1.10AY
MADAGASCAR       74   8.8?    200?       3.2   22.1      SI    24    25      40      669       30        63      15.0        48         9K     28       1.00
MALAWI          77   5.6       140       2.3     9.3     40'  17   22        29      56X       21        61       5.0         9         SR     21       0.47
MALI            75   5.7?       90F      4.2M  33.OF   4SF  37F  16!    lOP          22SF      . ..      48F     6.5F        SOF        69     21        ..
MAURITANIA      71    1.3F   32Cr        4.1Y  20.OV........   104                   17XY      ...       22A      .. .       ...        3KV    24A4      .
MAURITIUS        76    0.9L-   680       4.7    12.1     50   26       6     S0C     94        99       24        4.5         90       45      32       1.50
MOROCCO         76  18.2       540       8.1    15.2     39R  488   139    211       65X       33       40         ..        33        17X     22      4.00
NIGERIA         74  75.OF   340F    4.10Y 24.2DV  23Y  16Y  421    ..                49XY      ...      340D       .         ...       10KV    20CC    0.4EY
IRWANDA         73   4.1F    100?       3.2C  28.00        ..... ... 23              52        . ..     51        ...        ..         2      13      0.23CY
SENEGAL.        76   5.1       390      3.3   26.0       45    34   20       10      32        ...      49       10.0        20        10      21       1.5
SIERRA LEONE  73    3.OF   20cF    3.4   23.4            31   36    30       15?     34K       45       32        4.0E       68        13K     21      0.53eV
SOMALIA         75    3.2      119      3.7Q  10.80    499  i6Q  19)   50?           34X       86       35       10.0        60         3      15      0.10
SUDAN           76  15.9       290      4.5    19.9      48   36    16       20      34        74       33        3.8        a3        14      24        1.24
SWAZILAND       75   0.5       470      3,5      ---     38   31    19    50         73        71       36        3.6        51       24       22      1.00
TANZANIA        79  18,1       I80      6.6    17.4      42   21    12    iso        sax       si       49        8.6         8         4K     19      0.34
TUNISIA         73   5.6F   730?        6.3   23.4       37   43    18       LUb     72        81       41        6.0        31        14      21      3.00
UGANDA          75  11.6       230      3.40Y 15.70Y  34EV 40EY 22EV   254           53K?      ...      34EV      .. .       144       SOC?   21A    0.56Y
r   UPPER VOLTA   77   5.8         118       3.4    23.9      31    16   32       90c    13        23        51      24.0        19         2      25       1.0
ZAIRE           T6  25.6       140      6.0   22.0       49   26   25        IS      ARK       44       42X       2.0        41       13K      27      1.0O0
ZAMABIA         76   5.1       440      6.8    15.1    54   22   22          39      97K       60       49        7.0        21       16       23      1.50
CENTRAL AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
W   BARBADOS         76   0.2  1,620         8.1   22.1      43   31    16       i)    10611       99       21        3.0        99       94X      17       ..
COSTA RICA      75    2.0      960      5.29  22.78    579  256   120    199J   1055?          658      298       3.08       568      52KV    258    17.15Y
CUBA            76    9.5  9,500        8.0    11.0  .. ...              .. .    9    8, g     98       22        2.7        98       65       15     15.00
DOMINICAN REP.72    4.7F   720?         3.0    13.9      42   24    22      51       80        17       54        3.00       63       13.5   24        7.00
EL SALVADOR   75   4.0         460      3.9    23.9      61     59 22       609      E5C       . ..     39CT      . ..      39        1350    21CV    4.35BY
GUATEMALA       73    6.3F   570?        1.9    16.0     55   23    14    47         64        28       35        3.0        69       Ba       25      4.09r
HAITI           76   4.7       200       1.0     8.0     61   21    11      208      2SF       13       56U       3.0        62        4       ...      0.7
HONDURAS         75   2.9      3900     4.20   18.80    620   15G  190    b3         79        20       35        3.0        69       Il       17      4.00
JAMAICA         76   2.1   1,070        9.9    16.2      37    33   22      AGE      RI        52       39        4.5       94        64      25       7.588
MEKICO           75  59.9  1,050        3.100 12.000  SIY  28Y  lay    76           112Kv      31       46        3.0        63       35XY   23A    8.97EY
NICARAGUA       74   2.3F   700?        2.5    14.2      61    13   13      57       66        21       37        2.0       93        17       24      7.00
TRINIDAD & T. 77    1.1  2,185          4.5    14.1      49    32    20     95       98       91        39        3.0       49        62      24         ..
SOUTH AMERICA
BOLIVIA         76   5.8       315?     5.0    17.5?.        .     .        38       178      290       24       5?         ...,       46     lED
BRAZIL          75 107.0  1.030         5.0    12.4      42E  20E   37E  649         960       ...      27CY      .          ...      260      iSCY   6.00B
CHILE           75  10.3       990      3.6RY 12.5RY  23Y   0OY  500    . ..   IlSay           .. .     35Y       ...        ...      48K?    . ..   16.55Y
COLOMBIA        74  23.6F   580?        3.3DY 21.20?  44DY 223Y  IAY   73           10559     20        33Y      4.0        90        36XY    144      6.67?
ECUADOR         75   7.1       590      3.70  27.7C      ......691                  102XY      . ..     38C       .. .      . ..      38XY    14C         .
GUYANA          74    0.8?    SlOF    5.SN  14.79   47    35    14    834A    92K             39        33        6.0        19       62K     24       1.00
PARAGUAY        74   2.6F   580?        1.8    11.0      5A    i3   22      El      82       26        30        1.9       65        17       12      5.00
PERU            75  15.4       760      4.20Y 21.70Y  401  22Y  150    72           illS?     38        39DV     3.0        70        46KV    230?   14.41Y
URUGUAY         75   2.8  1,300         2.5    15.3      46   34    20      91       939       ...      24                  8 .. .  Ba         ... 1
VENEZUELA       73   12.OF 2,280?       4.6    19.9      30Q  289  350    7 /A       81        . ..     33        2.4        ...      33       .. .   12.63CY



-29-                                                     Annex 1
Table 1.1
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS (CONTD)
MARCH 1, 1979
GNP/      G  NP  IX TOTAL:%  OF PUBLIC I             I:95. IAYPRI.   II                                         IE
:CAPITA: DEVOTEOIPUBLIC IEDUCATION    ILITLR-    PRI. ICOMPLE- 15TU-' :SCH.TEACH:PROGRESS-I  SEC. :STU- :HIGHER:
AT  : TO EDU.:  EXP.    RECURRENT    lACY          :ENROLLITION        :DCENTSISALARY IN:ION RATE :ENROLL:OENTS:ENROLLA'
:MARKET: (PUBLIC:DEVOTEDIEXP ALLOCATED:   RATE :RATIO :RATE POR:PER  :RELATION :FROM PRI. :RATID  :PER   IRATIOD
POP. :PRICES:  EXP.    ITo    :           TO:      1(% UY   I NET  :PRI.SCH.:TEACHI  TC GNP/ :To SEC.   :NET'!TEACH- GROSS:
YR :MILLES.   (U5$): ONLY)       ECU. :PRI. SEC. HI. AUULTS): (%)  ICYCLE(K)IER                CAPITA        ;):()            ER     :()
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AFGHANISTAN    778 14.3        160G      1,8    11.6     47    19   lB       12      296       69       37        3.0G        62        eK     17       1.00
BANGLADESH      73  78S6F       SOP      1.2    20.2     44Y  226  2IT    232        56X       ...      480       .. .       ...      2360    28        ..
CHINA(TAIWAN) 73   IB.OF   93OF    3.2    14.0           26   41    22      BC       98C       94       40       14.0        84        SiC     26     20.OOC
INDIA           76 608.1       140      2,6VY ..         .. ..... 293                65XY      . ..     43A       .. .       I..      29XY    20AV    2.34EY
:NDONESIA       76 130.2       240      3.0    11.3      26   32    15       308     79EK     43E       30E       2.0        52E      1SEK    14E      2.00
IRAN            73  33.4F 166Cr         3.3    12.6      508   iSa  12B    55        77        74A      32        5.09       BOA      24       32      4.32CY
T 'AQ           75  11.1  1, 250       6eTC   16.3CR........    2CC                 9366      ...       22        ...       ...       3566    26C      6.47Y
JORDAN          73    2. 7F   46SF      7.0      6.8     52    iS   21      59)      910       76       38        5.0        84       506      22      4.00
KOREA           78  35.9       698      3.0    15.6Q   65    13       B     ACF   1036        97        60        2.6        80       84       39    14.4
LEBANON         72    3.2F 1I07SF       3.5    18.0      CR   40    10      Ru       868       65       19        2.0        63       26U      25     23.00
MALAYSIA         76  12.6      660       6.7    26.0     42   34    15       BUD     95        93       32        3.7        18        48      283      3.00
NEPAL            76   12.6F    11SF      1.1    10.0     29   20   41        IS      59        28       31        2.3        64        14      24       0.8
OM,AN           72    OREF 2.,30SF       1.7N    3.8     96    -    -        20      246       99       27F       7.0        ...       0.4X     8        .
PAKISTAN        75  89.2       180       1.6    16.2     45   25    18      21       476       50       39        2.0        .. .      17X     18      6.00
PAPUA N.G.      75    2.8      470      6.6    16.1      38    iS   24      32       577       73P      31       11.0        80        12K?    24      0.907
PHILIPPINES    74  42.2F    C6OF        2.5    14.9      73    15    12     8/      1046       ...      34       15.0        ...      46X      1..,   21.00
SINGAPORE       74    2.3F 2,450F       2.7Y    9.2Y   CRY  396   176    755A   10966          72A      31Y       .. .       99A      44KV    24        7.68Y
SYRIA           75    7.4      720      3,6    6.9       39   26    26      53       89        70       36        2.0        82       45       21      12.00
THAILAND         73  41S9F    35SF      40ONF 20. 7F   65       9    15     82       876       93C      32        3.0 U      9iC      21X      24      2.00
TURKET          73  45.2F   ROOF        5.6CY 2G.SCY ... .. .....    866                       ...      346       .. .       ...      246      270Y   5.83V
YEMEN           73   5.9F   200F        0,5      4.0     45P  21P  23F    10         156       18       36        5.O        75         2K     18      0.05BV
YEMEN P.D.R.  76    1.7        260      6.6      I..     57   28      8      Os      895       48       30        5.0        94       21K      24      0.10
SUMMIARY FOR DEVELOPING COUNTRIES:
NUMBER OF COUNTRIES:                    94      90      88    68    85     87       95        74       95          88       77       94       91        84
RANGE:                               (0.5-   (3.8-   (25- (5-   (2-    (3-       (14-      (13-      (19-       (1.9-    (7-       (.4-    (9-       (.01-
12.0 I 33.0)    96 ( 47)  41)    RU)         133X)    99)    69)    25.0 )   99)               80   )  39)    23.0)
QUARTILES:UPPER                       5.1   21.2       54   32   22       73      94        76        46          7        83       36       25      7.0
MEDIAN:                   3.9    16.3      45   23    18      60       78       SR        38          4        83       17       23      2.3
LOWER :                   3.0    12.4      38    18   12      20      53        30        32          3       43         9       20       .9
SYMBOLS: ... DATUM UNAVAILABLE                  A=1970 OR AEFCRE            M=CURRENT PRICES                           SOURCES:
-  MAGNITUDE NIL DR NEGLIGIBLE 6=1971                             N5DCP----
QUESTIONABLE                      C=1972                       P=INCLUDING FOREIGN AID                    COLUMNS:1 AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
*INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS 0=1973                             U~CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                           OR 1580 MISSIONS
*5COMBINED WITH PRIMARY             E=1974                      S=MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                   3 TO 14 IBR0 MISSIONS
**UNDER REVIEW                      F=1975                       S~MOE AN0 STATE GOVT. ONLY                                     AND/OR UNESCO
0=1976               1~~~~~ EKCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                 STATISTICAL
U-PUBLIC ONLY                                                 YEARBOOK
V=INCLUDING PRIVATE EKPENDITURE
X.INCLUCING OVERAGED STUDENTS
Y=UNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DAIS ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUJO EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OP RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HOWEVER,ON THE BASIS GE- THl PRESENT DATA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAUTIOIN. DATA PRESENTED IN OHS ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECIED LARGELY By THE BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES; THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DA-TA FROM UNESCC. EF'FORTS HAVE DiEN MIACE TO STANCAROIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS, To CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS, SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERI ELI IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANE IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
MIND:
1)IYEDUCATION' AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING. FORMAL ARC NON-FORMAL1
2)2VPRINARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LL.VEL AND 'SECODNARY" EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) 
(3)"LITERACY RATES)(COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRYT ULNAUSES. IN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORIM DEFINITION OP "LITERATE' HAS SELL. FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY;
(4)"PsBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATIGN"(COLS.3,4 AND 6) REFER Iu ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO ECUCATION BY
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES:
(5)"ENROLLMENT RATIOS")COLS 7. 12 AND 14) REFER To SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILOREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL, PJBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES OWING TO VABIATION IN THE ACCUBACY OF BASIC DATA)I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARiE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLT IN SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE TH,E RATIOS.



- 30 -
AFGHANISTAN III                                     Annex 1
BUDGETARY EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION                           Table 1.2
(AFS MILLION)
1974        1975        1976         1977        1978
Recurrent Expenditures
Primary                               438         600         716           868         983
Secondary                             255         316         306          344          303
Vocational and
teacher training I/                 134         170         206          197         143
Center                                111         134         158          150          267
Subtotal MOE                          938       1,220       1,386        1,559       1,696
Subtotal MOHE 2/                       -           -           -            93         137
Subtotal University                   197         225         253          189         307
TOTAL Education Recurrent
Expenditure                          1,135       1,445       1,639        1,841       2,140
TOTAL Government Recurrent
Expenditure                          6,300       9,020      11,067       10,945      13,279
% Education Expenditure                  18.0        16.0         14.8         16.8        16.1
Capital Expenditures 3/
Primary                                41         153          58          183         161
Secondary                              51          41          22           36          36
Vocational and
teacher training 1/                  39          69          10           14          89
Center                                 10           3           4            6          12
Subtotal MOE                          141         266          94          239         298
Subtotal MOHE 2/                       -           -           -             5          30
Subtotal University 4/                 32          53          67          248         243
TOTAL Education Capital
Expenditure                            173         319         161          492         571
TOTAL Government Capital
Expenditure                          4,648       6,065     10,550         9,200      20,400
% Education Expenditure                   3.7         5.3         1.5          5.3         2.8
TOTAL Education Expenditures          1,308       1,764       1,800        2,333       2,711
As % Total Government
Expenditures-                        11.9        11.7         8.3         11.6         8.1
As % GNP 5/                             1.3         1.5         1.5          1.8         1.9
NOTES:  1/ Teacher training expenditures included in MOIIE budget in 1978
21 MOHE established in FY77-78
3/ Development budget may include some recurrent expenditures
4/ According to 1976-82 development plan
5/ According to World Bank estimates of GNP
Source: Planning Departments, MOE and Y.O01E; Ministry of Planning



AFGHANISTAN III
PROJECTED CAPITAL EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION
AT ALI, LEVELS, 1977-1992
(In 1977/78 Prices)
New Student Places       a!  Unit Construction &              Average Annual Capital
Required        ('000)-      Equipment Cost                Expenditure
Level                 1978-82            1983-92              (Afs)                 1978-82       %      1983-92       %
AMs m)               (A-f s in)
Primary                 348.6            1,262.5                    c/,0-             767        61       1,389        69
Secondary
General             29.0               90.6             40,000                   232        18         362       18
Secondary
Vocational           2.9                9.0             80,000                    40         3          72        4
Teacher Trainingb/        5.3                6.7            132,000                   138        11          88         4
University and Other
Higher               2.5                6.7            170,000                    84       - 7         114        5
TOTAL                                                                            1,261       100      2,025       100
Notes: a/  No replacement or upgrading of existing physical facilities except in teacher training.  Assumes that
one third of primary school enrollments will continue on double shift.
b/ First phase construction of teacher training places is between 1979-1983. Assumes that teacher training
enrollments expand in advance of construction of new capacity.
c/ Includes allocation for crafts and gardening tools for newly constructed primary schools.
,3 
H rD
e x
A 



- 32-                              Annex i
Table 1.4
AFGIANISTAN III
PROJECTEI) RECURRENT EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION
AT ALL LEVELS, 1977-1992
(In 1977/78 Prices)
Enrollments ('000)a/       Unit Costs         Total Expenditures
Level            1977/78      1992/93      1977/78   1992/93!/  1977/78    %    1992/93   %
------Afs--------    (Afs m)          (Afs m)
Primary               889.5      2,821.6         976      1,755        868       47    4,951   63
Secondary
General           85.6        205.2      4,018       4,907        344       20    1,007   13
Secondary
Vocational         8.5         20.4    15,754       19,524        134        7       398    5
Teacher Training         4.8        18.2    13,065       28,462         63        3       518    6
University and Other
Higher            11.5         20.7    18,307       39,404        210       11      814   10
Administrationi/
(MOE & MOEE)       --           --         --          --         222      12       258    3
TOTAL            999.9      3,086.1                             1,841      100    7,946  100
Notes:  a/  Assuming primary level enrollment increases 8% per year; secondary 6% per year;
teacher training 9%; other higher education enrollments, 4%.
Administration costs assumed to increase 1% annually.
c/  Assuming relative increases in non-personnel recurrent expenditures; 3% per year
real increase in teachers' payments; change in student-teacher ratio at
primary level from 38 to 35; secondary general, 18 to 25; vocational 12 to 15;
teacher training 18 to 15; university 12 to 10; other higher 25 to 10.



- 33 -                                Annex 1
Table 2.1
AFGHANISTAN III
Primary Teacher Requirements 1977/78 to 1992/93 af
Primary      Stock                     Addit. Teachers
Enrollments        of       Attrition       Required
(Gl-8)       Teachers       (3%)         Next  Year
1977/78                     889,465         23,571         707          4,582
1978/79                     960,600         27,446         823          3,020
1979/80                   1,037,500         29,643         889          3,260
1980/81                   1,120,500         32,014         960          3,520
1981/82                   1,210,100         34,574       1,037          3,803
1982/83                   1,306,900         37,340       1,120          4,109
1983/84                   1,411,500         40,329       1,210          4,435
1984/85                   1,524,400         43,554       1,307          4,790
1985/86                   1,646,300         47,037       1,411          5,174
1986/87                   1,778,000         50,800       1,524          5,590
1987/88                   1,920,300         54,866       1,646          6,034
1988/89                   2,073,900         59,254       1,778          6,518
19819/90                  2,239,800         63,994       1,920          7,040
19910/91                  2,419,000         69,114       2,073          7,602
19911/92                  2,612,500         74,643       2,239          8,210
19912/93                  2,821,500         80,614       2,418          8,867
19913/94                  3,047,220         87,063       2,612          9,578
19914/95                  3,291,000         94,029
a/ Unofficial MOE target for enrollments is at 8% p.a.; pupil/teacher ratio 35:1,
reduced from current 37:1 for planning purposes from 1978/79 onwards.



-34 -                                      Annex 1
Table 2.2
AFGHANISTAN III
Teacher Educator Requirements 1977/78 to 1992/93 a/
Additional
Stock                      Teacher Educators
Enrollments   Teacher Educators   Attrition           Required
TTI b/             (a/)             (10%)        Next  Year
1977/78                   4,822                268               27              --
1978/79                   6,200                516               52              94
1979/80                   6,700                558               56              98
1980/81                   7,200                600               60             111
1981/82                   7,800                651               65             117
1982/83                   8,400                703               70             126
1983/84                   9,100                759               76             136
1984/85                   9,800                819               82             148
1985/86                  10,600                885               88             159
1986/87                  11,500                956               96             172
1987/88                  12,400              1,032             103              186
1988/89                  13,400              1,115             111              200
1989/90                  14,400              1,204             120              224
1990/91                  15,600              1,300             130              234
1991/92                  16,800              1,404             140              253
1992/93                  18,200              1,517             152              273
1993/94                  19,700              1,638             164
a/ Based on primary enrollment projections of 8% p.a. increase and
student/teacher ratio for projections of 12:1
b/ Taking account of 5% attrition in TTIs



-35-                                    ANNEX 1
Table 3.1
AFGHANISTAN III
Technical Assistance
Experts                  Fellowships
Duration Total             Duration Total
No.   Mos.   M/Mos.        No.   Mos.   M/Mos
Educational - MOHE
Curriculum Development/Teaching
Natural Sciences                              1     24        24         3      10        30
Natural Sciences                                                        14       3        40
Cral-ts                                       1     36        36         4      10        40
Crafts                                                                  14       3        42
Home Economics                                1     24        24         1      10        10
Home Economics                                                           7       3        21
Pedagogy (Teaching Methods)                   1     36        36         3      10        30
Pedagogy (Teaching Methods)                                             21       4        84
Educational Administration                      1     18        18         2      10        20
Teacher Training                                                         2       3         6
Directors, Asst. Directors TTI                                           7       3        21
Directors & Ass.Director ATEA                                            2       2         4
Coordination                                    1     60        60         -       -         -
Librarianship                                   -     -         -          7      10        70
Subtotal               6              198        87              420
InstitWution Building - MOHE/MOE
Educational Planning                            1     24        24         2      10       20
Schoo:L Mapping                                 1      6         6         3       2        6
Evaluation/Observation                          1     12        12         4     10        40
Subtotal               3               42         9               66
Project Implementation - PIU
Construction Administration                     1     48        48         -      -
Equipment/Procurement                           2     12        24
Subtotal              3                72
Planning & management
training/Institute of
Planning & Management - MOP                  1      12       12
Accournting System/School
of Accounting - MOF                          1      12       12         -     -
Mining training/School of
Mining - MOM                                 1      12       12         -     -
Health Manpower training/
Paramedical Institutes - MOPH                1     12        12
National Agricultural
Extension Staff Training
and Resource Center - MOAC                   1     12        12
Subtotal              5               60
TOTAL                                         17              372         96             486
31 man/yrs                40.5 m/yrs



- 36 -                               ANNEX 1
Table 4.1
AFGHANISTAN III
Unit Capital Costs'/  and Areas per Student
Gross Area        Buildings &
Type of Facility            per Student2/    Site Works        Furniture  Equipment Total
M2            ------------------US$--------------------
Teacher Training institutes
(average of the 3 types)
Academic and communal           7.7              1,530           276         450    2,256
Boarding                       5.3               1,050           100          --    1,150
Staff housing/unit           100.0 3/           19,800                       --   19,800
Academy for teacher trainers
and administrators:
Academic and communal           8.2              1,650           290        500    2,440
Boarding                       8.2               1,590           145          --    1,735
Demonstration primary
school (average):
Academic and communal.          2.4                550           100          80      730
Staff houses/unit            100.0              19,800           --          --   19,800
1/ Excluding professional fees and contingencies
2/ Excluding covered galleries (about 10% of gross areas), the cost of which
is included in the cost estimates
3/ Two third of the number of units accommodate four single teachers each.



37
~~~~~~ I
i~~~~~~~~~~~.. ai
004  OF-        0.0401001            Hal
00
'~~~~~~~~~~~2    0  4
0v           OH  0    H0HHC N         tH0I0
c       0                         10 ¢        0)~i 1 |          ||
4       O_        01     HvO1 40 n    O        OO _
C|       N5         55  00g1   00        |oII
01     - og                         OjO iiNil 4g     0 ^ol
I 
w  ol          n     o       o  co    oo    i oo  5   551]l
O       c1 oI                          I oIoC ~ nrl X 1° ' 1
0      0  r0   rg _   n   H  OH ° I  n °I    0N 
E|       OH 0   _    0 00 N        ' -|     - 0) 0ol
0                                 nf    *         _00!.0
0I    O -I      2 0 0            N _OH    H   N |4    00_11
0       00    H      O _0                     0.0
;~~ ~      ~~ w|A o                                    0 n' o N00.-'--l ° N ,  
c0      00    00         OH          O        O
AE                                                           00
1    °O   -:    ~ 0000    000    0 00:                              _
; ~  ~    -  0                                             00000.   .00E0= 0



38 -                          Annex 1
Table 4.3
AFGHANISTAN III
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(in US$ million)
Accumulated     Undisbursed
Calendar                       Disbursements   Disbursements       Balance
FY             Year          Semester 1/    Amount      %    Amount     %     Amount  %
79
79
''. ~~1
80
2             0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      4.0  100.0
80
3             2.0     9.5     2.0     9.5      19.0   90.5
81
4             2.1    10.0     4.1    19.5      16.9   80.5
81
5             2.6    12.3     6.7    31.8      14.3   68.2
82
6             4.3    20.6    11.0    52.4      10.0   47.6
82
7             5.5    26.2    16.5    78.6       4.5   21.4
83
8             3.6    17.1    20.1    95.7       0.9    4.3..
83
9             0.3     1.4    20.4    97.1       0.6    2.9
84
10             0.3     1.4    20.7    98.5       0.3    1.5
84
11             0.2     1.0    20.9    94.5       0.1    0.5
85
12             0.1     0.5    21.0   100.0       0.0    0.0
85
1/ Beginning from the Date of Credit Agreement (anticipated April 1979)



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
AFGHANISTAN III                                           Chart
Implementation Schedule
1978          1979         1980          1981          1982        1983            1984
3  4 _   l  2 13 14  l2  3  4 1l  2 13 14  l1 2  3 14  l1.   31 4 ' 1 2 !3  4
I ~   ~~                  ~ ll  '  i, Il          I   tK43f4J1,1,   .
Sites:                              1              1     1     4     2  3                           _,._
Selection         -  j_f             
Acquisition        -                 _
Topological surveys                          R   i  R
Project design:        -    _                                                     i
Prototype designs-  __           __                                            I                                    i
Preliminary designas and site
plans-    ___   _ __ -i                                                                    I        I         r
Bid  documents                            -4-ulenIs
Costi cio documents        _   _2
Bidding and construction:               F                 Al
Bid announcement---   -             i
Bidding- - - - - - -1                    11                                                             I
Contract awards anid approvals ,  i         +
Construction        -        -     - -   j  j
Equipment and furniture:                               all m nuum.$...d- Sa iumlo 4         iIlsIII II
Preliminary lists-               -t-                 '                                            1     |
Final lists and bid                                                                               I
documenn--ts-------4-- 4.--- 1W-W-t:!4                                        jI|ii1j                    j,jjli
Bid announcement--             _  |
Bidding  -         -      ||i|4---+_iittitI|igIIi  
Contract awards and approvals                                                                                      
Manufacturing, delivery and   i                                      F              I      I
installation  -       __           t      |              -     I i I-*1    j-4t4---1  ---IjF
Technical assistance:                      - i
Project: implementat on                                                 J
Teacher training I
Educat:ion planning               F                       i     t                  I                                               F
Feasib-lity/pre-inv.j|stment    F                                                            t                                  F
studiLes:                                                                                                            
Terms of referenc-         ---
Phase TI       -- _____ 
Phase II  |               -                       - 7----                                  I
I I  I  I   E      i  I   I  I  I   I  I   i  I      I   I  I   i  II  I  .           i   
Negotiations---------------*------------                                                                     '
Opening of institutions               --------                ---  - ----------------------
Project completion- -                ----- ~-------  -----                        ----               -------------- ----    -  
Closing date         --    -----                     -------         -----    -----------------         --- ---  - ------  --
R - IDA review
R - IDA review and a3prnval
--       t s-ignifies the end of an activity
_ _       1 +  " the baginning of an activity.



- 40 -                              Annex 2
AFGHANISTAN III
RELATED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE
IN THE PROJECT FILE
General Reports and Studies Relating to Education:
IBRD,Appraisal of a Second Education Project in the Republic of
Afghanistan, November 22, 1976
IBRD, Afghanistan, The Journey to Economic Development, Volumes I
and II, March 17, 1978
IBRD, Afghanistan, Opportunities for Agricultural and Rural Development
Sector Report, Volumes I and II, November 20, 1975
UNESCO, Republic of Afghanistan, Quality and Equality in Education,
January, 1974
UNICEF, Master Plan of Operation for a Programme of Inter-related
Services for Children in Afghanistan 1978-1982, Draft, 1978
Reports and Studies Relating to the Project:
Republic of Afghanistan, Reconnaissance and Preparation Reports,
Office Memoranda, November 3, 1977 and April 3, 1978
Briefing Paper on Afghanistan,(J. Theodores), May 12, 1978
Project Brief, Third Education Project, May 22, 1978
Kjall Nystrom et al., Age Characteristics of the Afghan Student
Population, June 15, 1978
Selected Working Papers:
Afghanistan, Third Education Project, Educational and Architectural
Working Papers, 1978



K            4                                                                                                                      A 



IBRD 14057
b2                     64  .6'                                        EO-                    7'I                      72                               MA CH  1979
/,}  f  lJOfZANI  BiLKH       A  >>itdTA HAR     K) SHAN              J 
U        A    N
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --RE,RO -                        M,R Xy  -    -  SES   <f2d,Kaa
/ <R E R R\JO    Z J A N \   L. 'ITTA                      K H A R
. JAA R % / / j / r / t G H A/ N~K                                 K'                                                             /              /              UgngTAHR TAN: 5lUE
G4,R~~~~~~~~C  ARIAR  /~~~N  NGRH~
\~~~~~~~~~~0 / #RAR/RRinnt/\, ,)~                                 K   7)      (      S../   )*PVD ROAOS
h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)-ER   -\~ /O~A  D/  H IS  =                              ;      =        I      NERNATI                        D        NALdONOAKE
.,  ' ;,'   [   N I M R O Z  /         Eeg       0                                  K A NAM  AN A               AAR  AMA. 
./   /   ,,>   4   g   X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3,
H   E R A T~-                           (\                                       L    R7 T
Z   -         SRRR                                         (4     -;?TLezhtL m  m/7EWod2snszKrve/uivMEsOR U  A                  DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
PAKT     /   ~THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
ER<]  [  /            -/       *                               0      CI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TIS-1 COCOONS     "IU
32- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11P-OC-CIC CAPITALS                                                                     3
_RR,.iSRIO   _                       ,    g      I     m       ply m CR 0 01e                *      DAIS * W *DOMESTIC AlRPOTS
*/    /2O                       6, o              N___                                66°,I~                    70°                      I72 ERTIONAL OOJWA-IES
KAN A        A R                                                                                         US
7 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
~~~~~~~~~N                                             V ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C.INA
K                              J                0     SR    RIO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  150  CCC 25             IRA.
KILVURVEMS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IKIT
/             r~~~~~6          PRROO .R                                                                A  WORYRR,DOSRRORA,VORROROR  \eCESAP



