Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2491 -AF
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
FOR A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
March 19, 1979
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALEWTS
Calendar 1978                        February 22, 1979
Currency Unit: Afghani (Af.)
US$1          : Afs. 40.24                         Afs. 4o.o
Af. 1         : us$o.o2485                         US$0.025
Note:  An exchange rate of Afs. 40.0:US$l has been used to calculate
project costs.
FISCAL YEAR
March 21 to March 20
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ATEA         -      Academy for Teacher Trainers and Administrators
CUME         -      Construction Unit, Ministry of Education
ICB          -      International Competitive Bidding
MOE          -      Ministry of Education
MOHE         -      Ministry of Higher Education
PIU          -      Project Implementation Unit
TTI          -      Teacher Training Institute
UK ODM       -      United Kingdom Overseas Development Ministry



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Democratic Republic of Afghanistan
Beneficiaries:      Ministries of Education and Higher Education
Ministries of Finance, Planning, Agriculture, Mines
and Industry, and Public Health
Amount:              US$21.0 million equivalent
Terms:               Standard
Project
Description:       The principal objective of the project is to expand
primary education on a regional basis, and improve its
quality through primary teacher training and curricula
reform. Another objective is to strengthen the planning
and administrative capacities of the Ministries of Education
and Higher Education. The project would include: (a) new
primary teacher training institutes (partly in replacement
of existing inadequate facilities); (b) special provisions
to attract women trainees; (c) an academy to train teacher
trainers, administrators and planners; (d) curricula
reform to make the education system more community and
development-oriented; (e) demonstration schools; and (f)
related technical assistance. Incremental annual output
from the project institutions is estimated at about 1400
teachers, and about 275 trainers, administrators and
planners.  In addition, the upgraded replacement facilities
would produce some 1200 teachers and some 25 trainers
annually.  The proposed project also includes feasibility
studies for specialized technical institutions in the
areas of management and planning, accounting, mining, and
nursing and paramedics; and a pre-investment design for
an agricultural extension and staff training and resources
center; these are expected to lay the basis for a future
project. A possible lack of interest among foreign
contractors, and a limited capacity within the domestic
construction industry are recognized as risks. Measures
to encourage the participation of foreign and domestic
contractors, and the expansion and strengthening of the
project unit should reduce these risks. The recruitment
of a coordinator should limit the risks associated with
the implementation of the sizeable technical assistance
program. The project would be carried out over 5 years.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                           Local     Foreign    Total
----- US$ Millions -------
One teacher training complex    2.3           1.9         4.2
Six teacher training
institutes                     10.6         7.8       18.4
Technical assistance              0.3         2.0         2.3
Total Base Cost                  13.2        11.7        24.9
Physical Contingencies            1.3         1.1         2.4
Price Contingencies               2.5         2.2         4.7
Total Project Cost               17.0        15.0        32.0
Financing Plan:                  Total Cost         IDA        Government
… ----------- US$ Millions ------------
32.0            21.0            11.0
Estimated
Disbursements:
FY80    FY81      FY82     FY83    FY84    FY85
…_____________- …JS$ Millions --------…-------
Annual          2.0      4.7      9.8       3.9     0.5      0.1
Cumulative      2.0     6.7      16.5      20.4    20.9    21.0
Rate of Return:      Not quantifiable
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 2293-AF, dated March 2, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
FOR A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan for the equiv-
alent of US$21.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Third Educa-
tion Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
General
2.        The Basic Economic Report distributed to the Executive Directors
in April 1978 (Report No. 1777a-AF) - The Journey to Economic Development -
provides an assessment of the economic situation, development achievements
and prospects, and constraints for future economic and social development in
Afghanistan. The findings of that report were summarized in my report to the
Executive Directors, dated June 20, 1978 (Report No. P-2357-AF) in which I
recommended a credit for a Kabul Water Supply and Sewerage Project. The
broad issues discussed in these reports give perspective to a summary of the
recent developments in the economy.
Current Situation
3.        The performance of the Afghan economy rests heavily on the agricul-
tural sector. Yearly changes in agricultural production reflect primarily
weather conditions. In the four years from 1972/73 - 1976/77 agricultural
production grew steadily at an annual average rate of 2.6 percent peaking at
a level of food self-sufficiency in 1976/77. In 1977/78 an insufficient
rainfall during the winter and spring followed by hot weather during the
growing season resulted in a drop in crops of 10 percent and in heavy animal
losses. The decline in food-grain production led to an important price
increase during the second part of the year, partly because the Government
imports were ordered too late. A substantial recovery of agriculture produc-
tion occurred in 1978/79. Food grain production rose by 6 percent. It is
likely that the level of output in 1979/80 will fall because of insufficient
rain and snowfall during the winter. In addition, the land reform will, for
reasons discussed below, certainly disrupt production temporarily to some
degree. Accordingly - and given the large share of agriculture in GNP -
economic growth is likely to be small in the next 18-24 months.
4.        The overall budget deficit expanded sharply in 1976/77 to a level
equal to one-third of total expenditure. Foreign aid fell short of expecta-
tion, and the Government relied heavily on the banking system to finance
the deficit. In 1977-1978 the budget deficit declined by 10 percent while
revenue rose only by 6 percent after a period of continued growth. After a



dramatic increase in 1976/77, development expenditures levelled off in
1977/78 partly as a result of delays in project preparation and implementa-
tion. Due to abandonment of the Seven-Year Plan by the new Government (see
para 14 below), some slackening of major new investment decisions before the
new Plan targets are formulated in the fall of 1979 can be expected; only
then will the domestic resource position come clearly into focus.
5.        Although the trade deficit was large from 1974/75 to 1977/78, net
receipts from services and capital flows exceeded the deficit. As a result,
the surplus on the balance of payments doubled in 1975/76 and tripled in
1977/78 compared with the 1974/75 level. Cumulative balance of payment
surpluses are reflected in the accumulation of official foreign exchange
holdings, in the accumulation of reserves up to a level of almost 12 months
of import requirements in 1978, and in the substantial appreciation of the
Afghani. The Afghani has appreciated more or less continuously in the bazaar
market since 1971, but since 1976, policy measures were introduced to restrain
this appreciation. During 1978/79, the central bank successfully intervened
in the market so that the exchange rate,which for a period reached Afs. 32 to
the dollar, fell to Afs. 40 to the dollar by the end of 1978. A large part
of the recorded surplus originates in remittances of Afghan workers living in
Iran. The official figures, however, do not fully reflect the actual flows,
due to the importance of the informal financial sector. The level of these
remittances, and hence the current payments surplus, must be considered
uncertain as a consequence of events in Iran.
Economic and Social Priorities of the New Government
6.        On April 27, 1978 the People's Democratic Party of Afghanistan
(PDPA) overthrew the regime of the former President Daoud; the new Government
is headed by Prime Minister Noor Mohammad Taraki, General Secretary of the
Central Committee of the PDPA. The PDPA has committed itself to an ambitious
program of action, and particularly to the following goals: land reform,
adult literacy, expansion of primary education, increased access to secondary
and to higher education, provision of basic health services, equal rights for
women, reduction of unemployment, revision of the tax system, and strengthen-
ing of the public sector. In addition - and in fact as a pre-condition for
significant progress on any of these issues - the new Government is in the
process of instituting a major overhaul of the administrative system to
make it more action-oriented and more effective in responding to the actual
economic, political and social conditions.
7.        These goals,and the initiatives taken to accomplish them,correspond
to a large degree with the recommendations contained in the Bank's recent
basic economic report.  The "basic needs" program recommended in the basic
report as an integral part of the development strategy is also a key element
of the program of the PDPA and the Government, under the corresponding label
of "food, health and-shelter" for all citizens. The basic report was discussed



-3-
with the new Government in February 1979. The mission found itself in broad
agreement with respect to the diagnosis of the economic, social and institu-
tional constraints to development.
8.        With the new Government less than one year in office, and in view of
the massive personnel changes in the upper and middle echelons in the adminis-
tration, the assessment of the progress made so far is necessarily derived
less from the analysis of firm economic data than from the accumulation of
subjective impressions brought back by a large number of Bank missions which
have been in Afghanistan during the past year and from the effectiveness of
various Government agencies in regard to requests for information or decisions
made by these missions. All these missions have noted a new commitment to
development, combined with an impressive seriousness of purpose. A very open
and rewarding dialogue has been possible on effective approaches to achieve
the various goals. However, the Government recognizes the far-reaching
nature of the changes it seeks to bring about and the potential this offers
for difficulties of a political, economic or social nature. Given reasonable
stability, however, there is a confidence - shared by staff members of the
Bank who have had contacts with the new Government - that considerable
headway in tackling Afghanistan's formidable development problems is now
within reach.
Development Issues
9.        Land reform and reform of the social structure of the rural sector
are the first priority of the Government. Three recent decrees address them-
selves to these problems. Decree No. 6 cancels all debts owed by sharecroppers
and agricultural laborers. Debts owed by farmers owning less than 2 hectares
and secured by land or crops are written down, and their terms are reduced;
it is not expected that institutional credits will be affected. Decree No. 7
promulgated for "ensuring of equal rights of women" raises the legal age of
marriage and places a limit on financial transfers at marriage, hitherto a
major cause of indebtedness. Decree No. 8 deals with land reform (the pre-
vious land reform law of 1973 had not been enforced and led to insignificant
transfer of ownership). The land reform decree limits the size of land
holding to 6 hectares of Class I land (irrigated and suitable for double
cropping) or its equivalent in lower grade land, and it provides for the dis-
tribution of expropriated land primarily to landless labor and sharecroppers,
up to a limit of 1 hectare of Class I land or its equivalent per family. The
decree also limits future fragmentation of redistributed land and requires
equitable distribution of water on irrigated land. To implement the land
reform, the Government has set up 100 expert teams which are carrying out
the complex task associated with the redistribution, initially in 10 of the
26 provinces of the country, on a village-by-village basis. The Government
has announced that the land reform will be completed within about a year
and that about 675,000 families will benefit ultimately, probably more than
one-third of all families in rural areas.



-4-
10.       One severe transitional problem to be faced in connection with the
land reform is the provision of implements and inputs for the new farmers,
who as tenant farmers relied on credit from money lenders and landowners. For
obvious reasons - because of the sheer size of numbers and the absence of any
bankable collateral of the great majority of farmers - an extension of con-
ventional institutional lending cannot completely resolve the problem. The
Government, therefore, is pinning its hopes on a rapid expansion of the coop-
erative movement. The number of cooperatives has already increased from 150
one year ago to 250, and is expected to reach 1,500 upon conclusion of the
land reform. Although Government spokesmen assert that membership would be
voluntary, the cooperative movement is expected to ultimately comprise almost
all farmers. There are presently no firm views as to the scope, the internal
management, and Government guidance of the cooperatives. It is recognized
that the rapid expansion of cooperatives does not by itself resolve the prob-
lems, and that during the difficult transitional phase ahead severe shortages
of qualified staff in the cooperatives, the lending agencies (essentially the
Agricultural Development Bank of Afghanistan) and in the Government extension
service may temporarily impede agricultural production. Implementation of
the land reform is unlikely to be eased by what appears likely to be a poor
crop year, due to inadequate winter snow in the mountains.
11.       Another high priority program of the new Government is the rapid
expansion of elementary education. Primary schools are being set up with
voluntary labor and teacher training is being stepped up as a part of the
expansion of secondary and higher educ*tion. In addition, the PDPA has
launched an ambitious adult literacy program, using volunteer teaching
staff and make-shift facilities. One of the most severe tests ahead is
the extension of both primary education and the adult literacy program
to women - stimulated by Decree No. 7 mentioned above - who in the rural
areas were all but completely left out in the past.
12.       For industrial development, following the nationalization measures
of 1973, large-scale industry has been almost entirely in the public sector,
where the record has been poor. The new Government is making efforts to
correct some of the most severe deficiencies, such as virtual absence of
enterprise accounting, and bureaucratic management practices with a minimum
of independence and accountability. While the future industrialization policy
will, for a number of reasons, continue to emphasize the expansion and pro-
motion of large-scale public enterprises, the Government exhibits awareness
that for purposes of employment generation, as well as for processing agri-
cultural products, procurement of basic consumer goods and production inputs,
the promotion of small- and medium-sized industry - by necessity largely in
the private sector - cannot be disregarded. While the Government has not
expressed a strong formal commitment to that end, there are indications
that it is in the process of gearing up institutional arrangements for the
promotion of small and medium-sized industries.



13.       In the past, domestic resource availability was not a major con-
straint for development since resources (both domestic and foreign) tended
to exceed absorptive and implementation capacity. In the coming years,
however, domestic resources are likely to emerge as a major bottleneck of
development. The programs of basic social and economic transformation - like
land reform, and rapid expansion of education and health services - are
likely to be accompanied or followed by a rapid rise of development and
current expenditures in these areas, even under most generous assumptions
about the impact of self-help and voluntary services.  In addition, sizeable
debt service payments for public external debt will put additional new
burdens on the budget. Similarly, a number of free or highly subsidized
services - like free higher education and health, low-cost transportation,
and subsidized consumer goods such as coal, gasoline and wheat - which
presently reach only a small minority of the population, are to be made
available to an increasing number of recipients, with the associated increase
of financial requirements far exceeding the rate of economic growth. In
fact, the new Government is facing an almost insoluble dilemma, because of
its commitment to social progress and the identification of these subsidized
services with that goal. On the revenue side, the problems loom similarly
large. The basis for major traditional revenues - like import duties, income
from public enterprises, export sales of natural gas, and corporate and
individual income taxes - is unlikely to grow fast, and for some items (like
progressive land tax and personal income tax) may even shrink. The Government
is aware of this dual squeeze and is looking for remedial measures. These
are being sought through the measures affecting foreign resources. First,
the Government is seeking a debt moratorium from a number of previous lenders;
and second, the Government is seeking long-term commodity credits from
abroad, which would provide counterpart funds for discretionary use by the
Government. In this situation, of a narrow tax base and low domestic savings
capacity Afghanistan requires special consideration from external lenders,
including IDA, in financing the local costs of development projects.
14.       Foreign resources did not generally constrain development in the
recent past; the country not only failed in the past to use all foreign
assistance available, but for years has run a balance of payments surplus
and correspondingly increased its reserves, beyond the level necessary for
securing import requirements. As with domestic resources, the chief problem
was limited absorptive and implementation capacity. The new Government is
committed to increase it through administrative reforms and accelerated
investment and growth. The Government also expects a sustained flow of
external assistance (including sizeable commodity aid), in particular from
the USSR, other COMECON countries and IDA.  How and at what level resource
requirements and their availability will eventually balance is impossible to
gauge at this juncture; this problem reportedly is one of the reasons for
delaying completion of the new Five-Year Plan. It is now expected to be
issued in outline, together with the budget for FY79/80, in time for the new
fiscal year beginning on March 21, 1979, but will not be finalized until
September 1979.



-6-
15.       The most pervasive past constraint to development - archaic admin-
istrative procedures and practices which choked decision-making, initiative
and any sense of achievement - is recognized by the new Government. While the
perceived need to deliver on the postulated goals of development has begun
to reduce bureaucratic red tape and remove some delays within the existing
institutional framework, the requirement to overhaul the framework itself is
acknowledged. The problems associated with this less conspicuous revolution
are truly formidable and will continue to stretch the patience of aid donors
for some time to come.
16.       In order to achieve its goal of development and to accomplish some
progress on the issues sketched above, Afghanistan will continue to require
external financial and technical assistance.  As indicated above, foreign
assistance per se is not likely to become a development bottleneck in the
near future; more likely is a shortage of external resources for certain
priority tasks which do not match the capacity of bilateral donors. A
second, but not less important problem is the continuing need to cover some
of the domestic resource requirements, in particular those connected with
project financing, by way of foreign aid. Negotiations are currently under
way with a large number of countries and several international organizations
to establish an aid pipeline for the new Five-Year Plan, formally to start on
March 21, 1979. Technical assistance, organized within a clearly defined and
recognized framework, linking assistance to institutional changes and project
preparation, remains a third matter of high priority. In this connection -
through the institution-building consequences of its project work, usually
incorporating a sizeable portion of technical assistance, directed at increas-
ing absorptive capacity of the country and improving its efficiency - the
Bank expects to continue to make a major contribution to Afghanistan's future
development.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN AFGHANISTAN
17.       The proposed credit would bring total IDA commitments to Afghanistan
to US$192.5 million (net of cancellations) for eighteen credits in various
sectors. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits to Afghanistan
as of January 31, 1979 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Start-
ing in 1964 with a credit of $3.5 million, IDA lending to Afghanistan has
grown steadily to reach an annual average of about $31 million for FY76-78,
compared to an annual average of about $16 million for FY73-75. IDA has
financed eight projects in the agricultural sector with credits totalling
$109 million, three credits totalling $19 million for transportation, one of
$2 million for an industrial development bank project, two for a total of
$23.5 million for water supply, sewerage and sanitation, one of $10 million
for a thermal power project, and two for a total of $27 million for education.



- 7--
The proposed third education credit would effectively be the second one for
education, the first one having been cancelled in 1970 at the Government's
request following education policy changes. A $0.3 million IFC investment
in the Industrial Development Bank of Afghanistan (IDBA) was repaid to IFC
following the nationalization of IDBA in 1975.
18.       Initially, the Bank Group's lending to Afghanistan was attended
by considerable difficulties. In addition to lack of knowledge of the econ-
omy, there were a number of serious practical difficulties related to rela-
tively weak institutions and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. Thus, the
Bank Group's lending has tended to be directed at projects and institutions
where the possibilities for effective lending were best. The analytical
framework provided by the basic economic report and several sector studies
(agriculture, horticulture, livestock, industry), the development orientation
of the Government and a growing implementation capacity among Afghan institu-
tions, provide the basis for the Bank Group's future lending activil:ies in
Afghanistan. While the emphasis will remain on the productive sectors, with
a search for improved productive efficiency (especially in the agricultural
sector), expanded foreign exchange earnings and domestic revenues, an increas-
ing knowledge of the economy makes possible a well focussed response to the
basic needs of the Afghan people.
19.       A number of further projects are under consideration.  Appraisals
for a rural development project and a wheat production project are currently
underway. A fourth education project is being prepared and will be appraised
in April 1979. Preparation of a third irrigation project, a second industrial
development bank project, and a fourth agricultural credit project is also in
progress. Government has indicated that it intends to focus on regionalized
rural development, and has requested IDA assistance in devising an appropriate
organizational framework for it.
20.       In addition to its lending activity, IDA is executing several
UNDP-financed projects in Afghanistan which have been of great benefit in
expanding the country's limited administrative capability. To help ease
the managerial and administrative constraints, a long and difficult task,
IDA has placed emphasis on institution-building and training for Afghans.
IDA has helped establish several semi-autonomous agencies, (for example:
the Agricultural and Industrial Banks, and the Herat Livestock Development
Corporation), the aim being to provide the entities with the operational
autonomy needed for a viable venture. The establishment of project imple-
mentation units in operating ministries is a further step in this direction.
For example, the Project Implementation Unit in the Ministry of Education,
established under the second education project, is to be commended for its
work in preparing this, the Third Education Project. A similar unit has
been established for the recently signed Fruit and Vegetables Export Project.
21.       Project implementation, which has been variable in the past has
shown improvement and in recent months prompt action on the part of the
Government to remove project-specific bottlenecks suggests that this improve-
ment will continue. On the other hand, we should not misunderstand the far-
reaching nature of the changes which the Government is attempting to bring



-8-
about in Afghanistan, for example land reform, and the potential this offers
for difficulties of various kinds. Close coordination between the authorities
and Bank staff, facilitated by the Bank's resident mission office, will be
essential to maintain the past improvements in the process of identifying,
preparing and implementing projects. The overall picture of disbursements
is now a satisfactory one. Disbursements under earlier IDA credits were
slow initially, but this situation has improved considerably since 1976, and
disbursements are now at a very satisfactory rate of about $20 million per
annum. The IDA share of Afghanistan's total external debt outstanding and
disbursed were about 6.0 percent and 4.0 percent, respectively, at March 20,
1978. For the future, the IDA share of total debt outstanding and disbursed
are estimated to reach about 6 percent and 6 percent, respectively in 1980/81.
It is estimated that in 1980 debt service payments due to IDA will represent
about 1.1 percent of service payments due on Afghanistan's external debt.
Afghanistan's debt service ratio in 1977/78 was about 13 percent.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR IN AFGHANISTAN
Background
22.       Afghanistan's formal education system came into being with the
establishment of its first official school in Kabul in 1903. Prior to that,
education was limited to Koranic and some Dari language instruction by
Mullahs (religious leaders). Following the establishment in 1907 of a Coun-
cil of Public Instruction, the education system grew slowly; the number of
Government schools reached a total of 13 in the 1920s and increased to 324
by 1940. Student enrollments totalled 1350 in 1932, and rose to some 60,000
by 1940. Since 1957, the education system has expanded more rapidly on the
basis of three five-year plans implemented between 1957/58 and 1967/71. A
fourth five-year plan (1972/73-76/77) was drawn up but not implemented due
to a change in Government in 1973. While a fifth plan (1976-82) provided for
rapid expansion of primary education, and a more balanced distribution of
secondary general enrollments, it emphasized vertical expansion to provide
pupils with more years of schooling, as opposed to improvements in the low
level of participation in basic education. Enrollments for 1977/78 were
estimated at 889,000, 94,000 and 16,000 for primary, secondary and higher
education respectively.  While the quantitative targets were surpassed,
especially at the secondary level, the qualitative improvements were dis-
appointing. Furthermore, despite this rapid expansion, illiteracy is
still widespread in modern Afghanistan.  Almost 90% of the population is
illiterate.
23.       Until 1975 the formal education system consisted of six primary,
three lower secondary, and three upper secondary grades. Under educational
reforms introduced in 1976 the system was restructured to comprise one or
two kindergarten grades, eight primary, four secondary and two to six higher
grades. In its present form, the education system is oriented towards formal
schooling to prepare students for the next level. It is not sufficiently
related to community needs in general, and the rural community in particular.



Large disparities exist in educational opportunities between urban and rural
areas, the center and the provinces, and between boys and girls. Custom and
social pressure work against schooling for girls, and insufficient women
teachers further exacerbate this imbalance.
Primary Education
24.       Primary education is unevenly distributed in the country with a
heavy bias towards urban areas. Schools are in poor physical condition and
lack equipment and text books. Some 50% of the primary school teachers are
unqualified. Furthermore, primary schooling is too literary and ill-suited
to meet the practical needs of school leavers. Only about 20% of the avail-
able time is devoted to mathematics and science subjects. The student par-
ticipation rate for 1977/78 in primary education was 29% - among the lowest
in the world - with girls accounting for only 16% of the total enrollment.
Repeater and attrition rates are high--24% and 7% respectively; and most of
these students probably do not reach minimum literacy levels.
Secondary Education (General)
25.       Secondary education consists of general secondary, technical, voca-
tional and agricultural education. The deficiencies in secondary education
closely resemble those in primary education. Over 20% of secondary school
teachers are unqualified. Science teaching, to which about 15% of the time is
devoted, is theoretical.   Few schools have any equipment or facilities for
actually implementing courses, and teaching in general is restricted to the
lecture-recitation method. The 1977/78 participation rate for secondary
education was only 8%, with girls accounting for 13% of total enrollments.
Secondary level schools oversupply art graduates. In 1977/78 only 9% of all
secondary students were enrolled in technical, vocational and agricultural
schools, with girls representing 5% of the total.
Secondary Technical, Vocational and Agricultural Training
26.       Technical training, which is available in three institutions,
includes training related to the oil and gas industry, electro-mechanical
fields, electricity and electronics, civil engineering, automotive and avia-
tion mechanics, machine tools and building construction. Practical work is
limited because of insufficient, and poorly maintained equipment. Commercial
and management education is provided by three institutions, one of which is
for girls, and includes home economics and hygiene. Some training in crafts
is also available.
27.       Agricultural education is available at three agricultural secondary
schools with a total capacity for only 750 students. Two-thirds of the
curriculum is devoted to general subjects, and only a small proportion of time
is spent in poorly equipped practice laboratories. School farms are under-
utilized, and practical work is limited. The IDA-financed Second Education
Project will contribute significantly to agricultural training. Under it,
the existing three schools are being expanded and refurbished, and four new
schools are being added. The introduction of a new curriculum with a more



- 10 -
practical emphasis will substantially improve the quality of agricultural
training.
Primary Teacher Training
28.       There are fourteen primary teacher training institutes (TTIs) with
an annual output of about 2400 graduates. Pre-service training for primary
teachers for grades one to eight is provided in a two-year course at the
post-secondary level. Efforts are being made to upgrade the training of
existing unqualified teachers, numbering about 13,000, by providing in-service
training for about 800 teachers annually. Women account for only 15% of the
teachers. The orientation of the curriculum is predominantly literary, and
the TTIs lack both facilities and equipment for training in natural sciences,
crafts and home economics. They are housed in overcrowded, poorly maintained
buildings. Administration of the TTIs is generally poor; and standards of
discipline, hygiene and environment are low.
29.       Teacher trainers at the TTIs are trained in Afghanistan's only
Academy for Teacher Educators and Administrators (ATEA). The Academy provides
a nine-month course at the post-graduate level.   It is housed in old resi-
dential buildings, and lacks adequate equipment.
Planning and Management
30.       The administration of formal schooling is centralized, but develop-
ment responsibilities at the center are fragmented. As a result, coordination
is limited. Education planning is weak overall due to the shortage of quali-
fied staff and the low priority accorded to this function. At the provincial
level the educational administration structure is too weak to effect any
meaningful regionalization of implementation, supervision and feedback.
31.       In summary, the education system, despite considerable achievements
in the past, is not well-equipped to meet the formidable challenges facing it.
Substantial financial and technical assistance from outside Afghanistan will
be needed in this sector for the forseeable future.
Educational Development Strategy
32.       The Revolution of April 1978 has created a completely new frame-
work for national development and for the evaluation of sectoral issues and
strategies. The new Government has articulated broad new educational prior-
ities which clearly indicate that it places a premium on achieving goals that
include universal literacy, generalizing basic learning opportunities, and
expanding and improving the efficiency of training sub-sectors (industrial/
vocational, agriculture and health) as part of a general effort to widen
educational opportunities and attack poverty in rural and urban areas.
33.       One of the Government's first initiatives in the education sector
is a proposed reform of the structure of the system. Effective March 31, 1979,
Government intends to reform the structure of education system from a system
of eight basic and four secondary grades to one of eight basic and two



- 11 -
secondary grades. Basic education will be divided into two cycles - grades
one to four, and grades five to eight - to facilitate the development of a
nuclear system whereby smaller villages could provide education for grades
one to four, and others, more central, could provide grades one to eight.
Under the proposed reform, the primary teacher training institutes will
continue to train teachers for eight years of primary education.
34.       While detailed policies and strategies for the education sector are
still being formulated in the context of the new Five-Year Plan, some tenta-
tive targets have been set. These include annual growth rates of 8%, 6% and
4% in the primary, secondary and post-secondary levels respectively, which
if realized, would result in participation rates of 51%, 10% and 2% of the
respective age groups by 1987. The achievement of the planned expansion,
combined with the urgently needed qualitative improvements in basic edu-
cation, will be a formidable task, and the Government has rightly given
immediate priority to raising the low standards of the teaching force. The
targetted increase in primary school enrollments will require a net annual
addition to the stock of teachers, of about 3,000 initially, increasing to
some 6,000 by 1987/88, and to over 9,000 by the 1990s. In addition, the
skills of the existing stock of approximately 13,000 teachers will need to
be further upgraded.
35.       A further need at the basic education level is the introduction
of educational reforms that would initiate pupils into manual and elementary
skills by upgrading natural sciences, crafts and home economics, and prepare
them to meet local needs based on agriculture, livestock and crafts. This
would constitute an important step in orienting the educational system towards
more practical instruction and in preparing students for subsequent job-related
training appropriate to the developing economy. Curriculum changes required
to meet this need will be initiated under the proposed project.
36.       The Government's planning targets at the post primary level appear
reasonable in the context of development needs. At the secondary level,
indications are that the current rate of output of general secondary school
graduates is quantitatively adequate to meet the needs of the economy for this
level of manpower. At the planned annual 6% growth rate for general secondary
school enrollments, the output would remain sufficient into the 1980s to
satisfy the manpower requirements at this level. It would also meet the needs
for intake into higher education, including the expanding network of teacher
training. The greatest needs at the secondary level are curriculum reforms
in general secondary schools and an increase in the proportion of secondary
students enrolled in vocational programs, so as to better meet labor force
requirements.   A precise quantification of this needed increase, or defini-
tion of training needs, is not possible at this time but it is likely that
the present low ratio of enrollments in vocational programs (about 9 per-
cent) will need to be increased to about 25 percent. The Asian Development
Bank is considering financing for such vocational schools. The annual pro-
jected rate of post-secondary growth of 4 percent appears appropriate to meet
the needs for professional level workers without promoting major labor market
imbalances, but will require further review based on determined needs for
individual disciplines. A better understanding of training needs at the



- 12 -
secondary and and post-secondary levels is expected to emerge from a recent
IDA education sector study (the results of which will be available in mid-
1979), while precise training requirements in a number of specific areas will
be identified through studies under this project.
37.       Strengthening the Government's inadequate educational planning and
management capabilities as well as school administration is an immediate
requirement if the planned expansion and improvement of the education system
is to be achieved, and a start will be made under the proposed project.
Strengthening of public administration generally is one of the Government's
priority objectives. For the education sector, proposals include the training
of a strong cadre of educational administrators, while also building up
planning capabilities within the Ministries of Education and Higher Education.
Some time-lag is inevitable before such measures have the desired impact in
improving management capability, but they should, in time, greatly facilitate
the effective implementation of the Government's development plans.
38.       To finance the proposed educational expansion, the proportion of
Government expenditures devoted to education will have to rise. Total
expenditures on education have grown by about 11% per year in real terms since
1971, as against an annual increase in enrollments of about 6%.  From 1974 to
1978, education absorbed an average of about 16% of the Government's recuirrent
budget each year and an average of 4.5% of the annual capital expenditures.
To meet the currently planned expansion and qualitative improvements, total
recurrent expenditures would absorb about 30% of the Government's total recur-
rent budget by 1992. This projection assumes that recurrent expenditures
by the central Government would remain the same proportion of GDP as in 1977
and that GDP would increase 6% per year, a rate slightly below that foreseen
in the previous Seven-Year Plan. If, as appears desirable, Government expendi-
tures relative to GDP are increased from their present low level, the propor-
tion of such expenditures devoted to education would be reduced accordingly.
The resultant total expenditure on education (capital and recurrent) would not
exceed about 3.3% of GDP. This proportion is still below the share of national
income devoted to education in many other developing countries, implying that
the financial consequences of quantitative and qualitative improvements in
Mghanistan's education system should be acceptable. At present the implica-
tions of the proposed reform in the structure of the education system (see
para 33 above) on the total expenditures for education are not clear. How-
ever, these reforms, which Government has decided upon recently, are not
expected to have a significant impact on the above projections which are
based on the present system.
IDA's Role in the Sector
39.       The first education project in Afghanistan (Credit 68-AF signed in
November 1964), which was to provide three teacher training institutes and
four vocational schools, was cancelled in July 1970 before any construction
took place, at the Government's request, following education policy changes;
and the Executive Directors were informed (No. R70-164).  The Second Education
Credit (674-AF signed in January 1977) focuses on agricultural training. It
assists the Government in meeting middle-level agricultural manpower needs



- 13 -
and provides more relevant and practical training through four new, and the
expansion and refurbishing of three existing agricultural secondary schools,
related curriculum development, and agricultural teacher training. Pre-
investment designs for primary teacher training institutes (TTIs) are also
included.
40.       The Second Education Project is currently about 15 months behind
schedule; project completion is, however, expected to be delayed by about 3
months. Initial difficulties with bids for civil works (to be awarded on
the basis of local competitive bidding) are being resolved and proposals for
contract awards are expected to be submitted for IDA approval shortly.
Meanwhile, furniture and equipment lists are being finalized, and project
implementation is expected to gather momentum following contract awards. The
agricultural teacher training program, provided under technical assistance
from UK ODM, is making good progress.
41.       IDA assistance to the education sector has been limited thus
far due to perceived shortcomings in the Government's educational priorities.
The thrust of IDA's critique of the existing system, and a strategy for its
development are contained in the Bank's basic economic report. The new
Government's educational policies, which closely resemble those advocated
by the above report, make it possible to expand the scope and extent of IDA
lending in education, especially in relation to basic needs. The Government
has requested IDA to assist with the development of appropriate strategies and
approaches to help overcome deficiencies in the school system, in related
training sub-sectors including industry, health and agriculture, and in the
field of management and administration. As a first step, in September/October
1978, IDA participated with the concerned Ministries in an education sector
study (see para. 36).
42.       The recent discussions with the Government on the basic economic
report, including inter-alia the sections dealing with the education sector
confirmed the Bank's agreement with Government on priorities and programs for
the education sector. Specific technical aspects will be discussed in the
context of the findings of the above-mentioned education sector survey.
Meanwhile, because a sound primary school system is a prerequisite for
effective development of all educational levels, Government has asked IDA to
assist in the long and difficult task by first focusing on improvements in
primary teacher training. The proposed project consists primarily of the
construction and equipping of primary TTIs, related demonstration primary
schools, and, as a corollary, an institute to train primary school teacher
trainers and educational administrators. Simultaneously, attention would
be given to improving domestic capabilities in project implementation,
educational planning and school mapping, and supervision and evaluation of
primary teaching.
43.       As the proposed project would make a significant contribution to
the immediate primary teacher training needs, the following priority areas
would be considered for inclusion in future projects: expansion and upgrading
of primary schools and adult education centers; development of in-service
agricultural extension staff and farmer training centers; the provision of
training related to basic health care for the rural population; and the
development of specialized technical training institutions.



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
44.       The proposed project was identified in October 1977.  Following
the assumption of power by the new Government, a special IDA mission
visited Kabul in June 1978 to discuss again the composition of the pro-
posed project. The consensus was clearly in favor of a focus on primary
teacher training along with financing for feasibility studies and pre-
investment designs for items for possible future projects. The project was
prepared by the Government with technical assistance provided by UK ODM and
IDA.  Appraisal took place in June/July 1978, and negotiations were held in
Washington from February 6 to 14, 1979. The Afghan delegation was led by
His Excellency Pier Mohammad Zeary, Deputy Minister of Higher Education,
and included representatives of the Ministry of Education and the Afghan
Embassy in Wasnington.  The Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Third Education
Project, Democratic Republic of Afghanistan" (No. 2293-AF) is being distri-
buted separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the
project are summarized in the Credit and Project Summary and in Annex III.
The Project
45.       The project has several obiectives.  First, it aims to expand
primary education, improve its relevance and efficiency, and correct the
inequitable distribution of educational opportunities, especially in the
provinces and rural areas. This would be accomplished by the expansion of
primary teacher training on. a regional basis to provide an increased stock
of well-trained teachers, and by re-orienting the curricula from it:s present
over-emphasis on academic subjects, to relate it to community and development
needs. Second, the project is designed to accelerate the process of educating
women by providing an increased supply of women teachers. A third objective
is the strengthening of the planning and implementation capabilities in the
Ministries of Education and Higher Education through the training of educators,
planners and administrators. Fourth, by the establishment of a coordinating
body between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Higher Education,
the project would improve coordination of educational planning and programming
between the two Ministries. A fifth objective is the identification of
training needs in the areas of management/planning, accounting, mining,
nursing and paramedics, leading to the design of relevant training institu-
tions.
Specifically, the project would include:
-  the construction, furnishing and equipping of five
primary teacher training institutes (TTIs), an
academy for teacher educators and administrators
(ATEA), and the renovation and expansion of two
existing TTIs;



- 15 -
- the construction and equipping of six demonstration
primary schools and the refurbishing of one existing
school;
- technical assistance for (a) teacher/administrator
training; (b) institution-building; and (c) project
implementation;
- feasibility studies for (a) management training/
institute of management and planning; (b) accounting
system/school of accounting; (c) mining training/
school of mines; and (d) health manpower training/
paramedical training institutes;
- pre-investment designs for a national agricultural
extension staff training and resource center.
Primary Teacher Training
46.       The seven regional teacher training institutes to be provided under
the project would cater for about 5,500 students. The first output of about
2,600 trained teachers scheduled for 1985 would meet about 55% of that year's
new primary teacher requirements. The remaining teacher training needs would
be met from existing institutes not immediately scheduled for replacement.
The project would represent the first phase of the Government's expansion and
replacement program. Under it three existing institutes currently accommodat-
ing about 1,700 students in overcrowded and unsuitable conditions would be
replaced with larger institutes and two existing TTIs would be renovated and
expanded. Two institutes would be additional. The annual incremental output
from the seven institutes is estimated at about 1,400 teachers. Because of
the wide geographical area being served by each institute, commuting distances
for the majority of trainees would be excessive. Therefore, some 75% boarding
places would be provided, except in one institute in Kabul, which would have
54% boarding because a higher percentage of students would be attending from
the immediate vicinity. About 60% of the trainees in two Kabul institutes
and about 50% in the provinces are expected to be women.   The institutes
would also provide about 1,200 well-trained teachers annually in replacement
of the present output of ill-prepared graduates from the TTIs to be replaced;
and short in-service intensive training programs for the existing urnqualified
teachers.
47.       Primary teacher training is provided in a two-year post-secondary
program. A well-balanced curriculum comprising academic and professional
studies would be introduced with training in natural sciences, crafts and home
economics upgraded as key disciplines for orienting primary school courses
(especially the upper grades) towards the needs of an essentially rural
economy. The proposed change in the structure of the education system
referred to in para 33 above will be taken into account in the preparation of
the revised curricula. Government has agreed to provide outlines of reformed
curricula for natural sciences, crafts and home economics courses for IDA
comment within four months of Credit signature (Section 3.11, Development



- 16 -
Credit Agreement). Teachers would be trained and encouraged to assume a
leadership role with a view to fostering community programs. As the avail-
ability of suitable textbooks is an essential element in introducing the new
curricula, the Government has provided an assurance that a program to supply
required textbooks to the institutes will be sent to IDA within one year of
the signing of the Credit Agreement (Section 3.06(a), Development Credit
Agreement). Curriculum development experts, whose services will be included
under the project, will assist the Government with textbook preparation,
while printing will be undertaken in printing facilities available to the
Government.
48.       As the Ministry of Higher Education is responsible for the teacher
training institutes, while the  Ministry of Education is responsible for the
primary schools, the Government has established a coordinating committee to
ensure close cooperation between the two Ministries in curriculum development,
supervision of training, practice teaching, and in-service training (Section
3.09, Development Credit Agreement).
Demonstration Schools
49.       As part of the project, new demonstration schools with about 600
places each, would be provided on the campuses of six institutes and an
existing demonstration school on the seventh would be refurbished. These
schools would be used to introduce the reformed primary school curriculum.
The experience lo providing elementary skill training for grades 7 and & in
these schools would be of particular importance as a guide tar its application
through the country. To ensure adequate practical training opportunities for
the trainees, other existing primary schools in proximity to the teacher
training institutes would also be used.
Academy for Teacher Trainers and Administrators
50.       An academy with 330 places would be provided in Kabul to replace an
existing obsolete academy with an output of only 25 teacher trainers. One-
year courses to train teacher educators and educational administrators would
be offered to selected university graduates. To ensure full capacity use of
this national institute, boarding accommodation would be provided for 75%
of the students. About 20% of the trainees are expected to be women. The
incremental annual output of about 275 teacher trainers, administrators and
planners would be sufficient to meet the medium-term needs of primary teacher
training institutes, and to create a strong cadre of education administrators
and planners to implement the Government's educational program.  Short in-
service training programs would upgrade the training of about 100 teacher
trainers, administrators and supervisors annually. To ensure the continued
relevance of the curriculum in the future, and the availability of sufficient
well-qualified and experienced teachers, the introduction of an appropriate
evaluation system for the training programs, including a teacher tracer com-
ponent, is needed for the TTIs and the ATEA. The Government has provided an
assurance that a detailed description of the tracer component of the proposed
evaluation system would be sent to IDA for review and comment one year prior
to the opening of the institutes. Further it would transmit annually to the



- 17 -
Association the results of the tracer studies for five years following the
first outputs of trained teachers and administrators (Sections 3.07, 3.10,
Development Credit Agreement).
Teachers for the Project Institutions
51.       At full development (1985/86), the project TTIs would require
approximately 370 teacher trainers. About 100 of the trainers would be staff
from the existing TTIs which are to be replaced, and the remainder would
join the system from among those who would have completed project-financed
fellowships and from the ATEA, which would have its first output at the end of
the 1983/84 academic year.  The 27 members of teaching staff required for the
ATEA would consist of 11 teacher trainers who would receive about 10 months
of intensive training under the project fellowship program, and a further 16
recruited from among teachers and university graduates who would also receive
training of shorter duration under the fellowship program.
Feasibility Studies/Preinvestment Designs
52.       The project would also include feasibility studies and preinvestment
designs to prepare for possible future projects. The feasibility studies
would include an assessment of training needs, leading to possible designs
for training institutions in the areas of: (a) management and planning; (b)
accounting; (c) mining; and (d) paramedical and nursing training. The pre-
investment design would be for a national agricultural extension staff
training and resource center. As currently conceived, this would rehouse
the Ministry of Agriculture's Department of Extension in Kabul and provide
facilities to backstop the improvement and expansion of the national exten-
sion service. Agreement has been reached with Government that draft terms of
reference for the feasibility studies, and the preinvestment design, to be
prepared with the help of experts being provided in the project, would be
sent to the Association for comment within twelve months of Credit signature
(Section 3.06(b), Development Credit Agreement).
Technical Assistance
53.       About 31 man-years of expert services, and about 40-1/2 man-years
of fellowships would be provided under the project. Experts would be hired
to ensure adequate training of Afghan teaching and administrative staff for
the project institutions and to assist in curriculum development (11-1/2 man-
years); to coordinate the work of these experts and the fellowship training
(5 man-years); to assist the project implementation unit (PIU) in procurement
and construction supervision (6 man-years); to strengthen capability in
the Ministry of Education in the areas of educational planning, school map-
ping, school inspection and supervision (2-1/2 man-years); to help develop
the evaluation system (1 man-year); and to assist in the preparation of the
feasibility studies and pre-investment designs (5 man-years). Average costs
per man/month of experts and fellowships are estimated at $5,000 and $1,000
respectively. Because the timely implementation of the technical assistance
related to teacher training is crucial for its success, Government has agreed
to submit for IDA comment within four months of Credit signature, a program



- 18 -
for the selection of candidates for the 10-month fellowship training, and for
the recruitment of experts. The latter would be synchronized with the return
of the trainees whom they would assist. Similar programs will be provided
for the remainder of fellowships sufficiently in advance of scheduled recruit-
ment and training to allow time for IDA comments (Section 3.08, Development
Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
54.       The Project Implementation Unit (PIU), established within the Con-
struction Unit of the Ministry of Education (CUME) under the Second Education
Project, would be responsible for the day-to-day management, coordination and
supervision of the physical aspects.  The director of the PIU would report to
the President of CUME who would have overall responsibility, and would liaise
with IDA. The Department of Teacher Training of the Ministry of Higher
Education, with the help of the technical assistance coordinator, would be
responsible for the day to day management of the technical assistance program
including curriculum development, teacher training, educational planning,
school mapping and evaluation/observation. The feasibility studies and the
preinvestment designs for specialist technical institutes would be carried
out under the direct administrative control of the relevant Ministries.
55.       Preliminary architectural designs and site plans for the project
institutions, have been prepared by the staff of CUME with expert assistance.
Civil works bidding is scheduled to begin in August 1979; construction would
be completed by May 1982; and equipment and furniture installed by October
1982. The technical assistance would continue through June 1984, and the
credit closing date would be December 1984. The PIU would be strengthened
further through the technical assistance referred to in para 53 above, in
order to increase its capability for construction supervision, administration
and procurement. Furthermore, since the capability within CUME for the
preparation of construction documents and site supervision is limited,
Government has begun the task of strengthening CUME by the recruitment of
qualified Afghans for it.
Project Cost and Financing
56.         The estimated total project cost is US$32.0 million, with an
estimated foreign exchange component of US$15.0 million (47%). Physical
contingencies have been estimated at 10% of the base cost of civil works,
furniture and equipment, and professional services, and 5% of the base cost
of technical assistance. Price contingencies have been estimated at about
19% of the base cost.  The proposed IDA credit of $21.0 million would finance
about 66% of the total project costs, including $6.0 million of the local
costs. Government would provide the remainder. IDA financing for a portion
of the local costs is justified for the reasons given in para 13 of this
report.   In the event that additional resources for technical assistance
become available through co-financing, the amount of the credit allocated for
technical assistance would be used for other parts of the project. IDA's
share of financing for civil works may be increased accordingly.



- 19 -
Procurement and Disbursements
57.       Under the Second Education Project, civil works contracts were to
be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding. This was because the
agricultural schools were small, simple structures expected to be within the
capacity of the domestic construction industry, and, furthermore, not likely
to attract foreign contractors. Because of the relatively larger size of the
institutions in this project, civil works contracts would be awarded on the
basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB). At present the local con-
struction industry in Afghanistan is going through a period of stagnation,
while Government-sponsored public construction companies are entering into
the field. It is unlikely that domestic construction companies would have
the capacity to carry out the size and type of civil works envisaged under
the project without undue delay. Therefore care would be taken to ensure
that, to the extent possible, civil works would be divided into small com-
ponents for bidding purposes to encourage the participation of the local
construction companies. At the same time, to encourage the participation
of foreign contractors in ICB, Government has agreed to facilitate their
operation in the country by allowing the import of skilled labor, construc-
tion components and equipment (Schedule 3, para A3(i), Development Credit
Agreement). It is expected that foreign contractors would be awarded up to
one-half of the civil works contracts. Local civil works contractors would
be given a 7-1/2 percent margin of preference. Supplementary civil works
contracts of $200,000 or less would be awarded on the basis of local procure-
ment procedures acceptable to the Association. The aggregate of these would
not, however, exceed $2.0 million.
58.       To the extent possible, equipment and furniture items would be
grouped in packages large enough to permit bulk procurement. Equipment and
furniture contracts in excess of $100,000 would be awarded on the basis of
ICB. Domestic preference of 15 percent or the applicable customs duty (which-
ever is lower) would be granted. Small items or groups of items costing less
than $100,000 or items of a specialized nature for which ICB would not be
practicable, would be procured under local procurement procedures acceptable
to IDA, after obtaining price quotations from at least three manufacturers or
suppliers wherever possible. These would not exceed an aggregate of US$1.5
million.  Domestic suppliers are expected to win all the furniture contracts
amounting to about $3.0 million (including contingencies).
59.       Disbursements against the IDA credit would be made on the basis of:
(i) 58% of the cost of civil works;
(ii) 100% of the foreign expenditures on directly imported
furniture and equipment; 100% of the ex-factory cost of
locally manufactured furniture and equipment; and 85% of,
the cost of locally procured imported items; and
(iii) 100% of the foreign costs or 85% of the local costs of
technical assistance.



- 20 -
Benefits and Risks
60.        A central objective of the project is to bring quality basic educa-
tion to a large proportion of Afghanistan's primary school age children in
partial fulfillment of Government's aim to improve the equity and efficiency
of the education system. Educational expansion on a regional basis would
correct inequalities of access; the proposed TTIs in the provinces would
provide about 3,600 student places altogether compared to about 1,100 places
now available.  Emphasis on qualitative aspects would improve the relevance
of primarY education and relate it more effectively to community needs in
general, and rural life in particular. Substantial benefits would stem from
the careful emphasis on institution-building to fill some of the gaps in
the education system. The incremental annual output from the project is
estimated at 1,400 well-trained teachers, and about 275 teacher trainers
and administrators. The quality training of administrators, planners, and
teacher educators; the creation of a strong cadre of qualified teachers,
including further training for existing teachers; and the establishment of
a comprehensive curriculum development network; would together greatly
strengthen the planning and implementation capabilities of the Ministries of
Education and Higher Education.
61.       The timely implementation of technical assistance is crucial for
the success of the project. The provision of an expert to coordinate the
major elements of the technical assistance program should limit the risk of
implementation delays. Substantial risks lie in the limited capacity of the
domestic construction industry. Careful attention to the arrangements for
execution of the civil works, and the measures to encourage the participation
of small domestic as well as foreign contractors should alleviate this risk.
Additional risks are associated with the limited capabilities of project
implementation staff. The strengthening of the PIU and CUME with interna-
tional experts and qualified Afghan staff respectively should reduce this
risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of Afghanistan and the Association, and the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Association are being distributed separately to the
Executive  Directors.
63.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECONMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
w
Attachments
March 19, 1979
Washington, D.C.



Annex 1
-22- r2 -                                                      5 pages
TABLE 3A
AFGHANISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
APiRANISTAN                                           /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. IN.)                                               - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           635.0                                                  SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     144.5                               HOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME      INCOME
1960 /b   1970 /b ESTIMTE Lb        REGION /c  GROUP Ld    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 90.0       110.0    190.0            167.4      182.9       432.3
ENUCY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     15.0        33.0      43.0            65.7       88.9       251.7
POPUlATION AIM VITAL STATlSTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        9.9 /f     12.3 lf   14o /f*
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 8.0        10.7      14.3            12.8       15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      16.0        19.0      23.0            85.2       46.8        42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    71.0        87.0      99.0           322.6      254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STUUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        41.9        43.2      45.5            44.0       43.6        44.9
15-64 TRS.                        54.8        54.2      51.3            52.9       53.3        52.8
65 YIS. AND AEOVl                  3.3         2.6       3.2             2.9        2.9         3.0
POPUATION GROWn RATE (PERCENT)
70TAL                             2.2 A       2.2 JA    2.2             2.2        2.4         2.7
IRR1                              5.2         5.2       7.2 1h          4.2        4.0         8.8
CRDE BIRTH R4TE (PIR INSAMD)    49.0           48.7      51.4            45.1       44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH IRATE (Pn THOUSAND)    34.1        27.6      30.7            17.3       19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..         3.4       3.4             3.2        2.9         3.2
FAMILY P1IIIIIG
ACCEPTORS, AISIIAL (TUSANDS)       ..          ..      15.3
USERS (PCENCT OF AIRID   ER)   ..              ..       1.0            13.7       14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX O  PMOM PRODUCTlON
PU CAPITA (1970-100)            113.5       100.0    106.7             95.6       96.4       104.3
m  CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALOtIES (PCENT OF
BEQUIRIENS)                    86.0        78.0      83.0            91.1       92.3        ".5
PROTEINS (ClANS PER DAY          65.2        58.0      61.5            69.6       50.0        56.8
OW MICH ANIMAL AMD PULSI         ..        11.0       8.5            12.6       13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) OTALITI RATE        ..          ..      24.1 /n           ..         ..         7.5
LIF  EPECT'AIICT AT BIRTH (YEARS)    32.8      37.8      35.0            43.1       45.8        53.3
INFAINT 1N1ALlTE RATE (P
TUSA)                                ..          ..    269.4             ".5       102.7        82.5
ACESS T0 SAn VATlE (PIIICDIT Of
POPUlATION)
IOTAL                              ..         3.0       9.0            30.0       26.4        31.1
URU                                ..        10.0      40.0            66.3       63.5        6.5
URAL                               ..         1.0       5.0            17.2       14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO ENCRTA |ISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)    I
TOTAL                              ..        21.0      21.0            15.7       16.1        37.5
UR                                 ..        69.0      63.0            66.9       65.9        69.5
RURAL                              ..        16.0      15.0             2.5        3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIMA        22450.0    14680.0  12930.0            8830.8   13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSIlG PERSON    23210.0    21080.0   11660.0          8479.3    6983.3       2762.5
POPULATICN PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                          5950.0 /t   5240.0   5210.0           1624.5    1157.6        786.5
URBAN                              ..      1090.0        ..              ..      183.3       278.4
RURAL                              ..      9650.0        ..              ..    1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        9.6        ..              ..       19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..        5.2
URSMN..                                                   ..                       4.8
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..              ..        1.8         2.3
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..       25.9        28.3
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..         8.7        10.3



Annex 1
- 23  -                                              Page 2   of  5  pages
TABLE 3A
AFGHANISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
AFGHANISTAN                                               /A
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MDST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 Lb      1970 Lb ESTIMATE lb       REGION Ic   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                   9.0 /k      21.0 /k    29.0 k/          59.1        62.9          75.8
FEMALE                 2.0 /k       6.0 /k    5.O k/           38.4        45.9          67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   1.0 /k       6.0 /k    8.0 k/           19.9        14.4         17.7
FEMALE                 0.3 /k       1.0 /k    1.0 _7/            9.9        8.8          12.4
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 11.0 /k         4.2 Ak    9.0 kI             1.5         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               ..         41.0 /k   37.0 k/           38.2         38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                             ..         24.0 /k      .o.0 kt        23.5         19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           8.0         10.0       11.0 i/          35.6        36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.5          3.0        3.0 /i            2.2         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.0          6.0        6.0              14.9        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..          ..         ..                ..         2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     5.0          6.0      27.0               6.4         6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             1.1        ..                ..         1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)            ..          ..    4700.0 /1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    16.9         17.9       18.3              21.3        24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                  ..          ..       52.9              62.8        60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)s/                  ..           ..       19.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 36.0          35.1      34.2              35.8        39.8         37.8
MALE                                   59.1         56.4      54.7              52.4        53.3         50.3
PEMALE                                 12.4        12.8       12.8              15.6        19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  ..           ..        1.5              1.3         1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          ..         ..              18.6        20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..         ..              42.8        45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          ..         ..               7.3         5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          ..         ..              19.3        16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       86.0              80.2        88.5        155.9
RURAL                                  ..          ..       84.C              67.2        71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..            ..      53.C                ..       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                  ..          ..       53.1              39.8        42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       18.G              50.3        46.0         22.9
IRURAL                                ..            ..      36.0              44.6        48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1975.
/c    South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  Ie  Lover Middle Income ($281-550 per capita,
1976);   If  Population (and also GNP per capita) data relate to fiscal year beginning March 21; 1&   Dif-
ference between UN rate of natural increase and World Bank gonulation growth rate due to different popu-
lation estimate; /h 1970-76; /i Based on the latest appraisal mission estimate. /I 1962;
/k Public education only; /I aged 8 years and over. /m  Industry including Handicrafts. ./1972
September, 1978



- 24 -                                                                 Annex 1
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                   Page 3 of   5  pages
The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the estrame values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries acong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not unifor.   Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water snd excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geom.etric means without the exclusion of extreme valses.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. kn)                                                           Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inl-nd waters                      urban, and rural) divided by their respective nuaber of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area weed temporarily              available in public and private general and specialized bospital and re-
or pe=aneetly for crops, pastur.a, market and kitchen gardens or tn                  habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establihbments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                          at least one physician.   Establiohments providing priacipally custodial
care are not included.  Rural hoepitels. however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (USS) - GNP per capit- estimates at current market prices,               cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion Method as World B-nk Atlae (1975-77 baais);            sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                           provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions Per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                 form hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal end lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilogras of coal equivalent per capita.                 HOUSING
Average side of household (persons Per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                         A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quartero
Total population, mid-year (aillions) - As of July 1; if not available,                and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger  yap or nay not be included in
average of Eva end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                        the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urbam populatios (mactent oE total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                  hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability               Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of date among countries.                                                             ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                     dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per sq. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                 unoccupied parts.
of total area                                                                      Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban., and rural -
Per s   s   ariculture laud - Computed as sbove for agricultural land                 Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Populetian ge structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(13-64 years), and ratired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-           EDUCATION
year population.                                                                  AdvSeted enrollment ratios
Population growth rats (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                    at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70,  nd 1970-75.                                                                populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thcsu.md) - Annual live births per thousand of                   oAfferent lengths of primary education; for countries w;th universal edo-
mid-year population; ten-vesr arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                 cation enrollment may exceed 105 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for moat recent estimate,                  above the official school age.
Crude death rate (mer thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of  id-                 Secondary school - total, and femle - Computed as above; secondary educa-
y*r populationI ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                 tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                       vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reoroduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses arm generally
in her normal. eproductive period if she experiences present age-                    excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,               Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                      clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                     or as departments of secondary institutions.
aoeaptora of birthb-ontrol devices under  uspices of nationa1 family              Pupil-teacher ratio - prtmary and amondary - Total students enrolled in
planing program.                                                                     primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family plsnnins - users (percent of married womem) - Percentage of                     sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control            Adult literacy rate (Percent) - literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to a11 married women in same age group.                                      a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                  CONSUMPTION
Index of food Production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                Passnger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise actor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities,                                  seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from              vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita            Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise donestic productian, imparts less            broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes cnlicen.sd
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,           receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.   Re-              effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-             abolished licensing.
m1  activity and health considering environmental temperature, body               TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to genersL
weights, age and sea diatributions of population, and allowing 10 par-               public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coon-
sent for wsstc  at houe.hold level.                                                  tries nd in years when regietraitus of TV sets Was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (gr-as per day) - Protein content of per               Nesvapaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                 tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above. Requiremants for all countries established by USDA provide for                cation devoted prine-ily to recording general new.   It is considered to
a  inimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 gr-as                be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.          Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                sold during the year, including admisions to drive-in cicemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                  units.
PAD in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food           EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulaes in grams per day.                                 Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (sa.s 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annua1 deaths pmr thaws-              forces and unamployed but excluding housewives, students, atc   Defins-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                           tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of tota1 labor force.
HEALTH                                                                               Ariculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, huoting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                     as percencage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,              Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, sanufacturitg and
and 1975.                                                                            electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under               Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                            female labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
ACe ss to safe wkter (percent of population) - total, urban. and rural -               These are tILOs udjusotd participation rates reflecting ogr-sot
Number of people (total, urb-n, and rural) with re-sonable access to                 structure of the population.  and long time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but               Economic depeadency ratio - Ratio of populatiot wnder 15 cod 65 cod ov-    r to
uncontaminated water such a that from protected boreholes, springs,                  the labor forcs in ago group of 15-64 yearn
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban are-  a public fountain or standpost loated not sore                INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-               Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rural  areas reasonable access would               percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the hovsewifa or members of the household do not have tc                  of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Ac -esa to  aecrots disposal (percent of --  ulatioc) - total, urban, and           Estimated absolute poverty incoe level (US9 Per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Numaber of people (total. urhan, and rural) served by esureta                  Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimo
disposal as percentages of tchir respective populations E tcreta                     nutritionally adequate diet plus essential con-food requirements is not
disposal nay include the collectios scd dioposal, with or without                    affordable.
treatment, of h-.an eacreta and waste-wacsr by water-borne systems                Estimated relative pov-rtv macme level (us$ per caPita) - urhan and rrcal -
or thu use of pit privies and similar installations.                                 Relative poverty income level is that income level lena than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of pr-ticing                   per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at univorsity level.                   Estimated population below poverty income level (percent) - -rban and rural -
Population per nursina person - Population divided by number of                        Per-ont of popupltion (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicinS male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                    "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
Ecfo..ic and Social Data Division
Economic Analysis and Projections Department



Annex 1
-25-                                     Page  4 of  5 pages
ElCu(MIC INI)CA [IS
ANNUAL RATE 1W (IFCHOW11-  (2' cono-tant PrieCi)
GR(,.;S ;AIbONAt. PRODUCr IN 1975/76
(At 195//b constant prices)                                                          1965/66-       1968/69         1976/          1977/
US1$ Mn.        %            1968/69       1975/76          1977          1978
GNP at m.irket Prices         11                         1976          100.0             ..              3
Gross Uorew.tic  lnvestifnt-                               *                             .               .
Gross Nati:,nal ,Saving- 
Curr,nt Account oalancc                                  - 54             - 3            ..                          -70.0         +126.0
Exp.rt of GCods-l-                                        236             12             .              19            24.8            6.1
Imports of Goods                                          278             14            ..              14            -1             21.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY 1N 1975/762/
Value Added                     Labor Force                     V.A. per Worker
US~ MUn.         7.          Thousainds   7. of totaL                              7
Agriculture                                     977.65        55.4            2492.8          52.9                392.2           104.7
H-ndicrafts and Industry                        241.10        13.7             929.0          19.7                259.5           69.3
Services                                        545.24        30.9            1073.5          22.8                507.9           135.6
Unallocated                                       -             -               87.2           1.9
Unemployed                                        -         _                  127.5           2.7
Total/Average                          1763.99       1-00.0          4710.0          10.0                374.5          100.0
GOVERNSUO'NT FIN.,NCE`                                                                                          ,
(General Ooverraeent)
(Afs. Million)
~74I2.5      1975/76       1976/77       1977/7P-
uarreat ReŽcipts                                              10,250        i2,02'       -4 011 ,'
Cjrr<n.t U-£:-oiturze                                          6,300         9,0j20       1,06?        7
=.ierrt Sorpios fD ficlO)                                      3,950        3005          2,14,         £   7
G.spli.li nE%pcnJ-tur-s        5- s ,64S                                    60"65        Q0,550         L   -
- ;i  sPanae (1gzrssff                              29            4,644         4,453        7j2v.
_   .   9>2.f /_     _S~~~~~'73/7  99 .;         __7 -          9~-757
t illic-i Afs. ou Jsz: -ng e.nr PjI2Cr 
-,o-ey and Quas'-'  .oney                                       5          12-09         i3 90"      ,                ,73?.Z       237.-.
3an-k credit tc Publ'  Seec    (net 9G                                      S9O          i             ', '!is         ilg£         1.63D
-nk cred:t Lo Erivate Sec^.or                                                            'i';4         525_           5535         65302
.4co:ley anrd QUaSi MoCey as Z oi CD-L                                                                                   i6.f-
>-cc:a   " lc2l-555e<1 915/69    C 3^ 107)                                           .L5           ,                    '  9.   142-
Sr's. 1 psc senge cisanges i-:
Gcnc o  Price inLY                                              0 '           '1              -                                         1.6
3e-nk crcdi'  to PubLic Sector (nre)                                           S.4         1                    8                        .4
-',ok ctedit Lo Priva-e  ecIcr                                               22'G C23- 
ISO'ES:.
1/  1bRD estifrytes.  The historical figures are based on crude approximatfons and assuods the grcwth
rates reported ar  tiera orders of mognitude.  Or the CGP breakdown, the nvai.ile figures s- very cr- de
and therefore, the Gross  Domsestic Investment and Gross National Savings figurcs have not 'aen reported.
2/  No figures are available for NFS separated into Exports and Imports; instead, net figures for "Ot.her
currenr account" are supplied under Balance of Pawents.
31  Settled population and nomads.
41  Since figures on CDP at current prices are not available, it is not possible to provide estimates of Govertmment
Finance as a % of GDP.   Moreover, no separate figurcs on Ccntral Govcnrmscnt finances are available.
5/  Portion of development expenditure financed by foreign aid.  To find its US Dollar equivalcnt, an official exchange
rate 45 Afglianis to 1 SDR and tb,e respective annual average SDR, US$ ratio should be used on a number of Government
transactiens.
6/  Year ending lIarclh 20.
7/  Estimates on GDP at current prices 'are only available for 1972/73 and 1975/76.



- 26-                            Annex 1
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAIL FLOWS               Page 5 of 5 pages
BAIANCE OF PAY8MENTS                                (US$ Million)              MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
Prelim.                                             Per-   Prelim.   Per-
1976/77      1977/78                                   1976/77  cent   1977/78   cent
2/_ _
Exports of Goods                                282.5         322.0            Dry Fruits and Nuts    68.2    23.0    82.9          26.5
Imports .h Goods                               327.6         419.5             Fresh Fruits             23.0      7.7    22.9        7.3
Resource Gap (deficit   - )                     -45.1         -97.5            Karakul                  19.3      6.5    18.5        5.9
8/                                                         Cotton                    60.7    20.4    55.0       17.5
Interest Payments                                -8.4        -12.9             Carpets and Rugs         23.4      7.9    38.5       12.3
Other Factor Payments (Net):                                                   Natural C3s              39.6    13.3    39.3        12.5
Travel (net)                                 29.4           37.1            All Other Commodities  62.9    21.2    56.4          18.0
Investment Income irum                                                             Total            297.1   100.0   313.5    100.0
foreign assets                            2.7           7.2
Embassies' expenditures (net)                 3.0            2.8
Service Compozient of                                                                                              12/
Project Aid (net)                         -10.7         -22.1             EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT. March 20. 1978-
Other current Accyunt (net
transfers)-                               16.6          20.9                                                      US$ Million
Balance on Current Account                      -27.9         -63.3
10/                                                     Outstanding,ilClg. undisbursed               1,831.0        
Net Loans and Grants -                           78.1        167.8                    Disbursed                             1,058.6
(Disbursements)                            (98.9)       (200.3)                   Undisbursed                            832.4
(Amortization)                            (-20.8)       (-33.1)
Service Payments (1977118)                      37.6
Other Items n.i.e.                               15.1          61.2                   Interest                                 11.9
Increase in Researves                            65.3         1657                      mortization                            25.5
Cross Reserves (end year)                       212.3         366.9-                                           13_/
Met Reserves (end year)                          .,.           ...             Debt Service Ratio  (1977/78)                    132
Tuel and Related Matertals
imports                       ...           ...
2xports
RATE OF EXCHANGE           Free Rate
1971172        -  US$    1.00 - Afs.  84.60
AfL.   1.00 - US$.    .011O
1972/73        -  US5.   1.00 - AMs.  SO.50
Afs.   1.00 - US$.    .0125
1973/74        -  us$.   1.00 - Afs.  60.72
Afs.   1.00 - US$.    .0165
1974/75       -   M5$.   1.00 - Afs.  56.58
Aie.   1.00 - US$.    .0177
1975/76        -  WS.  *11600 - Afs.  55.04
Afi.   1.00 * US$.    .0182
1976/77        -  5s$.   1.00 - Afs.  47.38
Aft.   1.00 * US$.    .0211
1977/7         -  US$.   1.00 * Afe.  43.99                                                          February 1979
Aft.   1.00 * US$.    .0227
1971/79        -  u$.   1.00o    Afe.  19.34
Afe.   1.00 - U5$.    .0254
NOTES:
8/   Althotugh thi% Is recorded as a gross figure, it can be assumed to be net bceause interest received is negligible.
V    Data on Workers' remittances are not available, slthough these flows are probably sizeable.
1/  No break(lown of loans and grants Is available.
Ill  At end Decehber 1978.
12/  Ne figures on external private debt are available.
13/ Excludc:i nset purcl,ases of foreigtje xclhaingc by the Central Bank.



ANNEX II
-27-                        Page 1 of 5 pages
THE STATUJS OF BANK GROUP OPEBATIONS IN AFGHANTISTAN
A. STATEU,TPNT OF IDA CREDITS (as of January 31, 1979) !
-US $ Millions
(less cancel-
Credit                                                                      Amount   lations)
Number      Year       Borrower         Purpose                               IDA   Undisbursed
158         1969       Afghanistan      Highway Maintenance I                  5.0   Fully disbursed
202         1970       Afghanistan      Agricultural Credit I                 5.0   Fully disbursed
248.0       1971       Afghanistan      Irrigation                            5.0   Fully disbursed
248.1       1976       Afghanistan      Irrigation                           10.0         8.7
374         1973       Afghanistan      Aviation Communications               2.5         1.3
375         1973       Afghanistan      Livestock II                          9.0         2.3
380         1973       Afghanistan      IDBA                                  2.0         0.5
449         1973       Afghanistan      Highway Maintenance II               11.5         3.3
539         1975       Afghanistan      Agricultural-Credit II               13.0         0.3
563         1975       Afghanistan      Kabul Water Supply and Sanitation  9.0            4.6
627         1976       Afghanistan      Thermal Power                        10.0   Fully disbursed
649         1976       Afghanistan      Livestock II                         15.0        13.2
674         1976       Afghanistan      Education II                          6.o         5.9
721         1977       Afghanistan      Agricultural Credit III              12.0         9.4
778         1978       Afghanistan      Irrigation II                        22.0        22.0
77aW        1978       Afghanistan      Fruit and Vegetable Exports          18.0        18.0
836         1979       Afghanistan      Kabul Water Supply and Sewerage   16.5           16.5
Total                                               171.5
Total now outstanding and held by IDA_/             171.5
Total undisbursed                                               lo6.0
a!/ Not yet effective
b/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
1/ Credit No. 68 for an Education Project in 1964 was cancelled at the Government's
request in 1970. A sum of, $0.3 million which had been disbursed for the project
was consolidated under Cre'dit 248.
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of January 31, 1979)
Investment
Number             Year                 Institution                Loan    Equity   Total
243                1973          Industrial Development Bank         -       0.3       0.3
of Afghanistan
Total gross commitments, less
cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                              -      0.3       0.3
Total undisbursed



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Cr. No. 248 - First Khanabad Irrigation Project: US$5 million Credit of
June 11, 1971; Effectiveness Date: December 22, 1972; and $10 million
Supplementary Credit of January 12, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 19,
1976;   Closing Date:  June 30, 1979.
The major civil works contract was awarded to a local public cor-
poration after international competitive bidding. Although the project is
about one year behind schedule, good progress was made in 1977 and 1978 on
the construction of the diversion structures and lining of canals. Major
construction is now nearing completion. The agricultural extension services
are unsatisfactory. However this inadequacy is being addressed under the
Second Khanabad Irrigation Project (Credit 778).
Cr. No. 374 - Aviation Project:   US$2.5 million:  Credit of May 2  1973;
Effectiveness Date: November 26, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The Flight Information Center, the major project component is now
complete and appears to be functioning satisfactorily. Government delays in
consultant appointment and bid award resulted in a cost overrun of $2.5 mil-
lion which has been financed through bilateral aid. Engineering/feasibility
studies have been completed. The institutional improvements required under
the Credit Agreement have been designed but they have not yet been put into
effect. These include the establishment of the Air Navigation Authority as a
separate entity with its own Charter, and a modern commercial and management
accounting system for it.
Cr. No. 375 - First Livestock Development Project:   US$9.0 million Credit of
May 2, 1973; Effectiveness Date: March 21, 1974; Closing Date: September 30,
1979.
Construction of the slaughterhouse is now complete. Administrative
weaknesses which caused initial delays in its operation are being dealt with,
and recent progress including the signing of a meat contract, and the provi-
sion of an exchange rate export incentive to the Herat Livestock Development
Corporation, is encouraging. However, administrative bottlenecks remain a
severe constraint to successful project implementation. Progress of the
on-farm development component of the project has been generally satisfactory
following the implementation of a set of modified loan security requirements
in late 1975.  The Herat Livestock Development Company sent its first group of
technicians abroad for training in May 1977.   An outstanding project feature
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
is the success of the Experimental Range Improvement Centre in conducting
surveys which have resulted in the accumulation of a wealth of information on
range productivity, movement of nomadic flocks, and flock production data
which will be of value in formulating future livestock range management
projects.
Cr. No. 380 - Industrial Development Bank of Afghanistan IDBA Project: US$2.0
million Credit of May 15, 1973; Effectiveness Date: November 20, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
In September 1976, the Board approved the allocation of the entire
$2 million credit, originally planned for several sub-projects, to one public
sector project, Badghis Cotton Ginning.   After initial delays due to bottle-
necks in civil works, the plant is now under construction. US$1.5 million of
the credit has been disbursed. Constrt.ction is expected to be compLeted by
August/September 1979; there is however a risk of slippage to 1980.
Cr. No. 449 - Second Road Improvement and Maintenance Project: US$11.5
million Credit of December 21, 1973; Effectiveness Date:  June 10, L974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
An amount of US$2.7 million remains undisbursed of which US$2.5
million has been committed. Of the remaining free funds ($1.4 million),
US$0.8 million has been earmarked. Upgrading of about 75% of the road length
designated under the project is complete. Institution building so far has not
been entirely successful, but slow progress is nevertheless being made.
Cr. No. 539 - Second Agricultural Development Bank Credit: US$13.0 million
Credit of April 25, 1975; Effectiveness Date: July 24, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The credit is now fully committed. A sum of $300,000 remains
undisbursed. Implementation of the Third Agricultural Credit Project has
begun.
Cr. No. 563 - Kabul Water Supply and Sanitation Project:   US$9.0 million
Credit of June 23, 1975;   Effectiveness    Date:  December 23, 1975; Closing
Date:   December 31, 1980.
Project progress although somewhat behind schedule, remains satis-
factory overall. Major contracts for pipe supply and pumping equipment have
been awarded; delivery has begun. Civil works construction has commenced.
The Central Authority for Water and Sewerage continues to expand and con-
solidate its management capability with help from consultants and a financial
advisor.   Revised billing and collection procedures have been implemented.
Meter installation has commenced. Construction of the associated Afshar
project financed by the Federal Republic of Germany is expected to start
shortly. A study to design a feasible sanitation program is in progress.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
Cr. No. 627 - Thermal Power Project, US$10.0 million, Credit of May 17,
1976;  Effectiveness Date:   November 10, 1976; Closing Date:  June 30,
1979.
The physical facilities are now complete. However, progress on the
institutional side has been slow. Although energy losses have been reduced,
Government has yet to establish a revised charter for DABM, and DABM has
to improve its financial management. Government and DABM have yet to agree
on DABM's financial target for 1979/80, which was suggested by IDA as an
intermediate objective before the agreed rate of return objective of 8% in
1980/81.
Cr. No. 649 - Second Livestock Development Project, US$15.0 million, Credit
of June 28, 1976; Effectiveness Date:        September 27, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Project implementation is now gathering momentum following initial
delays; and 4 Sheep Improvement Center sites have been identified. Except for
the credit component, disbursements are behind schedule largely because of pro-
curement delays. Consultants have been appointed and mobilized. Contracts for
the supply of drilling machinery, road maintenance equipment and vehicles have
been awarded. Field surveys to select appropriate sites for the remaining
Sheep Improvement Centers are in progress. A pilot range development project
will be implemented shortly. Excellent progress has been made in the Sheep
Vaccination program with the establishment of 11 animal health centers.
Recent progress under the First Livestock Project should accelerate the
implementation of this Project.
Cr. No. 674 - Second Education Project, US$6.0 million, Credit of January 7,
1977; Effectiveness Date:  March 31, 1977; Closing Date:   April 30, 1982.
While the project is currently delayed by about 15 months, project
completion is expected to be 3 months behind schedule. The results of the
recent civil works bids were unsatisfactory, but Government is attempting to
conclude satisfactory contracts. Furniture and equipment lists are being
finalized. The agricultural teacher training program is making good progress
with the arrival of specialists financed by ODM.
Cr. No. 721 - Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$12.0 million Credit of
June 20, 1977;   Effectiveness Date:  September 20, 1977;  Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
As part of the Credit, AgBank has begun implementation of an agreed
program for upgrading the status and standard of branch offices and staff,
and to delegate more authority to both lower echelon headquarters staff and
branch directors. However, due to changes of several key branch directors,
following the change in Government, the program has recently suffered a set-
back. Steps are also being taken to further improve the fertilizer program
by which AgBank makes about 60,000 short term loans annually for fertilizer



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
and productive inputs to farmers, including large numbers of smaller land-
owners. The impact on AgBank of recent Government decrees including inter-
alia debt forgiveness for small and landless farmers, and a revision of the
Land Reform Law has not been adverse up to the present. Clarifications of
the Government's intentions on land reform should result in progress of the
land settlement component. Arrangements for the Fertilizer Study are being
finalized. A decision on the establishment of the Supply Department as a
separate entity will be taken following review by Government and IDA of
various alternatives.
Cr. No. 778 - Second Khanabad Irrigation Project; US$22 million Credit of
April 10, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The terms of reference for a consultant to carry out all engineering
and agricultural project work including the setting up of agricultural exten-
sion services in the project area and a review of the national agricultural
extension and research services are being finalized. The terms of reference
for a consultant, who would carry out a feasibility study for the Warsech Dam
have been finalized, and proposals have been invited.
Cr. No. 779- Fruit and Vegetable Expo~rt Project; US$18.0 million Credit of
Septlember 217, 1978; yet to be declared effective; ClosingDt:   ue3
1985.
The associated kUi-P p,oec  has been s gned, anr a project directoir
sea-ecied. Good progress has been -ade in meeting the xtensive conditions
v- effectiveness.
r  No. 836_-  aul Water S2ppiv arderge Prcg4L I.$i6.i  lir, Credit
of KiguLlst '. 1978; Effectiveness Bate:  Decemabe r1178  Closing  Date:
June 30, 1985.
The credit was declared effective on December 4, 1978, and project
implementation has commenced.



- 32 -                    ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)     Time taken by the country to
prepare  the project:                        Nine months (October
1977 to May 1978)
(b)     Agencies which prepared the project:         Ministry of Education with
technical assistance from
the United Kingdom Overseas
Development Ministry (UK
ODM) and IDA.
(c)     Date of first presentation to the
Bank and date of the first Bank
mission to consider the project:             October 1977
(d)     Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:   June 19, 1978
(e)     Date of completion of negotiations:          February 14, 1979
(g)     Planned date of effectiveness:               July 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action:  None
Section III - Special Conditions
(i)   Outlines of reformed curricula for natural sciences, crafts
and home economics courses to be introduced into the Teachers
Training Institutes (TTIs) and the Academy for Teacher Trainers
(ATEA) would be sent to IDA for comment within four months of
Credit signature (para 47).
(ii)   A program to supply required textbooks to the TTIs would be
sent to IDA within one year of the signing of the Credit
Agreement (para 47).
(iii)   A detailed description of the tracer component of a proposed
evaluation system for the project institutions would be
sent to IDA for review and comment one year prior to their
opening and the results of the tracer studies would be trans-
mitted annually to the Association for five years following
the first outputs of trained teachers and administraters
(para 50).
(iv)   Draft terms of reference for the feasibility studies, and
preinvestment designs would be prepared by the ministries
involved, in cooperation with the related experts, and would
be sent to the Association for comment within twelve months
of the signing of the Credit Agreement (para 52).



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(v) A draft program for the selection of candidates for 10 month
fellowship training in curriculum development and teacher
training scheduled to start in September 1979 and for the
recruitment of experts to be synchronized with the return
of the trainees, would be sent to the Association within
four months of the signing of the Credit Agreement; and
similar programs for the selection of candidates for the
remaining fellowship training and for the recruitment of
experts would be sent sufficiently in advance of the
scheduled recruitment and training to permit IDA comment
thereon (para 53).
(vi) International experts for the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) would be recruited under the technical assistance
program (paras 53 and 55).
(vii) In order to encourage their participation in civil works
under ICB, the work of foreign contractors in the country
would be facilitated by allowing importation of skilled
labor, construction components, equipment (para 57).






IBRD 14057
MARCH 1979
U S-S. R.                                                                                                                                             N
j   ed jJO@\Z JA N   BAL KH ,                                 'tTAKHAR  /                        g       /oJ/
S AMAN
cq   La  f   I   *B    ( /    BA    H LAN           r          ,.
\ 14 TorRh <j\f's_'    )    \,   /   -rC   X   S  .  .  t  ,\- - > >/    NANGARHAA(                                                                                                        I-
AQx a | eJ§ A ~~D G  H  I S U-   _    L    LGM|X 
B A M i'YPA  WANN
/~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ \'~'~'                                                                                T7I77l7   007                                                            34'_>     \ = t/  
-H              E  R    A    T   hh  _ i__ Iul lm_) e  \ 
>_ _  _  .       <                                       W,                        ,   >                       /4t RwL >~~~~~~~~~,Z-~, 
z     0 P u;lnda  //  14  v  .--   )r-  O R L Z-G A N   >  '/oazt '5 e    4DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
G.(     -PAKT                            /    THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
I-1 T\    II/GTEACH TEA I NG INOSTITTES
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H                                                                       N                                    r                                       T   A .     "A ;>}I/NI N-RAVL RAD
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~           ~           ~          ~          ~        ~         o        CIT 069TONS
B<c  { ( _/ < /7i~t JZ   )&>>JA   /   14 Wlf\ PROTINEIA CAPITALS                                                                             72
PROO,NEIAL DTROSNRIES
- _  f  +/     W r    T==   AL- NA.N RouSnAR TO
-< 0 q t                                               /                                                                                                                          N.,>2i   h K A N D A    R
/   12!   '   H E L M/X!A N  D  M                  j    °-                                        >                                                                V 2 {33        U S S R         -E   CHINA
/                                                                                                                                                                                                                          K 4   hr ]W rv         
730                                                                                                  /                       0_       07        00 Ij  O   DTT10           207                                                                      N'A  i  zCX'v>s
j      ->    ~ r-- /1                                                                    5hn hsensrlv4ewodmsNr<lsdvomcnms OE0T                                                                               IRANTA  S                        7S0AA
\-7-. -7-                                                                               -                        bmmd,e s77 s,E77,ET,7EDDTIT. 00370070 7$7,RE.,G77A7T77n77,N.77T                             >l        '5 do7n   m    ,.
, ,P7R7'.~7'7 ,700707 ,59 _77,1,7, . TdMml ymymK                               A L E.7717 DIA
.1R                                62°  d17  -TO 777    77R                                                   TA                           2



