Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C / 161>. yAq
Report No. P-4103-YDR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPNENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 14.6 MILLION
TO THE
r
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
FOURTH HIGHWAYS PROJECT
May 28, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984               May 1985
Currency Unit        Yemeni Dinars (YD)
US$1      =         YD 0.345                     0.345
YI1       =         US$2.900                     2.900
PDRY Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
COCA     Central Organization for Control and Audit
HA      Highway Authority
ICU     Independent Construction Unit
MOC      Ministry of Construction
MCom     Ministry of Communications
MOP      Ministry of Planning
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
YAR      Yemen Arab Republic
;



FOR OmFFCIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Amount;                SDRs 14.6 million (about US$14.4 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard IDA.
Project Description:   The proposed project continues assistance in the
development of the road system. Specifically the
project aims at; (a) laying the institutional and
physical groundwork for a countrywide road maintenance
organization; and (b) providing access to an agricul-
tural production area under development. The Credit
would provide financing for: (a) construction and
rehabilitation of road maintenance facilities;
(b) urgently needed road maintenance and workshop
equipment and communication and management systems
equipment for road maintenance planning. accounting and
operations; (c) technical assistance for road
maintenance, planning, training and operations;
(d) road construction; and (e) consultancy services.
Benefits and Risks:    The road maintenance program, of which the first phase
included in this project is an integral part, would
benefit Government through less frequent costly
periodic maintenance work, and road users through lower
vehicle operating costs on better roads. Construction
of the Wadi Beihan road would increase savings for
trucking companies and motorists using the road, and
b                                would benefit farmers through more reliable imports of
fuel and agricultural inputs, faster exports of their
surpluses and reduced spoilage. While the traffic
forecasts for the Wadi Beihan road take account of all
available data on the area, there remains an element of
uncertainty in these forecasts, and consequently a risk
for the project. However, given the Government's
strong commitment to the development of Wadi Beihan,
this risk is considered small.
This document has a restricted distribution and rnay be used by recipients onbyin the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Prolect Costs: L'
Component                                     Local     o          Total
US- million --
Phase I of Maintenance Program:
Technical Assistance                      0.12       0.63       0.75
Equipment                                   -        0.98       0.98
Building Works                            0.64       1.13       1.77
Construction of Nisab-Wadi Beihan Road:
Nisab-Wasit (35 km)                        1.27      4.51       5.78
Wasit-Wadi Beihan (125 km)                 1.24     19.42      20.66
Construction Supervision                  0.10       1.90       2.00
Base cost                            3.37      28.57      31.94
Physical Contingencies                    0.31       2.51       2.82
Price Contingencies                       0.27       3.97       4.24
Total Cost 2f                        3.95      35.05      39.00
Financins Plan:
Local    Foreign     Total
-------uS$ million
Government                                3.95      20.65      24.60
Proposed IDA Credit                        -        14.40      14.40
Total                                3.95      35.05      39.00
1/  Rounded figures.
2/  Exclusive of taxes and duties from which public projects are exempt.
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA Fiscal Year
1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
US$ million
Annual                                1.9    4.3    3.5    2.8    1.9
Cumulative                            1.9    6.2    9.7   12.5   14.4
Economic Rate of Return:              15 percent (construction component only)
Appraisal Report: Report No. 5602-YDR, dated May 28, 1985.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit
of SDR 14.6 million (about US$14.4 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms
to the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) to help finance a Fourth
Highway Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       An economic report entitled "People's Democratic Republic of Yemen:
Special Economic Report--Mid-Term Review of the Second Five-Year Plan,
1981-85" (4726-YDR) dated June 4, 1984, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on June 21, 1984. Since then, IDA staff have undertaken, at the
request of the Government, a study on manpower development, and have periodi-
cally visited the country to keep up to date with economic developments. The
following paragraphs incorporate their findings. A country data sheet is
attached as Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Situated in the southwestern corner of the A_abian Peninsula, the
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY), witb a popuiltion of 2.0 million
(1983) covers an area of 333,000 square km and extends nearly 1,400 km along
the Gulf of Aden. It is a semi-arid land of ri6ged configuration with sparse
vegetation, low rainfall and few natural resources. Agricultural production
is limited to some 12 scattered wadis comprising the total cultivable area of
about 200,000 ha or less than 1 percent of the country's land surface. -The
one major resource is fish, which is not yet fully exploited. The majority of
the population lives on the narrow coastal plain along the Gulf. Tiere is
also a concentration of population in the Wadi Hadramawt, a large fertile
valley in the centre of the country. The rest of the population, of wh-ich 10
percent is bedouin, live in small scattered communities. There are also an
estimated 200,000 Yemenis working outside PDRY. Except for the oil refin-ry
1/ Part I of this report is substantially the same as Part I of the
President's Report for the Agricultural Research and Extensicin
(P-3895-YDR) which was approved by the Executive Directors sn March 14,
1985.



-2-
at Little Aden, there is little industrial activity in the country. The
country is still at a low level of development, its institutions are
relatively weak and its per capita income was $510 in 1983.
Development Obhectives and Constraints
4.       Prior to Independence in 1967, the eco'omy was mainly centered around
Aden and depended heavily on services provided by the port of Aden and
IL      budgetary support from the British.  Following Independence, the Goverament
has sought to diversify the economy and carry economic development to all
parts of the country. Over the past decade, the Government of PDRY has
consistently pursued a strategy of developing the country within the context
of a planned economic system embodying state-owned enterprises in industry and
services, and state farms and cooperatives in agriculture and fisheries. The
principal objectives of the Government have been: (a) to satisfy the basic
needs of the population for food, essential consumer goods, shelter, employ-
ment, health care and .other social services; (b) to develop the production
capacity of the economy,- especially in agriculture, fisheries, manufacturing,
construction and minerals; (c) to strengthen the infrastructure sectors, i.e.,
transport, power and telecommunications; (d) to raise education standards,
emphasizing technical and higher education; and (e) to increase exports.
5.       Private enterprise was given a subsidiary role by the Government, and
was to be gradually replaced by public corporations and cooperatives. But the
private sector has proven to be resilient and appears to have regained some
strength in recent years. At present, it is estimated to account for almost
half of the nation's gross output of goods and services (excluding government
services). Private activity can be found in almost every sector and is
strongly represented in agriculture, construction, trade and transport. The
volume of private investment-mainly in housing-has risen sharply since the
mid-1970s. Cooperation between public and private capital is encouraged in
some areas, such as light industries, and a limited number of joint ventures
are now active. Foreign private investors have been invited to participate in
oil exploration and the fishing industry. A new Investment Promotion Law has
recently been promulgated, providing incentives to private investors and
encouraging foreign investment in other sectors such as tourism and
construction. The response has been good from both Yemeni nationals returning
from abroad and private foreign investors, but unfortunately the Government is
not yet in a position to offer significant assistance by way of feasibility
studies or suitable projects.
6.       Since the early 1970s the country has made significant progress in a
number of areas. Supplies of basic foodstuffs and other essential consumer
goods were increased, although largely through higher imports. School
enrollment rose sharply, adult literacy programs were introduced, and health
services improved. The transport network was strengthened, new power stations
built, and productive capacities in agriculture, fisheries and manufacturing
expanded. Substantial investments were made in mineral exploration while more
recently, there was an upsurge in private house construction. Rising
investments led to a rapid expansion of the local construction industry.
Overall economic expansion, together with net emigration abroad not only
eliminated open unemployment, but created some labor shortages.



-3-
7.       These developments were supported by substantial aid inflows, and by
a large increase of remittances sent by Yemenis working abroad (see para. 16).
The country has a very meagre export base and there has been little (if any)
growth in exports in recent years. Notwithstanding large investments in these
sectors, agricultural and fish production have stagnated in the last five to
six years. However, since an increasing amount of product can be sold in the
free market as opposed to official channels (see para. 10), the output
statistics may somewhat understate the level of production and thus the
performance of the agriculture and fisheries sectors.
8.       The Second Five-Year Plan which commenced in 1981 continues to pursue
the overall development objectives outlined above (see para. 4). The Plan
proposes a total investment of $1.47 billion (in 1980 prices) for 1981-85, of
which about $1.06 billion (72 percent) is being financed through foreign
capital. The production targets are ambitious, and even though good progress
was made in the first two years of the Plan, are unlikely to be achieved.
9.       The Government has tried to ease the shortages of adequately trained
manpower with bilateral and multilateral technical assistance, including
assistance from UNDP which maintains a large program in PDRY. In addition,
again with foreign assistance (including IDA), a large education and training
program was launched and in recent years it has become increasingly
technically oriented.
10.      Low productivity in the public and cooperative sectors is one of the
principal problems faced by the Government. In addition to shortages of
trained manpower, the reasons for this can be traced largely to inadequate
incentive systems, including low Government procurement prices in agriculture
and fisheries, weak management, lack of spare parts, and poor maintenance.
These constraints are often compounded by excessive state control which causes
distortions and stifles initiative. No early solutions to these deep-seated
problems are in sight, although the Government has recently started to pursue
a more flexible price policy to provide incentives for farmers and fishermen.
For example, state procurement prices for most agricultural crops and fish
have been substantially increased, accompanied by measures permitting farmers
and fishermen, both as individuals and in cooperatives, to sell a large
portion of their output on the free market at prices substantially above state
procurement prices.
Recent Economic Developments
11.      The Government's emphasis on development programs has led to a rapid
increase in public spending. Priority was given to public investment, which
increased from $57 million in 1974-75 to $377 million in 1983.  These high
levels of public spending have accelerated the rate of economic growth. GDP
at constant prices has grown at an annual average rate of about 4 percent
during 1976-81, compared with only 2 percent per annum during 1970-75. The
major growth sectors were government services, construction and
manufacturing. Agricultural output and fish production apparently stagnated.
To some extent the disappointing performance of agriculture and fisheries was
the result of labor migration from these sectors to higher paid jobs within
the country (i.e. construction) or abroad.



-4-
12.      Since 1982 pressures on the economy have been mounting.  Production
growth has slowed down partly as a result of the disastrous floods of early
1982 and the subsequent drought which continued into 1984. The floods of 1982
inflicted severe damage on the country's infrastructure and agriculture
sector, causing crop losses both for domestic consumption and export.
Industrial output showed only a small gain due to a shortage of inputs. As a
result, economic growth was negative in 1982 and the provisional figures for
1983 indicate that GDP grew by about 2 percent.  The prospects for any
appreciable improvement in the near future appear very slim.
13.      To sustain the massive increase in public spending, the Government
had to make a major effort in mobilizing financial resources.  New taxes have
been introduced and tax collection improved.  In addition, profits of public
enterprises have been rising. As a result, total public sector income rose
from $68 million in 1974/75 to $415 million in 1983. This still left a large
overall deficit in the public sector amounting to $400 million in 1983.
14.      To supplement the insufficient domestic resources, the Government
turned for help to friendly nations and international agencies. Increasing
amounts of foreign aid were provided, largely by socialist countries and Arab
nations. In addition, PDRY received support from regional and international
organizations, including IDA.   Gross foreign aid inflows rose erratically
from $66 million in 1974 to $314 million in 1982. But aid inflows for 1983
declined sharply ($236 million) and the outcome for 1984 continued this
downward trend ($178 million).
15.      The overall expansion of economic activity, especially the growth in
investment, has induced a considerable flow of additional imports. Total
imports rose from $190 million in 1974 to $753 million in 1983. Most of the
increase was due to rising world prices, especially those for crude oil and
foodstuffs, reducing the growth of import volume to only one-fourth of the
nominal value.  About 30 percent of imports represented food and beverages, 22
percent crude oil and petroleum products, and 20 percent machinery and
equipment.
16.      Exports, mainly fish and cotton, have been able to cover only a minor
share of the import bill. In 1983, they were estimated to be about $25
million or some 3 percent of conmodity imports.  Much more important than
commodity exports are PDRY's invisible earnings which are dominated by labor
income and private transfers. The latter have risen rapidly since the
mid-1970s, increasing from $41 million in 1974 to $440 million in 1983. This
has been due to rising wage levels in the oil surplus countries, to additional
emigration, and to new incentives which liberalized remittance-financed
imports, allowed the construction of private dwellings, and offered higher
interest rates to non-resident bank depositors. Fast growing exchange
earnings and increasing disbursements from foreign aid have enabled PDRY in
recent years to cover its import requirements and to strengthen its foreign
reserves. The latter rose from $67 million at end-1974 to $281 million in
December 1983, which accounted for a little more than 4 months of imports.
17.      Gross official reserves increased only moderately in 1982 and
declined slightly at the end of 1983.  This probably reflects growing imports
due to the floods of 1982 and the intensification of the development effort,



-5-
as well as the fact that remittances have grown less rapidly in the past few
years. The volume of imports is reported to have risen, especially for
consumer goods and fuels; in addition, import prices increased further. Labor
income and private transfers, on the other hand, have grown at a slower pace
as immigration and wages tended to stabilize in the oil exporting countries.
Rising import prices intensified inflationary pressures within PDRY and the
inflation rate cose to about 8 percent in 1982 and 1983 compared to 4 percent
in 1981. In 1984 it is estimated to have fallen back to around 5 percent and
it is expected that the same trend would coatinue in the near future.  These
pressures were reinforced by substantial increases in wage levels, especially
in the private construction sector, and by growing domestic bank financing of
public sector expenditures.
External Debt
18.      The large inflow of foreign loans since 1967 led to a rapid
accumulation of PDRY's external public debt, even though part of the aid was
provided in the form of grants. Total debt outstanding (including
undisbursed) as of December 31, 1984 amounted to $1,718 million, of which
$1,125 million was disbursed. Bilateral sources accounted for $1,190 million
or 69 percent of total commitments, with the USSR providing the bulk ($713
million), followed by China ($149 million), Eastern European countries ($187
million), Arab countries ($86 million) and France ($47 million). By end-
De'--iber 1984, multilateral flows amounted to $528 million, including $326
million from Arab Funds, $174 million from IDA -' and $6 million from the
European Comon Market. The terms of all loans are highly concessionary. In
addition, PDRY has received $524 million in grant assistance during 1974-82,
mostly from Arab countries.
19.      The soft terms of PDRY's external debt have resulted in relatively
small debt service obligations. Debt service payments were $8 million in
1981. However, PDRY's debt service obligations almost doubled in 1983 (to $15
million), equivalent to 4.8 percent of total foreign exchange earnings from
exports of goods and services, ard are projected to increase further in future
years. This will exert additional pressure on its balance of payments. In
view of the fragility of the economy, the country's low income level and low
level of development, the Bank's assistance to PDRY should continue to be on
IDA terms. For the same reasons, some local cost financing by IDA is
justified.
20.      In 1969, under Nationalization Law No. 37, the Government
nationalized most of the foreign-owned enterprises. This law provided for
compensation in the form of 20-year Government bonds bearing interest of 2
percent. In response, some of the foreign banks which were nationalized froze
substantial Yemeni deposits which they had transferred abroad. Settlements
have, however, been reached with almost all foreign companies. Dialogue
continues with the one remaining claimant company of which IDA is aware, and
both parties have stated their desire to reach a mutually acceptable
settlement.
1/ Including $10.4 million from the Special Fund (see para. 22).



-6-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS "
21.      IDA's lending program in PDRY supports the Government's long-range
economic objective of broadening the base beyond the service-oriented economy
centered around Aden, by developing the productive capacity of the other
sectors of the economy and promoting investments in the outlying regions.
Efforts have been directed towards projects in the transport sector, which
would not only help to integrate the disparate regions of PDRY, but, more
importantly, link production areas with the main markets. IDA is assisting in
agriculture and fisheries, petroleum exploration, and power; also an extensive
program is directed toward urgent social needs, with projects in the water
supply, education and health sectors. Technical assistance and
institution-building will continue to be an integral feature of IDA projects
in PDRY.
22.      PDRY joined the Bank in 1969 and IDA in 1970, but is not a member of
IFC.  Assistance to PDRY commenced in 1971. To date, IDA has had 25
operations in PDRY, for a total commitment of $173.6 million including $10.4
million of Special Fund Credits. Of this total, $39.7 million has assisted
the transport sector, $55.3 million the agriculture and fisheries sector,
$21.5 million the power and energy sector, $25.8 million the education sector,
$23.7 million the water supply sub-sector, and $7.6 million the health
sector. Project implementation in PDRY has suffered from delays and in some
cases cost overruns. Common causes of delay have included the time required
to arrange the required cofinancing, difficulties in recruiting and retaining
foreign advisors and in attracting foreign contractors, inexperience in
project mobilization, and in recent years, shortages of both skilled and
unskilled manpower. But projects are in almost all cases being properly
implemented and disbursement performance under IDA credits in PDRY continues
to be satisfactory. Lessons learned from experience with delays and cost
overruns in earlier projects are being taken into account in our follow-up
projects including the proposed project. Annex II contains a summary
statement of IDA and Special Fund Credits as of March 31, 1985.
23.      Future operations are in both the preparation and study stag-..
Project possibilities in agriculture, water, transport, and power are under
consideration. As in the recent past, the costs of future projects are
expected to be substantially higher than the funds IDA can provide to PDRY.
Therefore, efforts will be continued to encourage other development agencies
to join IDA in the financing of suitable projects. From Fi-l through December
1984, the Government and IDA have been successful in securing through projects
about $196.84 million of cofinancing from other aid donors (UNDP $1 million;
Kuwait Fund $36.4 million; Arab Fund $87.09 million; Islamic Development Bank
$11 million, Abu Dhabi Fund $16.75 million, OPEC Fund $26 million, IFAD $11
million, EEC $6.4 million, FAO $0.1 million, Swiss Relief $0.1 million, WHO
$0.6 million and UNICEF $0.4 million), thus helping to increase the inflow of
development aid to the country.
_/I Part II of this report is substantially the same as that in the
President's Report for the Agricultural Research and Extension Project
(P-3895-YDR), which was approved by the Executive Directors on March 14,
1985.



-7-
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
24.      The two million people of PDRY are widely dispersed, with Aden
(population 350,000) being the only major urban center; the remainder of the
population is scattered in small towns and villages along the long but narrow
coastal strip, and in isolated locations in the mountains and desertic
hinterland, wherever water is available.
S
25.      PDRY's transport system is limited, reflecting the country's severe
lack of resources and the modest economic development until recent years. At
Independence in 1967 there were only about 400 tms of surfaced roads, mostly
in and around Aden. The rest of the country was served by low grade tracks or
by limited air services using unpaved airstrips. Traditional dhows plied
between Aden and Al Mukalla. Since then the Government has concentrated a
substantial part of the national developmevLt budget on providing transport
facilities to connect the principal populated areas which are also of
agricultural importance (see Map IBRD 18780). Roads have been the primary
means to connect these areas, since coastal shipping is handicapped by shallow
coastal waters and the lack of ports other than at Aden, Al Mukalla, and a
newly constructed facility at Nishtun; railways are impracticable due to the
rugged terrain and low traffic volumes; and aviation is relatively high cost.
26.     Although on-going construction will bring the total surfaced road
network to 2126 km (including 255 km of cobblestone roads) by end-1985, by
comparison with other countries, network density is low. The density, at 6.4
km per 1000 kmz of land surface and 1.1 km per 1000 people, reflects the
current inaccessibility of many areas of PDRY. Gradual expansion of the
network is planned. But, in parallel, road maintenance is urgently needed.
Traffic has outgrown the carrying capacity of some of the pre-Independence
roads, and regular maintenance is essential to avoid frequent costly repairs.
Road transport accounts for about 90 percent of both total passenger and
freigh-t traffic. Transport services are either state-owned or under close
government regulation.
27.      The port of Aden handles almost all of PDRY's foreign trade.  General
cargo traffic, though modest in absolute terms, is growing rapidly after
several years of decline and has now reached pre-Iudependence levels. In
1975, IDA and the Arab Fund financed the Aden Port Rehabilitation Project
(584-YDR). The country has two other general cargo ports. One at Al Mukalla
was built using loans from the Arab Fund and the Kuwait Fund. The other is at
Nishtun in the isolated Al Mahra Governorate, financed by IDA (932-YDR) and an
EEC Special Action Credit, and became operational in April 1985.
Trahsport Policy, Planning & Coordination
28.      A primary objective of government policy is to integrate the country
socially and economically, and to lessen the dependence of the economy on the
Aden port and refinery by developing other productive sectors, particularly
agriculture and fisheries. The vital supporting role of adequate
communications for the achievement of these objectives has long been
recognized. Through successive development plans, the Covernment has made



intensive efforts to build up a transport system, particularly roads, as well
as institutions and policies to operate the system on a country-wide basis.
Under the First Five-Year Plan (1974-78) transport projects absorbed 27
percent of total development outlays ($151 million). Under the revised Second
Five-Year Plan (1981-85) the allocation was $394 million with half fcr roads.
and road transportation.
29.      Three ministries are mainly responsible for the development and
operation of the transport system:  The Ministry of Construction (MOC) for
main roads, through its Highway Authority (HA); the Ministry of Communications
(MCoD) for road transport services, ports, shipping, airports and aviation;
and the Ministry of Planning (MOP) for coordinating investment decisions and
monitoring project implementation in the sector.  Issues of road transport
affecting both the Ministries of Construction and of Coummunications are
adequately coordinated informally by officials of the two ministries
concerned.
30.      Public sector organizations have primary responsibility for
developing transport services in shipping and civil aviation, and have taken
the lead in providing road transport services. A recent Transport Sector
Study, funded by the UNDP with the Bank acting as executing agency (see para.
38), suggested ways of improving management, efficiency of operations, and
quality of services of these organizations. As a general principle, transport
tariffs are set by the Government, including those to be charged by privately
owned trucks and taxis, at levels that are expected to cover operating costs
while assuring uniformity of rates and fares for like services. A rational
road development policy would ensure that all road user groups pay at least
the cost related to their use of roads, an issue which was highlighted in the
Sector Study. In particular, heavy trucks (which are almost exclusively owned
by public sector firms) should pay for the damage they are causing to paved
roads. To establish appropriate charges, a road user charge study would be
undertaken as part of this project (paras. 42-43).
Highway Subsector
31.      The backbone of the highway network is the 620 Am long coast..l road
from Aden to Al Mukalla, which was started from Aden in the mid-1960s and
completed in 1977. Three other arterial roads are paved, the Aden to Kersh
road (on the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) border, about 65 km), the Al
Mukalla-Wadi Hadramawt road (350 km) and the Shuqra-Ahwar road (116 km). The
asphalt roads in and around Aden and other short stretches mostly in the
western governorates bring the total length of asphalted roads to about 1540
km. A further 331 km of paved road are under construction, and plans exist
for another 821 km, among which the 161 km extension from Nisab to Wadi Beihan
has highest priority. There are also some 255 km of cobblestone roads, mostly
in the Wadi Hadramawt. The rest of the network is made up of unsurfaced
tracks, estimated at. about 4,400 km. Many of them are cut by flash floods and
dune movements at different times of the year, and with few exceptions are
only passable by four-wheel drive vehicles and trucks.
32.      Traffic volumes at about 2,000 vehicles per day on paved roads close
to Aden, between 300 and 1000 vehicles per day on other paved roads, and less
than 100 vehicles per day on the tracks, are generally low.



-9-
Subsector Organization
33.      Responsibility for the road network is divided between the MOC, which
is in charge of the construction and maintenance of the asphalted roads, and
the governorate authorities, which maintain the rest of the network and carry
out small-scale construction works. The MOC was reorganized in 1982 and
responsibilities for operations divided between two deputy ministers: one for
public building corporations, and the other for civil works, quarries and the
Highway Authority (HA).  The HA is responsible for all aspects of developing
and maintaining paved roads in PDRY. The planning of road investment is
carried out at two levels in the MOC: (i) in the Plarnning Unit, reporting
*       directly to the Minister, which advises on policy issues and is responsible
for sectoral planninS in the MOC and for coordination with the MOP; and (ii)
in the Planning and Statistics Department of the HA which is responsible for
the more technical aspects of project preparation aiid implementation.
34.      The Government undertakes all road construction through its own
construction units under the supervision of the HA within the MOC. The more
developed units operate independently, have their own accounting system and
are assisted by bilateral aid experts and management consultants for more
complex works. The quality of construction is satisfactory and, as the units
gain experience, can be expected to improve. Under the proposed project, one
of these units, which gained the main contract through ICB under Highways III,
is expected to participate in the bidding process, with the assistance of its
own construction management consultants, and would submit a bid on an equal
footing with foreign contractors.
Financing
35.      Because of the shortage of domestically generated resources,
construction projects have had to be financed with extensive external
assistance, the Government often contributing less than 10 percent of total
project cost. The People's Republic of China lent an estimated $20 million
towards the cost of the Aden-Al Mukalla road. The Al Mukalla-Wadi Hadramawt
road was jointly financed by IDA ($15.5 million) and the Kuwait Fund ($15.3
million) under IDA's Second Highway Project (Cr. 560-YDR), while the Aden-Taiz
road improvement was financed entirely by the Arab Fund at a cost of about $20
million for the section within PDRY (Aden to Kersh). The Naqabah-Nisab road
is the main component of the Third Highway Project (Cr. 1144-YDR) which is
being jointly financed by IDA ($12.5 million), the Kuwait Fund ($10.5 million)
and the OPEC Fund ($10.5 million). IDA has also financed the construction of
feeder roads under the Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project
(615-YDR). Other assistance has been received from the German Democratic
Republic, the USSR, Hungary and the World Food Program.
Maintenance
36.      The Maintenance Department of the HA is responsible for the upkeep of
the paved network throughout PDRY. The Department has a staff of 375 based in
Aden and 150 in Mukalla, but the organization is weak, skills are inadequate
and facilities poor. Within Aden, a central base workshop is operated with
delapidated buildings and limited equipment; outside Aden, road construction
units have developed workshops at their camps to service and repair their



- 10 -
equipment. As the network has grown and the value of maintenance becomes
better understood, it has been recognized that road maintenance needs to be
systematically approached, and that the HA's ability to carry out routine
maintenance is severely deficient in relation to the needs of the expanding
network. Based on studies carried out under the Third Highway Project
(1144-YDR), the Government requested assistance in financing its five-year
road maintenance program comprising routine maintenance, pavement reseajd and
overlays. Phase I of the program which is included in this project aims at
strengthening routine maintenance capability and includes reorganization of
the Maintenance Department, establishment of three road maintenance districts,
and rehabilitation of the facilitses of the central workshop which would be
supplemented by regional depot workshops. Urgent overlay works are being
executed satisfactorily by governmental units.
Training
37.      The HOC is short of qualified sataff at all levels.  In 1977 the
Government established a construction industries vocational training center
under the supervision of the MOC which teaches school-leavers carpentry,
plumbing, electrical work and masonry, and prepares them for entry into the
Ministry.  Because of the lack of an effective centralized training
organization, and limited human, financial and physical resources, training of
existing staff has not been carried out in a systematic way but rather on an
ad hoc basis as training components have been added under foreign-financed
programs. Useful on-the-job training under the First Highway Project
(240-YDR) (1971 to 1974) and bilateral technical assistance addressed the
needs of the mechanical workshops, while IDA, under the Second Highway Project
(560-YDR), UNDP and bilateral sources have provided overseas fellowships for
mid-level management and specialized -trade candidates. The results have been
mixed because of language difficulties and problems in finding suitably
qualified candidates. The Third Highway Project (1144-YDR) provided for
additional training including some overseas fellowships, particularly for the
staff of the construction unit that built the Naqabah-Nisab road and for
senior staff of MOC. Under that project, manpower development studies were
undertaken, and based on these a three-year training program has been prepared
to be initiated under the proposed project. Phase I of the program would
strengthen the capability of MOC/HA to prepare, implement and supervise
training programs to improve the skills of all maintenance personnel, and
design a three-year training system to be integrated into the operations of
the HA.
Experience with Past Lending
38.      IDA has financed five projects in PDRY's transport sector to date;
the First Highway (240-YDR), Second Highway (560-YDR), Third Highway
(1144-YDR), Aden Port Rehabilitation (584-YDR) and Roads Flood Reconstruction
(1295-YDR) projects, the locations of which are shown on the attached Map
(IBRD 17290R1). The First Highway project was completed in December 1975 and
was reasonably successful in attaining its objective of organizing the Highway
Authority and providing technical assistance. However, completion was about
two years late, due to delays in procuring equipment, partly because the
Government was unfamiliar with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. There were
also shortages of qualified counterpart staff. The Project Performance Audit



- 11 -
Report (March 13, 1978) concluded that continued effort was required over
several successive projects for institution building. Completion of Highways
II was also delayed as a result of slow mobilization and harsh construction
conditions but the economic rate of return at completion exceeded the
appraisal estimate, mainly because of more rapid traffic growth than
anticipated. The Project Completion Report (January 30, 1985) found that the
project was successful in enhancing 'the professional skills within the
Ministry of Construction, and in creating domestic construction capacity
leading to the formation of the independent construction unit (ICU) which is
carrying out Highways III. Under Highways III, the road from Naqabah to Nisab
has been substantially completed, on schedule; the proposed project would
extend this road to Wadi Beihan. Highways III also continued technical
assistance for highway administration. Following severe floods in 1982, under
the Roads Flood Recunstruction project 40 km of road were repaired in two
governorates, and technical assistance in project supervision was provided to
the MOC. To do the reconstruction work, a regional road maintenance center
was rehabilitated. Also under the project, a Transport Sector Study was
undertaken to review the institutional structure, efficiency of operations,
and investment planning. The study found the sector's institutional framework
for planning and supervision to be basically sound, but with clear defi-
ciencies in staff resources to actually plan and supervise the work for which
it is responsible. Although the training effort was considered adequate, the
study recommended that its effectiveness be improved through undertaking job
definitions and instituting the monitoring of employee performance. The
training program to be initiated under the proposed project responds to this
need. Also among the Sector Study's recommendations is the undertaking of a
detailed road user charge study, which is included in the proposed project
(paras. 42-43).
39.      Implementation experience under IDA road construction projects has
been generally satisfactory, despite difficulties in attracting foreign
contractors and qualified internationally recruited consultants. Delays have
resulted but the impact of such delays has been greatly reduced by the
responsiveness of the Yemeni authorities responsible for implementation. The
lessons learned from previous transport projects have been taken into account
in the design of the proposed project. These include the need for substantial
provisions for technical assistance, carefully planned work programs, proper
cost accounting, and equipment maintenance.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
40.      The possibility of IDA assistance for a road maintenance program was
discussed during negotiations of the Third Highway Project. As the main
component of that project (the Naqabah-Nisab Road) reached completion, the
Government requested that the Fourth Highway project, in addition to a road
maintenance component, also include the extension of the Naqabah-Nisab road to
Wadi Beihan. The project was identified during December 1983 and appraised in
November 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington in May 1985. The
delegation from PDRY was headed by Hr. Mohammed A. Dubba, Deputy Minister of
Construction. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report of a Fourth Highway



- 12 -
Project No. 5602-YDR" dated May 28, 1985 is being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors. Maps (IBRD 18780, 18803, and 18876) showing project
locations are attached. The main features of the project are mentioned in the
Credit and Project Summary and in Annex III.
Project Objectives
41.      The primary objective of the Fourth Highway Project would be to
continue assistance to PDRY in the rational development of its road system,
through strengthening the road maintenance organization and workshop and
-         training infrastructure so that implementation of the full road maintenance
program can start early in 1987; developing appropriate road cost recovery
policies and improved road planning and budgeting procedures; and improving
access to an important agricultural area.
Project Description
42.      The project would achieve these-objectives through two components.
The first comprises Phase I of the road maintenance program. Phase I would
lay the institutional and physical foundations for a comprehensive program.
It would include construction and rehabilitation of facilities at road
maintenance centers; equipment for a radio-communication system, maintenance
management systems, and road planning data collection; technical assistance
for restructuring the road maintenance organization; equipment for maintenance
and workshops; setting up a comprehensive training program; and a road user
charge study. Under Phase II the maintenance works and training program would
be implemented. Plans for implementation of Phase II would be prepared under
this project. The second component comprises construction of the Nisab-Wadi
Beihan road and includes technical assistance to the HOC for preparation of
bidding documents and construction supervision.
Phase I of the Road Maintenance Program
43.      The need for a maintenance program stems from the fact that unless
regular maintenance is instituted, costly repairs for older roads can be
expected to increase rapidly. To protect the investments now being made in
the current expansion of the network, routine maintenance work should be
carried out. Under the proposed project, the basis would be laid for a
comprehensive road maintenance program. In view of the long delivery periods,
the initial batch of road maintenance and workshop equipment is included in
Phase I.  The building works and workshop equipment would provide the physical
base for the new maintenance organization. Radio equipment would expand an
existing work communication system, which would eventually link all road
maintenance centers with Aden. Early provision of equipment for the
cor-uter-based planning and management system and for road data collection
would allow time for staff training. These initial technical assistance
services would support the reorganization of the Maintenance Department of the
HA, the establishment of the road maintenance and cost accounting systems, the
development of more efficient working procedures, and the initiation of
preparation of the full training program. The road user charge study, to be
completed by July 31, 1986, would review the taxation of heavy vehicles and
make recommendations for appropriate levels of taxation by vehicle category,
to be followed within six months by agreement on a plan of implementation
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.04(b)). To ensure that che project



- 13 -
investment in road maintenance and training will be put to good use, the
Government would submit, by July 31, 1986, a plan for the implementation of
Phase II of the road maintenance program and the training program (Development
Credit Agreement, Sections 3.03(b).
Construction of the Nisab to Wadi Beihan Road
44.      The 160 km Nisab to Wadi Beihan road would complete a road link from
Naqabah on the Aden-Al Mukalla highway to Wadi Beihan, which was started under
the Third Highway Project (see Map IBRD 18780). Wadi Beihan is the last major
agricultural area in PDRY which is not adequately connected to the paved road
*        system.  The area is currently being developed by an IDA credit (1145-YDR)
aimed at increasing agricultural production.  Progress is satisfactory,
although completion will be during 1987, about a year behind schedule.
Eventual agricultural production is expected to be at least at the level of
the appraisal targets. Existing traffic passes over unengineered, rough and
often circuitous tracks on which only trucks and four-wheel-drive vehicles can
operate at high cost.
45.      The road which generally traverses flat and rolling terrain would be
built to 5.8 m wide (Single Bituminous Surface Treatment) paved standards with
1 m shoulders. The construction of permanent major floodways would be
deferred at this stage and the natural unsurfaced crossings would be used.
These standards represent significant but acceptable cutbacks from those
proposed by the design consultants. Upon completion of the Naqabah-Nisab road
in December 1984, the Government asked the ICU to continue with the
construction of the Nisab to Wasit section (35 km). While part of the
project, this section would not be eligible for IDA financing because of its
reserve procurement. The Government has confirmed that it will complete the
Nisab-Wasit section of the road by the end of 1985.
46.      Consultants would help to update the bidding documents for the
Wasit-Wadi Beihan road (prepared in 1978), evaluate bids and subsequently
supervise construction. In addition, the consultants would continue efforts
started under the Third Highway Project and the Roads Flood Reconstruction
Project to build up the construction supervision capability of the HA. About
180 man-months are estimated to be required for construction supervision over
the three-year construction period.
Engineering
47.      The Road Maintenance Program was developed by the technical
assistance consultants under the Third Righway Project.  The proposed
buildings and equipment are part of the additional assets the new Maintenance
Department of the HA needs to carry out routine maintenance. Layouts of the
camps and subcamps and designs of typical buildings (to be constructed with
local technology) are under preparation. The least cost alignment for the
laqabah-Wadi Beihan road was established in a feasibility study in 1977 and
detailed engineering was prepared in 1978, both financed under IDA's Second
Highway Project. The Government will continue to ensure that vehicle
dimensions and axle loads do not exceed limits consistent with the design
standards of such roads (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01).



- 14 -
Cost Estimates and Financing
48.      The total cost of the project, exclusive of duties and taxes, which
are not applicable to development projects in PDRY, is estimated at $39.00
million, including contingencies. The foreign exchange component is $35.04
million or 90 percent of the total cost. The cost estimates for the buildings
reflect current construction rates in PDRY. The costs of the road maintenance
and workshop equipment and the communication and maintenance management
equipment are based on recent quotations. The estimates for the hiring of
internationally recruited consultants reflect the cost of recent contracts for
similar assignments elsewhere in the region.  The road construction costs are
based on detailed engineering quantities suitably adjusted for design changes
and construction cost data (adjusted for price changes) from the Naqabah-Nisab
road. Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been included for civil works
and construction. Price contingencies have been calculated assuming annual
increases of 5 percent in local costs, and increases in foreign costs of
5 percent in 1985, 7.5 percent in 1986 and 8 percent in 1987 and subsequent
years. On this basis, total contingencies are 22 percect of base cost. The
cost estimates have been confirmed with the Government.
49.      The proposed IDA credit of SDR 14.6 million (equivalent to $14.4
million) would be on standard IDA terms and would cover 37 percent of the
total cost, and 41 percent of the foreign exchange cost. This would finance
the foreign cost of Phase I of the road maintenance program and the training
program, the foreign cost of supervision of the Wasit-Wadi Beihan road, and 37
percent of the foreign cost of the construction of this road. The Government
confirmed that it will meet all additional local and foreign costs needed to
complete the project; both the Arab Fund and the OPEC Fund have been
approached for assistance, and both have expressed interest.
Project Implementation
50.      The Ministry of Construction, through its NA, would be responsible
for project execution. To facilitate the effective implementation of Phase I
of the road maintenance and training program, the Government would take all
necessary steps by January 15, 1987 to establish (i) a cost accounting section
within the Administration and Finance Department of the HA of MOC and appoint
a head of such section; (ii) a training section within the Cadre Department of
MOC and the appointment of a head for such section; and (iii) three road
maintenance districts at Aden, Shuqra, and Mukalla and appoint district
engineers to head each such district (Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.05). As mentioned previously, the HA would employ consultants in the
preparation of tender documents for the Wasit-Wadi Beihan Road, the bid
evaluation and the supervision of construction.  Implementation of Phase I of
both the maintenance program and the training program would be in accordance
with an action plan agreed between the Government and IDA at negotiations
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.03(a)). The project is expected to
be completed by June 1989.



- 15 -
Procurement
51.      Procurement arrangements are sumnarized in the table below:
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEME-NTS
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Project Item         ICB        LCB            Other       Total Cost
Construction          26.4       -            -                 26.4
( 9.3)                                   ( 9.3)
Rehabilitation of
Buildings           -          2.1          -                  2.1
(1.3)                           (1.3)
Equipment & Spares     0.2       -            0.8 2/             1.0
(0.2)                 (0.8)              (1.0)
Technical Assistance  -          -            3.0                3.0
(2.8)             (2.B)
Total            26.6       2.1          3.8               32 51/
(9.5)    (1.3)        (3.6)             (14.4)
1/    On-going construction of Nisab-Wasit section ($6.5 million) not
included because of reserve procurement (see para. 45).
2/    International Shopping.
Note: Figures in parentheses indicate amounts to be financed under the
Credit.
52.      The contract for the construction of the Wasit-Beihan road will be
awarded after International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. Contracts for the construction and
rehabilitation of buildings will be small and it is unlikely that foreign
contractors not already operating in PDRY would be interested in bidding.
Hence, the contracts would be awarded following local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to IDA. Local procedures for public procurement were
discussed durirg negotiations, and as they follow the principles of the
Bank's guidelines for ICB, were considered acceptable for this project. The
workshop equipment would be procured as a single package through ICB. The
small and varied number of vehicles and field tools would be procured through
International Shopping, with quotations from both local representatives and
overseas suppliers. The equipment for maintenance management is highly
specialized; since the contract amounts are relatively small, it would also
be procured through International Shopping. The consultants who provide the
technical assistance for the maintenance organization, the training program,
the road user charge study and the construction supervision, would be
employed in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02).
53.      All procurement documentation would be reviewed by IDA before being
issued. IDA would review, prior to contract award, the bid analyses and



- 16 -
contracts for road construction, and for building contracts over $200,000;
and for all other contracts over *50,000 (Development Credit Agreement,
Schedule 3, Part C).
Disbursement
54.      Disbursements of the proposed IDA credit of $14.4 million would
extend over five years, and would be made on the basis of (i) 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for equipment and consulting services; (ii) 64 percent
of expenditures for building works; and (iii) 35 percent of expenditures for
road construction. Retroactive financing in an amount not exceeding $250,000
would be allowed for expenditures incurred after May 1, 1985, for consultants'
services on the preparation of tender documents for the Wasit to Wadi Beihan
Road. A revolving fund corresponding to $2 million would be established by
the Government by opening a Special Account with the National Bank of Yemen
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (Development Credit Agreement,
Sections 2.02(b), 6.01). This would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Accounting and Auditing
55.      The Ministry of Construction would keep separate accounts for the
project which by law are subject to auditing by the Government's Central
Organization for Control and Audit (COCA). COCA, which is an independent
auditor acceptable to IDA, would carry out its audit of the project accounts
and the Special Account, and forward certified copies of the accounts as well
as an annual audit report to IDA within six months after the end of each
fiscal year (Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.01).
Environmental Impact
56.      No adverse impact on the environment is expected from the project.
Benefit and Risks
57.      The road maintenance program, of which Phase I included in this
project is an integral part, will result in savings to the Government from
reducing costly repairs, and vehicle operators will save from lover operating
costs. The benefit/cost ratio for the five-year routine maintenance program
(Phases I and II) including reseals is estimated at 2:1.
58.      Construction of the Nisab-Wadi Beihan Road would reduce vehicle
operating costs for long distance traffic by 28 to 36 percent, and for local
traffic by 36 to 42 percent. By 1992, the effect of additional traffic
generation caused by the transport cost reductions is expected to increase
the long distance traffic by about 40 percent and local traffic by 70 percent
above normal growth. The new road also would allow the use of buses and
passenger cars which cannot operate on the existing tracks. As a result, the
forecast passenger traffic would be carried by fewer vehicles and at lower
costs. Construction of the road will also reduce agricultural spoilage which
currently results from the extended journeys and rough rides. The economic
rate of return to the new road is estimated at 15 percent. The sensitivity
of the economic rate of return was tested by assuming across the board:



- 17 -
(a) 25 percent lower benefits, and (b) 20 percent higher construction costs.
Under these pessimistic assumptions, the economic rates of return to the road
would be 12 and 13 percent respectively.
59.      While the traffic growth and traffic generation forecasts for the
Wadi Beihan road take account of all available data on the area, including
IDA's Wadi Beiban Agricultural Project and the experience gained under
previous road projects, there remains an element of uncertainty, and
consequently a risk for the project. However, given the Government's strong
comitment to the development of Wadi Beihan, this risk is considered
acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen and the Association and the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. An additional condition of effectiveness is that the Government
will open a Special Account for a revolving fund for project execution, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 6.01).
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 28, 1985
Washington, D.C.



ANdME I
- 1B -                                   Page 1 of 5
UE. 1.3.1.            - SOCIAEDIACORS DATA ST
(NUN  1.0.1.                      UPUG  COPSCIZSD AVRAES j
OST                    (woST MCE ESfU) 4
19601k  i Si@Lk mcmi  HIatL  ICONX       nID    -
P4^ 197OLb-  maLb ::snazLb    M. AICA   N  AIT            LT. SIC   &4 CAR
am  CTOUAN B- M)
TOTAL                               333.0      333.0    333.70
ASIILTURAL                          91.9        92.4      92.7
CGP S CUT   D                             ..         ..    470.0             11n9.6                   2101.6
mmacvmuwo  Pa_   car
(KILOCAM  Or OIL EQUIVALENT)       3724.0      530.0    791.0              622.1                    995.5
POLSI     M  WXaL SuA1nsIC
PwuLAvION,HID-UA, (TNCSASS)        1208.0     1497.0   1957.0
URS POPULATION (2 o0 TOTAL)          26.0       32.1      38.1              48.2                     66.5 
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POMATION IN UA  200 (HILL)                               3.4
STATIONR  POPULATIO  (KUL)                              12.5
POPULATION ISCU                                          1.9 .
POPULATION DENSm
PER SQ. gm.                         3.6        4.5       5.7              36.3                     35.7
PER SQ. RK. ACRI. IAD              13.1       16.2      20.6             46L.7                     92.4
POPULATION ACE STRUCTU  CZ)
0-14 US                           ".8        45.4      45.5              43.6                     39.9
15-64 UMS                          52.4       51.9      51.8              53.1                    5S.0
65 AND AOVE                         2.9        2.6       2.6               3.3                      4.1
POPUL.TIoUw CRIII RA TE (C)
TOTAL                               2.0        2.1 Ic   2.2 /c             2.3                      2.4
URBAN                               6.0        3.5       3.6               4.5                      3.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PIR THOUS)         50.4       48.6      47.6              40.4                     31.3
CRUDE DEATH ItATE (PERI TUS)        28.8        24.Z      15.0              11.5                     8.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4        3.4       3.1               2.8                     2.0
FAMILY PANNINGC
ACCEPTS. AN34 CT1O0S)
USERS (5 OF HAUIED iWE)              ..         ..        ..              Z2.2                     40.3
1OOD ND UIRIO
IUDE1 OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       100.0       92.0      92.0              97.3                   114.3
PE CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIREMENTS)       8L.O       91.0      86.0             110.8                    110.6
PROTEINS (CRANS PER DAY)           49.0       53.0      53.0              70.1                    67.3
OF W1ICH ANIMAL AID PULSE        1l.0       16.0      24.0 /d           17.8                     34.1
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE          59.4       44.4      28.0              14.6                     5.7
LIFE EXPECT. AT DIRTH (YEARS)       36.0        40.4      46.0              57.5                    64.7
LUFANT aMORT RATE (PER THOUS)      209.5       177.4    140.0             0l1.5                     60.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                                ..         ..      24.0 7c           59.7                     65.4
URB                                 ..          ..      30.0 Ie           84.5                    78.t
RIIRAL                               ,,         ,,      5s.o 7e           38.4                     44.2
ACCESS TO EYCRET DISPOSAL
(C OF POPUIATION)
TOTAL                                ..         ..        ..                ..                     52.9
URBAN                                           ..        .                 ..                    67.0
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                ..                    24.5
POPULATION PER P    CYSICIA       13270.0    34260.0   7200.0            4345.1                   1917.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON               ..          ..    830.0             1831.1                   S15.8
POP. PER NOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1410.0     1180.0 If 68O.0 I            632.9                    367.2
URBAN                            470.0 lh       ..    320.0 71           545.5                   411.5
RURAL                          89900.0 7o       ..   409.0 T           2513.5                   2636.3
ADKESSIONS PER HOSPITAL               ..          ..      33.3 fL           26.2                    27.3
AVERAGE SIZE OF OUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               -.-
Ull                                 ..          ..        .                 ..
RUMAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSOS/IROOH
TOTAL                               ,.          ..
,URBA                                ..          ..        .
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (C OF CELLIS )
TOTAL                                ..         ..      22.0 Jj           46.2
URBAN                               ..          ..      57.6  1,3         77.7
RURAL                               ..          ..       1.6 a            16.1



-19 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
MIEN. P.b.M.          - SOCLAL INDICATORS DATA SHUE
YEld1  P.D.&.                       REFERNCE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
NH                      (MOST ECENT ESTIMATE) lb   -
RECENT          .4DDLE INCOME           IIDDLE INCOME
lg1!! L     ,a97ab ESTMIMATb    N. AFRICA 5 HID EAST      LAT. AMEICA  CAR
ZDUCATIOU
ADJUSTED ENROULET RATIOS
PRINARY   TOTAL                    13.0       57.0      64.0              88.3                    lOS.f.
MALE                    20.0        91.0      94.0             102.5                    106.3
FEINALE                  5.0        23.0      34.0              73.6                    104.5
SECO1iDA   TOTAL                    5.0       10.0      18.0              43.0                     43.2
-^                               21*1M                      8.0       16.0      26.0              52.3                     42.3
FEMALE                   2.0         4.0      11.0              33.0                     44.5
VOCAT1ONaL (2 OF SECONDARY)           5.0        4.5      10.2              10.3                     33.6
PUPUL-EACHE R PATO
PRIKARY                            29.0       31.0      25.0              30.3                      30.1
SECONDARY                          21.0       20.0      16.0              23.1                     16.8
AWLT LITRAcY RATE C()                  *-       27.1 lk  53.0               43.5                     79.5
PASSEEIRI  CABS/ldOUSAND POP          7.8        6.8       8.4              17.B                     46.0
RADIO RECEIVERSITDOUSAND POP         49.7       52.1      53.8             138.8                    225.6
TV RECEIVERS/I8DUSAND lOP             2.5 I1    14.0      18.8              46.1                     L07.2
dEWSPAPI (CALS GENERAL
INTEREST) CIRWLATION
PM 7usAN  POPULATION                           1.0       6.6 Is           31.2                     63.5
CININA AIINIUL ATNDANCAPITA            ..        2.3       3.2 Id            1.7                      2.8
lABOR l0fZ
TOTAL 1AOR0 FORCE (1TO5)            330.0      392.0    478.0
FEAIAE  (PERCENT)                   4.0        4.9       5.9              10.8                     23.2
RICULTURE (PERCT)                  70.0       65.0      45.0              42.4                     31.5
IDSTR  (PTUT)                      15.0       17.0      15.0              27.9                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RAZE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              27.3        26.2     :..4              26.2                     32.2
MAlE                               52.0       49.9      46.5              46.4                     49.3
FEMALE                              2.2        2.5       2.8               5.8                     15.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDEUCT RATIO             1.7        1.8       2.0               1.8                      1.4
mm EDISIFT
PERCENT OF !RIVATE INCME
RECEIVED U
HIEEST 5S OF HOUSEiOLDS              ..
HIST 20Z OP NOUSEHOLDS               ..
LOUT 20 OF HIUSENOLDS                ..
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEHOD               ....
OMf TUCT  m
ISTIDAUD ABSSLU7E POVERTI INCONE
LEVEL (US$ PR CAPITA)
UhI                                  *. -. *              *              274.8                    288.2
RURAL                                ..         ..    140.0 /B           177.2                    184.0
ESTIMATED RELATNVE POVERT n  m
LEVEL (cuss PER CAIWTA)
URBAN                                ..         ..      90.0             402.6                    522.8
RUAL                                 ..          ..     87.er0           284.9                    372.4
ESTIMTED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOIIE LVL (2)
....N
RURAL                                ..         ..      20.0 
. NT AVAILABLE
NOT AP4L1CA*O
N O T E S
la  Mbm group avaraea for each Indicator are population-ulgted aritlmitic mans. Coverage of countries mong the
Indicators depends on availabilty of data and is not uniform.
Ib  Unlesa otberulue noted. -at. for 1960 refer to any year betwean 1959 and 1961; Data for 1970- between 1969 and
1971; and data fort -Moat aent at_lata- btwena 19180 and 1982.
1c   Birth ad death rea are crude eustlete.. The natural rate of Increas doem not agree uith observed population
growth rate;. /d 1977; to 1976; If 1968; /L 1978; lb 1962; /S 1975; 11 Percent of population; 1k Age 10 and
ov.r 1973 datai 71 196T; in 1979.
JWE. 1984



- 20 -                                                                  ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
a1gain Mflsfl tm-AM.  dram t s-is- as-talky Soddeda CtAM at'IAiitstitt as natal.b. it si-aid sel in sNOd theL thyVWO nbs latsasltasttly
wssparabl  needle 5  tin lood ol steod"ard d Wislatis.d mld endows   MM h dlftsts.t mlIftia  1* ssl*staatiU n fisef. 'PA dat. atn. s-askinine, mEs  Is
h.urtbs srhr.o atsesltsdd. iWents. Hand. 55 fsispisrts misaIlm =Jal d1k11frds- belonss Bmaila.
Tb. rataus rown as COt) bs o maeety cue at ts .abjaa sam" -t 2 Cii natty POWs with wainot billehot .ns, lean tIm- abs sssrn nefs .1 lbs
ishiwl nor15  tssspi ft In 1g  Kass   lEsfssupa%bi   SS.Tinisb  aid   dl  as'I  lw  b.ss-s of  impss                                        OM swal.tsrltl
af"tI-),  Is lbs tst.ss   gins doeat  aa.rsgwad an papakatla. Sstbs  sifttiat  need tat ned ISA-isv ad sh-ealp-F   whe saiy .1 lb. -aelet  so
rwybsa hts for tint 1idtator.  Mis-d tha  -anro .1 aflipis   .9tinM isletenra dspadst -  lbs aotnh fty                 dm5 ash  wth o  Ssos4 s-tIcs ass be
wasrtd it ratatid: ants;. At -n tedissas  teIabi  Te  -oloe saw .ly .intwk Ls    iilast lbs -sa -                     tsteittt4mor St d tta   ost lbs modity ad
___ tbscd sed W.                                                                       1m       9h.sJf5~hsais411.  ysh   1pstt
rat -  staL stfas.  te a5515t55  ad at. aid  stasi slats;191p.                                 ediataidet I siesutt             ties1
"'U   .   9Late.- .-lf -   la oo                                                                        th,d    e    - .&LOO  Pwpdlta nAid, b emooraya   ptaiSts
Ag  Li---    Dances o a    lnal a ebiobs esid, e  t-gova ILL at15.  till.du                                                                   PeAaisI s-Utsilad
197 a    is;  rdat. doZt Aed                                                                              Xt1 -t"Bll,  wr,st.I.ad nast1- ywgs-iaatat Cans,
9,11- GNP Pa,  t.yl  naa-a   ai.  a?.spta                                    tsl  Is pofitia -  aetwata msasl aidssikad   .s,tt
ii-Llitd iy  nor n-sr-alw  nIbS  a twitd Boo Latl  11910-412 hats).                        nlhitttsti  s-Css.  tw.ila Pro as  lllahika         Pa.-Mi psss'ty lald
nasana, dt ismWlsd. tial bapa.U, Inewwy sthlis balab ad
cuss.,  vait,tm  Fe. Capit  -   -Aaa  app.r-' Clsaptiss, .m' enrrt1                           ttssl owtots .5  Psaw Itly stAdIld by a abyatt  Ilmt Wy * dsedi
:.[a-i   -Ago,r (-as  -5 tagati. paitiw. nart as. A5 bybM-.  ar..                          ealatatoo  ass. sIhIfa  egr.) filh .  I  I-psioda, ssiniodscale 5
aid gat.tIfas  staarrrly) is  Wet-ra  at stl wqolakl pst P., pitalotw.                    p     sid  a bolts t5PE  at sw"ita  Beemtan.
tw.ad li"t d.t.-                                                                      Myla;4, j!agft  i  -i?.ts  dnot  C  d"sats-d as - diadhssUss
9-                 eu~~~ti  deliei at h..
Tetl  hatttt  mIfta  (tha-si -  Ast si twit ta t.10. ISIS. td  it                     5Sits
nedlliawt dfwtlawg              at 114arat1 e70aah-ktyIM  din.                          5.A btfttr ails f asks. A hsh. glidis  ay--ra    . w.Sd
Is r201  - C-taa  p.aptia-s projacakama ano bawl a tISMI p5if  pat rem                          alsis a   as  aati   aaai-
Ibu33liibs iu   ad   -  at ibali nastil  ano twrutky                             datliwas. roPsCtLIssi. taltisma sastids ode-itansted strStila  -Ad
r-iws. P".Aiactt., Par-tin  tr aoelaoitty ras  smatsr   at abnossrpa   a
Isatasasto  ltIp  aqplsrt-e at bitrt? Iwiasala1 sill aasltrys parlcs  sSsiitrCre   t  stt)-sa,.is  a  w 
caia  ws  toast tad is-Is ti.fa  saata, s-LstliaM  -t 17.3                        lss.st-;;tk   swaaatsrtyt tss    ss       pars-Iso
ya--. lb p"er'-sr  Psi larsLtty rtot aSs. has One t.ol.                                of tscel, arba. lood fratl hstlts   reosscolasty.
ssau    al..    "1iy Istas -tl aA1s1atta   Ist-   toast ad pal fatly
asl.nietla, sf aoriakl"ty ad Isatikisy lnmlda Par prjaCtl    psayaa.                         1arstl-atlan
tis tssr ts.st.s- is -    as L  ftlct? as.- ame -s-spastlis oaslaty1.3             5rinm.siis   - Iss.asaa   fas- Glea  Itocs,. asa ad fatsez
raasha   me  hobagd ass a ladst MaBsA. .dits .as.-Plett i ratstltlr                  eawasttaa       l   as -4 Ii-  atat  tas       P...assis-. atmspf
iAts. bia  sia1tola.-ly  s-lasW at riAcAaeo  I.Lagotodwa                                 Wieedy aans'as   seealalda sassalty AngelS as ita  sad t-It
Uaidsis. rs.i. is Coss?. a" paat.., lb. fLit?. eAM teaas satawhya hoerto Sjsaadltat  dlfsiastasib olde                         iay slalastta
ai sitI lbds? TIM  iioU-r popsLOsgis, is -la  lonsita,1 ad the                     sits  wit potpisi.-b1-e,b shast  awp ttnw l- defeS  tO .a.
gnt  ssk r-a. =I satasy   sp.tt=       s e   ao astsida                           al.n saw psplla  -  t;inks   ahw tinS at fisial0 ass bCa...
2013, adI  r1w at dsita  at frsei tity rats I.  *sLaas-   tank.                         sdit.   aqla-sknIt.   at Ic aprswd pila.y seetwtttat:
%--st.  lasta - is t.i    I iwIy tt npsi-ltl   Xraih as s-It-                        Pr..wlda gaitske. n    1oslssa. ar,t ssi trataLg tasdetled, s-ta
bffld  tt taft ld I Bera-plassa-keo  lirlttly ha hab aiasd  the                          pollta so-sIt  .11  as  17 Vosis ar apal srtnesdsao et-Cla
sitisa aattIstysapaasl  Is ha  1 pa      -osi  Is ti  pt. 3,  tiwr              tw-l-d tain -tat  tZaa             is  se- Vbh.if  Leeasofla      o
Is   inoa ti-  isotity i-ta  ors rays-s         I iai ta  yr t                 Spasly -  a dwparood.tso a           .. oaasw y ttideattamad.
sasi   910 dna.                                                                  rsti-a4   lt  ti  susan.  -1 wwcaa - ToAdtal eadss  s-itlad Ia
It.,kta   nai                                                                           prlwy       sssityiasoUsd   by                              to tsSi   5i
"r i. -                                                                                - y me roposlttmAparsqasa bts-  i it5  etarst t  ewssiaddaetasia
PIs Ns UM Sa  istatCsest-Pt idr  CO-tA yasca). oetits-sa  It)-                      seT
rssasstw Crss? lat  l,rast) - isaLZ - dAlon  go-t..  nsa of Isal do-                 Itlstey tflstaad.
ratpasitis ar103-C WOr.a   1970-41t.                                              1.41. intstsr  (pa stnsd  seiat   - Ilk 1-5 at tawtlat. fat ridi
PNpoltelt   G.rastl lass itasa)   ala A-deskl sath Ma de aria                              he-kcsaS  as   en     Cail P_ =tnaa  or swetlsslt AsotCaeds
woaaia   a  t910-GO. 1910-70, ed t940-2.                                          ssftesaat r-"-st iti   ad Is yen                    Cos elssled, It ral
pas psstate:the  til,  5 12 dt 1-b-. ,   -WE.6                                    _arIa ainlahs  ha-tfw    - y.                -b.e-
Cads1... los asttis.-1.)  A- -I Mau-t  par tbsasi sf Md-paIr                      Tt tosiasra  l tibasa  sitatia  - IT isrdeiwar  Pa i-sadcit is
GMa Ubniadslk  as.  - Lass, s-hr It' d-Sginar a            ae wILt bat Ia                 t. sitsred ad 15 yar  as-  qiatrel-e ITV etoss as ts aff.".
--isrs iwptsSta  part  02 sIn astrl            p-aCa s5a-ap-wtll                    Cstsw    tcwois   a  lbsai  ooeolitte  - fhlaw alt sadi,
a.slI,.y rata: sswat  ttao--7i annasa adeliw  Ia till. 1910, -id                     a"      slitt  It-  dai s"ss.rai" taass aassr           tald ao 5 srtdole.
rti  tiB ia   icaap.esa   ted) - 1Aas   aS`r at asatr                                         s'daily' It it awlas at isa   t- t laa     ss
at birh-etsthLts.- ada  napl               It  stan   tasty pstgPw-hw    laai   s                                      I.trta  Pta1sd a Cin    St I
irwin.                                                         itO~~~t* sass hOIig 191 yas., taoist- idalsatasa as.9  - 7-  dtia-Ia siam 
rv=i itawlAs - lat.(srcs   vt flCls-a o-ys caasc   at s-itd                                -bhito nti.
c.itld-batisu so an ta-at,  am  sd tI-4i. sctirse, tar en7 7                                    jCf2                  -.la -eaIly attla  pan. tsciidled  ntas
1,000 as WIntstr                                                                            swopaolba  t[NO. 3970 ad tllz dee.
*iA.- t  Wadst.&ss -  C.asta1".CaG7tOl-    a It par -,eota                       ~          0pyyj-  si   as   asapiiaaa   ellh 
anal prodhcloo o al s gttee  en""lat"   Prsst 1s srst  a.  ad                              ~                         aeI  sas,PaAsy   etga
t.od ad S. a  sawa y.a bhato.  Coreitise ss     priassy oIa la.S.bl-                                P -atia   ae-coso sr testg toha  Pas-; 940, itil  ad twi data
sqsti  isse-   it a-,) data  -a adibia ai  eatat                  C-st.sats tag.                         - Lob.. Patt is adlis. naetisitas,-  sawfs       Ltsa   -ad
calf. ald ato -   snIsWhd).  fidsgloaca pshtstjoa of ass? roocty is                     s1aslriaoy, eas  ad        asd pli rosfag  ItIltobr  taint1o,E-   t1dl, tI10
neededa--- satrawl   Ptse    pair pal  asiubat l9b1-0. till, ad tiS!                    ad tlsl datl.
day. Aaailbi sple ias n.rpri- dtenth   p-sahusi, tapsta ins.                             t9O. 1970. sad lIt data   Tbse. as bass ad hO's paicISpatide, Se,s
ssttn.i   s  a -t5Iuad1 t-C-a,  Ia diaithta loiidi-               -                 Pa -sietais. an Ptssasiaof stan,plolo    d  .    t-CM
watti- ad i-at?.tsaid ita    sir-WsIat oassli.t  lad  etghas                          Si  -Aa   oppas         -.Ite   ad  ii
son ad as detitribytl  It gowekatiss.1oaostslkss   tO. paes  tat Ieats                                                        mtee             s   oa o     o
atboa.dlak  101-h, il aid ti1l data.                                            is    siiistyrlu.n
asapyaPadpm da. ecsPpky Ad loot is ditad as ab-e     1.-                       warn's. itfiet 20 p--a. noate  R pate's,. ad pesnast 40 man's sr
a1""s-ata Pat all Pasta   atsa gbkth  by Ills" psIds tat slAt-                           hI
ails.or It 10  re  It ta-2 pr.s   psi dy ad 20 nra. at asit as1
psl's p-tstls. at lit?  to gm-w si-ad h. Astasi p-sti.  lon                          051  TAR= inrai
...tadoso; a   tear  th   ee tiea a713gt-  of tstet p-tsats Ad 23 up-               -STb.CL-mlst-   an .sy Agpe..w t   s-,  tptstyta ns,a
at at-k pist        asct-m Pat sh- aort.               bywaa  h AO1 Ia th.              ahaid as ftwlssrasd! wIhentl,hrls tssta._
and  I-rd P     issii t9lt-SO, tO7D ad till dita                                     lattsl   Ab.aoS.I PInrI ta-a  tos   list al.     plsa    sa 
rst Ccti.sassts siririts.asiai adnate- ttatss nu. "To" teat                   aboeosrsttay1  is-te  toLst as- thoe,1as1 tor     1 i-nla sIto- 5- det
dat.                                                                                     ffP.db.
Oska Eats I-ilass. sara fia  obsssi -u laa S-       a.i- noa r-Ihosa 1wtsetad  latoass Ps.st Issa  ta-k lI--"Lt  orss      tsaa    aa
-otrtao dasa mtisd Pin tiPs 11; ti1l, two n ad lil et 'a                                Ptts-al  tam  St lb  a-sy. the issI is hrind faa in rats
Wass  wIt?. adjasa   Pt S-Ubs. sa  at ttsiff is spha  asoo-
1iTu                                                                                       latsti      pspalalo, frIar Moostes P.i  t-  toI(tt)-ais
L.i ts .piia   it 'sit.(csts          - Lst-  -S at yet It kits ra-1a                     ad s.r         _o-iraata  passisitoe ws      ostasnshla
atlt 1", IW, il  d  i  data.
5sa I of"  ra   iA-1 tin bd-Wba  1960, kil0 -ad lilt2 do-
atm  , sr Of i-sa  (saes  sior   sia  -sn!  ras  a   ws
si  t  ept  1.1t,  ria,~t as   fi?.PlssalaassI  5 aP                                                              Caapatatta  sa-I".i  -Dhs OtwLst-
eas  aopl ltaoIsda  trdeead a.af.  acate  at, aetasatat he                                                             I-dst  LAspta ad Pr asit-  OWs-eo
a    Itatd nit., ed as that Is-, pPoleIsad bstfsias. a.priu. ad                                                                        Js- t*'ii
-,&ta  ak.) as paaeatflas or t=i  apatl.  ppactaa . T as
ci    isplumt fa-atJl at sAedprot lanots a   war,sde tn MO  -fts
isabee -y in inidsis- b.10g alibis rooaabl. assetl It sC
b_da  is ran           -   rwsht Lren  -had Iapt  tint ab l        tsa
..o.ea  tssbalt   alsina  p                 an-lptsrtlOnla. poet I
inda I  f-tt.bias ii- ttys  la  s.
irros  ta, isisi  ST.AAes (i '  It  is-ac-) - saca. arheo. 55 rsI
- anba  at pa-pi (tta.   ai,  d MsI   ai  by sat  tiPsas_
in   it.risa dssak  siht  ihe   in c demns ld ets
ad sis~t b na-bw  stats- a             Usnas net pit psi  ad-t



- 21 -
ARM I
Page 4 of 5
,Dt: SC0E UMI
OL AtSXR
1983
US$ 2in
GQP at uket prices            1029    10D
_   Gross Doantic Investamt        507      49
tmss  atiOtun  Savins          252     24
E xport of goods an NFS            122      12     Arn-I Rate of Growth (Z)
Imports of goods and WFS      884      86           (    atprics
1976/81
(P at factor cost              696    100                4
of atich:
Agricuiltre & Fisheries       87     12                0
Imistry                      61       9               10
Cmstructian                  f:6     17               10
T1m:port                      78      11              -3
Goverm    Services           18B     27               12
- mints~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~roiim
,kt. Est.
(in millions Yemai Dinars)    1974/75   1975     1976  19n        1978   1979    1980   1981    1982  1983           1984
Total receipts                   2 23.6    16.9    32.1   43.4    56.0   68.0   107.2   124.8   137    1U              156
Crreat eaedinires              27.6    25.6      39.2   47.4    61.4   76.2    96.0    17.5   142    151             157
Current defiit                 -4.0   -8.7       -7.1   -4.0    -5.4   -8.2    11.2   -12.7    -5          -8         -1
Dev1pxentecerditres            19.6    18.9      39.2   57.3    59.7   52.0    74.2   105.1   137    130             133
Overall deficit              -23.6   -27.6    -46.3  -61.3   -65.1  -60.2   -63.)  -117.8  -142   -138              -3
Borrcuing frm Bang Systen  10.4    12.5          15.6   18.5    13.2   27.6    19.0    55.7    65          73         87
Exernal Finaring               13.2    15.1      30.7   42.8    51.9   32.6    44.0    62.1    77          65         47
(Y.D. muion, ed period)                   1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982   1983   1984
1bey ad quasi-amy                        55      67    98   140   168   217   286   321   383    447   510
Bakcredit tocovernzst                    24      37    62    72    87   110   127   151   216    282   350
Bak credit to nn-GOVerM   Sectror/    19         24    31    49    59    61    98   106   102    102   122
Ihcreasein Z
Caumer prices                            24      12      4      5     6    10    10        4      8      8      -
1/ The fiscal year mus April - Htd  31 until ikrcd 31, 1975 iem  it becme
April 1 - Decesber 31, 1975 and threfter is on a cal      year basis
2/ Incles current and developmet revns  ros daaestic sources and sel-firmrig
of xublic eterprises.
3/ Itty public sector ae s.



-22-                                            ANNE I
Page 5 of 5
&WARM Or PAN=         * (UNillin) 1975      1976   1977    197        1979      190       191   1982    1983   1914
ElqIaEta51                  8       26      2I        17       2D       38       28        21      25      21
zm                               -178    -268    -365    -386         411    -650      -763     -730    -753   -724                     -
e    Daficit                     -170    -2_2    -34        -359    -391    -612    -735.    -709    -728   -70
gN-actauSovicm, not              14       2D       10       17       14       14       10       -6       20      20
rw= SUvi., Mc                   18       U        76      1fl      1i2      176      199      21D      203    187
JAb   Tw-w                    (1i)     (7)    t6-9)   (0)    MR3)   t1-)    ()               ()      ()   (M
rnm           me               (3)      (6)      (7)      (8)     (U)    (3D)    (44)        (SD)    (33)   (17)
Oxrmt Acmt Ddficit               -138    -179    -255    -241    -235    -421          -2       -S05    -50      -496
52     125      174      191      205      28t      39        433      312    314
official                       M~  M)    M    M)  IM    W~  (7                                         M42  M29
pciwC kI                      (42)    C79)   (ll9)    (1S)    182)   (201)   (255)    (O37)   (270)  (285)
Official LtCaitalnat   31                 73       70       94       59       76    m1 -    177         187     137
Gro  Di_ ffimm                (7  32)   7-5;)   fZ)       M    7     5     ()    dM         (M               (97)
_msmns                        K-)    t-2)    t-1)    I-1)         (-5)   t--)      (-4)     (-U)    (-7)  (-1)
Otdi  0C l (ii l. E ad 0)          42        4       29        5       -8              -24       -73        -       -
-        in Official kinrvm
i,_ *     se)                   13      -27     -18      49       -22      -25      -2D       -32        6      45
Mtm
G*n  Official Bezve  (edr yew) 54   8 1              99      18      t 210     235      255      287      281    236
1*Wo  Es                            k1 e962483
us mfiinprm
Fiji ad FiPih Pco&cs                  12  5 ?
hpicnltszal Proihctn                  9      39
Odm*                                   2       9
E=L  EM  (Dac_b  31, 1984)             US$  flhUc
E=eu1 P&IFic Debt Otacwding             1,718
of diid:    Din-w^                    1,125
Det Ssjice PSyIt  in 1983                  15
le Sevice Rait (Eirts of
Gads ai Servics)                4.8 pit
A   Nat of rem-     .
bt -Undwra 
5/2218



- 23 -
Amk II
THE STT  OF BANK MM OPERATION
N T  PfEE'S 1DEMCRATIC REUBIC (F YN 
Statement of Mk Credits a
(As of March 31, 1985)
.
Millionx
_                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ammm
aAess camellatios)
-      Credit                                                           MAl,isb
NO.         Year   Borrorer      Pwpo                                  SDR           SR
Seven credits fully disbursed                                  37.69
768- DR      1978     DR       Wadi Tban Aric. Proj            5.20              0.1
829- YD      1978     FDRY      Powr I                         5.00               0.9
865- YM      1978       M       Fdwatiom                       4.00              0.4
932- n       1979     FMRY      Fisheries II                  10.00               1.2
1038- YDR     1980              Aen Water Supply               13.20              2.5
1050- MR      1980              Petzo3eum De,. Assistoe        9.00               0.2
1144- YDR     1981      1U      WMs  IIm                                10.3              0.3
U45-  R       1981     DY       Wadi Beiham Agric. Proj.                 6.6              3.1
1159- DR      1981              Al Al  alla Water Supply                 2.9              1.3
1222- YM      1982    PM        Edxatim I                                5.3              4.7
126- YDR      1982       M      Power II                                 6.8              6.1
1274- YIR     1982     PERY     Fisheries Il                             5.4              5.1
1295- MR      1983     PM        ods Flood llerticm                      6.4              0.02
1346- UR      1983     PWadi  dramt Agr. II                              8.3              7.2
1377-YDR      1983     PM       1mlth Development                        7.D              5.9
1418- YfR     1984     IIL      Seiyum Water                             6.5              6.1
SFL9-R        1985    EDd ltim N b/                                      9.9              9.4
1577-D1R      1985     PAricultural Resech & Em.                         5.J l           5.1
Total                                  84.09 d/ 80.5 d/   5.3   54.32
of itich has been repaid                 .23    _
Total now held by ML                   83.86 d/ 80.5
Total undisbursed                                          5.3   54.32
a/ 2be status of the projects listed above is described in a separate report cc all Bank/I
naed projects in excuion, 4hir. is updated twice yearly arnd circulated to the Executive
Directors on April 30 and October 31.
by This is an I  Special mEod credit.
c/ Not yet effective.
d/ ExTcludirg euhmge adjustments.



- 24 -
ANNMX III
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMN
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken by country to prepare      Twelve months
the project
(b)   Agency which prepared the project    Highway Authority in the
Ministry of Construction
(c)   Appraisal mission                     November 1984
(d)   Date of negotiations                  May 1985
'e)   Planned date of effectiveness         September 30, 1985
Section II Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:  Special Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition:
The opening by the Government of a Special Account for a Revolving
Fund for project execution on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA (para 54).
2. Other Conditions. The Borrower has agreed to:
(i}  Submit plans, by July 31, 1986, for the implementation of Phase II
of the road maintenance program and the training program (para. 43);
and
(ii)  Take all necessary steps to establish, by January 15, 1987:
(a) a cost accounting section within the Administration and Finance
Department of the HA of MOC and the appointment of a head for
such section;
(b) a training section within the Cadre Department of MOC and the
appointment of a head for such section; and
(c) three road maintenance districts at Aden, Shuqra and Mukalla
and the appointment of a district engineer to head each such
district (para. 50).



4`4                                    45'                               4's                             50                                5 2,
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
*OMAN
rW go      lrtae        d rpv VY k   W IIPi% w r W to owww of
I S ~ ~ ~~~t mwa w 1W elWpddh 7 'b                 v '  Cf.Si eft iwwme h
hp=t Cams  beDt oxvf&Iht ine &d Pw ,-mis ~an t ffJ o rr S
b b ft  PM1 of iE her a w aidI W0te IdW thi Cm ft \Vdeh
CO         HADRAMAT                           /AL MAHRAH
fS                           ,                                                  ./    HADRAMAWT\\
Thamud
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC                                             /                                                                                                 SEA
/  J   Ttirimg                   (    /     <                      4  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Al-Gheidah 
L 6                                      ! ,/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S H ABlW  AH             Rudu                                                 N,4hlun
_8S^NA'A    k    /                  Shabw~~~~~~~~aah                                                      s '1.v   lfSahu' ";ABIAP)w SEA
r  I                    w                  /                5               \            \                      L_- I .Nyn 
~~~~ t ~~~~~~~Harlb                         S irJiliah                                                               C)uaayi,r
To Hodeidah   \      ~~IBRD 18803      ,a 2                                  .              u    t 6Xhz
81  hamer (NIn Ja rAs  4   Azzan  i4S-                            PROPOSED ROAD UNDER FOURTH
t   /  J  Xtii>l aqaba   h lifa                                  PREVIOUS IDA-FINANCED ROADS
1s4' |                                         mu,g FA             M dh                Bi                                                PRIMARY ASPHALT ROADS               10
\> / DOhala / ' Law ar)/ \( \ / AGRICULTURAL AREAS                             -------  ASPHALT ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
{N<>     /    vO ial   AB Y AN  wm    Ayn             *                               WADIS                                MAIN TRACKS
} T~~~~~~~ablsy                                                                     0  <r  TOWNS AND VILLAGES                INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS_
Mocha            KeIn:11                   Shuqra               .. .. ..'                     0   GOVERNORATE CAPITALS          t      AIRSTRIPS RECEIVING SCHEDULED FLIGHTS    O
n f/TurLAlE3        DE                                  KILOMETERS *njibar   o   rs,o   ,oo   NATIONAL CAPITALS                   HARBORS                                   A
LAHEr                                              KILOMETERS                           GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIE8        t!     MINOR PORTS
S   4,4'- KhawrlJmrayah             415'                               4gf4'     -B
to  ~       ,   Karmayh4'-* -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES520



5030' ty               4                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~46 '.3O  PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Woo       FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Location
Project Road
  ~ ~ ~ ~       ~                                           _______  ~~~~~~~~~~~Previous IDA-Financed Roads
9          (~~~N iyh,Existing Primary Road
Existing Main Tracks
o      Towns and Villages
Agricultural Areas
--- ~Foothill Boundaries
Elevaitons in Meters
International Boundaries
to Shabwafi
Ataq
f 5, eadwa a,&d so ackmi, kw Ii b,ffM ,i. of rho WwMd Sw* &d Sd SJw,tMw
C) Fr.&cw.CrWz6W'. Thedewwwbo~ o"wed aMI.ebamudeas~cnftow Oemodo .
Wm I.e leof mf~ ly Wavy of 0 V U0dw~ ow .onwep.of d vh bme,..



4,4'                                 46s                              'l                           10                               S
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
ROAD MAINTENANCE
AND REHABILITATION PROGRAM                                                                                                              OMAN
1S             l?*aw?.e",m  hUIawksdhV"I  we o PM0bW aVt.V* VW ft CSwK 01
ft d r,x h01 hn d  aw th -km" tW &I  Wb   d cf /o wa \
&* 0 ft A" e of b0  "a V   O     c.wn w,bw .vk,%&vAb
fl   .wb IN i.l'*ukdwU we _i ft _,O  dam gi _* ow / r
Co EAT                                      /            AL MAHRAH
---- ../\OHADRAMAWT TOR AA
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC                                                                                                                              U   TREAMEN
_t~~~~~~                                                        ~~~          ~    ~~~~          ~~~                           ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MANEAC SUSCAMPSids   140
|/ S H A B W  A H       /    RQt   Eudud                     \                             fNihlun
M      &     ri b               /                      t ~~~Mribaur&ea\q                                                  h
>   SANA'A  9   /   w-habw-h PROPOSEDyhu  ADDRAIAN HSEA
~~~~~~ ~~~~~Harib  & ^                     rJflyah                                            a   , Ao   Ouzayir
To Hodoldeh   9   > 9 7,+ ?  Khemor                    ^ 5\           M~       ~~~       ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~Ytir  ROADS FOR ASPHALT OVERLAY
2~~                        ~        ~~~~~~~ |, A=zzn  J r    Butugd                                 ROADFOR fOttTUMINOUS SURFACE TRJEATME,NT
\ / > j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iffei'sh                                                                    AL\/  MAINTENANCE CAMPS
14+                                         . muWIqb                                                                             MAINTENANCE SUBCAMPS               14'-
\s  /  r2p,^  I              ~~~~~~Lawd a l                                :sj ACIRICULTURAL AREAS                PRMA   SHL  OrS             ROJEC
A/B  EPH&|;tl&Yn                 m AyrN                    WA019 ASPHALT ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
^ - TEIZ ^ \ Js,>>ot, O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TOWNS8ANDOVILLAGE8                                                MAIN TRACKS
w   ! Moeho   K \  Phe|0i'.ilz   , .M M 0 I | ' - ! '  i              *  ~~~~~~GOVERNORATE CAPITALS                                                 0 NENTO^LAAOT 
1.    AIRSTRIPS RECEIVING SCHEDULED FLIGHTS
1          Tr lBh           Z9inin          iber              0        1,        oONATIONAL CAPITAL8                                 HAFEOFRS_
8    '\~) (   LAHEJ   aDEN9fAdn                                YILORI-                                GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES    -to    MINOR PORTS                           -
Ul           4,4@-- Khiwt Umtqh                46'                              41              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                          S_t



lERD 17290 R
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                                                                                                                                         Y FISCAL
PROJECT'                   APPROVED
IDA-ASSISTED  PROJECTS BY SECTOR                                                                                                                                                     H IflGWAYS I          YEAR
PROjECT TYPE,                   EXISTING FEATURES'                                                  U                                                                         EDCATION 1                  1975
Agticullure                   a   Sulucied Towns and Villages%                                                  ."  -*--                                      'M       AN     OHIGHwAYSGI                    1975
44   Fisheries                   S    Governarare Capilols                                                                              '     *uiS4 ADEN PORT REHABILITATION 1976
o pffflsrnluy E,plaroraan     0    Notional CapiIaI                                                                                                                a~~~,,,-     ) WADI HADOAMAWT AGNIC. 1 1976
As*istance                           Airports                                                                                                                                   6 WADI TUSAN AGRICULTURE  1978
A    EducationPai
...-.--ttrghwoys  Paris                        /                     **4.xit~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I  ~~~~                       7WAOIHAORAMAWTPOWER  1978~ WDI ADAMWT OWR  97
*    Pose' Stations    -    SecondP'.ary Roads                                                  .1 d~&                               ..     *~'~:   "0WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING  1978
aS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
*       Transrnssan Lies                                                                                       *                                                                    B~~~~~~~dcmdry oas    EDUCATION n  1979
*          U   ~~~~~~Wale' supply         - --Tch9 FISHERIESE1                                                                                                                                                            1979
4. Pail Develasarent               Wad's                                                                                                                                      TO1 PETROLEUM DEVELOFMENT   1980
Governrormt loundaties                                                                                                                         ASSISTANCE
Intlernatioanl Sour-daries                                                                                                                ii ADEN WATER SUPPLY           1980
12 HIGHWAYSEM                1981
ELEVATIONS           ,ptfj'   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                             13 WAD! BEIHAN AGRICULTURE  198!~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 AD BIMN  GRCUTUE  96
ELEVATIONli                                                          ...s.~'    Nd               .s $A,14 AL MUXALLA WATER SUPPLY  1981
~~000 metres                                                                                                            *                                              j       IEDtUCATIONEm                 191112
1000  ~ ~    ~      ~       ~      ~       /~'4                               t         ?     ~i~ku,              -P                                         16 FISHERIESffl               1982
*        [~~~~~jj..~200                                               /     '  '                                                                                              aA YclI  -    18 ROADS FLOOO RECONSTRUC  1913
A 5,                                                                                      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19 WADI AORAMAAWT AOAIC u  1983
itEALTH DEVELOPMENT        1982
-. -  ,:~~~~~~~,,- ~~~20 SEIVUN WATER SuPPLY                1984
21 EDUCATION  I&             1984
R  E  P.                                                                                                                                                                      (Z Copent#en   p,qpecis
SAUDI ARABIA
KILOMETERS                                     AA
A   d             rho   FW~~ 6-i. tesS  d 5See ft .  reman MI .CessL
fti.. a se sue isic5 5W, W No SUNne o Ut wowUf a&i edt ed
*  -- - -                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETHIOPIA\   OAI
V  41'                                                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOVEMBFR 1984



