Doc=ment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13593
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1617-YDR)
OCTOBER 11, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onlv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of end of January, 1994)
Currency Units = Yemeni Dinars (YD) and Yemeni Rials (YR)
YD 1 = US$ 2.90 (May 1985)
YD 1 = Yemeni Rials 26 = US$ 2.17 (official exchange rate)
US$ 1 = YR 12   YD 0.4615 (official exchange rate)
US$ 1 = YR 60 = YD 2.3077 (market rate of exchange)
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System British/US System
1 meter (m) = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kcm) = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 sq. kilometer (m2) = 0.386 sq miles (mi2)
1 metric ton (m ton) = 0.984 long ton (Ig ton)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADT        - Average Daily Traffic
AF         - Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
DBST       - Double Bituminous Surface Treatment
GCRB       - General Corporation for Roads and Bridges
ICU        - Independent Construction Unit
IDA        - International Development Association
IRR        - Internal Rate of Return
MOC        - Ministry of Construction
MOP        - Ministry of Planning
NPV        - Net Present Value
PCR        - Project Completion Report
PCRC       - Public Corporation for Road Construction
PDRY       - People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
ROY        - Republic of Yemen
SAR        - Staff Appraisal Report
SDR        - Special Drawing Right
TA         - Technical Assistance
VTC        - Vocational Training Center
WB         - World Bank
YAR        - Yemen Arab Republic
YD         - Yemeni Dinar
YR         - Yemeni Riyal
PDRY FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
October 11, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Yemen
Fourth Highway Project (Credit 1617-YDR)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Yemen - Fourth Highway Project (Credit
1617-YDR)" prepared by the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office. Part II contains the
Borrower's comments. The US$14.4 million equivalent Credit was approved in October 1985,
US$13.4 million were disbursed, the balance was cancelled and the Credit was closed, with a four
year delay, on June 30, 1993.
The project (which was co-financed by the Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development and by the OPEC Fund) was aimed at laying the institutional and physical
groundwork for a countrywide road maintenance organization, and at providing access to an
agricultural production area. The credit would finance construction and rehabilitation of road
maintenance facilities; road maintenance and workshop equipment; technical assistance for road
maintenance, planning, training and operations; construction of a major road; and construction
supervision services.
The thorough PCR gives an adequate account of project preparation, implementation and
results. Physical works were, on the whole, satisfactorily completed. Maintenance of paved
roads continues to be unsatisfactory, mainly due to inadequate funding and inefficient force
account maintenance operations. However, follow-up projects continue IDA assistance in this
field. The project is rated as satisfactory, its sustainability as likely, and its institutional impact as
substantial.
No audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Republic of Yemen
Fourth Highway Project, Credit 1617-YDR
Project Completion Report
CONTENTS
age No.
Preface ..................................................  i
Evaluation Summary ..............                                           .                                    ii
PART ONE: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
Basic Information  .......................................    1
Background  .             .........................................   1
Sector Development Objective  ...........................    1
Policy Context  ....................................    2
Project Objectives and Description   ............................    2
Project Objectives  ..................................    2
Project Description   .................................    2
Amendments   .....................................    3
Project Design and Organization  ..............................    3
Project Implementation ....................................    4
Nisab-Wasit-Beihan Road Construction   .....................    4
Other Civil Works  ..................................    6
Equipment and Spare Parts .............................    6
Technical Assistance   ................................    7
Road User Charges Study   .............................    7
Project Results   .            .......................................                                    7
Physical Results   ...................................    7
Financial Performance   ...............................    8
Economic Evaluation and Impact   .............................    8
Economic Re-evaluation   ..............................    8
Project Impact  ....................................    9
Project Sustainability and Risks   ..............................    9
IDA  Performance  ......................................                                                10
Borrower Performance  ....................................   10
Consulting Services ......................................   10
Project Documentation and Data  ..............................   11
PART TWO: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Comments on Parts I and Il   ................................   12
Evaluation of IDA's Performance in the Project  ....................   13
Evaluation of the Borrower's Performance in the Project ...............   13
Assessment of the Relationship between IDA  and the Borrower  ....                          ......      13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART THREE: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Tables:
1.   Related IDA Credits .                  ..................................... 14
2.  Project Timetable ........................................ 16
3.      Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements  ....................   16
4.      Statement of Development Credit  .............................   16
Figure 1: Planned Versus Actual Disbursements .........................  16
5.      Estimated and Actual Project Costs  ............................   17
6.   Sources of Financing . ..................................... 18
7.      Contracts for Construction of Road Maintenance Centers  ...............   18
8.      Estimated Financial and Economic Unit Costs ......................   19
9.      Forecasted and Actual Traffic Volumes ..........................   20
10.    Estimation of Generated Traffic Volumes   ........................   20
11.    Traffic Data by Vehicle Type ................................   21
12.    HDM   - Estimated Unit Vehicle Operating Costs ....................  21
13.    Calculation of Economic Benefits .............................  22
14.  Status of Covenants ................................... 24
15.    Use of IDA  Resources ....................................  25
Appendix I:  Amendments to Credit Agreement   ........                            ................   26
Map - IBRD 25791



Republic of Yemen
Fourth Highway Project, Credit 1617-YDR
Project Completion Report
PREFACE
1.    This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fourth Highway Project for which Credit
1617-YDR in the amount of SDR 14.6 million was approved on October 4, 1985. The Credit was
closed on June 30, 1993 after a cancellation of about US$ 0.5 million. The reduced credit was fully
disbursed on October 31, 1993.
2.    The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Division, Country Department II, Middle
East and North Africa Region, and the Borrower (Part II).  Preparation of this PCR was started
during IDA's project completion mission of the project in September 1993, and is based, inter-alia,
on information contained in the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement,
supervision reports, quarterly progress reports, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower and
internal Bank documents.






ii
Republic of Yemen
Fourth Highway Project, Credit 1617-YDR
Project Completion Report
EVALUATION SUNTMARY
OBJECTIVES
1.      The primary objectives of the road project were to (i) lay the institutional and physical
groundwork for a countrywide road maintenance organization, and (ii) provide access to an
agricultural production area under development. The credit would be utilized to finance: (a)
construction and rehabilitation of road maintenance facilities; (b) road maintenance and workshop
equipment to facilitate road maintenance planning, accounting and operation; (c) technical
assistance for road maintenance, planning, training and operations; (d) construction of the Nisab-
Wasit-Beihan road, and (e) construction supervision services. Project objectives emphasized
strengthening technical support, planning and management functions in the Ministry of
Construction.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
2.      The project became effective January 3, 1986. Physical implementation was mostly
completed by June 1993, about four years after the original September 1989 completion date.
The project experienced significant delays, due mainly to the slow start of initial implementation.
Originally, the Borrower and IDA were supposed to finance the whole Nisab-Wasit-Beihan road
project. After Board presentation, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (AF)
and OPEC Fund responded to the Government's search for increased financing and agreed to
cofinance part of the project. This reduced the Government's share of the financing for the
project. The project was composed of several components, some of which progressed well and
were completed on time (with some date amendments), including the Salim-Beihan road section
and the construction and rehabilitation of buildings for workshops. Other components were
delayed for longer periods (even after date amendments), including construction of the Wasit-
Salim road and the technical assistance program for maintenance and training. Other factors
contributing to the delay were attributed to consultants performance and force majeure (floods).
3.      The project budget was utilized efficiently, with a surplus in the dollar amount over the
original credit because of an improved exchange rate for the SDR against the US dollar. The
Government and IDA agreed to utilize these savings to procure additional equipment and
technical assistance. The decisions to procure additional equipment did not directly benefit the
project progress since the equipment was not made available to the parastatal contractor that
constructed the AF financed road section (PCRC).
4.       From its initial stages, the project followed the concept of using local resources, when
possible, to implement components. Although in some cases Yemen (then the PDRY) lacked
specialized experience, local contractors with relevant experience were invited to participate in
international competitive bidding as stipulated for IDA-financed projects. The local labor force
was also utilized in the road construction component. A Road Master Plan Study conceived
during the course of the project was later incorporated as part of the Fifth Highway Project.



iii-
RESULTS
5.       The project constructed a much needed paved road linking the main coastal Aden-
Mukalla highway with the fertile area of Wadi Beihan, an agricultural enclave that was isolated
from commercial markets by the absence of a modern paved road. Fast and efficient transport to
markets benefited trading and trucking companies, other motorists, and farmers. The new road
serves an increased volume of traffic feeding villages in the Wadi area. The road construction
and maintenance programs contributed efficiently to the creation of new jobs for the local skilled
and unskilled labor forces. The project also succeeded in assisting the Government in
implementing its road maintenance program by providing road maintenance centers, equipment,
vehicles, new road construction and technical assistance. Procurement and operation of
equipment for road maintenance have consequently improved.
6.       The project's environmental impact has been positive. Damage to from flash floods
and erosion in areas adjacent to the Wasit-Beihan road have been reduced by installing drainage
structures, erosion protection and applying damage repair methods. Vehicular dust has also been
reduced in villages and rural centers the road traverses.
SUSTAINABILITY
7.       Project sustainability hinges on (i) the capability of the Government to establish
efficient maintenance operations as traffic increases between the main road network and the Wadi
Beihan region, and (ii) the preparation of annual maintenance programs with adequate financial
support. Maintenance of paved roads in Yemen has not been satisfactory, mainly due to
inadequate funding and inefficient force account maintenance operations. Follow-up projects
continue IDA assistance in this field. Under the Multi-mode Transport Project (Cr. 2177-YEM)
a multi-year road maintenance program will be established covering about 2500 km of the most
deteriorated roads and organizational changes will be proposed for maintenance operations of the
Ministry of Construction. Under the proposed Safir - Hadramout Road Project technical
assistance is included for the Borrower to institute a Road Maintenance Fund, and thereby
transfer the financing of road maintenance from the government budget to a system based on road
user fees as a first step to establishing a financially and managerially autonomous institution for
road maintenance.
FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED
8.       The project experience provided the following main lessons:
(i)      More care could be given to the process of selecting qualified consultants for technical
assistance assignments that are critical to the successful implementation of project
objectives and sustainability of the project; ill-qualified firms should be rejected from
shortlists and proposals evaluated mainly on technical quality, experience of staff and
reputation of firm, with less weight given to the price offered.



iv
(ii)     Civil works contracts of a duration of more than one year should have a price
adjustment clause with appropriate formulae and indices to compensate for cost
variations on equipment, labor, materials and spare parts. In this case, the
Government's policy only allowed fixed-price contracts, but nevertheless the Bank
went along and financed the project.
(iii)    Parastatal contractors should only be allowed to bid for civil works contracts in
competition with the private sector when their operations managerially and financially
are fully autonomous.
(iv)     Following the major political event of reunification of the two Yemens, the project
design should have been reassessed and the project restructured to ensure continued
relevance and borrower commitment.






1
Republic of Yemen
Fourth Highway Project, Credit 1617-YDR
Project Completion Report
PART 1
PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
Basic Information
Title:                    Fourth Highway Project
Credit Number:            1617-YDR
RVP Unit:                 Middle East and North Africa
Country:                  Republic of Yemen (ROY)
Sector:                   Transport
Subsector:                Highways
Background
2.1      The Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
(PDRY) merged on May 22, 1990 to form the Republic of Yemen (ROY). The subject of this
report is the fourth in a series of IDA highway projects in the former PDRY.
2.2      Sector Development Objectives. The Republic of Yemen occupies 537,000 km2 with
11.5 million inhabitants, out of which two million people lived in the 334,000 km2 that were the
former PDRY. Aden was the only major urban center in a country of widely dispersed and
scattered small towns and villages along the coastal strip and in few isolated locations inland.
2.3      Since independence in 1967 one of the Government's prime objectives was to integrate
the country economically and socially and decrease economic reliance on Aden's port and
refinery by developing other productive sectors, such as agriculture and fisheries. Intensive
investment to build a country-wide transport system was one of its main mechanisms for
achieving this goal; this investment was largely foreign-financed.
2.4      Progress in building up the transport system has been significant considering former
PDRY's shortages of managerial and technical talent, skilled labor and domestic and foreign
resources. The paved road network grew from about 400 km in 1970 to about 1,500 km in
1884. Airports at Aden and Mukalla were reconstructed, a new airport was constructed at Al
Gheidah, and considerable investments were made in ports.
2.5     In step with the expansion of the road system, efforts were made to develop agriculture
and fisheries away from their traditional subsistence orientation toward production of marketable
and exportable surpluses to meet national needs. Since Aden, former PDRY's main port, lacked
a modern operational system and there was no internal air service or railroad system, road
transport was the only means for hauling goods and moving people. Primitive tracks branching
from the main coastal road out of Aden were the only transport links between rural areas. As



2
opportunities became available for Yemeni workers to work out of the country, their remittances
fueled an economic boom in the transport sector. Traffic on all modes increased to much higher
levels, instigating the Government to expand and improve the highway system.
2.6      The unified country has modern seaports at Aden and Hodeidah, four secondary ports,
five international airports and an internal air service. The development objective for these modes
is to maintain existing investment and upgrade local operating and managerial expertise. The
objective of the primary road network is adequate maintenance of existing assets, selective
expansion to further economic development after unification, and increasing accessibility to areas
with economic and agricultural potential.
2.7      Policy Context. At the beginning of the project, PDRY's policy aimed at recovering
full costs for services rendered by transport agencies. Road user charges were levied through
vehicle import duties, registration fees and road taxes, driving license fees and taxes on fuel and
tires. These charges were at the time adequate to cover routine road maintenance of roads.
Since unification, however, Government revenues allocated to the highway sector have steadily
decreased in real terms as a result of high inflation, and the decline in worker remittances since
the Gulf war. Sector financing is being addressed under the Proposed Safir - Hadramout Road
Project where the Government is proposing to establish a new Road Maintenance Fund financed
by a surcharge on fuel and annual vehicle fees for heavy vehicles.
Project Objectives and Description
3.1      Project Objectives. The original objectives of the Fourth Highway Project were to
continue the assistance to PDRY in the rational development of its road system by:
(a) strengthening the road maintenance organization, workshops and training
infrastructure in order to support subsequent implementation of programs for
routine and periodic road maintenance and training;
(b) developing appropriate road cost recovery policies and laying the groundwork for
improved road planning and budgeting procedures; and
(c) improving access to an important agricultural area.
3.2      Project Description. The original project components were:
Part A. Phase I of Road Maintenance Program
(i)    Construction, extension and/or rehabilitation of workshops and buildings at road
maintenance district centers, including staff accommodations;
(ii)   Equipment and spare parts for: (a) road maintenance; (b) workshops; (c) a
computer for road maintenance planning, cost accounting and spare parts
management system; (d) a communications system for road maintenance, and
(e) a road planning data collection system;



3
(iii) Technical assistance for: (a) setting up new road maintenance organization with
planning, management, cost accounting and improved work procedures; (b)
setting up training program and centers with training evaluation system, and
appointment of staff for centers, and (c) carrying out a road user charges study.
Part B. Construction of Nisab-Beihan Road
(i)   Construction of Nisab-Wasit road (35 km);
(ii)   Construction of Wasit-Beihan road (127 kim);
(iii) Supervision of construction for Wasit-Beihan road.
3.3      Amendments.   On April 24, 1987, an amendment to the Credit Agreement was
approved to extend covenant dates for Government preparation of studies, establishment of new
sections, and appointment of section heads. On June 9, 1987, a second amendment was
implemented due to the participation of the Arab and OPEC Funds in providing parallel financing
for construction of 91 km of the Wasit-Beihan road reducing the Governments share of the
financing for the project. The third amendment, dated September 19, 1989, reallocated savings
in construction costs and other categories to procurement of more road construction equipment.
The last amendment was effected on July 8, 1991, to cover the Borrower's address change from
Aden to Sana'a and changes in official names of ministries and departments as a result of
unification. A detailed description of all Amendments to the Agreement is given in Appendix I.
Project Design and Organization
4.1      Preliminary identification of the project started in 1980 during implementation of other
highway projects in PDRY. The least-cost alignment for the Naqabah-Nisab-Beihan road was
established in a feasibility study in 1977 and detailed engineering prepared in 1978, both financed
under IDA's Second Highway Project (Credit 560-YAR). Based on studies originating under the
Third Highway Project, the Government desired to improve road maintenance, overlays and
reseals of existing roads, while extending the road then being built from Naqabah to Nisab to
reach the Wadi Beihan Valley, and this formed the basis for the development of the Fourth
Highway Project.
4.2      Maintenance centers and district workshops were to be established at several locations
on the road network. The project included Phase I of a new Road Maintenance Program, which
aimed at setting up a new maintenance department, preparing buildings, and providing initial
equipment so implementation of program works could start in 1986, laying the groundwork for
Phase II of the program to be implemented in 1987 in a follow-up Fifth Highway Project (Credit
1823-YDR). The program was to use existing resources to carry out overlay works on
deteriorating roads after improving planning and programming of road works.
4.3      A training program was proposed for both Phase I and Phase II that would train about
400 maintenance engineers, road supervisors, equipment operators, and other vocations engaged
in maintenance and rehabilitation activities. The program would include setting up a training
steering committee, strengthening existing training organization, setting up a mobile road training
production unit, purchase of equipment, training of instructors and management, rehabilitation of
the VTC and sending selected MOC staff on fellowships for training abroad.



4
4.4      A technical assistance program covering road maintenance planning, management and
accounting was needed under Phase I of the project. The main goals of the program were to
assist with reorganizing the Maintenance Department, which required preparation of guidelines,
manuals, procedures and staff training. During Phase I, about 24 man-months would be needed
from the estimated 65 man-months of the program. The fellowship program for training would
require 36 man-months of short courses to prepare Yemeni instructors and officers. A ten man-
month Road User Charges Study was also included under Phase I to address levels, categories,
and methods of vehicle taxation and prepare recommendations.
4.5      Since IDA's Third Highway Project covered the Naqabah-Nisab road, the Government
requested that the Fourth Highway Project cover in addition to the Road Maintenance Program,
an extension of that road to reach the agricultural area of Wadi Beihan, where IDA was
supporting an agricultural project (Credit 1145-YDR). The proposed Fourth Highway Project
would cover about 170 km of an eight meter wide road paved with double bituminous surface
treatment between Nisab (the end of the Naqabah-Nisab road project) and Wadi Beihan. The
road to Beihan was originally a rough unengineered earth-track passable only by trucks and four-
wheel drive vehicles. The Government decided for to fully finance itself the 35 km road section
from Nisab to Wasit (see map IBRD 25791 attached) and to use the parastatal contractor working
on the Naqabah to Nisab road. This contractor was originally established by the PDRY
Government as an Independent Construction Unit (ICU), and later renamed the Public
Corporation for Road Construction (PCRC). IDA was asked to assist in financing the
construction of the remaining Wasit - As-Salim - Beihan road and supervision of construction.
The consultant appointed to undertake construction supervision would also assist in building up
the Government's capability in training staff to undertake similar tasks in the future.
4.6      During the start-up period of the project, the Borrower approached other donors for
cofinancing. The Arab Fund and OPEC agreed to parallel finance the construction of the 91 km
road section between Wasit and Al-Salim, while IDA support was reduced to financing the
remaining 36 km road section between Al-Salim and Wadi Beihan. It was also accepted that IDA
would finance construction supervision for the whole project. The completion time for the two
road sections was set at 36 months from contract award.
4.7      The Fourth Highway Project was estimated to cost $39.0 million, with IDA providing
$14.4 million (the original equivalent of IDA's credit of SDR 14.6 million), or 41 percent of the
project's foreign cost, with Government assurances to meet the remaining foreign and local costs
of completing the project. As it turned out, the government only contributed US$6.93 million
since cofinancing was provided by AF/OPEC for the balance.
Project Implementation
5.1      Nisab-Wasit-Beihan Road Construction. To save time it was agreed during
negotiations that bidders for the two contracts (one financed by IDA and the other by AF/OPEC)
would be post-qualified with criteria set out in the contract documents. This procedure increased
the likelihood of receiving irresponsible low bids by financially weak contractors with a minimum
of equipment, bids that often are very tempting for a Borrower to accept. In countries with high
inflation and no provision for adjusting contract prices, as in the case of Yemen, such contractors
are even more likely to get into contractual difficulties in executing contracts. Both contracts
were tendered simultaneously and one local and five international contracting firms presented



5
valid bids on both contracts. Three tenders were well below the Engineer's estimate. One
contractor presented a bid that would result in a loss of 1 million YD even if equipment
depreciation were excluded as a cost. This bidder eventually withdrew his bid. The Borrower
and AF/OPEC awarded the Wasit - As-Salim road contract to PCRC, who for that contract was
the overall lowest bidder among the remaining firms when a 10 percent preference for local civil
works contractors was taken into account. The Borrower also recommended that PCRC be
awarded the IDA-financed road section (As-Salim - Beihan) stating that the discount offered by
PCRC if awarded both contracts would make it the lowest bidder also for this section. IDA
objected, since the IDA guidelines require that slice and package discounts offered by
contractors, should not be taken into account in the bid evaluation when one package is financed
by parallel cofinancing and another part by IDA. IDA and the Government then agreed to award
the second contract to the lowest evaluated qualified bidder for that section, the China Road and
Bridge Engineering Corporation. This section was completed in October 1989, after 27 months
of construction. The road section constructed by PCRC is virtually complete and open to traffic
but the contractor still has to install miscellaneous contract items (road signs and road marking)
and repair some washouts. The project is, therefore, technically under construction and the
construction supervision consultant was still on site in February 1994.
5.2      The total cost of construction for the 127 km Wasit-Beihan road was YD 7.45 million
(about US$20.64 million). This amount represents the cost of Wasit-Salim road at US$13.87
million, and the Salim-Beihan road at US$6.77 million. The cost of consultants' supervision of
construction for these two road contracts was about US$0.85 million. In addition comes the road
section from Nisab to Wasit, which was fully financed by the Borrower and cost about US$5.3
million.
5.3      Additional funds in the order of US$7.0 million became available in the credit due to:
(i) the reduced length and low cost of construction on the road section financed by IDA; (ii) the
fact that the training part of the technical assistance was not carried out; and (iii) a rising
exchange rate for SDR against the US dollar. It was agreed between the Borrower and IDA that
this amount could be used to purchase road maintenance equipment and spare parts to be utilized
in the implementation of the Phase II of the Road Maintenance Program under the next (Fifth
Highway) project financed by IDA.
5.4      The IDA financed section cost US$183,000 per km, while the section constructed by
PCRC had a cost of $152,000 per km. The difference in costs per km was mainly due to the
delay of the contractor (PCRC) in combination with a favorable change in the rate of exchange of
the Yemeni Dinar to the US Dollar. The long delay in finalizing the Wasit-Salim road section
increased supervision costs, which were financed by IDA up to the closing date (June 30, 1993).
However, the consultant's services for construction supervision are still required until the final
handing over of the project, and the Borrower has had to extend the consultant's contract beyond
the closing date.
5.5      The IDA-financed Salim-Beihan road consisted of the construction, completion and
maintenance of approximately 36 km of two-lane road with a low-cost single carriageway starting
from the end of the AF/OPEC financed at Jabal Al-Salim road and reaching the town of Beihan.
The road is 6 m wide with 1 m wide shoulders. The carriageway has a 20 mm thick double
bituminous surface treatment (DBST) on granular base and sub-base courses laid on an
embankment of general and borrow excavation materials, readily available in the vicinity of the



6
project area. The road extends westward from its start at Al-Salim near Jifyah village and passes
through a flat solid terrain, but then crosses further west a sand dune area 2 to 4 meters in
height. The road traverses the village of Nuqub through flat gravelly terrain and crosses Wadi
Beihan, ending at the airport past Beihan town. Drainage structures were provided where
needed, relieving water scouring and erosion action on the road. However, after completion of
construction farmers blocked some of the culverts with sand and gravel to trap water for
irrigation. This caused the washout of about 50 m of road, and damage to a pipe culvert 6 km
before Beihan. Since the contractor's one-year maintenance period had already expired, repairs
have to be undertaken by the GCRB maintenance branch. In general, the road is a good example
of a well constructed road with a low-cost bituminous surfacing exhibiting no problems except for
the above-mentioned drainage problem. This road has functioned well for almost five years and
carries almost 900 vehicles per day on some sections.
5.6      The Wasit-Salim road constructed by PCRC has the same design standards and
measurements. It extends north until it reaches Al-Salim. It crosses flat and compact sandy
terrain at its beginning, then passes through rock cuts in adjacent hills of moderate height. The
quality of construction is lower than for the first section. The DBST surfacing was constructed
without mechanical equipment such as chipping spreaders and bitumen distributors. This had a
detrimental effect on the quality of construction, and the surfacing is uneven and of questionable
durability. This has contributed to a negative attitude towards DBST in Yemen. All drainage
structures, Irish crossings and side ditches were built, but farmers on this section have also
attempted to block culverts to trap water. Culverts and Irish crossings need regular maintenance
to clear siltation. This road is still being maintained by the contractor, with some road signs and
road paint not yet completed, and there is damage to the DBST on some sections that should be
repaired as a matter of urgency before the road is taken over by GCRB.
5.7      A three-day road vehicular count was conducted at five locations between Nisab and
Beihan to determine Average Daily Traffic (ADT) in January 1994. A pronounced increase in
traffic volume was determined, confirming the benefits achieved by the construction of this road.
(For example the traffic on the Nuqub - Beihan section increased by a factor of 4 over the 1984-
1994 period). See Tables 9, 10, 11 in Part III.
5.8      Other Civil Works. The Borrower complied with Credit covenants by establishing
workshops and maintenance centers and, after unification, had a reasonably sized maintenance
organization and provided staff accommodations in several locations. Technical staff and
supervisors were appointed to manage these centers. Construction and rehabilitation of buildings
and workshops was completed reasonably well in accordance with the required standards.
However, none of the centers are in use for training of staff of the road administration as was
intended due to lack of training plans and trainers. A list of the established road maintenance
and training centers is given in Table 7 in Part III of this report.
5.9      Equipment and Spare Parts. Equipment and spare parts were procured for road
maintenance works through international competitive bidding and international shopping using
IDA guidelines. The project benefited from the additional credit funds made available as a result
of the increase in the SDR exchange rate against the US dollar. Most of these funds were used
to purchase additional vehicles and equipment for road maintenance.



7
5.10     Instruments and special devices planned for communications and accounting, such as
radio equipment and computer hardware and software were not purchased. The Borrower
decided to use most of these funds to acquire urgently needed equipment, vehicles, and spare
parts for road maintenance.
5.11     Technical Assistance. A consultant with limited English capability, no knowledge of
Arabic, and no work experience outside his own country, was appointed in December 1987 by
the Borrower to prepare a comprehensive road maintenance program and training program in
road maintenance. After a long delay, the consultant finally, in September 1989 submitted
required documents and reports of Phase 1 for Government review. The outputs were deemed
unacceptable and the performance by this consultant resulted in a series of discussions and
disputes that lead finally to the cancellation of the contract.
5.12     To save time, the Borrower in May 1990 signed a contract with the road supervision
consultant to prepare the Phase 2 of the road maintenance and training programs as a variation to
the construction supervision contract. This consultant also performed poorly, and the
Government in the middle of 1991 had to cancel also this contract. At that stage, at the original
closing date of the credit, there was insufficient time for short-listing of specialized consultants,
or a bidding process according to the guidelines of IDA, let alone the establishment of a
comprehensive program of maintenance and training before the credit closing date, and IDA and
the Borrower agreed to drop this component. As part of the ongoing Multi-mode Transport
Project a study will be carried out covering 2500 km of roads to establish a prioritized program
of road maintenance and rehabilitation for the next five years. Under the proposed Safir -
Hadramout Road Project it is proposed to establish a Road Administration to manage the new
Road Maintenance Fund by contracting out most of the works, and to develop other road sector
institutions in order to improve quality of road maintenance operations.
5.13     Road User Charges Study. The Borrower selected an international consultant to
undertake this study; but the submission of its report was delayed and this caused its
recommendations to be outdated and irrelevant because of the changes that took place after
unification of Yemen in early 1990. The study recommendations were, therefore, never
implemented. As part of the proposed Safir-Hadramout Road Project, the Borrower has agreed
to introduce a fuel tax and establish a road maintenance fund for financing road maintenance and
rehabilitation.
Project Results
6.1      Physical results. Improving access to the important agricultural area of Wadi Beihan
was fully achieved despite delays in the completion of the AF/OPEC financed section of the
project. The IDA-financed road was dependent on the AF/OPEC financed section for access
from Wadi Beihan to the main road system. Traffic significantly increased after the total length
of the road was opened to traffic in 1993, and the annual daily traffic (ADT) at Beihan increased
from 222 vehicles per day in 1984 to 948 in 1994.
6.2      Although equipment for road maintenance was fully procured, the comprehensive
maintenance and training programs were not completed due to delays and poor performance by
the consultants. Road maintenance in the South is, therefore, still not satisfactory; this is now
being addressed under the proposed Safir-Hadramout Road Project.



8
6.3      The strengthening of the road maintenance organization and the provision of workshop
and training infrastructure to enable implementation of routine and periodic road maintenance and
training programs were partly achieved by the successful construction of maintenance centers and
workshops and procurement of equipment and spares. However, the maintenance program and
organizational changes were never planned and no training program was prepared in spite of
considerable follow-up by IDA missions. This was partly due to the poor performance of the
consultants, but also due to the unification of the North and South, which effectively changed the
Borrower's priorities.
6.4      Financial Performance. Because of the lack of a proper cost accounting system and
the fact that the road administration is not a revenue generating entity, no analysis of financial
performance was attempted. Annual audit reports were prepared in accordance with covenanted
requirements and were generally of good quality, despite delays in their submission.
Economic Evaluation and Impact
7.1      Economic Re-evaluation. The beneficiaries of the project fall into three main
categories: (i) road users; (ii) social and economic centers served by improved road transport;
and (iii) government agencies responsible for financing, constructing and maintaining the road
system. The road connected a major agricultural area in the south with the country's main road
system. It reinforced the Wadi Beihan Agricultural Project (IDA Credit 1145-YDR) which made
the area self-sufficient in a number of important agricultural products. The SAR estimated that
for "normal" traffic (as opposed to traffic generated or induced by the project) vehicle operating
costs would be reduced on average by 28 to 42 percent. In addition, benefits were expected from
generated traffic resulting from increases in agricultural production and from the lowering of
transport costs. The SAR also included some benefits from the reduction in spoilage of produce
exports from Wadi Beihan due to road improvements that would reduce exposure to heat and
rough tracks. However, these benefits were small and have not been considered in the re-
evaluation.
7.2      For the economic re-evaluation the yearly road deterioration (roughness) with the
project and without the project was estimated using the World Bank's Highway Design and
Maintenance Model (HDM-III) as a function of the estimated traffic, loading, environment and
construction characteristics (see Part III, Table 12 and 13). The HDM-III model was also used
to define the optimal maintenance strategy (operation and timing) after the completion of
construction. For the with - and without-project cases, vehicle operating costs (per vehicle-km)
were computed using the HDM-III model, for five classes of vehicles as a function of the road
geometry, vehicle characteristics and the yearly roughness estimated by the HDM-III model.
These unit vehicle operating costs were used to compute the benefits derived from the normal and
generated traffic. Both construction costs and vehicle operating costs were converted to
economic costs by eliminating taxes, duties and subsidies. The distortion due to the difference
between the official and parallel market exchange rates was eliminated by expressing unit vehicle
operating costs in dollar terms, and by also computing the project agency costs (construction and
future maintenance) in dollar terms. See Part III, Table 8.
7.3      At appraisal of the Fourth Highway Project quantitative analysis of economic returns
was not carried out for any of the sub-sections of the project. The SAR estimated the IRR to be
15 percent as a combined rate of return for the whole road from Nisab to Beihan. For the other



9
components (technical assistance, equipment and construction of maintenance centers) economic
benefits cannot be directly quantified in economic terms, even though the outlays can be justified
as important factors contributing to the institutional development of the road administration and
the enhancement of maintenance capacity and capability. Table 9 presents SAR traffic data and
projections and compares them with traffic counts carried out by GCRB's traffic branch in
January 1994. The traffic counts seem to confirm the traffic projections made in the SAR.
7.4      As it turned out the Borrower financed 100 percent of the cost of the road from Nisab-
Wasit. However, there are no records of the construction costs and the IRR of this section
could, therefore, not be determined with the same accuracy as for the rest of the project. Since
the Arab Fund cofinanced the road from Wasit to As-Salim and IDA financed As-Salim-Nuqub-
Beihan, and because the investments on the three contracts did not coincide in time, the economic
calculations were carried out for all three contracts separately. The PCR estimated economic
rates of return is 20.5 percent for the IDA-financed section and 19.3 percent for the section
cofinanced by the Arab Fund. Assuming that the cost per kilometer road is the same for Nisab-
Wasit as for Wasit to As-Salim (the same contractor was used on the two sections) the IRR was
calculated for the Nisab-Wasit section to be 18.5 percent. Hence the project has shown higher
returns than those envisaged at the time the project was presented to the Board (IRR 15 percent).
This is mainly due to the fact that the actual construction costs came out lower than the
Engineer's Estimate prepared by the detailed design consultant. The results are presented in
Table 13.
7.5      Project Impact. The project completed a major link between the coastal highway
system and the vital agricultural enclave of Wadi Beihan, which was isolated from the modern
transport system. The upgrading of Wasit-Beihan into a major secondary transport road
expanded the overall road network. Because of lower transport costs and good access to a large
farming area with suitable soil, high rainfall and climate, farmers are taking advantage by
cultivating profitable products. The environmental impact of the road is also considerable;
frequent flooding with erosion and vehicular dust have been reduced significantly in the area
traversed by the Wasit-Beihan road. The project's maintenance and training programs had no
impact due to the poor performance of the consultant and the subsequent unification.
Project Sustainability and Risks
7.6      The good quality of construction on the IDA financed road section will help to ensure
that, over its economic life, the Nisab-Wasit-Beihan road will continue to yield substantial
benefits. After GCRB in Sana'a took over the responsibility for road maintenance throughout
Yemen and with the construction of the additional maintenance centers and procurement of
maintenance equipment under the project, the basic infrastructure and the organizational
capabilities are available to make the project sustainable. However, there are insufficient funds
allocated for maintenance at present, and unless this is improved, the project roads may not serve
their 20 year life span. While the project was not successful in achieving its objective of
enhancing road maintenance through improved planning, programming and training, this issue
and the problem of maintenance being underfunded is likely to be resolved in the proposed Safir-
Hadramout Road Project. In this project it is planned to set up a Road Administration to
manage a Road Maintenance Fund with financing coming from a fuel surcharge and annual
vehicle fees to finance road maintenance and rehabilitation. Considerable technical assistance is
included in the project for road maintenance studies and training of road sector institutions.



10
These efforts would improve the sustainability of all roads in Yemen.
7.7      While actual traffic counts and forecasts for Wadi Beihan take account of all available
data on the area, there remains an element of uncertainty in these forecasts that could entail some
risk for the project not to achieve all expected benefits. Government's strong assurances of
commitment to Wadi Beihan development make this risk acceptable; especially after traffic data
confirmed previous forecasts of improved traffic growth for the road.
IDA Performance
8.1     IDA's guidance in equipment procurement allowed the Borrower to acquire needed
goods consistent with the general development objective of the project. Also, IDA's requirement
to follow Bank guidelines in contracting out works (except for price adjustment) enabled a well-
qualified contractor to participate in the project and use its resources to complete the IDA-
financed road at high quality standards and on time. This was in contrast to the performance of
the state-owned local contractor (PCRC), which barely finished its section more than four years
after scheduled completion time, with additional costs of construction supervision. At the time of
the unification of the North and South in the beginning of 1990, both the Fourth and the Fifth
Highway projects were active and experiencing problems in implementing TA activities. IDA
could possibly have done more to try to restructure the two projects to improve the design and by
involving the new Borrower in shaping the TA component, so as to increase the commitment of
the implementing organization. This might have contributed to making the TA components of
both these projects more successful. Finally, IDA could have reviewed the capability and
capacity of consulting firms more carefully and rejected ill-qualified firms for short-listing for
critical project activities.
Borrower Performance
9. 1     The Borrower generally carried out its obligations well under difficult conditions
caused by the unification and the effects of the Gulf Crisis. At the start-up stage of the project
the Borrower also managed to acquire expanded cofinancing and reduced thereby its own
budgetary contribution to the financing of the project. The Government reacted appropriately to
the poor performance of the consultant assigned to prepare and implement the road maintenance
and training programs by agreeing to an early termination of their contract.
9.2      After the unification of Yemen, the Borrower successfully transferred documentation
and monitoring of the project from Aden in the South into the highway administration at Sana'a
in the North. Government staff maintained project administration and accounting at Sana'a,
while site inspection was conducted through Aden office and the regional center in Shabwah
province. However, very few staff of the former road authority in the South were integrated in
the GCRB-MOC headquarters in Sana'a, and this did hamper continuity and somewhat reduced
Borrower commitment for the projects.
Consulting Services
10.1     Consulting services for supervising construction were financed by IDA for both
sections of the Wasit-Beihan road. Government counterpart staff were of good quality and a key
element in the success of the road construction component under the Fourth Highway Project.



11
Credit is also due to the consultants supervising the civil works for ensuring contractor
compliance and completion of the works, despite delays and the other implementation problems
with the parastatal contractor.
10.2     Consultant services for Technical Assistance in developing maintenance and training
programs, as well as the consulting services for studies requested for the Road User Charges
Study were not as successful. This was partly due to the lack of overseas experience and
qualifications of the consultant and partly to the delays and problems caused by the unification
and the Gulf Crisis. The difficulties encountered in the delays and inadequate performance of the
consultants could have been avoided with a better selection process including making sure that
only qualified firms were short-listed. The maintenance and training program were never
implemented and the Road User Charges Study was not adopted, as it was outdated and obsolete
following unification.
Project Documentation and Data
11.1     Generally, project files and reporting were complete and instructive. Legal documents,
including amendments, were clearly stated. The Staff Appraisal Report was well done, although
it proved optimistic on the potential for road construction progress. The SAR did not anticipate
the prolonged delays caused by the inadequate performance of consultants for the maintenance
and training programs. The road consultant's periodic and final reports for supervision of
construction provided useful progress summaries. The end-of-project report for the AF/OPEC-
financed section has still not been completed by the construction supervision consultant who is
still on site but now financed by the Borrower.



12
Republic of Yemen
Fourth Highway project, Credit 1617-YDR
Project Completion Report
PART TWO
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Comments on Parts I and m
1.1      The problem of finding a co-financing did delay the project start. However, it was
possible to attract more than one donor to participate in the cofinancing of the project. The delay
in credit approval by one of the donors caused a certain degree of delay in the initial stages of the
project.
1.2     The Wasit-Beihan road contractual developments and consequences emphasized the fact
that very low or heavily conditioned offers should be carefully analyzed and evaluated. The terms
or conditions of offers should properly quantified. The attempt to negotiate the deletion of all
conditions may not be a sound practice, especially if the bid value is low to start with. The local
contractor undertaking the Wasit-Salim road section from the main Wasit-Beihan road, although
familiar with construction works in the area, could not finish his contract on time, as he under-
estimated the construction cost and site problems. This fact was a major factor that caused high
losses incurred by the contractor and accumulated delays affecting the project completion.
1.3     The benefits obtained from the construction of the Wasit-Salim -Beihan road were clear
from the vehicular improvements on the road usage as is evident from the ADT counts conducted
on various sections of the road after more than one year from the completion of the project, as is
evident in the attachments included in PART III of this report.
1.4     The consultants for road construction supervision performed to a certain extent in a
professional manner, although showing a somewhat liberal attitude with the contractor on site
who was accumulating delays on the project. This liberal attitude could be justified as adopted by
the consultants in order to avoid suffocating the local contractor with additional limitations; who
was already in a difficult situation mainly due to his underestimation of the project cost. The
consultants for maintenance and training program did not perform to the standards expected in
accordance with qualifications and terms of reference. Unfamiliarity with the area and language
(both English and Arabic) added to their poor performance in fulfillment of their contractual
obligations. In addition, the studies submitted by the consultants could not be utilized as
eventually becoming obsolete.
1.5      Procurement of equipment for the various components of the project proceeded well,
taking advantage of the additional funds available to the credit amount through benefits achieved
from the SDR exchange rate against the US Dollar.



13
Evaluation of IDA's Performance in the Project
2.1     IDA management and personnel acted throughout the project duration in a
constructive and responsible manner. It was due to good cooperation of IDA and the
Government that the project was successfully implemented.
Evaluation of the Borrower's Performance in the Project
3.1  The Government exercised reasonable control and adequate management of the project
that led to a reasonably successful completion of the project, although with a pronounced
delay on the schedule. The problem of attracting co-financing was not anticipated to face the
problems it had faced. Therefore, in future, co-financing should be established ahead of time
in order to reduce or eliminate the delay in project implementation. Another solution would
be to provide the additional funding from Government sources. If the latter is adopted, the
project targets should be fixed in such a way that the required additional funding is of a
practical magnitude and time, in order to avoid straining the Government's development
budget.
Assessment of the Relationship between IIDA and the Borrower
4.1    Practically, during the whole duration of the project, the relationship between IDA
and the Government (MOC and MOP) was very constructive. The spirit of cooperation
dominated the acts by the two throughout all the government Departments and Organizations,
whether in the former PDRY or in the present ROY. The IDA acts concentrated on
providing assistance to the Government without unreasonably adhering to rigid credit
understanding, which was exhibited by amending the Agreement three times including
relaxed time extensions.



14
Republic of Yemen
Fourth Highway project, Credit 1617-YDR
Project Completion Report
PART THREE
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related IDA Credits
Credit Title            Purpose                                Year               Status
First Highway           Development of road system around      1970               Closed
Credit 240-YDR          Aden and strengthen road institutions.
Engineering             Provide technical Assistance,          1970               Closed
Credit S12-YDR          maintenance and workshop
equipment, spare parts and
engineering and feasibility studies.
Second Highway          Creation of a construction unit for    1984               Closed
Project                 road works, construct a road to an
Credit 560-YDR          agricultural area (Wadi Hadramout)
and continued technical assistance to
road administration.
Third Highway           Technical assistance to prepare        1984               Closed
Project                 proposed Fourth Highway Project,
Credit 1144-YDR         utilize foreign consultants, use ICU
to construct Naqabah-Nisab road.
Road Flood              Implement road construction program    1984               Closed
Reconstruction          of major damages caused by heavy
Project,                floods of 1982 and 1983.
Credit 1295-YDR         Rehabilitation of road maintenance
centers and provide Transport Sector
Study.
Aden Port               Rehabilitation of Aden Port and ship   1984               Closed
Rehabilitation Credit    servicing.
584-YDR
Fourth Highway          Construct Wasit-Beihan road,           1985               Closed
Project                 maintenance and training program,
Credit 1617-YDR         and studies.
Fifth Highway           Road rehabilitation, and road          1986               Closed
Project                 maintenance program.
Credit 1823-YDR



15
Table 1 (continued): Related IDA Credits
Credit /Title          Purpose                             Year              Status
First Highway          Establishment of Highway Authority  1972              Closed
Credit 03 15-YAR       (HA); feasibility and engineering
studies; construction of Taiz-Tuba
road; supply of road equipment.
Second Highway         Technical assistance to HA;         1975              Closed
Project                construction of Taiz-AI Mafraq road.
Credit 0558-YAR
Third Highway         Implementation of a three-year        1978             Closed
Project                nationwide highway maintenance
Credit 0794-YAR        program; preparation of a national
Highway Master Plan; recruitment of
expatriate engineers and managers;
staff training.
Fourth Highway         Asphalt overlay and flood protection  1982            Closed
Project                for the Taiz-AI Mafraq road;
Credit 1267-YAR        organizational and policy studies, and
other technical assistance, to define
the future of the Department of
Transport.
Marib Safir Road       Completion to paved standard of a   1986              Closed
Project                new road from Marib to Safir (62.5
Credit 1726-YAR       kIm) and supervision of constructon
by consultants.
Sana'a Hodeidah        Civil works including rehabilitation  1987            Closed
Road Rehabilitation    of Sana'a-Hodeidah road and flood-
Project                damaged road sections and bridges
Credit 1848-YAR       nationwide; technical assistance for
construction supervision, for the
domestic construction industry and
for studies; procurement of road
maintenance equipment.
Multi-Mode             Civil works and construction        1990              Under
Transport Project      supervision to improve the Harad-                     implementation
Credit 2177-YEM        Huth road; technical assistance to the
General Corporation for Roads and
Bridges; strategic development
studies for the Civil Aviation and
Meteorological Authority, the
General Corporation of Yemen Ports
and the General Corporation for
Marine Affairs; training and
equipment.



16
Table 2: Project Timetable
Item                    Date                     Date                    Date
Planned                  Revised                 Actual
Identification          March 1982                                     March 1982
Preparation             August 1983                                   August 1983
Pre-appraisal Mission   February 1984                                 FebLuary 1984
Appraisal               October/November 1984                          October/November 1984
Credit Negotiations     May 1985                                      May 1985
Board Approval          June 1985                                     June 1985
Credit Signature        September 24, 1985                            October 4, 1985
Credit Effectiveness    October 1985            December 15, 1985     January 3, 1986
Credit Closing          June 30, 1990           last on March 5, 1992   June 30, 1993
Project Completion      September 1989          June 30, 1992          October 31, 1993
Table 3: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (US$ million)
FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94
Planned (SAR)                1.9   6.2    9.7    12.5   14.4
Actual                      2.29   2.29   4.41   8.92   12.04  12.95  14.83  17.68  17.90
Actual as % of planned       120   37      46     71     84     90      103    123    124.3
Table 4: Statement of Development Credit (Thousand)
Original      Disbursed     Cancelled     Undisbursed   Outstanding
Credit 1617 (SDR)   14,600          13,688         490            422           13,688
(in millions) (US$)   14,400        17,905         684            590           17,905
Note:  The Special Account has an outstanding balance of US$1.71 million. The final withdrawal
application is being prepared.
Cmdlk Dtbsursemernh
20 -                ;Flgure 1: Planned Versus Actual Disbursements
18
12
10 -     ~~~Apprai3al EstJmate              Adl
10
a
4
2
Fisbce Year
0



17
Table 5: Estimated and Actual Project Cost (USS Million)'
SAR                      Act% 9 of
Estim,                  Expend.          Expenditure
Project Item       Local   Foreign  Total   L.cal  Foreign  1Toa1  Financed by
M~A
A. Phase I of Road Maintenance Program
(i) Construction & Rehabilitation of   0.64    1.13   1.77    1.03     1.83    2.86  64
Buildings for Workshops, Depots &
Staff Accomodations
(ii) Equipment & Spare Parts for:
(a) Road Maintenance & Workshops    0      0.78   0.78     0       8.39    8.39  100
(b) Road Maintenance Planing      0       0.06   0.06     0        0        0    100
(c) Computer & Comm. Systems       Q       Q.14   0.14     Q        Q       2    100
Subtotal A (ii)                  0      0.98   0.98      0      8.39     8.39
(iii) Technical Assistance for:
(a) Setting Up Maint. Organization  0.07    0.26   0.33    0.04    0.25    0.29   95
(b) Setting Up Training Program    0.03    0.29   0.32    0.03     0.23    0.26   95
(c) Road User Charges Study        Q.02  Q008   0.10       Q       0,08    0.08  100
Subtotal A (iii)                0.12    0.63   0.75    0.07    0.56     0.63
Total A                         0.76    2.74   3.50    1.10    10.78    11.88
B. Construction and Supervision Costs
(a) Constr. of Nisab - Wasit Road  1.27   4.51   5.78    1.12     4.21     5.332 PDRY only
(b) Constr. of Wasit - Salim Road    {   {               5.55     8.32    13.87  AF/OPEC
(c) Constr. of Salim - Beihan Road   {1.24  {19.42  20.66    2.03  4.74    6.77  95
(d) Con. Supv. Wasit-Beihan Road   0.10   1.90    2.00    Q       0.85     0.85  100
Total B                         2.61   25.83  28.44    8.70    18.12    26.82
C. Contingencies                       0.58    6.48   7.05     0        0       0
TOTAL PROJECT COST              3.95   35.05  39.00    9.80    28.90    38.70
(A+B+C)
1 All figures are preliminary since the Special Account has an outstanding balance of about US$1.71 million.
2  Actual value not known. Estimated cost based on cost per kilometer of Wasit-Salim Road Project.



18
Table 6: Sources of Financing (US$ Million)
PROJECT ITEM
1. Phase I of Road Maintenance PrograrM     IDA*  AF/OPEC  PDRY   TOTAL
(a) Construction and rehabilitation of buildings  1.67  -      1.19     2.86
(b) Equipment and Parts                      8.39      -        -       8.39
(c) Technical Assistance                     0.56      -       0.03     0.59
2. Road Construction and Supervision:
(a) Construction of Nisab-Wasit road          --       -       5.33**   5.33
(b) Construction of Wasit-Salim  road         -      13.87      -      13.87
(c) Construction of Salim-Beihan road        6.43      -       0.34     6.77
(d) Tender preparation, evaluation and
Supervision of Wasit- Beihan road        0.85      =       Q4       0.8
T O T A L - ACTUAL                         17.90    13.87    6.93    38.70
Percentage %                               46.3    35.8      17.9     100
TOTAL - PLANNED                            14.4    15.5      9.1      39.0
Notes*   Figures are preliminary, since Borrower still has to account for a balance of US$1.71
million in the Special Account.
**   Actual value not known. Estimated cost based on cost per kilometer of Wasit-Salim
road project.
*** Planned values are taken from Table 3.2 of SAR.
Table 7: Contracts for Construction of Road Maintenance Centers (US$)
Maintenance Centre    64% Foreign        36% Local          Total Cost
1. Nawbat-Dukeim     216,330.52        122,784.07          339,114.59
2. Riyan Camp        127,226.11         71,556.99           198,783.10
3. Saiyoon Camp      237,485.85         133,585.77          371,071.62
4. Shuqra Camp       158,278.06          89,114.76          247,392.82
5. Mahfid Camp       255,966.01         143,975.47          399,941.48
6. Bir Ali Camp      301,101.50         167,846.99          468,948.49
7. Sayhout Camp      270,136.52         151,922.32          422,058.84
8. Dar Saad Camp     154,005.83         86,609.54           240,615.37
9. Dar Saad Fence    109.662.35         63.037.38           172.699.73
Total Disbursed     1,830,192.75      1,030,433.29        2,860,626.04
Notes:
- All 8 centers are build new, on existing workshop sites in the southern provinces. 'Dar
Saad' center is the only new site.
- The maintenance centers were also intended for training of maintenance staff. No training
program has been implemented.



19
Table 8: Estimated Financial and Economic Unit Costs
Financial Costs                 Taxes&    Econ. Costs
___________                         Subsidies
YR at Market    US S    YR at Official  Adjustment    US$
Exchange                Exchange Rate    Factor
Road User Unit Costs
New Vehicle: Car                   787,500       17,500                     0.70        12,250
New Vehicle:  Pickup             1,156,500       25,700                     0.70        18,000
New Vehicle: Bus                 4,050,000       90,000                     0.80        72,000
New Vehicle: 2 Axte              3,150,000       70,000                     0.80        56,000
New Vehicle: 3 AxLe              4,500,000       100,000                    0.80        80,000
New   Tire: Car                      2,250           50                     0.85           43
New   Tire: Pickup                   3,600           80                     0.87           70
New   Tire: Bus                      6,750          150                     0.87          131
New  Tire: 2 AxLe                   13,050          290                     0.87          252
New   Tire: 3 AxLe                  20,250          450                     0.87          392
Maint. Labor: Car (hr)                135          3.00                     0.87         2.60
Maint. Labor: Pickup (hr)             180          4.00                     0.85         3.40
Maint. Labor: Bus (hr)                225          5.00                     0.87         4.35
Maint. Labor: 2 AxLe (hr)             225          5.00                     0.87         4.35
Maint. Labor: 3 AxLe (hr)             225          5.00                     0.87         4.35
Crew Time: Car (hr)                   113          2.50                    0.87          2.18
Crew Time: Pickup (hr)                203          4.50                    0.83          3.75
Crew Time: Bus (hr)                   450         10.00                     0.84         8.40
Crew Time: 2 Axte (hr)                338          7.50                     0.87         6.50
Crew Time: 3 AxLe (hr)                338          7.50                     0.87         6.50
Gas (1)                               6.00         0.13                     3.75         0.50
Diesel (1)                            3.00         0.07                     4.55         0.30
Lubricants (1)                      50.00          1.11                     0.90          1.00
Road Agency Unit Costs
Patching (m2)                                      3.75        45.00        0.92         3.45
Reseating (m2)                                     0.90         10.80       0.91         0.82
Overlay  (m2)                                      5.25        63.00        0.91         4.80
Routine (m2)                                      1,500      18000.00       0.93       1395.00
Total Beihan - As Salim Road Construction (million)  6.77      81.25        0.93         6.30
Total As Salim - Wasit Road Construction (million)  13.83      165.98       0.93         12.86
Total Nisab - Wasit Road Construction  (million)   5.33        63.96        0.93         4.96



20
Table 9: Forecasted and Actual Traffic Volumes
(ADT - vehicles/day)
Traffic Data from the SAR Traffic
Counts  Forecast Counts
Dist.    1984    1994   1994
l>-m     A TT     ATnT    A T)T
Beihan - As Salim*)
Beihan-Am Ayn Jct Section               17      222    896
Am Ayn Jct-Nuqub Section                 8      142    557
Nuqub-As Salim Section                  12      113    400
Beihan at km 178                                                 860
Jebal-As Salim, km 167                                           183
Average Weighted by Distance
Average                                                                              522
As Salim - Wasit Road
As Salim- Mt. Qarn Wasak Section       45         55    161
Mt. Qarn Wasak-Wasit Section           46         18    233
Jebal-As Salim, km 167                                           183
Wasit Jct, km 75                                                 487
Average Weighted by Distance
Average
Wasit-Road - Nisab
Nisab - Wasit Section                  35        63     444
Wasit Jct, km 75                                                 487
Table 10: Estimation of Generated Trafric Volumes
(ADT - vehicles/day, Normal Traffic Growth Rate = 6 percent)
Beihan - As Salim             As Salim - Wasit                  Nisab - Wasit
ca. 50%assumed                        ca. 50%assumed
Normal Backward    Normal  generated from   Backward    Normal generated from  Backward
Year  Traffic  Calculation   Traffic   Beihan-Salim   Calculation   Traffic  Beihan-Salim    Calculation
1984    169       281         36                         180          63                      262
1985    180       299         38                         192          67                      279
1986    190       318         41                         204          71                      297
1987    202       338         43                         217          75                      316
1988    214       360         46                         231          80                      336
1989    227       383         49         78              246          84        78            357
1990    240       407         51          83             262          89         83           380
1991    255       433         55          88             278          95         88           404
1992    270       461         58         93              296         100        93            430
1993    286       490         61         99              315         106        99            458
1994    303       522         65         104             335         113        104           487
(Backward Calculation is an annual reduction (by 6 %) of present traffic, carried out to estimate generated traffic)



21
Tablell: Traffic Data by Vehicle Type
(ADT - vehicles/day)
Percent oer Vehicle Type
-Car    Pic-k-     Bus   2 axle   3 Axle   lgal
50       35        1      2       12      100
Average Daily Traffic (ADT)
Road                  Year        Tp            Car    Pickup    Bus   2axle   3  Axle  Igo
Beihan - Salim Road   1986        Normal         95       67      2        4      23       190
Beihan - Salim Road   1989        Generated      78       55      2        3       19      156
Salim - Wasit Road    1990        Normal         67       47      1        3       16      134
Salim - Wasit Road    1993        Generated      78       54      1        3       19      155
Nisab - Wasit Road    1988        Normal         40       28      1        2       10       80
Nisab - Wasit Road    1991        Generated     111       78      2        4      27       222
(Traffic Data are based on classified traffic counts carried out by GCRB in January 1994.)
Table 12: HDM Estimated Unit Vehicle operating Costs
Road                             VOC per veh-km  (S)
Roughness      -    -                   -
(IRI)           Car    Pickup         Bus    Truck       Truck
2/6       3/10
3.9            0.185     0.263      0.387     0.474      0.790
4.0            0.186     0.266      0.388     0.481      0.800
4.1            0.187     0.267      0.389     0.485      0.804
4.2            0.188     0.268      0.390     0.488      0.809
4.3            0.189     0.270      0.391     0.492      0.813
4.4            0.189     0.271      0.391     0.495      0.817
4.6            0.190     0.272      0.392    0.499       0.822
4.7            0.191     0.273      0.393     0.502      0.826
4.8            0.192     0.274      0.394     0.505      0.830
4.9            0.193     0.276      0.395     0.509      0.835
5.0            0.194     0.277      0.395     0.512      0.840
5.1            0.195     0.279      0.396     0.516      0.844
5.2            0.196     0.280      0.397     0.520      0.849
5.4            0.197     0.282      0.398     0.524      0.854
5.5            0.198     0.283      0.399     0.527      0.859
5.6            0.199     0.285      0.400    0.532       0.864
5.7            0.200     0.287      0.401     0.536      0.869
17.8          0.411      0.591      0.620     1.019      1.462



22
Table 13: Calculation of Economic Benefits
PCR Economnic Re-evaluation (Currency: Million US Dollars)               Definitions:     Oper-O&eration
Con -construction
Road Name: Beihan - As Salim Road                                                          Res  -Realing
Road Length: 36.0 km                                                                      IRI  -Road Roughnes Index
WITHOUT PROJECT                                     WITH   PROJECT
Do Nothin2                                           Start Construction in 1986
Constr./   Econ.   Econ.                          Constr./ Econ.   Econ.   Net
YEAR ADT  Oper   IRI    Maint.          VOC    Total  ADT  Oper  IRI           Maint.  VOC    Total    Econ.
r-t.       r-r     r-ct.  C                       rCt.   Cncz.   fct.    rf-A't.
1986   190         17.8    0.000       1.582    1.582    190          17.8   2.257    1.582   3.678   -2.097
1987   201         17.8    0.000       1.677    1.677    201           17.8   2.257    1.677   3.773   -2.097
1988   213         17.8    0.000       1.777    1.777    213           17.8   2.257    1.777   3.874   -2.097
1989   226         17.8    0.000       1.884    1.884    383   Con    3.9   0.056    1.520    1.572    1.276
1990   239         17.8    0.000       1.997    1.997    406           4.0   0.056    1.629    1.680    1.342
1991   254         17.8    0.000       2.117   2.117     430           4.1   0.056    1.735    1.786    1.418
1992   269         17.8    0.000       2.244   2.244     456           4.2   0.056    1.847    1.899    1.500
1993   285         17.8    0.000       2.378   2.378    483            4.3   0.056    1.967   2.019    1.585
1994   302         17.8    0.000       2.521   2.521     512           4.4   0.056   2.096   2.147    1.676
1995   321         17.8    0.000       2.672   2.672    543            4.6   0.056   2.231    2.283    1.771
1996   340         17.8    0.000       2.833   2.833     576           4.7   0.056   2.377    2.428    1.872
1997   360         17.8    0.000       3.003   3.003     610           4.8   0.056    2.531    2.583    1.977
1998   382         17.8    0.000       3.183    3.183    647           4.9   0.056    2.697    2.748    2.088
1999   405         17.8    0.000       3.374   3.374     686   Res    5.0   0.256    2.873    3.107    2.023
2000   429          17.8    0.000      3.576   3.576     727            5.1   0.056   3.061    3.113    2.328
2001   455          17.8    0.000      3.791    3.791    771            5.2   0.056    3.262    3.314    2.457
2002   482          17.8    0.000      4.018   4.018      817           5.4   0.056   3.477    3.529    2.592
2003   511          17.8    0.000      4.259   4.259      866           5.5   0.056    3.707    3.758   2.734
2004   542          17.8    0.000      4.515   4.515     918            5.6   0.356    3.953    4.004    2.883
2005   574          17.8    0.000      4.786   4.786    973             5.7  -0.621    4.215    3.638    3.667
Average            17.8                                                 6.7
Total (undiscounted)        0.000     58.187  58.187                          7.246  50.214  56.933
Totat (at 12.00 %)          0.000     19.710  19.710                          6.357   17.251   23.151
Project NPV at 12.00 %  Discount Rate:          4.4
Project Internal Rate of Return:               20.5         (Discount Rate of 12 percent used in SAR.)
Road Name: As Safim - Wasit Road
Road Length: 91.0 kmn
WITHOUT PROJECT                                   WITH PROJECT
Do Nothing                                        Start Construction in 1990
Constr./   Econ.   Econ.                             Constr./  Econ.   Econ.  Nea
YEAR ADT  Oper IRI           Maint.     VOC    Total        ADT  Oper IRI         Maint.   VOC    Total   Econ.
fnqtc      rnctq   rn:tq                             r-t. _   roqtt   rncto   knpfitq
1990   134        17.8      0.000      2.735   2.735        134          17.8    4.611     2.735    7.012  -4.277
1991   142        17.8      0.000      2.899   2.899        142          17.8    4.611     2.899    7.176  -0.277
1992   150        17.8      0.000      3.073   3.073        150          17.8    4.611     3.073    7.350  -0.277
1993   159        17.8      0.000      3.258   3.258        315   Con   3.9    0.137       3.071    3.198  2.415
1994   169        17.8      0.000      3.453   3.453        334          4.0    0.137      3.289   3.416  2.542
1995   179        17.8      0.000      3.660   3.660        354          4.1    0.137      3.504    3.631  2.689
1996   190        17.8      0.000      3.880   3.880        375          4.2    0.137      3.731    3.858  2.845
1997   201        17.8      0.000      4.113   4.113        398          4.3    0.137      3.973    4.100  3.010
1998   213        17.8      0.000      4.360   4.360        422          4.4    0.137      4.230   4.357  3.184
1999   226        17.8      0.000      4.621   4.621        447          4.5    0.137      4.504    4.631  3.367
2000   239        17.8      0.000      4.898   4.898        474           4.6    0.137     4.797    4.923  3.561
2001   254        17.8      0.000      5.192   5.192        503           4.7    0.137     5.108    5.234  3.764
2002   269        17.8      0.000      5.504   5.504        533           4.8    0.137     5.439    5.566  3.978
2003   285        17.8      0.000      5.834   5.834        565   Res   4.9    0.628       5.794    6.368  3.756
2004   302        17.8      0.000      6.184   6.184        599           5.1    0.137     6.172    6.298  4.441
2005   321        17.8      0.000      6.555   6.555        635           5.2    0.137     6.574    6.702  4.690
2006   340        17.8      0.000      6.949   6.949        673           5.3    0.137     7.006    7.132  4.952
2007   360        17.8      0.000      7.365    7.365       713           5.4    0.137     7.466    7.593   5.227
2008   382        17.8      0.000      7.807   7.307        756           5.5    2.137     7.957    8.084  5.515
2009   405        17.8      0.000      8.276   8.276         801          5.6   -1.246     8.484    7.327  7.100
Average           17.8                                                    6.7
Total  (undiscounted)       0.000    100.616  100.616                           -15.270    99.806  113.956
Total (at 12.00 %)          0.000     34.082  34.082                             13.133    33.508   45.687
Project NPV at 12.00 % Discount Rate:    7.6
Project Internal Rate of Return:      19.3



23
Table 13: Calculation of Economic Benefits (cont.)
PCR Economic Re-evahiation (Currency: Million US Dollars)
Road Name: Nsb -asit Road
Road Length: 35.0 km
WITHOUT PROJECT                             WITH   PROJECT
Do Nothing                                  Start Construction in 1986
Constr./   Econ.    Econ.                          Constr./ Econ.   Econ.   Net
YEAR ADT Oper IRD    Maint.    VOC        Total       ADT   Oper  IRI  Maint.  VOC    Total   Econ.
1n01 .    0.707    .r70r                           rn0r.   0.707   rnee.6   -1.6fi48
1988    80     17.8   0.000      0.707   0.707         80          17.8  1.777    0.707   2.396 -1.648
1989    84     17.8   0.000      0.750   0.750         84          17.8  1.777    0.750   2.398 -1.648
1990    89     17.8   0.000      0.795   0.795         89          17.8  1.777    0.795   2.443  -1.648
1991    95     17.8   0.000      0.843   0.843        317   Con    3.9  0.052    1.331   1.380  0.891
1992   100     17.8   0.000      0.893   0.893        336           4.0  0.052    1.426   1.475  0.938
1993   107     17.8   0.000      0.947   0.947        356           4.1  0.052    1.519   1.567  0.992
1994   113     17.8   0.000      1.003   1.003        377           4.2  0.052    1.617   1.666  1.050
1995   120     17.8   0.000      1.064   1.064        400           4.3  0.052    1.722   1.771  1.111
1996   127     17.8   0.000      1.128   1.128        424           4.4  0.052    1.833   1.882  1.175
1997   135     17.8   0.000      1.195   1.195        450           4.5  0.052    1.952   2.001  1.243
1998   143     17.8   0.000      1.267   1.267        477           4.6  0.052    2.079   2.127  1.314
1999   151     17.8   0.000      1.343   1.343        505           4.7  0.052    2.214   2.262  1.389
2000   160      17.8   0.000     1.423   1.423        536           4.8  0.052    2.357   2.406  1.468
2001   170      17.8   0.000     1.509   1.509        568   Res    5.0  0.241     2.510   2.732  1.379
2002   180      17.8   0.000     1.599   1.599        602           5.1  0.052    2.674   2.723  1.639
2003   191      17.8   0.000     1.695   1.695        638           5.2  0.052    2.849   2.898  1.731
2004   203      17.8   0.000     1.797   1.797        676           5.3  0.052    3.036   3.084  1.828
2005   215      17.8   0.000     1.905   1.905        717           5.4  0.052    3.234   3.283  1.929
2006   228      17.8   0.000     2.019   2.019        760           5.5  0.052    3.447   3.496  2.036
2007   242      17.8   0.000     2.140   2.140        806           5.7  -0.481    3.676   3.230  2.641
Average         17.8                                                6.7
Total (undiscounted)   0.000    26.022  26.022                           5.871   41.728  47.180
Total (at 12.00  %)    0.000     8.815   8.815                           5.057    13.163  17.857
Project NPV at 12.00 % Discount Rate:       2.6    (sarne discount rate as was used in the SAR)
Project Internal Rate of Return (%):        18.6



24
Table 14: Status of Covenants
Covenant                             Deadline/   for Compliance
Agreement   Subject Description      Due Date    ActionDate      t
Sec. m
3.03(a)+(c)   Prepare and implement    07/86      01/86         Complied with
maintenance program
3.03(b)+(c)   Prepare phase II training   07/86    -            Not complied with
program
3.04(d)      Agree with IDA a plan to  01/87       -            Not complied with due to
implement road user                                unification.
charges study
recommendations
3.05(a)      Establish cost accounting   01/87     -            Not complied with at
unit                                               closing
3.05(b)      Establish training and  01/87        01/88         Complied with
appoint section head
3.05(c)      Establishment of road   01/87        01/88         Complied with
maintenance districts at
Aden, Shuqra & Mukalla
and appoint district
engineers.
Sec: V       Axle load control       N/A          N/A           Axle load limits are not
5.01         consistent with design                             enforced
standards.
Studies      Setting-up road         10/88        -             Not complied with
maintenance and training
program
Studies      Road User Charges Study  07/86       03/88         Completed '88
Study recommendations
not relevant after
unification



25
Table 15: Use of IDA Resources
(swks - staffweeks)
A. Staff Input
Time spent on supervision is 72.0 staff-weeks:
> FY83 In FY84 In FY85 In FY86 In FY87 In FY88 In FY89 In FY90 In FY91 In FY92 InFY93 Total
swks  swks   swks   swks  swks   swks  swks   swks   swks   swks  swks   .wks
LENP  18.1   11.5   13.5                                                                43.1
LENA                  31.6                                                              31.6
LENN                  9.4                                                                9.4
Subtotal 18.1   11.5   54.5                                                             LIU
SPN                    1.3   17.0   10.5   7.2    7.3    8.7    7.7    7.0    5.3   72.0
Total  18.1   11.5   55.8   17.0   10.5   7.2    7.3    8.7    7.7    7.0    5.3   72.0
B. Missions
Missions         Month/ Year      Days in Field         Mission Specialization
Identification    1980 - 1984      During supervision    Mission of economists
and follow up other  and engineers
Highway Projects in
PDRY
Appraisal      Oct/Nov. 1984       14                   3  (Engineers, Economist)
Post-Appraisal  Feb 1985           10                    1  Training Specialist
Supervision:
1       Dec. 1985           14                   2   Engineers
2       Nov. 1986           15                   2   Engineers
3       July 1988           10                    1  Engineer
4       March 1989          6                    2 (Engineer, Economist)
5       Sept. 1989          13                    1  Engineer
6       May 1991            12                    1  Engineer
7       May 1992            16                    1  Engineer
8       June 1993           6                     1  Engineer
9       Sept. 1993          6                     2  (Engineer, Economist)
Total                        98



26
Appendix I: Amendments to Credit Agreement
Date of 1st Amendment:  4/24/1987
Subiect:    Covenant dates
Amend covenant dates to extend:
(a)    date for preparation of plans under part A(6) -Road Maintenance Program and B(3)-Training
Program, from July 31, 1986 to June 30, 1988 ( section 3.03(b)).
(b)    date for completing Road User Charges Study and furnishing IDA with copies thereof promptly
upon completion, from July 31, 1986 to March 31, 1988 (section 3.04(b)).
(c)    extending date for establishment of cost accounting and training sections and appointment of
section heads and establishment of three maintenance districts at Aden, Shaqrah and Mukalla
and appointment of engineers to head such districts, from January 15, 1987 to January 31, 1987
(section 3.05).
Date of 2nd Amendment:  6/9/1987
Subiect:    Schedules 1, 2 and 3
(a)    Amend Percentages of Expenditures to be financed by IDA as set-forth under Part C(3) of
Category l(b) in Schedule 1 - Construction of 36 km of Jabal Salim-Beihan road, from 35 % to
95% and consultants' services and training under Part (C4) of Category 3(b) to include
Technical Assistance in supervision of construction for Wasit-Beihan road.
(b)    Amend Part C(2) of Schedule 2 for construction of 127 km of Wasit-Beihan road and
supervision to : "(2) - Construction of 91 km section of Wasit-Jabal Salim road;
(3) - Construction of 36 km section of Jabal Salim-Beihan road; and
(4) Technical Assistance in supervision of construction of Wasit-Beihan road".
(c)    Amend in schedule 3, section I , Part C(1) (a): "Part C(2)" to "Part C(3)" and amend in section
II: "Part C(2)" to "Part C(4)".
The change in percentage of expenditure to be financed under Category l(b) will be effective for all
withdrawal applications received after June 9, 1987.
Date of 3rd Amendment:  9/19/1989
Subject:    Schedules 1 and 2
Amend paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 (Withdrawal of Proceeds):
(a)    Allocation of SDR 1.27 million to be changed to SDR 2.2 million;
(b)    Allocation of SDR 8.59 million to SDR 5.2 million under Part C(3);
(c)    Allocation for equipment - from SDR 990,000 to SDR 5.3 million;



27
(d)    Consultant's Services- under Parts A and B from SDR 640,000 to SDR 600,000; and (3)(b)
under Part C(2) from SDR 1.93 million to SDR 0.8 million under Part C(4); and
(e)    Unallocated, from SDR 1.18 million to SDR 500,000.
The description of the project was amended to read as follows
Introductory paragraph:
' The objectives of the project are to continue the development of the Borrower's national highway
system by (a) extending a paved road to provide access to a key agricultural area, (b) assisting the
MOC to plan and develop its road maintenance program and its training program, (c) strengthening the
MOC's road maintenance capability, maintenance planning and budgetary procedures, (d) repairing
flood damages and (e) studying appropriate road user charges. "
"Part A: Implementation of Phase One of the MOC's Five-Year Road Maintenance Program
comprising:
'Setting-up a maintenance program and the implementation of Phase Two of the MOC's five year road
maintenance program, including repairs of flood damages."
Date of 4th Amendment:  7/8/1991
Subiject: Borrower's Address
As a result of the unification of Yemen, the Borrower's address and the names of all relevant
Government departments stated in the Credit Agreement were amended to read as follows:
(a)    The name of the Borrower,"People's Democratic Republic of Yemen", set-forth on the Cover
page, in the first paragraph of page 1 and on the signature line is changed to the 'Republic of
Yemen".
(b)    The definition of "MOCH" set-forth in paragraph (a) section 1.02 of 1823-YDR to read: "(b)
'MOC' means the Borrower's Ministry of Construction, and any successor thereto;"and all
reference to MOCH are amended to MOC.
(c)    The representative of the Borrower in section 7.01 is changed to the"Minister of Planning and
Development".
(d)    The address for the Borrower set-forth in section 7.02 is changed to:
" Ministry of Planning and Development
P. 0. Box 175
Sana'a, Republic of Yemen






IBRD 25791
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
_   NISAB - WASIT - BEIHAN         SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES    --   WADIS
ROAD PROJECT                GOVERNORATE CAPITALS          -   GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
-      PRIMARY ROADS                 NATIONAL CAPITAL           -  -  APPROXIMATE GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
SECONDARY ROADS              AIRPORTS                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
TRACKS                        PORTS
McyIdJ A                                      45-             0  25  50      Too     50         .      48S
AliHom H 
H  AH                         .    AL JAWF                                   A ~                             on
Luho',yo          AAH  Rcy0hGhro
AL   H  T                                                         hohHADRAMAWT
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jh~                                                                     0.An  . . . . = . .S
so il
HODEI  r                            Solim                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A,
DHAMAR               \              o                                                         Tuh 4Ryan.
JHOU DAH                                         --JUNE AL MUKALLA
Nisob          ArRowdah
RED SEA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4y~
An  DA  AL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N 9



