Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repowt No. 5602-YDR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
PEOPLE' S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMN
May 30, 1985
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization-



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 1985)
Currency Unit                            = Yemeni Dinar (YD)
USSl.O0                                  = YD 0.345
US$2.90                                  = 1.000
Us$2.9 million                           = YD 1 million
SYSTEA OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES; METRIC
hetric System                            BritishlUS System
1 meter (m)                              = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                         = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 sq kilometer (km2)                     = 0.386 sq miles (mi2)
l hectare (ha)                           = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (m ton)                     = 2.205 pounds (lb)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AC                  - Asphalt Concrete
ADIT                - Average Daily Traffic
AFESD               - Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development
ER                  - Economic Return
Fau                 - Food and Agricultural Organization
FEYP                - First Five-Year Plan
EA                  - Highway Authority
ICU                 - Independent Construction Unit
IDA                 - International Development Association
KFAED               - Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development
HoC                  - Ministry of Construction
,1OP                - Ministry of Planning
?ITPU               - Mechanical Training Production Unit
OPEC                - Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries
PDRY                - People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PKC                 - People's Republic of China
RkhU                - Road Reconstruction and Maintenance Unit
RTPU                - Road Training Production Unit
SDR                 - Special Drawing Rights
SFYP                - Second Five-Year Plan
SOE                 - Statement of Expenditures
UILDP               - United Nations Development Programme
USSR                - Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
vpd                 - vehicles per day
VTC                 - Vocational Training Center
WFP                 - World Food Programme
YAR                 - Yemen Arab Republic
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCICL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
1. Borrower:              People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
2. Beneficiaries:         The Ministry of Construction (MOC) and its Highway
Authority.
3.  Amount:               SDR 14.6 million (about US$14.4 million equivalent).
4.  Terms:                Standard IDA.
5. Proiect Obiectives
and Description:      The proposed Project continues assistance in the
development of the road system.
Specifically the Project aims at:
(a) laying the institutional and physical
groundwork for a countrywide road maintenance
organization; and (b) providing access to an
agricultural production area under development.
The Credit will provide financing for:
(a) construction and rehabilitation of road
maintenance facilities; (b) urgently needed road
maintenance and workshop equipment and communica-
tion and management systems equipment for road
maintenance planning, accounting and operations;
(c) technical assistance for road maintenance,
Planning, training and operations; (d) road
construction; and (e) consultancy services.
6.  Benefits and Risks:  The Road Maintenance Program of which the first
phase is included in this Project would benefit
Government through less frequent costly periodic
maintenance work, and road users through lower
vehicle operating cost on better roads. Construc-
tion of the Wadi Beihan road would increase savings
for trading and trucking companies and motorists
using the road and benefit farmers through more
reliable imports of fuel and agricultural inputs,
faster exports of their surpluses and reduced
spoilage. While the traffic forecasts for the Wadi
Beihan road take account of all available data in
the area, there remains an element of uncertainty
in these forecasts and consequently risk for the
Project. However, from the Government's strong
commitment to the development of Wadi Beihan, the
risk is considered small.
|Thisdocunmenthas a rsied diinbution andmay be usedby nxtxents onlyinthe perornuxeof|
their Wwi duties It omtents may not othoesbe dbosd witbout World Bank utoDrzatio |



- ii -
7.  Estimatecl Project Costs:
Local     Foreign      Total
US$ million
(a)  Start-Up of Maintenance Program
1.  Technical Assistance                 0.13       0.68        0.81
2.  Equipment                            -          1.03         1.03
3.  Building Works                       0.75       1.35         2.10
Subtotal                       0.88       3.06        3.94
(b) Construction of Nisab-Wadi
Beihan Road                    /
1.  Nisab-Wasit (35 km)                  1.43       5.07         6.50
2.  Wasit-Wadi Beihan (125 km)           1.53      24.81        26.34
3.  Construction Supervision             0.11       2.11         2.22
Subtotal                       3.07      31.99       35.06
TOTAL                          3.95      35.05       39.00
8. Financing Plan;
Local    Foreign     Total    Z
US$ million equiv.-
Government                                3.95     20.65       24.60    63
Proposed IDA Credit                       -        14.40       14.40    37
9.  Estimated Disbursement:   FY90
Bank Fiscal Year                      FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90
Annual                                 1.9     4.3     3.5      2.8     1.9
Cumulative                             1.9     6.2     9.7    12.5    14.4
Economic Rate of Return               151  (construction component only)



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THkE TRANSPORT  SECTOR  .......................................                                          1
A.    Strategy  and  Progress  ....1.............................                                       I
B.  Policies and Institutions ........... ........ ...* ... .                                           4
C.  Experience with Past Lending...................-..........                                          6
1I.   THE  HIGHWAY  SUBSECTOR  ......................................                                           7
A.   Road  System  ............................................                                         7
B.'  Traffic                ............................................... .                           8
C. Administration ........    9
D.    Planning  .........                 ......................................                        9
E.   Expenditures,  Accounting  and  Financing  ..............                           ...          11
F.   Engineering  ............................................                                        11
G.   Construct3Lon  ........................ *.*.............................                         12
h.   Mainteuance  ................     W................ 0...& ..................                     13
I.   Training  ...............................................                                        14
III. THE PROJECT                          ..................                                   .                17
A.   Project  Genesis  ana  Rationale  ..........................                                     17
B.   Project  Objectives  .....................................                                       17
C.   Project  Description  ....................................                                       17
D.   Engineering  .......... ................................                                         18
E.   Cost  Estimates  .........................................................                       18
F.   Financing  ...........................................................                           22
G.  Project Implementation    .                          ................................             24
H.   Procurement  ............................................                                        24
I.   Disbursemeut  ...........................................                                        26
J.   Budgeting,  Accounting  and  Audit  ........................                                     27
K.   Environmental  Impact  ...................................                                       27
IV.   ECONOMiC  JUSTIFICATION  ..........................                           ..............            28
A.    General  ............ .................................................                         28
b.   koad Maintenance  Program  .....   ............... .   ........  .                               28
C.   Construction  of  Nisab-Wadi  Beihan  Road  .................                                    30
D.    Project  Risks  ..........................................                                      32
V.   RECOMMENDATIONS  ............................................                                           33
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in
October/November 1984, consisting of Messrs. H. Schlechtriem (Economist),
E. Andresen (Engineer) and J. Stocks (Consultant) and a foLlow-up mission in
February 1985 by Messrs. Andresen and G. Morra (Training Specialist).



TABLES
1. Length and Distribution of Highway Network ...................    34
2. Development of Motor Vehicle Fleet 1975-81 ...................   35
3. Geometric Design Standards for Paved Roads ...................    36
ANNEXES
1 -  Proposed Road Maintenance Program .......................    37
2 -  Proposed Training Program ... ..... .. .. ......................   56
3 - Design Standards of Nisab-Wadi .eihan Road        .................   70
4 - Agreed Action Plan ...****...e*................     .      ..   71
5 -  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ........................   74
6 -  Vehicle Operating Cost Estimates ...........................   75
7 -  Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File .............................    76
CHARTS
Organization of Ministry of Construction
Project Implementation Schedule
MAP
IBRD 18790 - PDRY Transport Infrastructure
TBRD 18803 - PDRY Fourth Highway Project
IBRD 18876 - PDRY Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Development Strategy and Progress
1.01     The two million people of PDRY are widely dispersed, with Aden
being the only major urban center: about 350,000 live in the Aden
governorate and the remainder is scattered in small towns and villages along
the long but narrow coastal strip, and in isolated locations in the
mountainous and desertic hinterland, wherever water is available. Except
for fish wealth off the 1400 km coastline, PDRY's natural resources are
extremely limited. Only O.2X of the country's land mass of 334,000 km2' is
cultivated, most being desert and waste land. Over the last decade,
remittances from some 200,000 Yemenis living and working in neighboring oil
producing countries have helped to raise the generally low standard of
living. Per capita GNP stood at $510 in 1983. Since Independence in 1967,
a prime objective of government policy has been to integrate the country
socially and economically, and to lessen the dependence of the economy on
Aden port and refinery by developing other productive sectors,particularly
agriculture and fisheries. The vital supporting role of adequate
covAmmications for the achievement of these objectives has been recognized.
Through successive development plans and continuing under the current Second
Five-Year Plan (SFYP) 1981-1985 intensive efforts have been made to build up
a transport system, particularly roads, as well as institutions and policies
to operate the system on a country-wide basis.
1.02     Investment allocations to transport (see Table 1.1) reflect the
Government's concern to integrate the country. Under the First Five-Year
Plan (FFYP), transport investments accounted for as much as 272 of total
development expenditures. Under the present SFYP, this percentage dropped
to 14Z mainly because of a very large increase in the total Plan
investment. Well over half of the transport allocation is absorbed by road
development. As is the case in other sectors, most transport investments
are financed by external lenders. As a result, the realization of plan
projects greatly depends on the Government's ability to attract foreign
financing. However, the performance of the transport sector in the past
toward the achievement of set goals has been good and better than for the
Plan as a whole.



- 2 -
Table 1.1: Transport fector Investments
Actual FFYP          Original SFYP            Revised SFYP          Updated SFYP J/
I974-1279             197J -1983             1981-1985               1981-1985
YO Million 1J Z    YD Milion 2/   1          X  Million 1/   1       YD Milton 1.1  Z
Roads                     29.9        56.5        31.3      44.3         40.0       U4.0         61.2        45
Road Transport            6.2A        11.7Z        .2A.Z     q.8          c         123           8.9          7
Subtotal                36.1        68.2        37.5      53.1         49.1       66.3         70.2        52
Airports                   2.1         4.0        13.4      19.0          8.4       11.4         28.6         21
Avtatton                    2 2         .          4.4        .LZ ._,              D.O          ITI4         it
Subtotal                 7.3        13.8        17.8      25.2          8.4       11.4         42.6         31
Ports and Shipping         9.S        1.0A        11ii      Z.L2         1I6.       22.3         ZL.2         17
Total Transport
Investment              52.8       100.0       70.6      100.0         74.0      100.0        135.7       100
Total Developnent
Expenditures           194.8                   370.0                  508.0
Transport Investment
as % Development
Expenditure                         27.1                  19.1                    14.5
', At current prices
Z/  At constant 1977 prices
3. At constant 1980 prices
g/ Based on rDA's 1983 Mid-Tenn Review of the Second Five-Year Plan. 1981-85
(Report Mo. 4726 - YOR of June 4. 1984)



-3-
1.03     Considering the country's difficult circumstances - the lack of
managerial and technical talent and of skilled labor; the severe shortage of
domestic and foreign resources; the need to develop a domestic civil works
capacity accentuated by difficulties in attracting foreign contractors to
work in PDRY at reasonable costs - progress in building up the transport
system has been significant. The paved road network grew from about 400 km
in and around Aden 15 years ago to about 1,650 km today, linking the capital
with the most important population and production centers and with
neighboring Yemen Arab Republic (YAR). The airports at Aden and Al Mukalla
have been reconstructed and most of the seven airfields receiving scheduled
services have had some improvements. Construction of an airport at Al
Gheidah in the far eastern part of the country is presently underway. The
national airline has been re-equipped to cut operating costs and to handle
the surge in air travel caused by migrant workers. The port of Aden has
been modernized to offer again bunkering and ship repair services to
international shippikag lines after the reopening of the Suez Canal in L975
and to handle tb.h increase in the country's foreign trade; but the hoped-for
increase in service traffic only partially came true. In connection with
fisheries development, small general cargo ports have been built at Al
Mukalla and Nishtun to .ater for regional import needs and fuel
transshipments from Aaen. A serious set-back was caused by extraordinary
rainfalls and floods in 1982 and 1983, which severely damaged key sections
of main roads.
1.04     In step with the expansion of the road system, efforts were made to
develop agriculture and fisheries away from their traditional subsistence
orientation toward the production of marketable surpluses to meet national
needs and to contribute to exports. These efforts started in Lahej (Wadi
Tuban) and the Abyan Delta (Wadi Bana and Wadi Hassan) which are close to
Aden and have no accessibility problem. As the eastern Governorates were
opened up, major projects were undertaken with IDA support to develop
fisheries in the Al Mukalla area (some 600 km east of Aden) and agriculture
in the Wadi Hadramawt (some 900 km away). Lately, in parallel with road
construction projects, development of agriculture in Wadi Beihan and of
fisheries in the far eastern Governorate of Al Mahra has commenced also with
IDA assistance. As a result of these efforts, fish production has increased
significantly and fish has become PDRY's principal export commodity.
Results in agriculture to narrow the grain gap and to gain self-sufficiency
in fruit and vegetable production have been less successful. While progress
has been made, particularly in the fruit and vegetable area, food imports
still outweigh domestic surpluses by a large margin and in fact have been
increasing.
1.05     Traffic on the transport system reflects the dominating position of
Aden as the country's gateway to abroad, the base of a nascent manufacturing
sector and as the principal domestic distribution and consumption center.
Dry cargo throughput at Aden port again reached pre-Independence levels.
Travel by migrant workers boosted international and domestic air traffic at
Aden airport. Roads have emerged as the main means of internal transport
both for goods and passengers. While road traffic volumes are generally not
high, they reflect significant increases in the supply of goods and services
and in the mobility of people compared with the very modest amounts of



cabotage by sailing vessels and of air travel just 15 years back. However,
as distances are normally long, transport,even on paved roads, continues to
be relatively costly and traffic volumes drop rapidly away from Aden and
other population concentrations. Furthermore, a severe imbalance in goods
flows from and to Aden, which was exacerbated by the loss of important
agricultural areas in the 1982-83 floods, results in long empty backhauls
for trucks and further contributes to high transport costs.
B. Policies and Institutions
1.06     Three ministries are mainly responsible for the development and
operation of the transport system: The Ministry of Construction (MOC)
through its Highway Authority for main roads, the Ministry of Communications
for road transport services, ports, shipping, airports and aviation and the
Ministry of Planning (MOP) for coordinating investment decisions and
monitoring project implementation in the sector. The MOP's director for
transport cooperates with the two modal ministries in the preparation of new
projects and advises on their integration into the national investment
plan. Local road construction by the Ministry of Local Affairs is subject
to the technical appraisal of the MOC. Prior to 1977, maintenance of local
roads (tracks) was handled by the Ministry of Construction, but is now under
the Ministry of Local Affairs. A recent ILO mission reviewed the Ministry
of Local Affairs' road activities to see how they can be improved.
Government is awaiting the mission's report.
1.07     Public sector organizations have primary responsibility for
developing transport services in shipping and civil aviation, and have taken
the lead in providing road transport services. As a general principle,
transport tariffs are set by the Government (including those to be charged
by privately owned trucks and taxis) at levels that are expected to cover
average operating costs while assuring uniformity of rates and fares for
like services. Port assets have been revalued and studies are underway to
ensure that port tariffs cover the costs of particular services. Road users
contribute to Government's general revenue through payment of licence fees,
fuel taxes and customs duties on vehicles, spare parts and tires. The
proceeds from these taxes are higher than road maintenance expenditures.
However, since taxes on diesel fuel are low 1/ and since public sector
enterprises to some extent are exempted from payment of customs' duties on
their equipment, it is very unlikely that heavy trucks (which are almost
exclusively owned by public sector firms) pay for the damages they are
causing to paved roads. A rational road development policy would have to
ensure that all road user groups pay at least the cost related to their use
of roads (para. 1.09).
1.08     All major transport investment decisions have been based on
feasibility and engineering studies by foreign consultants. Investment
1/ Retail fuel prices in effect since 1982, are $0.26 equivalent per liter
of diesel and $0.61 equivalent per liter of gasoline, compared with
ir'ternational prices (c.i.f. Aden) of $0.22 and $0.24 respectively in
1984. Retail prices include excise tax payments of $0.01 equivalent
per liter of diesel fuel and $0.06 equivalent per liter of gasoline.



- 5 -
coordination between sectors, - e.g. between road and agricultural
projects - and within transport has been done with prudence. Concerned that
operational inadequacies may prevent the benefits of past and future
transport investments to fully accrue, Government obtained assistance from
UNDP (with the Bank acting as executing agency), to carry out a
comprehensive transport sector study by consultants to review the
institutional and policy framework in which the sector oparates; regulatory
policies, including user charges and subsidies; the efficiency of the
operating agencies and ways to mitigate the widespread staffing problems;
and investment proposals in roads, civil aviation and ports. Only road
maintenance and training were excluded as these were subject of other
studies by the Ministry of Construction.
1.09     The study which was completed in September 1984, found that the
institutional framework of the sector is basically sound. Such deficiencies
as do exist are more related to inadequate staff resources than to the
structure of the planning and sectoral supervision apparatus. However, the
consultants do recommend that the Ministry of Communications develop its
strategic planning expertise both to discharge its responsibilities more
fully and to assist the operating agencies under its supervision in
improving their planning and project appraisal work. For the longer term,
they propose several organizational options for Government consideration,
including the formation of a Ministry of Transport (by transferring the road
function of the Ministry of Construction to the Ministry of Coumunications)
to deal with transport coordination issues that are expected to become more
complex in the future. The extent of staff training efforts in the sector
is considered adequate and rather than expanding them, the consultants
suggest that their effectiveness be improved through better definition of
training needs based on job evaluations and performance monitoring of
employees. The training program to be started under the proposed Project
takes account of this suggestion. The study confirmed that road user
charges on heavy vehicles do not cover the road maintenance costs these
vehicles cause and the consultants suggest that a detailed road user charge
study be undertaken to establish what the appropriate level of charges
should be. Such a study has been included in the proposed Project
(para. 3.06).
1.10     Most of the transport sector study recommendations aim at improving
management and increasing productivity of transport operating agencies, in
particular the Road Transport Corporations and the Port Authority. Based on
a review of projects which the Government is pursuing, an assumed modest
slow down in the pace of road construction and an assessment of equipment
needs, the consultants envisage a level of transport expenditures of about
$100 million p.a. (in 1983 constant prices) for future years, i.e. a 152
increase compared with actual expenditures during the early years of the
current SFYP. On average, roads would continue to absorb more than half of
thi, amount. Within road expenditures, the share of road maintenance would
increase to about one third. The consultants' views will be taken into
account in the upcoming preparation of the Third Five-Year (1986-1990)
Plan. However, actual investment in the sector will continue to depend on
progress of some bilaterally sponsored schemes and on PDRY's ability to
attract foreign financing for new projects.



C. Experience with Past Lending
1.11     IDA'a involvement in the transport sector goes back to 1970 when
government first requested assistance to rationalize development of the then
spairse road system centered around Aden and to strengthen road
institutions. In responseo the First Highway Project (Credit 240-YDR) and
Engineering Credit (S12-YDR) provided technical assistance, maintenance and
workshop equipment, urgently needed spare parts, and feasibility and
engineering studies. The project gave the Highway Authority its basic
organizational structure and a concept for road system development that has
been followed remarkably closely through successive development plans.
However, the project's institutional and operational impact was constrained
by the shortage of indigenous staff. The Project Audit Report (Report No.
1089 of March 27, 1978) concluded that institutional building and
operational improvement is a long-term process that need to be pursued over
several projects. This is being done.
1.12     The Second Highway Project (Credit 560-YDR) created a construction
unit which implemented road construction works, after international
competitive bidding failed to produce an acceptable bid. Apart from helping
Government to construct a road to an important agricultural area (the Wadi
kiadramawt) the project also continued technical assistance to the road
administration. The Project Completion Report (Report No. 5439 of January
30, 1985) found that the project successfully established construction
capabilities in PDRY and through its technical assistance and training
components enhanced the professional skills with the Ministry of
Construction. Under the Third Highway Project (Credit 1144-YDR) the
construction method was refined, based on the lessons learnt under the
Secona Project. Using foreign construction management consultants, the
construction unit which was created as an independent construction unit
(ICU) by Government decree, won the contract for the Naqabah-Nisab road
under ICB by a substantial margin and is performing very well. The
project's technical assistance component helped prepare this proposed Fourth
Highway Project. Under the most recent highway project, the Roads Flood
Reconstruction Project (Credit 1295-YDR), IDA is assisting in implementing a
road reconstruction program of major damages caused by heavy floods of 1982
and 1983. However, the project also has an important longer term
perspective in that a regional road maintenance center was rehabilitated to
initially do the reconstruction works and later road maintenance. The
project also included the Transport Sector Study (paras.1.08-1.10).
1.13     Apart from the road projects, there was one other IDA supported
transport project in PDRYs the Aden Port Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 584-YDR). This project did not achieve its original purpose as ship
servicing traffic did not return to Aden to the extent expected after the
reopening of the Suez Canal in 1975, but it helped the port cope with an
unforeseen increase in domestic port traffic in the late 1970s and early
1980s.
1.14     All of IDA's transport projects in PDRY drew substantial
cofinancing from other donors.



-7-
II. DTHE HIGEWAY SUBSECTOR
A.  Road System
2.01     The backbone of the PDRY paved road network is the 620 km long
coastal road from Aden to Al Nuikalla, which was started from Aden in the
mid-1960's and     leted to Al Nukalla in 1977. Construction of a 350 km
branch linkig the Wadi Hadramawt with Al Makalla started with IDA (Credit
560-YDR) and Kuwait Fund assistance under the FFEP in 1975 and was
inaugurated in May 1983. Another 116 km branch connecting the Wadi Ahwar
Agricultural area with the min coastal road at Shuqra was built with
financing from Libya between 1975 and 1981_ One other arterial road is
paved, that from Aden to Taiz in YAR (about 100 ki); the 65 km of this road
on PDRY territory were reconstructed with Arab Fund support between 1978 and
1982. The asphalt roads in and around AMen and other short stretches mostly
in the western governorates, bring the total length of asphalted roads to
about 1,540 km. Tnere are also 255 km of cobblestone roads, mostly in the
Wadi Kadramawt, some of them built in the 1930's and some in more recent
years. The rest of the network is made up of about 4,400 km of tracks, most
of which are not engineered but merely shaped by the vehicles themselves
along Wadi beds, across the desert, or along the beach. Many of these
tracks are cut by flash floods and dune movements at different time of the
year, and with few exceptions are only passable by four-wheel drive
passenger vehicles and trucks. The length and distribution of the highway
network is given in Table 1.
2.02     331 km of paved road are presently under construction. A 92 km
tranche from Naqabah on the Aden-Mokalla highway to Nisab (being the first
stage of the road to Wadi Beihan) has been virtually completed with
financing from IDA (Credit 1144-YDR), Kuwait Fund and OPEC Fund.
Continuation of the coastal road from Ash Shihr to Sayhut (204 km) is
proceeding with Chinese bilateral assistance and scheduled to be completed
next year. A 35-km branch from Nobat Dukeim (on the Aden - Taiz Road) to
Habilain started in 1983 with Government financing for completion in 1985.
In addition, the Roads Flood Rehabilitation Program which is supported by
IDA (Credit 1295-YDR), Arab Fund and OPEC Fund (and separately the People's
Republic of China) and which covers damaged road sections, totalling about
40 km, in Abyan governorate and a bridge strengthening program in the Aden
area supported by East Germany are underway. Plans exist or are under
preparation for another 821 km of roads, amongst which the 160 km extension
from Nisab to Wadi Beihan is accorded highest priority. Also included in
these plans are three road sections in western PDRY to improve access to
fertile agricultural areas in the highlands near the border with Yemen Arab
Republic, serve local traffic needs there and to foster the reintegration of
the people of the two Yemeni states. Lastly the plans provide for the
continuation of the coastal road to connect the fisheries port at Nishtun
and Al Gheidah, the capital of the far eastern Governorate. A screening of
other road projects is currently underway to establish preliminary
priorities and identify those roads that deserve study in the next few years.



-8 -
2.03 - On-going construction projects will bring the length of the road
network to 2126 km (including the 255 km of cobblestone roads) at the end of
1985. However, by cowparison with other countries, network density still
reumins low at 6.4 km of road per 1000 k}2a of land surface and 1.1 km per
1000 inb itants, reflecting difficult accessibility of many areas in PDRY.
Gradual expansion of the road network will thus have to continue. But in
parallel, increased emphasis vill have to be given to road maintenance, as
(i) traffic has out-grown the carrying capacity of many of the roads built
prior to Independence in 1967; and (ii) with about 523 km (or 28Z of the
paved road network at the end of 1985) being 10 and more years old, the
needs for costly capital repairs can be expected to increase rapiIly unless
a system of regular routine and periodic maintenance action is instituted
promptly. The project includes the first phase of such a maintenance
program.
B. Traffic
2.04     Traffic on the paved road network is highest around Aden (1500 to
4,000 vehicles per day (vpd)) and, in the Wadi Hadramawt (1000 to 1,500
vpd). Outside the mawn populated areas, volumes vary between 300 and
1,000 vpd. Unpaved roads generally carry less than 100 vpd. The proportion
of trucks and buses in inter-urban traffic is consistently high, norally
around 40L. Overloading of trucks using paved roads is insignificant. The
recent axle load survey found that ouly L.6Z exceed the legal axle load
limit of 13 tons. The survey also found a marked difference of load
distribution by road lane, with the lane outgoing from Aden carrying about
75% of the total which is explained by the imbalance in trade flows
(para. 1.05).
2.05     The motor vehicle fleet hasr been growing at an average rate of
12.1X p.a. during 1975 to 1981 (Table 2). Growth of the fleet has generally
been higher in the outlying governorates (particularly in Hadramawt where
major road construction took place) than in Aden. However, more than half
of the fleet is still registered in Aden: about three-quarters of all
passenger cars (and taxis); two-thirds of all buses and one-third of
pick-ups and- trucks. There is no regular traffic counting system in PDRY.
Available counts of 1976 and 1983 suggest an average traffic growth rate of
about 9Z p.a. on roads close to Aden and much higher growth rates
elsewhere. However, the latter are inflated by construction traffic and the
traffic generating impact of road improvements. In line with the prospects
for economic growth, tne transport sector study and the Road Maintenance
Study project traffic to increase at rates of 7% to 9% p.a. up to 1990 and
4% to 5^ thereafter. The technical assistance consultants under the Third
Highway Project proposed a traffic counting system which will be implemented
under the proposed Project.
2.06    Efforts are underway to improve traffic safety. All motor vehicles
of three or more years of age are now subjected to annual technical
inspections. Driver licensing tests have been made more rigid and.
enforcement of traffic laws and regulations is being stepped up. However,
these efforts will have only limited success, unless also road marking and



- 9 -
traffic signs and other traffic safety features which are still lacking on
many rural road sections will be introduced. This will be done as part of
the road maintenance program to be started under the proposed project.
C. Administration
2.07     The present organization of the Ministry of Construction is shown
in Chart 1. Operations are divided between two Deputy Ministers: one
responsible for supervising public building corporations and one for
supervising civil works projects, the public corporation for quarries and
crushers and the Highway Authority. The Highway Authority is responsible
for all aspects of developing, constructing and maintaining paved roads.
The Ministry is presently developing plans to implement a Government
resolution to combine these units into a n'ational road construction
corporation which would report directly to the Deputy Minister. The Righway
Authority's responsibilities would then be confined to planning, design,
construction supervision and maintenance of roads.
2.08     The Highway Authority has an establishment of almost 3200, of which
about 2300 are in the construction and reconstruction units and 375 in the
road maintenance division. There are about 100 professionals and
practitioners of various disciplines. However, the brunt of the work load
is actually borne by a much smaller number of dedicated officials (supported
by foreign advisors), with much of the remainder filling positions without
being able to cope effectively with the responsibilities that go with them.
In particular, some 25 or so graduates recruited from Aden University during
the last few years to improve the staffing situation, while generally
qualified, lack the practical experience to carry out their jobs
effectively. About half of them are women engineers who face special
problems, as in PDRY's still largely traditional environment, they are not
accepted at the site and consequently are confined to desk work. At the
technician and tradesman level, there is a high rate of illiteracy and
insufficient job skills that is being addressed through an adult literacy
campaign and various training programs. To improve job motivation and labor
productivity, the Highway Authority has been successfully experimenting with
bonus and incentive pay schemes related to work output.
D. Planning
2.09     The Highway Authority's Planning and Statistics Division is
responsible for all technical planning work on main roads. To the extent
staff and other resources permit, it carries out traffic surveys and simple
feasibility studies for small projects, supervises consultants for the large
ones and updates project costs and benefits in the preparation of the Annual
and the Five-Year Development Plans. The Division works closely with the
Planning Unit attached to the Ministry of Construction office, which
monitors projects closely from their inception to completion, provides
policy guidance, facilitates planning decisions and coordinates with the
Ministry of Planning and other Ministries as necessary. The Planning Unit
also has overall responsibility for collating the Ministry's proposals



- 10 -
(including the Highway Authority's) for Annual and Five-Year Plans and
annual budgets and for furthering and directing the implementation of
approved projects and programs.
2.10     Ongoing and planned road construction projects are shown below.
The ongoing projects represent the major new road projects started under the
current Second Five-Year Plan. Since all of them are well advanced, the
Highway Authority will be able to show a high degree of target fLlfillment.
The planned projects are to be implemented during the upcoming Third and
Fourth Five-Year Plans. Feasibility studies and detailed engineering have
been completed by foreign consultants for all projects except the last two
for which studies are presently underway by consultants (Sayhut - Al Gheida)
and Highway Authority (Sayun-Tarim). Government has generally been prudent
in its past road investments, following very closely the development
strategy prepared under IDA's First Highway Project (para. 1.11) and there
is no indication that Government's attitude would be different in the
future. The feasibility studies show the planned road projects to be
economically justified with rates of return in the 12X to 15X range. As
part of the sectoral dialogue, IDA has scheduled a review of planned road
expenditures late this year to assist in establishing relative priorities of
projects for the Third Five-Year Development Plan.
Table 2.1: Ongoing and Planned Road Construction Projects
Expected
Starting Completion
Road Project             Length       Cost    1/   Date        Date
(kn)    (YD Million)
A. Under Construction
Ash Shihr - Sayhut                204        10.0         1982        1985
Naqabah - Nisab                    92         9.8         1982        1985
Nobat Dukeim - Habilain            35         5.7         1983        1985
Flood Reconstr. Program           -          10.2         1982        1985
Aden Bridge Strength. Program      -          4.5         1984        1986
Total             331        40.2
B. Planned
Nisab - Beihan                    161        12.0         1986        1989
Lawdar - Mukairas                 39          7.8          tbd 2/
RHabilain - Dhala - Sanah          52        11.3          tbd
Habilain - Laboos - Al Had        152        33.0          tbd
Aden - Tor AL Baha - YAR          106         8.2          tbd
Sayhut - Al Gheidah               266        21.0          tbd
Sayun - Tarim                     33          2.3          tbd
Urban Roads                        12         9.3          tbd
Total              821       104.9
1/ Ongoing projects in current prices; planned projects in 1984 prices.
2/ To be deternined.
Source: Highway Authority



- 11 -
E.  Expenditures, Accounting, and Financing
2.11     Road development expenditures averaged YD 6.0 (US$17.4) million per
year in current terms under the FFYP. For the current revised SFYP,
expenditures were planned at a level of YD 8.0 (US$23.2) miLlion per year in
1980 prices and may reach about YD 12 (US$34.8) million per year on average
(in current prices) till completion of the Plan later this year. New
construction absorbed about three-quarters of these expenditures and the
bridge and pavement strengthening and roads flood reconstruction programs
about one-quarter. The original SFYP allo. tion for pavement overlays was
YD 1.5 (Ub$4.4) million. Additional overlay and periodic maintenance works
are included under the roads flood reconstruction program. In recent years,
recurrent expenaitures under the Highway Authority's General Budget for road
administration and maintenance amounted to YD 0.8 (US$2.3) to YD 1.2
(US$3.3) million recent years.
2.12     There are no reliable data on annual road construction
expenditures. While some projects keep detailed cost accounts, others do
not. The cost of the latter are only known once they are audited upon
completion. Also, existing cost records are not always useful as they are
kept on a cash-basis, e.g. allocating equipment acquisition cost to the
particular year when they were incurred rather than equipment depreciation
charges in accordance with usage. Also, since no cost accounting system
exists, it is not possible to separate out how much of Highway Authority's
general budget was spent on road maintenance. It is believed that routine
maintenance (excluding equipment depreciation and repairs) expenditures
averaged about YD 200 (US$580) per km of paved road in recent years. Future
budgeting requirements for road maintenance were discussed at Credit
negotiations. To improve the data on expenditures, the technical assistance
consultants under the Third Highway Project have developed a comprehensive
cost accounting system for the Highway Authority. Under this project, a
cost accounting section will be formally established (para. 3.19).
2.13     All major road construction and reconstruction projects are
financed by foreign assistance (paras. 2.01 and 2.02) with Government
meeting only part of the local costs. On the other hand, some minor
construction and most of the pavement renewal works are carried out with
Government funding. The World Food Program (WFP) is supporting construction
and reconstruction projects under the current Five-Year Plan with food aid.
This aid, amounting to $12.3 million, is used as part payment to
construction workers. IDA, Kuwait Fund and Arab Fund have assisted in the
past with financing road maintenance equipment. The cost of maintenance
personnel and materials is met from the Government's budget.
F. Engineering
2.14     To the extent possible, with existing staff resources, the Highway
Authority's Survey and Design Division undertakes designs for small road
projects. All major projects are being prepared by foreign consultants. At
present, the Division also is responsible for construction supervision.
This function, which will gain importance once the National Road
Construction Corporation is set up, will eventually be assumed by the



- 12 -
Construction Division. In preparation for these reforms, the technical
assistance experts under the Third Highway Project and the Roads Flood
Reconstruction Project advised on methods and organization of construction
supervision in the future. Under this project, the construction supervision
consultants will continue the assistance to develop the Highway Authority's
supervision capabilities particularly through on the job training of staff.
2.15     In line with a recomendation of the Transport Sector Study, the
Highway Authority formally adopted in October 1983 geometric design
standards for paved roads (Table 3). They are generally adequate, although
perhaps somewhat generous for the lower traffic bracket. However, as in the
past and in view of the overall shortage of resources and the basic access
needs to be met, design standards also are expected to be applied flexibly
and lowered as necessary   Gravel roads are not generally used in PDRY since
they can neither be built nor maintained at reasonable costs. Naturally
occurring gravels are mostly of inferior quality (unevenly graded with
excessive amounts of fine materials and of round shape) and corrugate within
weeks even under light traffic. Furthermore, the general lack of water
would make it very difficult and costly to maintain gravel roads to
satisfactory standards. The traditional cobble stone roads (selected
hand-picked cobbles on a sand bed, blended with finer granular material)
have performed well under light traffic. Their use is now declining because
of shortages and high costs of the skilled craftsmen needed to build them.
2.16     Based on studies carried out under the Second Highway Project, the
legal axle load limit was raised to 13 tons in 1980. Road pavement design
takes this new limit which is being satisfactorily enforced (para. 2.04),
into account. During negotiations, Government reaffirmed its assurances
that it will continue co ensure that vehicle dimensions and axle loads do
not exceed limits in accordance with the appropriate legislation.
G. Construction
2.17     Since 1974, when intensive road improvement programs started,
Government attempted to carry out road works through international
contractors. These attempts were not successful as international
competitive bidding initially failed to produce acceptable bids and later
produced bids that were consistently unduly high. The main reasons for
these unsatisfactory results appear to be: unfamiliarity on the part of
foreign contractors with conditions in PDRY due to the country's isolation;
the difficult working conditions due to the country's remoteness, the harsh
physical environment and since the late 1970's shortage of local labor; the
perceived lack of prospects for follow-on contracts; and during the late
1970s, lucrative earning opportunities elsewhere in the region. Under the
circumstances and given PDRY's limited resources, Government with the
concurrence and support of its donors opted for the only other alternative
to implement its road investment program, namely to develop its own road
construction capabilities. Since then, local construction entities have
matured and proven their ability to carry our most road construction works
at lower costs than foreign contractors could. However, foreign contractors
are being used for works requiring high quality standards such as airport
construction and specialized works such as tunnel and port construction.



- 13 -
2.18     In view of the unsatisfactory results of international tenders for
-road construction, Government established, on an ad hoc basis and using
varying organizational forms, a total of five local road construction units,
tnat built the Mukalla - Wadi Hadramawt, Adec -YAR border, Shuqra - Ahwar,
Ash Shihr - Sayhut and Naqabah - Nisab roads. These construction units of
which that under the aegis of IDA for the Hadramawt road was the prototype,
operate independently under the general supervision of the Director General
of the Highway Authority. Some of them, with the assistance of expatriate
management consultants, have been working like contractors and others have
been operating on a force account basis. The former are the most productive
and have produced good results: an increase in productivity over the years,
generally good quality of work and satisfactory accounting practices. The
shuqra-Ahwar unit was converted in 1982 into the Road Reconstruction and
maintenance Unit to carry out IDA's Roads Flood Reconstruction Project, and
upon completion of that project in mid-1985 will become a regional road
maintenance center. The technical assistance consultants under the Third
Highway Project assessed the combined potential capacity of the other fours
units at 140 to 150 km of paved road per year, assuming that all equipment
would be replaced as necessary and that productivity would continue to
improve. However, since in view of overall financing constraints and
competing aemands on resources, this capacity may not be needed, they
envisage that some construction resources be phased out or transferred to
other uses over the next few years. As mentioned in para. 2.07, the
Ministry of Construction is presently preparing plans to consolidate the
construction units' staff, equipment and other assets into a National Road
Construction Corporation which should increase the fungibility of
construction resources and the overall efficiency of operations.
2.19     In the late 1970s, mainly as result of an increase in building
activity tinanced from worker remittances, a vigorous and energetic private
sector contracting industry has emerged. Most of these contractors are
small (with 5 employees or less), but some 15 to 20 are of medium size and
can unuertake contracts of up to US$500,000 equivalent. They work
precominantly tor private interests but Government agencies normally invite
those considered qualified to compete with the Public Corporation for
Construction ann Industrial Installation and Governorate Corporations for
building Works for public sector building projects. None of these private
contractors can undertake road works in any major way, and as most are
over-committed, they are unable to develop road capabilities in the near
tuture. however, in the longer run, the larger ones should begin to
participate in the road maintenance and construction programs with initially
small contracts.
H. Maintenance
2.20     lhe Highway Authority's Maintenance Department has presently an
establishment of 375, one-third of which is employed in asphalt production
and overlay works. Maintenance operations in Aden, Lahej and Abyan are
controlled by the Director of the Maintenance Department. The Mukalla
District, with over 150 staff the largest, is headed by a district
manager. Overlay capabilities in Aden and Mukalla (ana Shuqra which does
not yet belong to the Department) are relatively well developed. However,



- 14 -
the routine maintenance set-up is not, as it is inadequately organized and
lacks basic equipment and skilled personnel. Thus, while overlay works are
generally proceeding satisfactorily, routine maintenance is often confined
to emergency operation and other essential works to keep roads open.
2.21     The Mechanical Department operates the Central Workshop at Majdalla
(Aden), which, with a staff of about 170, fulfills the function of a Central
base workshop. hajdalla has five steel structure buildings that provide
ample space but require rehabilitation. Also the Workshop is generally
poorly equipped. Outside Aden, the road construction units developed
workshop facilities at their camps to service and repair their equipment.
Thus, with the construction units self-sufficient in equipment repairs and
tne maintenance equipment fleet only small, Majdalla's capacity, despite the
above constraints, is presently not fully utilized. The same applies to
regional workshops of construction units which have completed their projects
ana have since been scaled down such as the one that built the Mukalla-Wadi
hadramawt road under IDA's Second Highway Project.
2.22     Basea on studies carried out by the technical assistance
consultants under the Third Highway Project (Credit 1144-YDR), Government
wishes to improve road maintenance. A Five-Year Program, comprising routine
maintenance, pavement reseals and overlays is described in Annex I. To
implement the routine maintenance program, the Maintenance Department would
be reorganized and enlarged. Initially, three road maintenance districts
would be set-up at Aden, Shuqra and hukalla--each headed by a district
engineer, reporting to the Director of Maintenance--and the planning section
at headquarters would be strengthened. In addition, from the Department's
bituminizing resources, a new bitumen works unit is planned to be formed for
overlay work, which would have a similar status as the construction units
ana which eventually could become part of the proposed National Road
Construction Corporation. The Unit would carry out reseal and overlay work
on a contract basis. The Central Workshop at Majdalla would service and
repair the maintenance equipment fleet of Aden District and carry out major
repairs for other districts. District workshops at Shuqra and Riyan
(Mukalla) supplemented by depot workshops at Naqabah and km-200 (of the
Mukalla-Wadi Hadramawt road) would take care of most regional needs. The
Project includes Phase I of the Road Maintenance Program which aims at
setting-up the new Maintenance Department, preparing buildings and providing
initial equipment so that implementation of program works can start early in
1987 (para. 3.04 to 3.06). Meanwhile, urgent overlay works are being
carried out with existing resources.
I. Training
2.23     While MOC's staffing situation has recently eased, training needs
remain pervasive both at the professional and the technician/tradesman
level.  Over the years, Government has been persistent in its commitment to
training, but training efforts did not always reach the targets. On-the-job
training under the First Highway Project (September 1971 to December 1974)
and by bilateral technical assistance to the mechanical workshops produced
successful results with the few Yemeni candidates that were available. Also
between 1971 and 1975, a UNDP grant and bilateral sources provided 16
overseas fellowships ranging in duration from two to thirty months for



- 15 -
mid-level management anJ specialized trade candidates; the results were
mixed mainly because o', language difficulties. Under the Second Highway
Project eight fellowsh.ps (and others financed by the AFESD) enhanced HOC's
theoretical and practical capabilities at middle management level. The
T'hird Highway Project included a training program for staff of the
Independent Construction Unit at the Contractor's camp. Although its
ambitious target could not be achieved, the program was successful. Also,
under that project, two MOC young professionals with career prospects
received fellowships and 12 staff members of MOC are attending short-term
courses (three to six months) for training and retraining in their fields of
specialty.
2.24     Currently, all training activities in the HOC, includirg the
Highway Authority, are planned and coordinated by the Director of the Cadres
(Personnel) Department who reports directly to the Minister.  New MOC staff
recruited straight from schools attend the Vocational training Center (VTC)
in Aden, while existing personnel are expected to be trained/upgraded by
training programs established by the Ministry's different authorities or
corporations. however, because of lack of an effective centralized training
organization within HOC and limited human, financial and physical resources,
training has generally not been carried out up to now in a systematic way,
but rather on an ad hoc basis as training components were included under
foreign-financed projects.
2.25     The VTC is a vocational school for apprentices which conducts
one-to-two year courses aimed at introducing school leavers to the basic
concepts of the main trades and skills related to the construction
industry.  Established in 1977, the VT- has a director, 10 senior
(expatriate) teachers, 4 supervisor instructors and 39 instructors. From
1977 to 1984, the VTC has trained some 1,470 students in trades such as
carpentry, plumbing, electrical and masonry. On the whole, although it
needs some rehabilitation and upgrading, the VTC performs a very useful
function. The HA has a small training section (within its Cadre Division)
consisting only of one training officer, which has so far carried out little
or no training.
2.26     Based on manpower development studies under the Third Highway
Project, a Three-Year Training Program is under consideration by the
Government (Annex II), the objective of which is to strengthen the
institutional capability of XOC/HA to prepare, implement, and supervise
training programs to improve the skills and knowledge of HA maintenance
personnel at all levels. The program is designed for the training of some
400 maintenance engineers, road supervisors, foremen and overseers,
equipment operators, tipper drivers, mechanics, storekeepers, and accounts
engaged in maintenance and rehabilitation activities. The training program
includes: (i) the setting up of a Training Steering Committee; (ii) the
strengthening and expansion of MOC/HA existing training organization;
(iii) the setting up of a mobile Road Training Production Unit (RTPU) for
the training of road supervisors, equipment operators, and drivers; (iv) the
setting up of mobile Mechanical Training Production Unit (MTPU) for the
training of mechanical personnel; (v) the purchasing of training equipment
and materials; (vi) the training of HA counterparts and instructors;



- 16 -
(vii) the organization of periodic workshops on training and maintenance
management and related topics; (viii) the limited rehabilitation of the VTC
and HA training center; and (ix) fellowships training abroad for selected
HUC/HA staff. The Project includes the first phase of this program covering
tasks preliminary to actual training (para. 3.06)



- 17 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Genesis and Rationale
3.01     The proposed Fourth Highway Project is the result of the continuing
sectoral dialogue between Government and IDA on the priorities for a
rational development of the road system. Specifically, at negotiations of
the Third Highway Project, Government requested IDA's assistance in setting
up a road maintenance system and IDA agreed that the technical assistance
consultant provided under that project help prepare appropriate programs.
When the main component of the Third Project (the Naqabah-Nisab road)
approached completion, Government requested that the Fourth Highway Project
in addition to a road maintenance component, also include the extension of
the Naqabah-Nisab road to Wadi Beihan where IDA is supporting a significant
agricultural project (Credit 1145-YDR). The project maintenance and
training components would be a Phase I of the main maintenance and training
programs with the major thrust of the program (Phase II) being the basis of
a further proposed project in about one year.
B. Project Objectives
3.02     The primary objective of the Fourth Highway Project would be to
continue assistance to PDRY in the rational development of its road system.
Specifically the project would aim at:
(a) Strengthening the road maintenance organization and workshop and
training infrastructure so that implementation of a routine and
periodic road maintenance program and training program can start
expeditiously about one year later;
(b) developing appropriate road cost recovery policies and laying
the ground work for improved road planning and budgeting
procedures; and
(c) improving access to an important agricultural area.
These objectives were discussed with Government at appraisal and confirmed
during negotiations.
C. Project Description
3.03     The project would provide for;
A. Phase I of the road maintenance program, comprising:
(i) construction, extension and/or rehabilitation of facilities at
road maintenance district and subdistrict centers;
(ii) equipment and spare parts for: road maintenance and workshops;
a radio-communication system for the road maintenance
organization; computer-based road maintenance planning, cost



- 18 -
accounting and spare parts management systems; and a road
planning data collection system;
(iii) technical assistance to the Ministry of Construction and the
Highway Authority for:  setting up the new road maintenance
organization and introducing appropriate planning, management
and cost accounting systems and improved work procedures;
establishing a training section and designing a suitable
training program and training evaluation system; and carrying
out a road user charge study; and
B.  Construction of the Nisab to Wadi Beihan road, comprising:
(i) completion of ongoing construction of the Nisab to Wasit road
section (35 km) by the Independent Construction Unit (ICU);
(ii)  construction of the Wasit to Wadi Beihan road section (125 km);
and
(iii)  technical assistance to the Iinistry of Construction for
updating bidding documents, bid evaluation and supervision of
construction of the Wasit to Wadi Beihan road section.
Phase I of Road Maintenance Program
3.04     The Phase I of the road maintenance program included under the
project is an integral part of the overall program as discussed in
paras. 2.20-2.22 and detailed in Annex I. Phase I which is estimated to
take to the end of 1986 will lay the groundwork so that road maintenance
works under the program (Phase II) be implemented from early 1987 onward.
The building works under the project form the physical base for the new road
maintenance organization. They include rehabilitation of the central
workshop at Majdalla'(Aden) and of the District workshop at Riyan (Mukalla)
- the former works center of the Mukalla-Hadramawt road construction;
construction of headquarter offices for Aden District, subcamps and depots
at Naqabah, hir Ali and Sayhut and of worker accommodations at all
maintenance centers and subcente.s outside Aden (Annex I, Attachment 8).
Upon completion, these buildings will be ready for the implementation of the
follow-up road maintenance project.
3.05     In view of long delivery periods experienced previously in PDRY,
the project includes some urgently needed road maintenance equipment items
ana all workshop equipment (Annex I, Attachments 5 and 7) to ensure that
this equipment will have arrived and be available when needed in early 1987
for the start of the implementation phase. The project also includes,
provision of radio equipment to expand an existing works communication
system, such that it can be used for the operation of the future Maintenance
Department. The system will eventually link all road maintenance centers
with Aden and will facilitate both the Phase I and execution of the road
maintenance program. Similarly, the early provision of the equipment for
the computer-based planning and management systems and road data collection



- 19 -
in advance of the road maintenance program will allow adequate time for the
learning phase and training of staff and will also complement the initial
technical assistance services.
3.Ob     About 24 of the 65 man-months of the technical assistance for the
road maintenance program would be needed during Phase 1. The main goal of
the initial services would be to assist with the reorganization of the
Maintenance Department, the setting-up of road maintenance planning and cost
accounting systems and improvements in operations recommended in previous
studies through the preparation of guidelines and manuals, establishment of
internal procedures and in-depth familiarization of the staff concerned.
The technical assistance would also provide training in its use of the
equipment described in para. 3.05. The technical assistance in the Phase I
of the training program would require about 15 of an estimated total of 102
man-months and would comprise all actions related to the preparation of the
training programs, including the establishment of a steering committee,
issuance of a policy statement on training, upgrading of the training
organization, recommendations for the improvement of training facilities,
definition of training needs, preparation of a detailed training program
(see Annex II). This Phase also would include about 36 man-months of
fellowship training to prepare Yemeni instructors and training officers on
short courses (three months) for their future tasks. The Road User Charge
study, estimated to take about 10 man-months, would address the issue of
under-taxation of heavy vehicles (para. 1.09), establish the appropriate
level of taxation for different vehicle categories, and make recommendations
as to the levying of such taxes.
Construction of Nisab to Wadi Beihan Road
3.07     The 16U km Nisab to Wadi Beihan road would complete a road link
from Naqabah on the Aden-Mukalla highway to Wadi Beihan, which was started
under the Third Highway Project (see Map Nos. IBRD 18790 and IBRD 18803).
Wadi Beihan is the last major agricultural area in PDRY which is not
adequately connected to the paved road system. Existing traffic passes over
unengineered, rough and often circuitous tracks on which only trucks and
four-wheel-drive vehicles can operate at high cost.
3.08     Construction of the Nisab to Wadi Beihan road which generaLly
traverses flat and rolling terrain would be to 5.8 m wide single bituminous
surface treatment paved standards with 1 m shoulders. These standards which
are detailed in Annex 3 are acceptable and take into account the existing
terrain conditions and prospective traffic needs. Outside the short sand
dune sections, embankment height would be kept to the minimum, necessary to
allow adequate cross drainage. The sand dune sections will be subject to
special attention, particularly to find appropriate fixation measures in the
vicinity of the road. The construction of permanent major floodways would
be deferred at this stage and the natural unsurfaced crossings would be
used. These standards represent significant but acceptable cutbacks from
those proposed by the design consultants, but were considered necessary in
order to reach a least cost solution.



- 20 -
3.09     Upon completion of the Naqabah-Nisab road in December 1984,
Government asked the ICU contractor %o continue with the construction of the
Nisab to Wasit section (35 km). While remaining part of the project, this
section would not be eligible for IDA financing because of its reserve
procurement. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that it will
complete the Nisab-Wasit section of road by December 31, 1985.
3.10     Consultants would help with the updating of the bidding documents
for the Wasit-Wadi Beihan road (prepared in 1978), the evaluation of bids
and subsequently the supervision of construction. In addition, the
consultants woula continue the efforts started under the Third Highway
Project and the Roads Flood Reconstruction Project to build up the
construction supervision capability of the Highway Authority (para. 2.14).
About 180 man-months are estimated to be required for the above services
over a period of about three years and a half.
D. EngineerinR
3.11     The Road Maintenance Program (Annex I) was developed by the
Technical Assistance consultants under the Third Highway Project
(Credit 1144-YDR). The proposed facilities and buildings are part of the
additional assets the new Maintenance Department needs to carry out routine
maintenance. Layouts of the camps and subcamps and designs of typical
buildings (to be constructed with local technology) are under preparation.
The least cost alignment for the Naqabah-Wadi Beihan road was established in
a feasibility study in 1977 and detailed engineering was prepared in 1978,
both financed under IDA's Second Highway Project (Credit 560-YDR).
E. Cost Estimate
3.12     The project is estimated to cost $39.0 million, as detailed in
Table 3.1.



-21-
Table 3.1: Project Cost Estimate
Foreign
Project Iti                          Local  Foreign  Total  Local   Foreign  Total   Cost
-    D TO Mllon    -  -   U$ Mldlito    -
1. Phase I of Road Maintenance PrOgram
(1) Construction & Rehabilitation oF Bldg. for;
(a) workshops & 0Oqts                     0.06    0.10    0.16   0.17       0.29    0.46     64
(b) Staff AccoJ mdations                  0.16    0.29    0.45   0.47       0.84    1.31     64
Subtotal I (1)        0.22    0.39    0.61   0.64      1.13    1.77
(ii) Equipent & Spare Parts for;
(a) Road Maintenance                       -       0.19    0.19    -        0.56    0.56    100
(b) Worksbops                              -       0.08    0.08    -        O.2     0.22    100
(c) Cop. Spare Parts Managemet             -       0.03    0.03    -        0.10    0.10    100
(d) Comunicatinss Systm                    -       0.01    0.01    -        0.04    0.01    100
(e) Road Maintenace Planning                       0.02    0.02    -        0.06    0.06    100
Subtotal I (ii)        -      0.33    033    -         0.98    0.98
(iii) Technical Assistance forz
(a) Setting Up Maintenance Organization   0.02    0.10    0.12   0.07       0.26    0.3      80
(b) Setting Up Training Prugrm            0.01    0.10    0.11  03.03       0.29    032      90
(c) Road User Charge Study                0.01    0.03    0.01   0.02       0.08    0.10     80
Subtotal I (iii)        0.04    0.23    0.27   0.12      0.63    0.75
Total 1              0.26    0.95    1.21   9.76      2.74    3.50
2. Construction and Superision Costs
(i) Construction of Nisab to Wasit Road       0.44    1.55    1.99   1.27      4.51    5.78      78
(ii) Construction of Wasit to Beihan Road      0.43    6.69    7.12   1.24    19.42   20.66       94
(iii) Construction Supervision                  0.03    0.66    0.69   0.10      1.90    2.00      95
Total 2              0.90    8.90    9.80   2.61    25.83   2.44
Basic Cost I/           1.16    9.85    11.01   3.37    28.57   31.94      89
3. Continqencies
(i) Physical y1                               0.11    0.86    0.97   0.31      2.51    2.82
(ii) Price 3/                                  0.09     1.37    1.46   0.27     3.97    4.24
Total              0.20    2.23    2.43   0.58      6.48    7.05
Project Cost              1.36   12.08   13.44   3.95    35.05   39.00       90
I/ Base cost in prices of November 1984
Z/ I0O on items l(i), 2(i) and 2(ii)
3/ Based on foreign price increases of 5% in 1985, 7.5% in 1986 and 8% in 1937 and later, and local price
increases of 5S p.a. for items 1(i). I(ul). 2(i) and 2(ii); and foreign and local price increases of 5% p.a.
for ites l(iii) nd 2(iii).



- 22 -
3.13     The cost estimates for buildings works reflect preliminary
assessments of space requirements and current construction rates in PDRY.
The maintenance equipment and the coumuunication and maintenance management
equipment costs are based on recent quotations. The cost estimate for
technical assistance is based on current man-month rates in PDRY. The
construction cost estimates are based on the detailed engineering quantities
suitably adjusted for design changes and const-uction cost data (adjusted
for price changes) from the Naqabah-Nisab project, and cross-checked against
the rates of a recent road contract in a neighboring country. The 94Z
construction foreign exchange component is based on a foreign contractor
being awarded the contract and, due to the local shortage, following the
current practice of bringing in foreign skilled and semi-skilled labor.
3.14     A 10  physical contingency has been allowed for building
construction and rehabilitation, overlays and road construction.
Contingency allowances for price escalation are based on the Bank's
projected inflation rates. Base cost estimates reflect prices of
November 1984.
3.15     During negotiations, the cost estimates were confirmed with the
Government.
F. Financing
3.16     The total cost of the project is estimated at $39.0 million
equivalent comprising a foreign exchange component of $35.0 million and a
local component of $4.0 milliou.  The proposed IDA Credit of $14.4 million
equivalent would finance about 41Z of the project's foreign cost.
Government would meet foreign costs of about $5.1 million (of the
construction of the Nisab to Wasit section), and the remaining foreign costs
of US$15.5 million. However, to assist in the project financing, the
Government has approached the Arab Fund and the OPEC Fund to participate in
the project. The Arab Fund confirmed its readiness to consider the project
for its (CY)1986 lending program and to appraise it within the last quarter
of CY1985 with possible Board presentation early in 1986.
3.17     While during negotiations, Government confirmed that it will meet
all local and foreign costs needed to complete the project, a possible
project financing plan which includes Arab Fund participation is set out in
Table 3.2.



- 23 -
Table 3.2; Possible Financing Plan
Source of Financing
Project It..                          Item Cost 1/   IDA    Arab Fund    Governuunt
____________- -uS$ million
1. Phase I of Road Maintenance Program
(i) Construction & Rehabilitation
of Bldgs.                                2.1          1.3         -           0.8
(ii) Equipment & Spare Parts                    1.0          1.0         -            _
(iii) Technical Assistance                       0.8          0.7         -           0.1
2. Construction of Risab to Wadi Beihan
Road
(i) Construction of Nisab-Wasit
Section                                  6.5           -          -           6.5
(ii) Tender preparation, evaluation
and supervision of construction
of Wasit-Wadi Beihan Section             2.2          2.1         -          0.1
(iii) Construction of Wasit-Wadi
Beihan Section                          26.4          9.3      15.5           1.6
TOTAL                       39.0          14.4      15.5          9.1
/  I n C== i==
l/ Including Contingencies



- 24 -
3.18     The proposed IDA Credit would finance; (i) the foreign cost of
Phase I of the road maintenance program; (ii) the foreign cost of
supervision of the Wasit to Wadi Beihan road; and (iii) 35% of cost of
construction (or 37% of the estimated foreign cost) of the Wasit to Wadi
beihan road.
G. Project Implementation
3.19     The Ministry of Construction through its Highway Authority would be
responsible for Project execution. The Righway Authority's Maintenance
Department and the Ministry's Cadre (Personnel) Department would be the main
beneficiaries of the Phase I of the road maintenance and training program.
To facilitate effective implementation of these components, Government,
during negotiations, gave assurances that: (i) by July 31, 1986 it would
prepare plans for the implementation of Phase II of the road maintenance
program and of Phase II of the training program; and (ii) by January 15,
1987, it would take all necessary steps to facilitate; (a) the establishment
of road maintenance districts at Aden, Sbuqra and Mukalla and the
appointment of three district engineers; (b) the establishment of a cost
accounting section in the Highway Authority's Administration and Finance
Department and the appointment of a section chief; and (c) the establishment
of a training section in MOC's cadre department and the appointment of a
section chief. The intermediate steps leading to the plans for Phase II
(including the appointment of counterparts to the consultants) and the
establishment of the new units are laid down in an Action Plan (Annex IV)
wlich was also agreed at credit negotiations. Further, Government gave
assurances that it would complete the road user charge study by July 31,
1986, review its findings and recommendations with IDA and within six months
of study completion, prepare a plan for the implementation of agreed
recommendations. As mentioned previously, Highway Authority would engage
consultants for the preparation of bidding documents for the Wasit-Wadi
Beihan Road, the bid evaluation and the supervision of construction.
3.20     Building rehabilitation and construction will take 12 months and
are expected to be complete by end of 1986. The communications and
maintenance management equipment will be procured early in 1986 and
procurement of the maintenance and workshop equipment will stretch to the
end of 1986. Road construction is scheduled to take three years and is
expected to be complete by March 1989. A Project Implementation Schedule is
attached as Chart 2. During negotiations, the Schedule was confirmed with
Government. The project is expected to be completed by June 1989.
H. Procurement
3.21     The single contract for the construction of the Wasit-Wadi Beihan
road will be awarded after International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. To maintain the
implementation schedule, bidders will be post-qualified wiCh qualification
criteria set out in the bidding documents. As for the Third Highway Project
(para. 1.12) the ICU is expected to participate in the bidding process and,
with the assistance of its own construction management consultants, would
submit a bid on equal footing with foreign contractors. The ICU operates as
an independent contractor with the full-time assistance of expatriate



2 25 -
management consultants and with its own accounts. The unit, whose
independent status was legally constituted in 1981, employs foreign skilled
labor and conducts its own procurement. During negotiations, the units
terms of reference for its management consultants were reviewed to confirm
that as for Highways III, bid preparation would be on a normal commercial
basis.
3.22     Contracts for thie construction and rehabilitation of buildings will
be small and it is unlikely that foreign contractors not already operating
in PDRY would be interested in bidding. Hence, the contracts will be
awarded following local competitive bidding procedures which, nevertheless,
allow foreign contractors to participate. The laws and regulations
regaraing local procurement procedures and practices in PDRY are being
reviewed in the Bank in order to reach a judgment as to whether local
procedures are acceptable for Bank-financed contracts. The findings of that
review will be discussed with the authorities sometime later this year and
agreements would be sought regarding any changes needed to make the
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Local procedures for public procurement
were discussed during negotiations, and as they follow the principles of the
Bank's guidelines for ICB, were considered acceptable for this project.
3.23     The workshop equipment will be procured as a single package through
ICB. The small and varied number of vehicles and field tools will be
procured through International Shopping with quotations from both local
representatives and overseas suppliers. The equipment for maintenance
management is highly specialized, has to be compatible with existing items,
or, in the case of the computers, with software programs appropriate for the
Maintenance Division's needs.  Since also the contract amounts are
relatively small, the equipment will be procured through International
Shopping. All procurement will be in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines
for Procurement".
3.24     The consultants who will provide the technical assistance for the
maintenance organization, the training program, the road user charge study
and the construction supervision, will be employed in accordance with the
bank's "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants".
3.25     All procurement documentation will be reviewed before being
issued.  The bid analysis and contract for the road construction and for
building contracts over US$200,000 will be subject to Bank review prior to
contract award. All other contracts over $50,000 will be subject to prior
review.
3.26     During credit negotiations, the methods of procurement were
confirmed with the Government.



- 26 -
Table 3.3:  Procurement Analysis           Total Cost
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Proiect Item                ICB        LCB          Other
Construction                   26.4        -            -               26.4
(9.3)                                   (9.3)
Rehab. of Buildings              _        2.1           -                2.1
(1.3)                         (1.3)
Equipm2nt & Spares              0.2        -           0.8 2/            1.0
(0.2)                  (0.8)            (1.0)
Technical Assistance             _         -           3.0               3.0
(2.8)            (2.8)
Total                26.6        2.1         3.8              32.5 1/
(9.5)     (1.3)       (3.6)            (14.4)
/ ongoing construction of bisab-Wasit section not included because of
reserve prOcurement (para. 3.09)
2/ InternatiOnal Shopping
Note: FigureS in parenthesis indicate amounts to be financed under the
proposed Credit.
I. Disbursement
3.27     Disbursements would be made on the basis of 100% of foreign
expenditures for equipment and consulting services, 641 of expenditures for
builaing works and 35% of expenditures for road construction. Disbursements
would be made against normal documentation. A revolving fund of about
US$2,000,000, corresponding to an average of four months of expenditure of
the Credit would be established by opening a special account. Such a fund
would avoid tying up foreign exchange resources for eligible disbursements
while the latter are being processed by IDA. The special account will be
maintained with the National Bank of Yemen (NBY) for disbursements against
Categories 1 through 5 of Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement, in
accordance with IDA procedures. Opening of the special account would be a
condition of credit effectiveness. Retroactive financing in an amount not
exceeding $250,000 would be allowed for expenditures incurred after
May 1, 1985, for consultants' expenditures on the preparation of bidding
documents for the Wasit to Wadi Beihan Road.
3.28     The estimated cumulative quarterly disbursement schedule was
confirmed at Credit negotiations and is shown in Annex 5. The schedule
assumes that disbursements from the Credit be completed in five years, which
is one year later than the project completion date to allow for the time lag
between implementation and disbursement. This disbursement period is
considerably shorter than the historical ENENA disbursement profile for
highway projects, showing an average disbursement period of 7 years and a
halt with 79% disbursed after five years. However, this deviation is deemed



- 27 -
to be justified in view ofz (i) the much smaller size of the proposed
project as compared to average highway project in the Region; and
(ii) PDRY's excellent implementation performance under the Third Highwsy
Project (Cr. 1144-YDR) and the Roads Flood Reconstruction Project (Cr.
1295-YDR), with completion in four years and two years and a half
respectively.
J. Budgeting. Accounting and Audit
3.29     All highway project investments are included in the annual capital
budget of che Ministry of Construction. Each project is broken down and
controlled by the following categories:
- Studies and Designs
- Equipment and Machinery
- Personnel Emoluments
- Fuel
- Materials and Other-Expenses.
Quarterly and annual statements showing actual versus budget are prepared
for each project under the above categories. Thus, expenditures for
IDA-financed projects are shown separately in the books of account.
3.30     All IDA-financed highway projects are controlled by the Planning
Unit of the Ministry of Construction and coordinated with the Highway
Auttnority. Each project has a project manager who maintain an imprest fund
in the field for all project-related expenditures. This fund is reimbursed
periodically by the Planning Unit. Ihe project manager also prepares the
monthly engineering certificate for work executed during the month and the
statement of expenditures which are sent to the Administration and Finance
Department of the Ministry of Construction for verification and pre-audit
ana subsequent reimbursement by the Planning Unit. The above department and
unit also maintain the accounting records of all expenditures under each
project.
3.31     The Ministry of Construction has an internal audit section which
pre-audits all disbursements. The Central Organization of Control and Audit
(COCA), which is an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, also audits and
certifies the Ministry's annual expenditures under the various budget
heads. The above arrangements for the record keeping and internal check and
control of project expenditures are satisfactory to the Association. Under
IDA's Roads Flood Reconstruction Project, delays were experienced in the
submission of project accounts to COCA. However, the Ministry internal
procedures have since been streamlined. Accordingly, it is expected that
auditing of project accounts and of the Special Account with the NBY
(para. 3.27) will be completed on time and that and the audited accounts
will be submitted to IDA within six months at the end of each fiscal year.
During credit negotiations, corresponding assurances were obtained.
H. Environmental Impact
3.32     No adverse impacc on the environment is expected from the project.



- 28 -
IV. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. General
4.01     PDKY's paved road system has more than quadrupled in length over
the last 15 years and has been instrumental in unifying the country's
dLsparate regions, in mobilizing productive resources and building a
national economy. While further expansion is needed to incorporate
economically important, yet isolated communities into the country, there is
also a need to strengthen road maintenance capacity which did not keep pace
with growth of the network and traffic, so that past achievements will '-e
preserved. The project addresses these dual priorities.
4.02     The Phase I of the road maintenance program under the project will
benefit in the short term the Highway Authority's Maintenance Department and
the Ministry's Cadre Department. Once the program is fully implemented,
Government will save as the need for frequent and costly periodic
maintenance actions is reduced and road transport operators and motorists
will enjoy lower vehicle operating costs due to better road conditions.
4.03     Construction of the Nisab to Wadi Beihan road will produce savings
for transport and trading companies and motorists using the road and benefit
state farms, cooperatives and private farmers in the area through more
reliable imports of fuel and agricultural inputs and faster exports of their
surpluses with reduced spoilage.
B. Road Maintenance Program
4.04     The five-year Road Maintenance Program described in Annex I is
based on a comparison of alternative maintenance strategies. It defines the
pavement reseal and overlay actions required during 1986 to 1990 in addition
to improved routine maintenance in order to arrive at lowest transport cost
(comprising the cost of routine and periodic maintenance and vehicle
operation). Improvements in routine maintenance will require a substantial
enlargement of the road maintenance organization, reassignment of staff,
investments in additional facilities and equipment, staff training, more
efficient working procedures and better planning and management systems.  As
the overlay component of the program is proceeding satisfactorily with
existing resOurces, this project would cover the build-up of the new
maintenance organization, providing both the physical facilities and part of
the equipment needed for the maintenance program and technical assistance to
implement institutional reforms and set-up the training program. The
planned follow-up project would provide the remainder of equipment
investments, further technical assistance and implementation of the thrust
of the maintenance and training programs.
4.05     The building and equipment investment under this project is an
integral part of the total investment in the road maintenance organization.
This investment is considered well justified since the improved routine
maintenance program it serves has a high economic return. As shown below,
tthe benefit-cost ratio for improved routine maintenance including reseals of
the inter-urban network over the 1986-1990 program period is 2:1. Benefits



- 29 -
are based on forecasts of road conditions and vehicle operating costs under
existing and improved maintenance practices, using the formulae shown in
Annex V. Mhe incremental cost of the program has been calculated using
estimates of the economic costs (comprising the cost of staff, equipment
operation, materials, depreciation of equipment and facilities and
overheads) of the existing and the increased maintenance effort. Data are
incomplete to establish the benefit-cost ratio for the urban network, but it
is expected to be more than for the inter-urban roads because traffic
volumes are higher.
Table 4.1 Costs and Benefits of Five-Year Maintenance Program
Costs    ---               - - --- -  Benefits -
Year    Actual Value   Present Value 1/       Actual Value   Present Value 1/
_____-_-----   --YD Milliou- -~-                -           -
1986        0.09             0.08
1987        2.15             1.71                    1.86           1.48
1988        0.32             0.23                    2.74           1.95
1989        2.01             1.28                    4.22           2.68
1990        1.75             0.99                    4.80          2.72
Total                      4.29                                  8.83
benefit/Cost Ratio = 2.0b:l
1/ At a discount rate of 12%
4.U6     No attempt has been made to quantify the benefits of the technical
assistance, training investments and the road user charge study. However,
since they will contribute to improved administrative and operational
efficiency of the maintenance organization and better resource allocation in
the subsector, they are deemed eminently justified.



- 30 -
C.  Construction of Nisab-Wadi Beihan Road
4.07     Completion of the Naqabah-Wadi Beihan road through construction of
Nisab-Wadi Beihan section under the proposed Project would greatly improve
access to this remote yet fertile area which, settled for over 2,500 years,
was a main center of trade and civilization in the Arab world. Now, with a
population of over 50,000 and 15X of PDRY's total well-irrigated land, it is
a major agricultural area not adequately connected to the country's main
population centers. Construction of the road would support, and was
anticipated at appraisal, IDA's $18 million Wadi Beihan Agricultural Project
(Credit 1145-YDR) which will make the area self-sufficient in wheat,
vegetables and meat, quadruple existing exports of potatoes, and onion and
further produce sizeable marketable surpluses of sweet oranges and limes.
4.08     Traffic on the tracks between Nisab to where the paved road from
Naqabah has been completed, and Wadi Beihan averages 55 to 220 vpd
(Table 4.2). The 55 vpd of which 30 are trucks is long distance traffic
travelling the whole length of the section. In addition, there is local
traffic vhich is highest between Nuqub and Beihan (167 vpd) and between
hisab and Wasit (63 vpd). As a result of the Wadi Beihan Agricultural
Project, farm income in the area is expected to more than double by 1992
when full development is reached. Thus, while food imports into the area
will drop sharply, imports of consumption goods and construction materials
will increase. Although agricultural exports will also increase steeply,
imports will remain the dominating trade direction and determine the number
of trucks on the road. Overall, truck traffic is expected to grow at 7Z
p.a. up to 1992 and 5% p.a. thereafter. The increased income also will
markedly increase propensity of personal travel. Based on experience in
other regions of PDRY, passenger traffic has been assumed to grow at llZ
p.a. up to 1992 and 8% p.a. thereafter.
Table 4.2:  Traffic on Project Road
1989    1989       1993      1993
w/o     with    w/o fleet w/fleet
1984   road    road    improve.  improve.
hisab                 ADT              63    103      187       444        398
-Wasit                % heavy veh.   (16)   (14)    (30)        (28)       (40)
Wasit                 ADT              18     30      114       233        212
-Mt. Qarn Wasak       Z heavy veh.   (11)   (10)    (39)        (34)       (46)
Mt. Qaru Wasak        ADT              55     84       84       161        149
-As Salim             X heavy veh.   (55)   (50)    (50)        (45)       (56)
As Salim              ADT             113    181      181       400        355
-Nugub                % heavy veh.   (29)   (25)    (25)        (21)       (33)
Nugub                 ADT             142    233      233       557        485
-Am Ayn Jct.          % heavy veh.   (16)   (14)    (14)        (10)       (23)
Am Avn Jct.           ADT             222    366      366       896        777
-beihan               X heavy veh.   (13)   (11)    (11)         (8)       (21)
Ataq                  ADT              55     84        -          -         -
-Mt. Qarn Wasak       X heavy veh.   (55)   (50)        -         -



- 31 -
4.U9     Roughness on the existing tracks ranges between QI 140 1/ and
QI 170, compared with QI 50 on the new road. For local traffic, the road
would also offer about 10% shorter travel distances. On average, vehicle
operating costs for long distance traffic travelling the whole length of the
section will be reduced by 28X (light vehicles) and 36% (heavy vehicles)
(Table 4.3).  Improvement of the Nisab-Beihan section will bring the cost of
the 560 km haul from Aden to Beihan down by about 15%. Reductions in
vehicle operating cost for local traffic vary between 33% and 45%. As
alreacy can be seen on the Naqabah-Nisab road, the new road will allow the
use of buses and passenger cars which cannot operate on the existing
tracks. As a result, it is expected that forecast passenger traffic would
be carried by fewer vehicles and at lower costs. The combined effect of the
roaa and the use of cars and buses would be to lower cost per passenger-km
by 70Z. Reduced transport costs due to the new road, the more efficient
choice of vehicles and improved vehicle utilization will stimulate mobility
of people and exchange of goods and services. By 1993 it is expected that
this generation effect would increase long distance traffic by about 40% and
local traffic by about 70% above normal growth. Overall, normal traffic
growth, vehicle fleet improvement and generated traffic, will result in
average traffic increases of between 9% to 10% per year over the 20 year
life of the road.
table 4.3 Savings in Vehicle Operating Costs (YD p.Veh.)
Light Vehicles              Heavy Vehicles
Existing Improved  Saving   Existing Improved Saving
1. Long Distance Traffic
Ataq-heihan                 34.8    24.9    9.9(28%)    62.5    40.1  22.4(36%)
2. Local Traffic
hisab-Wasit                  7.1     4.3    2.8(39%)    12.3       7.0   5.3(43Z)
Wasit-Mt.Qarn Wasak          7.6     5.1    2.5(33%)    13.3       8.1   5.2(39Z)
As Salim-Nuqub               2.3     1.5    0.8(35%)      4.4      2.4   2.0(45%)
Nuqub-Beihan                 4.9     3.1    1.8(38%)      8.5      4.9   3.6(42%)
1/ The Quality Index (QI) is a measurement of pavement roughness defined in
the hank's Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model.



- 32 -
4.10     Construction of the road will lead to a reduction in spoilage of
produce exports from Wadi Beihan which at present is excessive. Spoilage
due to the rough tracks and prolonged exposure at extremely high
temperatures in the desert during transport is estimated at 10% of the
load. Based on the current value of potatoes, the losses which will be
avoided due to the new road are estimated at about YD 200,000 in 1992.
4.11     The benefits of construction of the Nisab to Wadi Beihan road are
summarized below:
4.4; Summary of Benefits
Reauced
Road User Savings                Spoilage      Total
Normal       Generated    Fleet
Traffic      Traffic       Improve.
___________________--- YD Millicn -       ------------------
1989           .812       .042          .041          .148        1.043
1993          1.129       .295          .299          .200        1.923
2008          3.055       .831          .950          .200        5.036
4.12     Based on the above benefits, the economic returi on the YD 10.7
million investment (the cost of construction including physical
contingencies and construction supervision) is estimated at 152. The
sensitivity of the rate of return to variations in costs and benefits has
been tested.   A 20% increase in costs would lower the rate of return to
13X; alternatively a 25% decrease in benefits would bring it to 12%. The
rate of return is more sensitive to short falls in benefits than to cost
overruns. The project's net present value at a discount rate of 12% would
turn negative, if benefits were reduced by 23% or costs increased by 31Z.
D. Project Risks
4.13     While the traffic forecasts for the Wadi Beihan road take account
of all available data on the area, there remains an element of uncertainty
in these torecasts and consequently risk for the project. However, given
Government's strong commitment to the development of Wadi Beihan, the risk
is considered acceptable.



- 33 -
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During credit negotiations, various matters referred to in the
report were discussed and agreed. They include an Action Plan (Annex IV)
covering the main activities during Phase 1 of the road maintenance program
and Phase I of the training program. The principal assurances obtained were
that:
(i) by July 31, 1986 Government would prepare plans for the
implementation of Phase II of the road maintenance program and
Phase II of the training program (para. 3.14).
(ii) by January 15, 1987 Government would take all necessary steps to
establish road maintenance districts, a cost accounting section,
and a training section (para. 3.19)
(iii) Government would establish and operate a separate project
account and submit audit reports to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 3.31);
(iv) Government would continue to ensure that vehicle dimensions and
axle loads do not exceed limits in accordance with the
appropriate legislation (para. 2.16).
5.02     An additional condition of credit effectiveness would be that:
i)  the Ministry of Construction opens a special account for a
revolving fund (para. 3.27).
5.03     In view of the above, the project is suitable for an IDA credit of
14,600,000 Special Drawing Rights (US$14.4 million equivalent) to the
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen on the usual terms.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Lenath and Distribution of Hiahway Network
(km )
Asphalt                  Cobble                    Earth                    TOTAL
Govefrnorate      197     197      1283   197          197    198  197       2im     198      197      197    198
Aden 1/            105      105      150      -       -       -       50      50       50      155      155      200
Lahej               88      136     136       -       -       -      625     583      583      713      719      719
Abyan              272      295     411       -       -       -     610      558      558      882      853      969
Shabwah              -     229      229       -       -       -   1.089      837      837   1,089   1,066   1,066
Hadramawt           10     432      724    203    255    255   1,972   1.886   1.886   2,185   2,573   2.865
Al-Mahra           _8-          -   -                _ -    _-      4- 486    A48              486      486      486
Total          i    ln 1.922   1.6S0    .QI   iLl    2S5   4L30   4.400   4.400   5.510   5.8S2   6.30S IB
X of Network         9       20       26      4       5       5       88       75      75      100      100      100
1/ Figures include urban roads.
SourCe:  Ministry of Construction, February 1980 and
Ministry of Planning, 1983.
46090
1-



PEOELE'S DCH0CRATIC REPUBLIC aF Yemen
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJCT
DeveloaMent of Motor Vehicle Fleet 1976-81
Passenoer
Cars & TAXiS                    Ruses                        Trucks                        All Vehicles
Units &          Growth       Units &          Growth       Units &           Growth       Units &          Growth
Distribution    1975-81       Distribution    1975-81       Distribution    1975-81        Distribution    1975-81
Gav,rnirati      in   (L  { .a.)    in  1981                     Is  R.&.,    in  1981          X  D.A.)    in 1981            L goa.l
Aden             13,861             8.1            623           24.3          6,042           15.3         20,526            8.9
t 77.9%)                      ( 68.7%)                      C 3a.6%)                       ( 55.1%)
Lahej               433            6.2              79           24.7          3,602           15.6          4,114            14.4
(  2.6%)                      C  8.7%)                      C 19.4%)                       ( 11.1%)
Abyan               845             6.6             34           27.3          3,034           17.7          3,913            14.3
4.8%)                      C  3.7%)                      C 16.4%)                         10.5%)                                 }
Shabwah             716            31.9        n.a               n.a           2,173           16.1          2,888            17.4
4.0%)                                                    C 11.7%)                      (  7.8%)
Hadramawt         1,923            19.3            171           46.9          3,246           20.1          6,340           20.3
10.8%)                      C 18.9%)                      C 17.5%)                      ( 14.3%)
Al Mahrah             15          n.a.         n.a.              n.a.            436           21.7            461           22.7
0.0%)                                                    C  2.4%)                      (  1.2%)
Total            17,792             7.9            907           24.5         18,533           17.0         37,232            12.1
(100.0%)                      (100.0%)                      (100.0%)                       (100.0%)
46090



PEO3PLE'I aENEcDATIC gReUBLIC GE YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOlUit HIGHWAY PROJECT
Goometric aDesin Standards for Paved Roads
Class I          Class II                Class  Ii              Class IV               Class V
An               50 - 250          260 - 400              400 -760                75D - 16Qo             dyer 1500
Terrain                M        R    F       M        R      F      M        R      F      H        R      F       M        R     F
Design Speed           30       40   60      40       65    80      50       80    80       60      80    96       70       90    100
(Km/Hr)
Width of
Pavement               6        6    6       6        6      6      7.3      7.3   7.3    7.3        7.3   7.3    7.3       7,3   7,3
Shoulder Width (m)   0.5        1.25 1.25   1.0       1.25  1.25   1.0       1.5   1.5    1.5        2.4   2.4    1.5       3.0   3.0
Total Width (m)        7.0      8.5  8.5    8.0       8.6   8.6    9.3        10.3  10.3   10.3    12.1  12.1   10.3    13.3  13.3                    1
Maximum Grade (X)    10         8    6       9        7      9      8        6      5       8        6     5       7        5     4                  w
Minimum Horizontal
Radius (m)             30       40   115    40        135   240    80        240   360    115        240   400    180       360   440
Stopping Sight
Distance (m)           30       40   65      40       85    95      55       95    115    65         95    125    80        115   145
Meeting Sight
Distance (m)           70       90   140    90        180   200    100       200   240    140        200   260    170       240   300
Key to Terrain:  H a Mountainous
R a Rolling
F = Flat
Source: Highway Authority



- 37 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3
PEOPLE'S DEOCRtATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Proposed Road Maintenance Program
1.      The objective of the program is to ir;!ement measures needed during
1986 to 1990 to preserve PDRY's 1871 km of paved roads (Attachment 1) and
to strengthen the road maintenance organization so that road maintenance
efforts will be continued on a regular and systematic basis thereafter.
2.      The program comprises routine maintenance, pavement reseals and
overlays. It is based on a study, including traffic and axle load surveys
and Benkelman beam deflection testing of selected road sections, carried
out by the technical assistance consultants under the Mhird Highway Project
and additional analysis done in the Bank using the Road Deterioration Model
(RDM SAS Al). A comparison of three alternative strategies 1/ for improved
maintenance showed that apart from ongoing works, pavement strengthening of
about 107 km of roads (including 5 km in Aden) which were built prior to
independence is overdue. Resurfacing of about 175 km vill be required up
to 1988 and another 360 km up to 1990. In addition, routine maintenance
needs to be improved to achieve the lowest total transport cost (comprising
the cost of periodic and routine maintenance and of vehicle operation).
The periodic maintenance requirements up to 1990 are sumuarized in Attach-
meat 2 to this Annex. The routine maintenance program and reseals has been
evaluated separately, comparing network deterioration under current and
improved maintenance practices (Attachment 3). The corresponding vehicle
operating costs on the network and the savings from improved maintenanCe
are shown in Attachment 4. There are no firm data for existing maintenance
expenditures. Using cost data prepared for the improved maintenance
program, the incremental resource requirements are estimated as follows:
Routine
Maintenance      Reseals       Total
YD million
1986          0.09           -            0.09
1987          0.21            1.94         2.15
1988          0.32           -             0.32
1989          0.41.           1.60         2.01
1990          0.41            1.34         1.75
I/ With help of the RDM, the overlay works were determined which are
required to maintain pavements of three levels of roughness (QI 40,
QI 50 and QI 65). Reseals were scheduled, whenever surface cracking
reaches 30X. Improved routine maintenance was assumed in all strategies.



- 38 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
3.       To carry out this maintenance program, the Highway Authority's
Maintenance Department needs to be reorganized and enlarged. From its
current asphalting resources, a new bitumen works unit would be formed,
which would have a similar status as the construction units and which
eventually could become part of by the proposed National Road Construction
Corporation. The Unit would carry out reseal and overlay work on a
contract basis. The new Maintenance Department would continue to be
responsible for all aspects of maintenance but execute only routine mainte-
nance. To do this effectively, initially three maintenance districts 1/
will be set up at Aden, Shuqra, and MNkalla - each headed by a district
engineer reporting to the Director of Maintenance - and the Planning
section at headquarters will be strengthened (Attachment 5). In planning
the physical side of the new organization, the consultants took account of
existing equipment suitable for maintenance and available workshop facili-
ties, including the items provided under IDA's Roads Flood Reconstruction
Project (Cr. 1295-YDR).
4.       In each district, there will be specialized crews for patching,
embankment, grading and structures. Their main functions would be:
-  patching crew:       pot hole patching, crack sealing, edge
ravelling repair, minor surfacing works, road
making.
-  grading crew:        grading shoulders, machine cleaning of drains
and cutting new drains.
-  embankment crew:     cleaning of drains and culverts, bridge
waterway cleaning, erosion control, minor
drainage improvements, placing and replacing
kilometer posts.
-  structures crew:     repair of bridges, culverts, other structures
and road furniture, repainting of bridge
rails, other exposed steel work, kilometer
posts and road signs, maintenance of camps
and depots.
The composition of crews in the districts varies in accordance with local
needs. Th-Q responsibilities of crews and their staff and equipment
requirements are su,uarized in Attachment 6. Excluding its meclanical
sections, the Maintenance Department will have an establishment of 374
staff and 136 equipment units. Productivity has been assumed at levels that
can be expected with reasonable work planning and management but will
initially not afford an optimum level of maintenance. However, improve-
ments are expected over tine as a result of a staff training program (Annex
II), better work organization and management, incentive pay schemes and
other measures planned.
1/ A fourth district will be added at Al Gheida when the road system is
extended to the eastern part of the country.



- 39 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
5.       The maintenance equipment requirements have been assessed on the
basis of the physical outputs needed in each district considering length,
condition, construction standards of roads and traffic levels. Bitumen hot
mix for patching can be purchased in Aden, Shuqra and Mukalla, small asphalt
plants will be used in other locations. About two-thirds of total mainte-
nance equipment requirements will have to be purchased new. A detailed
equipment list is shown in Attachment 7. Spare part requirements have been
estimated on the basis of 20Z of the value of existing equipment and 15% of
new equipment.
6.       The Mechanical Department's Central Workshop at Majdalla will
service and repair the maintenance equipment of Aden district and carry out
major repairs for other districts. District workshops at Shuqra and Riyan
(Mukalla) supplemented by depot workshops at Naqabah and km 200 (of the
Mukalla-Hadramawt road) will take care of most regional needs. Attach-
ment 8 summarizes the responsibilities of the different workshops and
related needs for staffing and for additional installations and equipment.
Estimated workshop equipment and tool requirements and costs are given in
the Attachment 9.
7.       Preliminary assessments of needed rehabilitation, additions and
new construction of workshops, camp facilities and worker accommodations
are given in Attachment 10. Except in isolated areas, accommodations have
been dimensioned for about half of the workforce, assuming the other half
would return home overnight. Layouts of camp sites and typical drawings
for building works (using local construction technology) are under prepara-
tion.
8.       To make the new organization work, effective comnunication between
the Maintenance Department Headquarters, the Districts and sub-districts
and the field units is essential. To this end, radio conimmication equip-
ment of the type which is presently being used successfully under IDA Roads
Flood Reconstruction Project (Cr. 1295-YDR) at Shuqra would also be provi-
ded to the other maintenance districts (Attachment 11). Additional equip-
ment is also needed to collect basic data for road maintenance planning.
Lastly, four small computers are required as implements for introducing
improved maintenance planning, cost accounting and spare parts management
systems. They would be selected in consideration of the experience gained
with computers already in use in the Ministry of Construction, availability
of servicing in the area and availability of compatible software appro-
priate for the Maintenance Department needs.
9.       An estimated 65 man-months of technical assistance is foreseen to
help with setting up the new maintenance organization, designing efficient
working procedures on roads and in the workshops and in producing appro-
priate planning and budgeting, cost accounting and control and equipment
and spare parts management systems. Draft terms of reference are in
Attachment 12.
10.      The capital cost of the Road Maintenance Program are summarized in
Attachment 13. The items included under the Fourth Highway Project are
identified in the Attachments.



- 40 -
ANNEX I
Attachment 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Roads Included In Maintenance Program
Aden (Caltex Junction) - Nobat Dukeim                             57.5 km
Nobat Dukeim - Yemen Arab Republic                                43.2 km
Sabir - Al What                                                    3.5 km
Lahej Town Road                                                    1.8 km
Nobat Dukeim - Habilain (from 1986 onward)                        34.7 km
Aden (Abyan Junction) Zinjibar                                    54.6 km
Ziujibar - Shuqra                                                46.4 km
Shuqra - Am Ayn                                                  60.7 km
Am Ayn - Km 250                                                   88.3 Km
Km 250 - Naqabah                                                 85.0 km
Naqabah - Km 450                                                 115.0 km
Km 450 - Mukalla                                                 188.5 km
Mukalla - Riyan Airport                                           35.1 km
Riyan Airport - Ash Sh;hr                                         28.5 km
Ash Sbihr - Sayhut (from 1986 onward)                            204.0 km
Nishtun - Tabut                                                   70.0 km
Zinjibar - Al Husn                                               20.4 km
Shuqra - Ahwar                                                   115.9 km
Am Ayn - Lawdar                                                   11.2 km
Naqabah - Nisab (from 1985 onward)                                72.0 km
As Said Branch (from 1985 onward)                                 20.0 km
Riyan - Al Qatn                                                 219.3 km
Al Qatn - Sayun                                                  43.5 km
Shuhair - Ghail Banazir                                           8.0 km
Aden Urban Roads                                                 210.0 km
Nukalla Urban Roads                                              22.0 km
TOTAL               1,871.1 km



- 41 -
ANNEX I
Attachment 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Periodic Road Maintenance Works Required 1986-1990
Section             km       1986    1987    1988    1989-90   Total
YD Million
A.  Overlays
1.  Interurban Roads
Aden-Alkod                9.7 1/   0.251                              0.251
Alkod-Zinjibar           10.9      0.236                              0.236
Shuqra-Am Ayn            60.7      1.246                              1.246
Zinjibar-Al Husn         20.4      1.000                              1.000
2. Aden-Urban Roads 2/       25.0      0.200   0.200   0.200   0.400      1.000
Total             126.7      3.933   0.200   0.200   0.400      4.733
B. Reseals
Am Ayn-Km 250            88.3              0.652                      0.652
Km 250-Naqabah           85.0              0.627                      0.627
Naqabah-Km 450          115.0                               0.849     0.849
Km 450-Mukalla          188.5                               1.414     1.414
Al Qatn-Sayun            43.5                               0.375     0.375
Km 44.7-Nobat Dukeim     12.8                .              0.117     0.117
533.1              1.279           2.755      4.034
1/ Overlay completed since appraisal.
2/ Urban sections not yet fully identified, investment cost and distribution
tentative.



- 42 -
ANNEX I
Attachment 3
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH IHIGHWAY PROJECT
rnter-Urban Road Network By Traffic and Roughness
With and Without Imoroved Road Maintenance Level
QI                       QI                       QI
Under 40                  40-49                   Over SO
Yecar    Traffic. AOT      Wm         w            WO          W              Q W                   IQtal
----------------------------------- km --- ----------------------------------
1987    Over 1000         173.0      201.5          -         31.3          49.0       17.7         250.5
5000-10000        71.7       103.9         11.2      11.2          288.8      228.1         343.2
Under 5000        207.5      207.5         29.      144.8          781.4      666.4       E.018.7
452.2      512.9         41.0      187.3       1.119.2      912.2        1.612.4
1988    Over 1000         201.5      201.5          -        92.0          103.8       72.5         366.0
5000-10000        43.2       216.5          -        11.2          245.2        -           227.7
Under 5000        207.5       207.5        29.8      29.8          781.4      781.4       1.018.7
452.2      625.5         29.8      133.0       1,130.4      853.9       1.612.4
1989    Over 1000         244.7      244.7          -         23.9         103.8       79.9         348.5
SO0-10000          -        173.3          -        71.9          245.2        -           24S.2
Under 5000       227.5      ,207.5        2.a       29.8          781.4     781.4        1.018.7
452.2      625.5         29.8     125.6        1.130.4      861.3       1.612.4
1990    Over 1000         244.7      244.7          -        23.9          103.8       79.9         348.5
5OOO-10000                   173.3          -        71.9          245.2                    245.2
Under 5000        207.S      207.          29.8      29.8          781.4     781.4        1.018.7
452.2      625.5         29.8     125.6        1.130.4      861.3       1.612.4
Note: No overlays included.



- 43 -
ANNE I
Attachment 4
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGRNAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs Over Aden Road Network
With and Without Improved Road Maintenance Level
(YD millicmi)
Good          Fair           Bad
Year                     QI to 39       QI 40-49     QI over 50      Total
1987     Without           66.613         1.994         82.737      151.344
With              72.483       17.234          59.766      149.483
Savings                                                     1.861
1988     Without           80.831        0.658         104.730      186.219
With             104.665       19.801         59.016       183.482
Savings                                                     2.737
1989     Without           96.601        0.777         122.655      220.033
With             123.363       20.481          71.966      215.810
Savings                                                     4.223
1990     Without           105.681       5.803          141.908     252.582
With             169.022       26.360          52.403      247.785
Savings                                                     4.797
Note: ?io overlays included.



PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                        pLATE 5.2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT                                            REVEED 1.121984
Highway AuthoIty
Maintenance DMsion
Proposed Organization
DIRECTOR OF
MAINENANCE
PLFtANNING &   |             i      ADEN      |                      IQ(A                            MXALLA                          AL GIEIDA
ESTIMATING UNIT                     DISTRICT                         DISTRICT                         DISTRCT                           DIST17CT
-Plannlng                           Patching Crew                 -DIstrict Workshop               -District Work9opw                 To be plannd
-Estimating                         (Aden)                           (Shuqra)                         (Jalrasa/Rivon)                 about 1990
-Cotirg                        -Roadside & Grading Crew         -Embankment & Grafding Crew      -PatchiNrg Crew
(Aden)                          (Shruqro)                         (Mukalla)
Traffic SStur Crew                                                PathinCe                          tructure C
Workshop                        Structures Crew                 -Potching Crew                   -Stnuctures Cre
(Aden)                          (Shuqra)                         (Mukalb)
Road Marking Crew             -Structures Crew                 -Embanlknent & Groding Crew
(Aden)                           (Shuqra)                         (Elr/AJI/Mukolaa)
*    Embonkmrent & Grading Crew       Embanrkment & Grading Crew       Patching Crew
(Nobot Dukelm)                   (Naqaboh)                       (Km 200)
* -Patching Crew                      Patching Crew                 -Embonkment & Grading Crew
(Nobot Dukelm)                   (Noqoboh)                        (Km 200)
*    Sub Camp                         Depot Workshop                -Depot Workshop
(Nobt Dukeim)                    (Naqaboh)                       (km 200)
Emboaruent & Groding Crew
(Savhut 1986)
PatcNng Crew
(Soyhut 1986)
* At Aquon to 1986
rt
WorldBonk-27433                        t



- 45 -
ANNEX I
Attachment 6
Page 1 of 3
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Proposed Road Maintenance Establishment
Required   Required No.
No. of    of Equipment
Organizational Unit              Task Sunmary               Staff       Units
1.  Maintenance        Coordination of:
Division H.Q.         (i) programs and budgets;         25            4
(ii) cost-acc. and cost
control procedures; and
(iii) procurement and recruit-
ment;
and provision of traffic signs      _
Sub-total                 25            4
2. Aden District
2.1 District H.Q.      - Plan & monitor implementation    25             13
of maintenance program for
394.4 km of road
- Manage district equipment pool
2.2 Crews based at
Aden
Patching           Cover 253.7 km                       14            6
Roadside and
grading            Cover 210 km                         17            5
Structures         Cover about 140 structures           17            5
and urban street drainage
Road Marking       Cover 394.4 km                        5            2
2.3 Crews based at
Nobat Dukeim
Subcamp
Patching           Cover 140.7 km                       17 1/         6
Embankment and
grading            Cover 140.7 km                       17            6
Sub-total                112           43
1/ Includes Guard of Nobat-Dukeim subcamp.



- 46 -
ANNEX I
Attachment 6
Page 2 of 3
Required   Required No.
No. of    of Equipment
Organizational Unit             Task Summary               Staff       Units
3.  Shuqra District
3.1 District H.Q.     - Plan and monitor implement-        24           10
ation of maintenance p:-ogram
for 645.8 km of road
- Manage district equipment pool
3.2 Crews based at
Shugra
Patching          Cover 266 km                         15            6
and road marking of 646 km
Embankment and
grading           Cover about 323 km                   15            5
Structures        Cover about                          15            4
1200 structures
3.3 Crews based at
Nagabah Subcamp
Patching          Cover 380 km                         18            7
Embankment and
grading           Cover about 323 km                   15            5
Sub-total                102            37
4. Mukalla District
4.1 District H.Q.     -Plan and monitor                    25           11
implementation of maintenance
program for 830.9 km 2 ' road
Manage district equipment pool
4.2 Crews based at
Mukalla
Patching          Cover 282 km of road                 17            7
and road marking of 811 km
Embankment and
grading           Cover 260 km of road                 18            7
including sand dunes in
Bir Ali area
Structures        Cover about 900 structures           15            4
4.3 Crews based at
km 200 subcamp
Patching          Cover 325 km of road                 15            6
Embankment
and grading       Cover 325 km of road                 15            5



- 47 -
ANNEX I
Attachment 6
Page 3 of 3
Required   Required No.
No. of    of Equipment
Organizational Unit                Task Sunmary             Staff        Units
4.4 Crews based at
Sayhut Subcamp
Patching            Cover 204 km of road                13  '          6
Embankment and
grading             Cover 204 km of road                17             6
Sub-total               135           52
TOTAL                   374          136
2/  Includes Nishtun-Tabut road (20 km) whose maintenance will be directed
from Mukalla.
3/ Includes Guard of Sayhut subcamp.



- 48 -
ANNEX I
Attachment 7
PEOPLE' S DEMOCRATrC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOWURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road maintenance Eouipm=nt Requirements
Require-   Defi-      Phase I    Unit
Description              Available      ent       cieno    Purchuses   Caos        Total       Total
Y    ----           (US$)
Passenger Car                       4   (3)          4         0
Pick-Up (Quarter Ton)               4   (3)         25        21          10      1800    18.000       52.200
Service Truck                       2   (2)          3         1           1      15.000    15,000      43.500
Compressor (160 c.f.m.)             2   (2)          4         2           1       3.000     3.000       8.700
Tipper 6 tonne                      9   (9)         13         4
Dropside Truck 6 Tonne              0               1S        is           6       6.000    36.000    104.400
Front-End Loader 1 Cubic Meter    3   (2)            3         0
Bitumen Heater 200 Liter            0                7         7
Asphalt Plant 1SO Kilo              3   (3)          7         4
Concrete Mixer 150 Liter            0                3         3
Poker Vibrator                      3   (3)          3         0
Grader 12 tonnes                    3   (3)          7         4
Wheel Tractor. Heavy Duty           1                 2        1
Water Bowser 6000 Liter             2   (2)          7         5
Fuel Tanker 4000 Liter              3   (3)          3         0
Vibrating Roller. Dual 4-5 Ton    0                  5         5
Vibrating Roller. Pedestrian Op.  I   (1)            7         6
Low-Loader 40 Tonne Cap.            1   (1)          2         1
Rescue Vehicle. Sus. Tow. 8 Ton   0                  2         2           1      22.000    22.000      63.800
Under Bridge Inspection Vehicle   0                   1        1           1      28.000    28.000      81.200
Mechanical Ramner                   0                7         7           7         700     4.900      14.210
Sludge Pump 4-inch                  0                3         3           3         800     2.400       6.960
Road Marker. Pedestrian Op.         0                3         3           3       2.400     7,200      20.880
Generator 250 kVA                   2   (1)          2         0
Generator  10 kVA                   0                6         6           6       1.500     9.000      26.100
Hand Tools                         _      _        -   =      -3           -         _        3.600     1l044
Sub-Total               43  (383        144       101          39                149.500    423.390
Spare Parts I/                                                                                         104.98Q
Estimate of Phase I purchase                                                               185.300    S37.370
1/ Additional spare parts for existing and new equipment are to be provided as part of Phase II.
Note: Items in brackets represent equipment to be made available from Shuqra Road Reconstruction
and Maintenance Project.



0                                       - ~~~~~~~~~~49 
-49-                        ~~~~~~MNEX I
Attachment 8
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRATSAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Pronosed EouinRent Maintenance
Required    Additional Equipment
No. of      and Installations
Organizational Unit              Task                    .Staff             Needed
A. Mechanical Dtv.
majdallah Central       Service and maintain 47 units    fully        Building repairs;
Workshop in Aden        of Aden district; repair and      staffed     additional tools;
overhaul road maintenance                    repair and testing
fleet of 136 units                           equipment; vehicle lifts
B. Road Maintenance
Division
1l Shuqra district
Ci) Shuqra workshop    Service 25 units stationed          19        Ramp drainage system;
at Shuqra and maintain all                   1 pick-up; 1 service
37 units of the district                     truck: generator ZSO KVA
(ii) naqabah depot      Service 12 units stationed          9         New depot work shop;
workshop           in subdistrict                                tools. service and
testing equipment.
air compressor;
1 pick-up; 1 generator
to KVA
2- mukalla District
Ci) Riyan workshop     Service 41 units stationed         20        Workshop rehabilitation;
at Hukalla and Sayhut and                    tools. maintenance and
maintain all S2 units in the                 testing equipment. air
district                                     compressor. forklift
truck; I pick up;
I service truck;
I low loader:
I generator 250 KVA
(ii) Km 200 subcamp     Service 11 units                    9        New depot workshop;
in subdistrict                               tools. service and
testing equipment; air
compressor.
generator 10 KVA



PEOPLE'S OEMOCRATIC REPUBLrC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Workshop Eauioment and Tool Rehuirements and Costs 1/
Maidalla                  Nanabah                     kml 200
Description                       Central        Sbuara      Depot        RBian          Depot
Workshop     Workshop    Workshop      Workshop      Workshop    Tcta1      To
----~~~~~~~- ------------   YO  ------------------            US$
Oil and Grease Dispensing Equipment        (2)  3.000                 (1) 1,500   (2)  3.000    (1) 1.500    9.000    26.100
Air Compressor 100 cfm                     (2)  3,000                 (1) 1,500                   (1) 1l500    6,000    17,400
Air Compressor 200 cfm                                                             (1)  2,500                  2,500      7,250
Floor-Mounted Tools for Tyre Changing    (l)  5.000                                (1)  3,000                  8,000    23,200
Hand or Air Tools for Tyre Changing                                   (1) 1,000                   (1) 1,000    2,000      5,800
Welding Equipment                                                                  (1)  4,000                  4,000    11,600
Machine Tools                                                         (1) 2,000   (2)  6,000    (1) 2,000    9,000    26,100
Washing Lquipment for Vehicles                                                     (1)  1,000                  1,000      2.900
Starter and Generator Test Bench           (1)  4,500                                                          4,500    13,050
Hand-Held Electrical Test Equip.           (1)    500                 (1)   500   (1)    500    (1)   500    2,000        5,800
Battery Charging Equipment                                            (1) 1,000                   (1) 1,000    2,000      5,800                V
4vdraulic Hose Repair Equipment            (1)  1,600                              (1)  1,600                  3,200      9,280                0
Hydraulic Test Gear                        (1)  1,000                              (1)  1,000                  2,000      5,800                 I
Injector Nozzle Test Equipment                                        (1)   200   (1)    200    (1)   200        600      1,740
Four-Post Hydraulic Vehicle Lift
10-Tons Capacity                         (2) 10,000                                                         10,000    29,000
Hand Tools for Mechanics (Kits)                                       (1)   300   (3)    900    (1)   300    1,500        4,350
Fork-Lift Truck 2/                                                                 (1)  7,600                  7,500    21,750
Ramp Drainage System                                     (1) 1,500                                             1,500      4,350
Stores Shelving                                                       (1) 2,900                                2.900      8,410
Workshop Fittings                                                     (1) .li.A    (1)  1 50Q    (1) LIQ.Q    4 500    13 060
Total                                28600        150          12400         31700 7.04     850      3L700   242L730
I/ To be purchased during Phase I.
2/ To be procured together with Road Maintenance Equipment,
Note: Figures in bracket indicate number of units or items.
Ft1
D0



PEOPLES Oi.3DT   IIPllLIc 01 YEMEU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGIUAY PROJECT
Workshops and Camna Conqtruction Cost Estimatag 1/
Hajdalla       Aden      Nobat-       Shuqra
Rate       Central    District   Oukeim    District   Naqabah    Riyan              Bir Ali   Sayhut   Km 200
Quantity    fiLm         Workshoc    HLO          sukfm   O       0       SuHnO     Worksho        kenaL    DBaL    Sukum              Ial 1
Office                        10 ml          160                      8,000 (so m')                        11600                   1.600     1,600                  12,800
Tool Store                   lO ml           110                                                           1,100                   lo100      l,lOO                  3,300
Oil Store                     10 m2          110                                                           l310                    ,llOO100 1,1                      3,300
Elevated Fuel Tanks           L.S.                                                                         4.500                   4,500    4,500                   13.600
Chain-Link Fencing
For Fuel Orum Compound    40 m                30                      1,200                                1,200                   1,200     1.200                   4,800
Open-Sided 3-Bay Garage   50 m2              100                                                           5,000                   5,000    5,000                    5l.OO
Grease Ramp                   20 mg           80                                                           1,600                   1,600     1,600                   4,800 S
Toilets                       5 m2           160                                                             800                     800       800                   2,400      Q
Watchman's Hut                S m2           160                        800                                  800                     800       800                   3,200       -
Depot Workshop                40 m2          150                                                           6,000                                        6,000       12,000       1
Rehabilitation                L.S,                     J.Ji                       -                      -           2oo000 _      ff  -      -000
Sub-total                                         50,000       10,000                               23,700    29,000        17,700   17,700        6,000     154,100
2. Ace  mnodatinn
Foreman's House               50 m2          160                                                          8,000                   8,000    8,000        6,000 1/  30,000
Accom. for 17 men             340 m2         150                                  51,000                                                    51,000                 102,000
Accom. for 22 men             440 m2         150                                                                                 66,000                             66,000
Accomn. for 30 men            540 m2 Z/    100 2/                                                                                                      l4,000       54,000
Accom. for 34 men            680 m2          150                                                        102,000                                                    102 000
Accom. for 50 men             1000 m2        100 Z/        -OO -                    -.        ,,-                                                                  102,000
Sub-total                       -            -     51,000   100,000       110,000            -     74,000   69,000    60,000    454.000
TOTAL                     50,000       10,000      51,000   100,000       133,700    29,000        91,700   76,700    66,000    608,100
2=====5     22=Zzz       staxU2a   Mason==      SUU3UUs *uu-US           =ZonMa   xxJIg3 *-s-3u    sa==-   
l/  All building works are to be carried out as part of Phase I.
2/ To be located on Majdalla compound.
I/  Space requirement per man or rate per mi reduced in view of existing services.
jH
nt
0



- 52 -
ANNEX I
Attachment 11
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Maintenance Management Equipment Needed 1/
Description                               Total cost 2/
YD
A.  4 personal computers including
software and setting up costs and
initial training.                                     33,000
B.  Conunmications equipment consisting of:
2 Base sets
5 Satellite sets
1 Satellite set
3 Car mounted sets                              14,000
C.   Maintenance planning equipment
consisting of:
8 traffic counters
1 bump integrator                               15,000
2 weigh bridges
Total            62,000
I/ To be purchased under Phase I.
2/ Sea or airfreight included.



- 53 -
ANNEX I
Attachment 12
Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance for Implementing
Five-Year Road Maintenance Program
Draft Scope of Work
A. Highway Maintenance Division
1.       The Consultant shall advise and assist the Highway Authority in:
*      (a)  establishing the improved Highway Maintenance Organization
within the Authority with reference to the recommendations of
the Maintenance Study Reports;
*      (b)  establishing and implementing improved procedures and guidelines
for planning and management of highway maintenance activities,
including programming, budget preparations, technical control,
road marking and traffic signing;
**     (c)  coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the mainte-
nance program throughout the Districts;
* **   (d)  setting up and supervising cost accounting and control systems
for all items of work, which are to be carried out under the
maintenance program, including asphalt overlay and surface
treatments;
*  **  (e)  establishing and implementing in the Districts the setting up of
appropriate work targets to be achieved and develop an incentive
pay scheme to improve efficiency and economy in the execution of
maintenance works;
*  *-  (f)  establishing and implementing safety precaution procedures for
maintenance and traffic control crews;
* **  (g)  establishing and implementing improved procedures and guidelines
for allocation and utilization of maintenance staff, equipment,
vehicles, materials etc.;
*   Denotes task under Phase I
** Denotes task under Phase II.



- 54 -
ANNEX I
Attachment 12
Page 2 of 2
*  **  (h)  establishing and implementing a system for monitoring the condi-
tion of the road network (roughness, cracking, deflection, etc.)
on a regular basis for planning of maintenance activities;
*      (i)  developing a highway maintenance manual appropriate for the
local conditions and activities, incorporating the improved
procedures, guideline , etc. developed during the Services.
B. Equipment and Vehicle Maintenance
2.       The Consultant shall advise and assist the Highway Atthority in:
*      (a)  establishing and implementing improved procedures and guidelines
for planning and management of the mechanical maintenance
activities for equipment and vehicles used by the Highway
Maintenance Division, including preparation of guidelines for
workshop operating procedures and programs for planned inspec-
tion and maintenance of plant equipment and vehicles;
**     (b)  coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the procedures
and guidelines in the District workshops;
-      (c)  finalize workshop requirements, including workshop equipment and
tools;
*      5d)  finalize criteria and procedures for procurement, replacement
and write-off of equipment and vehicles;
-      (e)  establishing and implementing a computerized spare parts manage-
ment system using suitable standards software;
*      (f)  reviewing stock holdings and procedures for procurement and
write-off of spare parts, wear parts and consumables;
*      (g)  establish and implement a comprehensive system for inspecting
new maintenance equipment and vehicles at the point of delivery
as to condition and conformity with the Procurement Specifica-
tions and issue guidelines for approving or rejecting the
acceptance of the Dealers' deliveries;
*      (h)  establish and implement a job cost accounting system for each
maintenance camp (Aden, Shuqra, Mukalla) their operational costs
as well as related to unit costs of performing each maintenance
activity including management monitoring and reporting proce-
dures and systems;
C. Training Section
3.       The Consultant shall Coordinate with the Staff Training Team with
particular regard to the technical and skills requirements of the Highway
Maintenance Personnel.



- 55 -
ANNEX I
Attachment 13
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Sumnary of Capital Cost of Road Maintenance Pro&ram
Five-Year Program            Phase I
Foreign     Local      Total        Total
'000 US$
1. Periodic Road Maintenance
(a) AC Overlays (126 km)            3,981       9,745     13,726
(b) Resurfacing (533 km)            3,393       8,306     11,699
Cc) Roadside furniture                290          70        360
Subtotal (1)                    7,664      18,121     25,785
2. Equipment & Spare Parts for:
(a) Road Maintenance                2,261          70      2,331         560
(b) Workshops & Depots                233          10        243          220
(c) maintenance Management
Equipment                         200           -        200          200
Subtotal (2)                    2,694          80      2,774          980
3. Construction & Rehab. of:
(a) Workshops and Depots              290         170        460         460
(b) Staff Accommodation               840         470      1,310        1,310
Subtotal (3)                    1,130         640      1,770       1,770
4. Technical Assistance for
(a) Three year training program     1,293         548      1,841          320
(b) Setting up highway
maintenance organization         584        207        791          330
(c) Road User Charge Study             80          20        100          100
Subtotal (4)                    1,957         775      2,732          750
TOTAL                           13,445     19,616     33,641        3,500



- 56 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Proposed TraininR Progran
1.       The objective of the three-year (1986-1988) training program is to
strengthen the institutional capability of MOC/HA to prepare, implement, and
supervise training programs to improve the skills and knowledge of HA mainte-
nance personnel at all levels. The program is designed for the training of
some 400 maintenance engineers, road supervisors, foremen and overseers,
equipment operators, tipper drivers, mechanics, storekeepers, and accountants
engaged in maintenance and rehabilitation activities (Attachment 3). The
training program includes: (i) the setting up of a Training Steering
Couittee; (ii) the strengthening and expansion of MOC/HA existing training
organization; (iii) the setting up of a mobile Road Training Production Unit
(RPTU) for the training of road supervisors, equipment operators, and drivers;
(iv) the setting up of mobile Mechanical Training Production Unit (MTPU) for
the training of mechanical personnel; (v) the purchasing of training equipment
and materials; (vi) the training of KA counterparts and instructors; (vii) the
organization of periodic workshops on training and maintenance management and
related topics; (viii) the limited rehabilitation of the VTC and HA training
center; and (ix) fellowships training abroad for selected MOC/HA staff.
2.       Training of road supervisors, equipment operators, and tipper drivers
would be carried out mostly iD the field by adopting a system of training
through production. An RTPU, staffed with instructors/technicians would be
established to conduct training in the various districts in order of priority
while. at the same time, carrying out maintenance/rehabilitation operations on
selected road sections within HA's annual maintenance program. The RTPU would
use road maintenance equipment assigned to the specific districts. The
trainees assigned to the RTPU would be trained to a large extent under actual
working conditions.
3.       Training of mechanics would be conducted mostly by a mobile MTPU at
Majdalla, Shuqra, and Mukalla's workshops. In addition to general theoretical
courses, the training of mechanical staff would concentrate on the repairs of
road maintenance equipment under the supervision of experience mechanical
instructors, thus enhancing HA's equipment maintenance capabilities and
raising the level of equipment availability. HA would be required to provide
adequate spare parts for the training of mechanics throughout the duration of
the program.
4.       The existing KA training building in Ataq will be "moved" to Aden and
is expected to be used inter alia for the theoretical training of road/
equipment maintenance personnel. The idea of using the VTC for training of HA



- 57 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
staff seems impractical because of (i) the nature of the center, and (ii) the
fact that existing resources are not geared to the somewhat higher level of
experience of HA personnel. Nonetheless, limited physical and technical
improvements of the VTC would strengthen its effectiveness.
5.       Training equipment and materials would also be provided under the
project. All the training activities would be coordinated by a new Training
Division (within MOC's Department of Cadres) which would be assisted on a
full-time basis by an expatriate training adviser and six specialists/instruc-
tors during the first two years of the program. The costing of expatriate
specialists/instructors has been bastA on the assumption that they would be
recruited from Arabic-speaking or Part i' countries. HA would assign counter-
parts to these staff, as well as technician- and assistant instructors.  They
would work closely with the expatriate personxel and be expected to take over
from the third year (1988) onward and manage tivining activities directly. If
a consulting firm cannot be found to provide tecinical assistance for
training, individual specialists would be sought through government-to-
government assistance.
6.       MOC/HA technical assistance will provide a variety of short-term
training services as indicated in their terms of reference. Training of
cost-clerks (accountants) would be carried out under the guidance of the
accountant included in the technical assistance services to the Highway
Authority.
7.       Terms of reference for training assistance, cost estimates for the
training program, and estimated list of HA personnel to be trained are
provided in Attachments 1, 2, and 3 respectively.



- 58 -
ANNEX II
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 6
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
In Training Road and Equipment Maintenance Personnel
I. Introduction
1.       The Three-Year program aims at training and upgrading of road/equip-
ment maintenance personnel at,all levels. This program represents the
start-up of continuing training activities to be carried out by the Ministry
of Construction (MOC)/Highway Authority (HA).
2.       The training program includes:  (i) establishment up of a Training
Steering Committee (TSC) and issuance of a policy statement on training;
(ii) strengthening of MOC/HA's Training structure; (iii) establishment of a
Road Training Production Unit (RTPU) for training of road supervisors and
equipment operators/drivers; (iv) establishment of a Mechanical Training
Production Unit (MTPU) for the training of mechanical personnel; (v) purchase
of training equipment and materials; (vi) training of counterparts and
instructors; (vii) organization of periodic seminars and other special
courses for middle-and high-level maintenance staff; (viii) the limited
rehabilitation of the BTC and the HA training center; and (ix) training
fellowships abroad, international seminars, conferences for selected MOC/HA
staff.
3.       For practical purposes, the technical assistance services will be
divided into two phases in such manner that it would enable ti) all actions
related to the preparation of a three-year training program to be carried out
under Phase I; and (ii) all actions related to the implementation and
evaluation of training to be carried out under Phase II.
II. Obiectives
4.       The objectives of the technical assistance services for training are
to:
(a) strengthen and expand the training assistance in MOC's Cadres
Department;
(b) prepare job descriptions for the principal categories and
functions of HA's road and equipment maintenance personnel;
(c) design and implement a three-year training program aimed at
producing qualified personnel required to carry out road
maintenance operations; and



- 59 -
ANNEX II
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 6
(d) determine training courses and programs which can be conducted
by or with the help of other educational/training institutions
in the country and ensure their implementation.
III. Scope and Services
A. General
5.       The Technical Assistance team will consist of:
(a) a training adviser responsible for designing the training
program, supervising its implementation, and upgrading the
staff of the training Division in MOC's Cadres Department;
(b) one road superintendent (Chief of RTPU), one road maintenance
instructor, one road equipment operator/instructor, and one
tipper truck instructor to be provided by HA;
(c) one mechanical superintendent (Chief of the MTPU) and one
mechanical instructor (diesel/gasoline); and
(d) one personnel specialist to prepare job descriptions.
6.       The training adviser will be responsible for all aspects of the
training program. He will coordinate and supervise the work of other
training specialists/instructors with HA senior staff responsible for road
muaintenance in the Districts and will be accountable to the HA's Director
General. The functional character of this program will require that the aims
relating to the number of personnel trained for different job categories be
in consonance with current and future needs of the road/equipment maintenance
operations set by HA. The degree of accomplishment of the training program
will depend upon thorough coordination of the Training Division's RTPUs and
MTPU's activities with the HA engineers/technicians responsible for road
maintenance and workshops to ensure that sections of roads are properly
selected and equipment and spare parts are available when trainees attend
productive road/equipment training courses.
Phase I. (22 weeks)
B. Expansion of existing Training Organization and Physical Training
Facilities
7.       After reviewing training activities and studies recently carried out
by MOC/HA's previous consultants, the training adviser will:
(a)  assist MOC/HA in setting up a Training Steering Committee
(TSC)consisting of a selected small group of executives whose
main functions would be to define training policies, determine
the areas of training, and assist in programming the implemen-
tation of the objectives of training activities, as required;



-60 -                        ANNEX II
Attachment I
Page 3 of 6
(b) assist MOC/IA in preparing a policy statement on training and
upgrading the existing training organization to enable it to
plan, implement, supervise, and evaluate all training
activities;
(c) supervise the work of the personnel specialist in charge of
preparing job descriptions for main categories of road/equip-
ment RA maintenance personnel;
(d) refine (i) the inventory of all relevant staff to be involved
witb road maintenance, broken down by categories and levels,
headquarters and field offices; and (ii) the forecasts of
additional staff likely to be required in the following four to
five years; and
(e) review VTC and HA physical training facilities and those where
training of mechanical personnel is expected to take place
(Majdalla, Shuqra and Mukalla workshops) and recommend improve-
ments if any.
C. Training Program
8.       Upon completion of the review under paragraph 7, expected to take
about 10 to 12 weeks, 1/ the training adviser will prepare a detailed program
to meet the training needs of HA maintenance personnel and will:
inter alia:
(a) assess the capability of existing maintenance personnel and
determine additional skills and knowledge required;
(b) agree with HA on a list of personnel requiring training and
upgrading under a three-year program. This list should be
broken down by district, category/level, year, and priority;
(c) develop a phased program for different categories and levels of
personnel, taking into consideration HA's manpower requirements
and budgetary constraints. The program could be presented
along the following lines:
ti)   a two-year Priority Program to start as soon as resources
become available; and
(ii)  a one-year Regular Program which would follow and
consolidate action taken during the Priority Program, and
which would be continued by HA on an annual basis;
1/ Preparation of job descriptions may take up to four months.



- 61 -
ANNEX II
Attachment 1
Page 4 of 6
(d) set up a mobile Road Training Production Unit (RTPU) to operate
along selected roads in the districts and a mobile Mechanical
Training Production Unit (MPTU) to work at the Workshops of
Majdalla, Shuqra, and Mukalla for productive training of road
foremen, operators, drivers, and mechanical personnel;
(e) determine the numbers and categories of HA instructors required
and set up criteria for their selection and plans for their
training bearing in mind that they would have to carry out most
of the training activities starting the third year of the
program;
(f) determine training equipment and materials required, relevant
courses, especially audio-visual aids and assist with their
preparation and/or purchase;
(g) determine training courses/programs to be carried out by
"others" (and manufacturers/suppliers, including other centers
in the Arab Region) and, provided they fit into the overall
agreed program, ensure their implementation;
(h) set up a monitoring system to assess courses while they are
being carried out, as well as follow-up quality control to be
conducted jointly by the Training Division/Section and line
supervisors. Design an evaluation system, including specific
indicators, to determine whether the training program
objectives set in terms of expected outputs, effects, and
impact have been met;
(i) recommend any other action considered necessary for the satis-
factory implementation of training; and
(j) review foreign and local cost of training program and estimate
annual recurrent expenditures for implementation of training,
including payment of per-diem (incentive) for trainees and HA
instructors.
Phase II (134 weeks)
D. Implementation of the Training Program
9.       Following MOC/HA's agreement on the training program which should be
prepared within ten weeks, the training adviser will:
(a) assist in implementing the agreed phased program and, at the
same time, ensure training of HA's counterparts and instructors;
(b) organize and supervise training program carried out by "others;"



- 62 -
ANNEX II
Attachment 1
Page 5 of 6
(c) carry out periodic workshops/seminars on training and, more
specifically, on maintenance management and related topics.
Headquarters senior staff, district engineers, and other field
supervisors are expected to participate in these seminars; and
(d) carry out any other action considered necessary for the
satisfactory implementation of training.
IV Schedule for ReportinR
10.      The training adviser will be responsible for preparing the following
reports (in English) within the time limits specified:
(a) a short inception report within three months of the starting
date, detailing training needs arid recommendations for a
three-year program to meet th-se needs, including resources
required to implement program. The report will contain a
concise first chapter summarizing the contents and recommenda-
tions;
(b) quarterly progress reports, issued within ten days of the end
of each quarter, describing the work carried out during the
previous three months; the progress reports will identify
actual and anticipated difficulties and delays in implementing
the training program and recomend remedies;
Cc) two months prior to the completion of his services, a draft
final evaluation report will be prepared to assess the training
program. The report should include (i) the extent to which
MOC/HA has achieved its objectives in terms of quantity and
quality of trained personnel, and (ii) the results obtained in
relation to the amount of funds invested for training. It
should also include (iii) the actual work program; (iv)
progress made; (v)initial benefits from the training program;
(vi) areas where progress has been unsatisfactory; and (vii)
recommendations for further action; and
(d) a final evaluation report within one month of receipt of
coments on the draft final report from MOC/HA.
Three copies of all reports will be sent by MOC to the Association with
comments within ten days of receipt.
V. MOC/HA Contribution
11.      MOC will be responsible for administe :ng the training program and
will make necessary arrangements for training of HA staff. In particular MOC
will:



- 63 -
ANNEX II
Attachment I
Page 6 of 6
(a) ensure that the Chief of the Training Section/Division will act
as counterpart to the training adviser and provide at least
five technicians as counterparts to the other expatriate
training specialist/instructors;
(b) make adequate arrangements for the selection of suitable staff
(4 to 6) to be trained and assigned to the Training
Section/Division and technicians (6 to 8) to be trained as
instructors. Actual number and categories will be determined
at the end of Phase I of the program;
(c) make adequate arrangements for releasing existing and future HA
staff, in a timely manner, to attend agreed training courses;
(d) provide hostel, classroom, and workshop facilities for
road/equipment persotnel expected to be trained;
(e) provide training equipment and materials and spare parts as
required for implementation of the training program; and
(f) provide annual fuads and any other resources required for the
implementation of the agreed training program.



- 64 -
Annex 1
AttaCtNntn 2
Page 1 of 4
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEHEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimuated Cost of Three-Year Training Program
Estimated Cost
DescripatiSon                            Local      Foreign         Total
_______-YO-- ----
A. Capital Costs
A.]. CrVrL WJORKS
(a)  Relocating Ataq Training Building            (1.000)       4.000         5.000
to VTC in Aden
(b) Limited rehabilitation of VTC
facilities including:
Ci)  More adequate Kitchen/Cafeteria        2.500        7.SOO        10.000
(ii)  Small Hostel with sanitary
facilities for 25 HA trainees.
200 mz at 130 per mZ                   9.400       16.600       26.000
iiii)  Library. 80mZ at 130 per e2            3.800        6.600        10.400
(iv)  Seminar/Conference Room 100l             Z 4-700    8-30Q        13,000
Subtotal              21.400        43.000       64,400
A2.  TRAINING EOUIPMEWT AND MATERIALS
(a)  Road Maintenance Euoiiment V/
1 Grader
I Front - End Loader
1 Small Roller
I Asphalt Distributor
1 Asphalt Heater
1 Uater Truck
3 Dup Trucks
I Dozer                                         -       (175.000)    (175.000)
(b)  Workshop equipment (Majdalla. Shuqra
Ipkalla)                                        -         31.000        31.000
0i)   Mechanical Toolt                          -          5.200         5.200
(ii) mobil Workshop (Truck)                     -         24.100        24,100
(c)  Spare Parts for Training of Mechanics Z/        -         (25,900)     (25.900)
(d)  Audio- Visual Training Aids                     -          8.600         8.600
(e)  Technical Books/Publications                   -_3.400                   3-400
Subtotal                    -         72,300       72.300
1/ To be provided by the Road Maintenance Districts.
Zf To be provided by Highway Authority.



- 65 -
Annex II
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 4
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Three-Year Training Program
Estimated Cost
Description                              Local      Forei1n         Total
---- - --------YuD-------------
A.3. TRAINING SPECIALISTWSINSTRUCTORS
(a) Expatriate 1/
1  Training Adviser. 24 months                    21.600      70.400       92.000
1  Chief of RTPU. 12 months                        8.400      26.900       35.300
1  Road Maintenance Instructor. 12 months          8.400      22.800       31.200
1   Senior Mechanical Instructor. 24 months       16.800      53.800       70.600
1  Mechanical instructor. 12 months                8.400      22.800       31.200
1  Equipment Operator. instructor. 12 months       8.400      22.800       31.200
1 Personnel Specialist (job-descriptions)
4 months                                       2.800       9.000       11.800
1 Pedagogical Specialist (Train/Trainers)
2 months                                      1400        312 000Z
Subtotal             71.200     232.300      308.500
(b) MOlHA Z/
6 Counterparts to above expatriates
staff (except Personnel and Pedagogical
Specialists)
8 to 10 suitable technicians graduates
graduates to be trained as instructors
4 to S Road Senior Instructor
2 Senior Mechanical Instructors
I to 2 Equipment Operators Senior
Instructor
1 Dump Truck Senior Instructor
Subtotal            (75.000)        -        (75.000)
(c)  OTHERs
(t) Management Institute in Aden
1 - 6 months courses in adm. &
management for 4 HA staff at
5.00 per day                             1.440        -           1.440
(ti) Manufacturers/Suppliers
Short technical orientation courses        -          -             -
Subtotal              1.440         -          1.440
IS 15 man-months of expert time has been proviaed under Phase I.
Z/ To be financed under MOC's recurrent budget (pl. In Part B.)



- 66 -
Annex II
AltacMnt 2
Page 3 of 4
PEOPLE'S DEHOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
% FOURTH HIGHWkY PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Three-Year Training Program
Estimated Cost
Description                                 Local      Foreign         Tota
--YD---------
A4.  TA2QUrUv
3 Vehicles. at US$ 11,000 each                           -           11,400      11.400
3  Trainees' Buses (26 seats) at US$21.000 each          -           21.700     2Z1700
AS.   TRAINING ABRD (FELLOWSHIPS)
(a)  Short courses (3months for 6 roads and 2
mechanical engineers at US$ 12.000 per
person (including US$ 1.500 for fee)                -          33.100       33.100 1/
(b)  Three-nonth courses for 4 HOC/HA
training officers. at USS 9.000
per person (including fee)                          -           12.400      12.400 j/
Cc) Instructor training at Regional Arab
Centers (Yemen. Arab Republic. Kuwait
Syria. Algeria)                                     -           10.000      10.000
*d) International Conferences
Seminars - Staff to be
Selected                                            _           .,700        9 ,700
Subtotal                                    -          65.200       65,200
A. 6. PER-IOE
- 400 Trainees x SYD 3 per Day
x 75 Training days                                   90 000          -          90.000
Total Capital Cost             189.040       445.900     634.940
US$ equivalent                 548.216     1.293.100   1.841.326
I/ ncluded under Phase I.



- 67 -
Annex 1I
Attachnent 2
Page 4 Of 4
PEOPLE*S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Three-Year Trainina Proaram
Estimated Cost
Description                           1986       1987        1988       Ttal
-------- YD---- -------
S B.    Incremental Annual Recurrent
Expenditure For Training Program
B.1   Salaries of Yemeni Training Officers
and Instructors                                25,000     25.000      25.000      75.000
B-2  R,T.P.U. - Plant
(t)  Fuel and lubricants                     13.000     16.000      16.000      45.000
(ii)  Tyres                                    1.400      2.000       2.000       5.400
(iii)  Miscellaneous                            1.300       1.600      1.600       4.500
(iv) Materials 1J
Bitumen
Cement
Aggregates                              30.000     30.000      30.000      90.000
Culverts
Miscellaneous
B83. HPTU
Miscellaneous
(fuel etc)                                     1.,000      1.000      1.000        3.000
TOTAL                                     71l000     7S.600      75.600     222.900
1/ Note: The type and and quantity of materials used will vary depending upon the type of
maintenance being executed at each RTPU Location: allowance has been made for
some overlay and reseal operations.
Source: Staff estimates



'l~~~~~~~~~~~~6
- 68-            ~        Annex l1
Attachmkent 3
Page 1 of 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated HA Personnel to be Trained
Road Maintenance Personnel 1J
To be Trained             Not to be Trained
Present     Additional   Present       Additional
oesignation                  No.   Personnel   Personnel    Personnel   Personnel
Director                       1         1
Dist. Eng/Civ. Supervisor      4         4
Mech. Engineer                 2         2
Overseer                       4         4
Foreman                       10         9            1
Head Labourer                 11        10            1
Operator                      46        42            4
Driver                        76        76
Mason                          3         3
Carpenter                      3         3
Painter                        5                                   S
Asphalt Labourer              40                                   40
Labourer                      87                                  81            6
Messenger                      4                                    4
Cleaner                        8                                    7            1
Guard                         30                                   27            3
Teup. Labourer                34                                   30           4
Mechanic                       7         7
welder                         4         4
Electrician                    2         2
Machinist                      2         2
Tyreman                        4         4
Greaser                       10         9            1
Storeman                       5         5
Clerical/Typist               is        is
Admin. Supt.                    1        1
Accountant                     2         2
Accounts Clerk                 2         2
Asst. Cost. Clerk              3         3
Cost Clerk                     5         5
430      215   _        7          194         14
]/ This is only the Staff needed for routine maintenance by H.A.'s Maintenance
Division. In addition. the training program would cover the Bitumen works (overlays
and reseal Staff presently totaling 53.
Source: HOC/HA



-69 -        Annex uJ
Attachment 3
page 2 of 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Mechanical Personnel I/
Designation                            No.
Manager                                       1
Clerk                                        10
rypist                                        3
Storekeeper                                 28
Driver                                      12
Electrician                                 13
Elect. Supervisor                             1
Elect. Foreman                               2
Mech. Supervisor                              2
Mechanics (gas)                              12
Asst. Mechanic                               4
Mechanic (Diesel)                           20
Asst. Mech. (Diesel                          4
Mechanics                                   62
Heavy Plant Mechanic                        25
Stores Supervisor                            1
Heavy Plant Mechanic Supervisor               1
Equip. Plan Engineer                         1
W/shop Superintendent                         1
Asst. W/shop Superintendent                   l
204
Allthis staff is to be trained. with the exception of Clerks -(l Nos)
and Typists - (3 Nos).
I/ This is the staff of Majdalla workshop only;
Staff of regional workshops is included in Maintenance Personnel.
Source: IDC/HA



- 70 -
ANNEX III
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards of Nisab-Wadi Beihan Road
DesiFn Element                               Type of Terrain
Flat        Hilly     Mountainous
Design speed                       km/h       80           50            30
Width of carriageway               m           5.80         5.80          5.80
Width of shoulder                  m           1.00         1.00          1.00
Min. horizontal radius             m         200          100            40
Min. horizontal tangent            m         120           60            30
Crossfall                          %           2.5          2.5           2.5
Max. rate of superelevation        a           6            8            10
Min. parameter of clothoide        m         100           60            30
Min. radius, without
transition curve                 m      2,000         1,500          800
Max. grade                         %           4            8            12
Min. radius of crest curve         m      5,000         3,000           800
Min. radius of sag curve           m      4,000         1,500           500
Min. length of vertical curve      m         320          240           120
Stopping sight distance            m        130            80            35



- 71 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 3
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TE4EN
FOUWRTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Action Plan under Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement
For the purposes of Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
MCC. with the assistance of consultants as required. to implement the following by the dates
specified, subject to such modifications as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Association:
Activity                                 Responsibility             Target Date
I.    Project Organization and Management
Provide general direction for               Ministry of Construction (MOC)   Continuing
Project implementation, including           and its Highway Authority (HA)    throughout
(1) supervision and coordination                                               implementation
of the Project; (2) coordination                                               period
of the recruitment of consultants
for the Project; (3) coordination
and preparation of documents for
procurement; (4) preparation of
the separate accounts for the
Project, withdrawal applications
and statements of expenditure
required to be furnished to the
Association; and (5) the prepar-
ation and furnishing to the
Association of plans, schedules,
reports, records and other
information required to be
furnished to the Association
pursuant to Sections 9.05 and
9.06 of the General Conditions.
II.   Institutional Development
(i)   Complete selection and               HA                                 December 1985
contract consultants for road
maintenance and training
(ii)  Appoint three engineers, a cost       MOC                               January 1986
accountant and a training
expert to serve as counterparts
to the consultants.



- 72 -                                      ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 3
Activity                                Responsibility             Target Date
(OMi) prepare an implementation plan                MOC/HA/Consultants           July 1986
for the road maintenance
progrmn, including; (1) detailed
work targets and operational
plans for the proposed three
maintenance districts and the
Planning Section of Maintenance
Department; (2) the division of
responsibility for equipment
repairs between the HA
Mechanical Department's central
workshop and the workshops and
service centers in the districts;
(3) the division of responsibility
for cost accounting work between
the maintenance districts, the
Maintenance Department, the
Mechanical Department and the
proposed cost accounting section
in the HA Administration and
Finance Department; (4) assessments
of needs for staff, equipment,
budgets and other resources of all
units concerned with the road
maintenance program.
(iv)  establish the cost accounting system          HA and Consultants           January 1987
and prepare implementation of the
proposed road maintenance program
through development of;
(1) improved procedures and
guidelines for planning and
managing the road maintenance
program, incorporating the
same into an appropriate
maintenance manual;
(2) incentive pay schemes for
maintenance personnel; (3) safety
procedures for maintenance and
traffic control crews;
(4) improved procedures ar.i
guidelines for the effective
deployment of maintenance
personnel and resources;
(5) an effective system to monitor
the condition of the road network
and plan future maintenance work;
(6) improved procedures and guidelines
relating to accounting, inventory
control, inspection, renewal.
operation and maintenance of the road
maintenance equipment and vehicles.



- 73 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
Activity                                 Responsibility             Target Date
(v)    complete building works (a) at district       HA/Consultants/Local          December 1986
centers and subcenters and                    contractors
(b) at HA central workshop                                                 June 1987
(vi)   complete procurement of initial               HA/Consultants/              December 1986
maintenance and workshop equipment            Suppliers
(vii)  establish training                            HOC/HA                        July 1986
Steering Committee
(viii) Discuss draft policy
Statement on training                         MOC/IDA                      Jan. 1987
(ix)   Prepare strengthening of NOC training         MOC/HA/Consultants           July 1986
capabilities by: (1) devising detailed
training program for road maintenance
and mechanical staff; (2) determining
related requirements for additional
facilities, personnel, equipment and
budget resources; (3) determining the
staffing and other requirements of the
proposed training section to effectively
administer the program; and (4) prepare
a plan for the implementation of the
training program and for setting up the
training division.
(x)    nominate (about 6) roads and (about 2)        MOC/HA                       July 1986
mechanical engineers and (about 4)
training officers for fellowship
training abroad.
(xi)   establish training section in HOC,            HOC and other Hinistries    Jan. 1987
headed by a suitably qualified training
officer and commence Phase II of
training program.



- 74 -
ANNEX V
PEOPLE' S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(USS Million)
Bank Fiscal Year                        Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter Ending                           at End of Quarter
1986
December 30, 1985                                     0.2
March 31, 1986                                        1.0
June 30, 1986                                         1.9
1987
September 30, 1986                                    3.1
December 31, 1986                                     4.3
March 31, 1987                                        5.3
June 30, 1987                                         6.2
1988
September 30, 1987                                    7.1
December 31, 1987                                     8.0
March 31, 1988                                        8.9
June 30, 1988                                         9.7
1989
September 30, 1988                                   10.4
December 31, 1988                                    11.1
March 31, 1989                                       11.8
June 30, 1989                                        12.5
1990
September 30, 1989                                   13.1
December 31, 1989                                    13.7
March 31, 1990                                       14.1
June 30, 1990                                        14.4
Closing Dates June 30, 1990



75-                                  ANEX VI
PEOPLENS DEMOCRATIC REPUIBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle oneratina Cast E5t1mate
(YV  D. 1000 kal
1. Under Ideal Conditians (0t a 301
4-wheel                10-ton      15-ton     Z5-ton      15 pass.
Pass, Car  Drive       Pick-up    Truck       Truck      Trck_       Rua_
Variable Costs         16.61    34.86        33.27     75.68       99.19        112.57      42.93
Fixed Costs            Z7.77    93.02        64.91    1112        129l         138.32       7.2
Total            44.38   127.89        98.18    193.92      228.72        250.89      119.75
USc p.Ja               12.9     37.1         28.5      56.2        66.3         72.8        34.7
2.  As Function of Road Ro4uhness (R,")
Variable Costs                    Fixed Cgsts
Pass. car                 etZ.6O+0.00429 R)                          27.77
4-wheel drive             eC3.42+0.00429 R)                         e(4.46+0.00229 R)
Pick-up                   e;3.36+0.00491 R)                         e'4.10+0.00229 R)
10-ton truck             e'4.15t0.00590 R)                         eC4.72+0.00190 R)
15-ton truck             eC4.45+0.004975 R)                        e(4.81+0.00177 R)
25-ton truck             eC4.63*0.00312 R)                          eC4.883+.0015Z R)
15-pass. bus             e-3 .s9o 002S2 R)                          ec4 31+000093 R)
I/ Expressed in QI



- 76 -
ANNEX vii
PEOPLE'S DEMCCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAPP APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A POURTE BIGHNAY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
A.       RePorts and Studies on the TransPort Sector
A.1      PDRYs Transport Sector Memorandum, IDA, November 29, 1979.
A.2      Technical Assistance Mission, 1977-78, Ministry of Construction,
PDRY, Consultants   SOTECNI.
A.3      Organization Study on the Highway Administration, First Report
Ministry of Construction, PDRY, Consultants3 Dorsch Consult, February 1979.
A.4      Transport Sector Study, Ministry of Coimunications, PDRY,
Consultants& RPT Economic Studies Group, June 1984.
B.       RePorts and Studies Relating to ProJect
B.1      Naqabah-Beihan Road, Phase I (Feasibility Study), Ministry of
Construction, PDRY, Consultants& Dorsch Consult, June 1978.
B.2      Naqabah-Beihan Road, Phase II (Detailed Engineering), Ministry of
Construction, PDRY, Consultants& Dorsch Consult, November 1978.
B.3      Technical Assistance Services 1983-1985, Ministry of Construction,
Consultants. Kampsax International A/S. In particular, the following reportsa
Title                                  Date
H.A. Construction Division Organisation                 Nov. 83
Review of the Present Independent
Construction Units                                   Nov. 83
Vehicle Operating Cost Estimates                        Dec. 83
Benkelman Beam Survey Draft Report                      Nov. 83
Rod construction Programmes 1984/85 - 1986/90           Feb. 84
Axle Load Survey Project Report                         March 84
Traffic Counts Autumn 1983 Project Report               March 84
Management Accounting Report                            March 84
Maintenance Study Final Report                          July 84
Manpower and Training Review                            July 84
Justification for Establishment of a Const. Corp.       July 84
Feasibility Study of Nisab-Beihan Road                  Aug. 84
Cost Accounting within the Highway Authority            Oct. 84
Draft Cost Accountancy Manual                           Oct. 84
Review of Stores Procedures                             Oct. 84
Rieview of the Mechanical Services Organisation         Sept. 84



CHART 1
1HE PEOPLES DEMOCCRAC REPUBUC OFYEMIEN
SAff APPRAISAL REPORT OFA FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Organgbztn of the Minity of Conshuclon and Hghway Authod
I~                           LYF~
-  I                                         [ CL2EK                   -  gr 
NjB~                                                             LOCALFOR  F O QCSIW CrN
1DI H WARr I 1                      9WGi
I b 1 CENRPLDMRAR                       D
.MANM &ISRLC1U                      REIOl
.~~~~~~~~~IDCT                         Dwio          ra W-  I
MffO M                               MA LACW.M
HK;I-M'f                    ADOADO&_
l l~~~9G
WADOML
.tcpa.ed                    ,ald B a*-2  I
L 1     L -          L -    l        L    I   h
~~~~~~PO                                            CADES    {3  {3 H
CCSRW3~ ~ ~ MM                VAFS          SRMa5
IPP-                                                                         WcW &st*-2r"3



-w                                                        0              
-                  0                                       ..             .        _.
*i    >         101ii                          m~ ,<                         .v             a 
7~~II                                                          -               11.
11111                                                             lij ll                                0  
N I 
=  II                                                                     _                 
I N 
__    _  _   _  _   _  _   _  _   _  _  _   _  _   _  _   _  _   _  _  _   _  _   _  _   _  _   _  _   ___ .  ,.                              i



450                          4630 to                      400X. PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
-15100          NuquaP           6Q>/ q                         15a      FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Location
Project Road
Previous IDA-Financed Roads
x w 1i S - 4 (rsS X J ~~~~~~~~~~s C7 t ~~Existing Main Tracks
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ton and"*l  Vilg-
Agricultural Areas
P~~2IW.1 ~~ hi. Iib&J 64,i.i .1.8 ~~~~~~ 10 DiFoohill          Bo ndarie
tdPddOI f?i. H4yU8~~~,1 A Iii. DVw.10i.IF(~~. Coq,rn10~~Elva4mon    inMeer



44'                                 4'8                             480                          560'                             6'2.
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE                                                                                                            OMAN
AL MAHRA
h YEMEN ARAB,REPUBLIC    I                                                /                                                  \  
- 1 e '~~~~th r r his Om arwerS by rne^,  MM ,"Os VA nc crnnnn lat Vw /wm of
r,  . c. - n, "w dawh toe , ^  boxWw ron rr1anr Alb ad mw do 
IS'  ~rhYf rn~"'rl IhI.G1.ojdahcacrF                      y9 - 
roh v1 I"k d t pntr of Rar _t crWp*e ad ft rdvic /kw  /&&M  \ cV
S  ALh MAHRAH/N  E
r@u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PEIU ID{A LFMNAN HE ROADS  \ 
YEMEN    ARAB    REPUBLIC                      |                                    0  TOS AD V        E                                             .. I
ff  '                 i   ~~~~~~~Tarim  ;(/                                             Ihih..;
-14,~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
,/S F1 A  B W  A Hs                    Ru                                                  Natun
-9    ~~~~~~~Marib   ,J                              7                                                           OlBlS<h.
_ _ _   _   _   _  _ awwa
K                               /h 4'                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNARIE          SayhuS           ARABAN  SEA;
~~~~ ( ~~~~~~~Harib  ;Dk   Bir Jifliyah                                                     a   \ w w    o-tuai
To Hodeidah               For dealo It I            N     :tq|ttAh hh
>1   )                         ta                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~aztan    '$  Byan  a                       PROPOSED ROAD UTNDER FOURTH'
t   /                    .J       45aqai~~               ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ah   lA                              PREVIOUS IDA-FINANCED ROADS
14Xa                                        m /    ltSJ<> IMhlid                 Bi l                                           PRIMARY ASPHALT ROADS940
\~~~v  /   haia~~~~~~         a, Ladary                                       AGR /AG ICULTURAL AREAS   ------- ASPHALT ROADS UNDER CONSTRUOTION
<      /        i  ~~~~~~AB[3Y ANh     iAy                                     WADI8                             MAIN TRACKS
.    wJ tal z   '                                                                     0 f.- j     TOWNS AND VILLAGES        INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS 
IMoh                                     hur Ce30Ylt/ ;    .*  .!,'1!tl4    OERNORATE CAPITALS                                AIR8ThcIPSRECEIVING SCHEDULED FLIGHTS 
Ri  /;urAlbaha    nlib ar                 0       50       10.n ibar                  NATIONAL CAPITALS                 HARBORS 
L AHNEJ          )E8wA                            KILOMETERS                         G - OVERNORATE B3OUNDARIES         MINOR PORTS                  
8        ~~~ 4,4'  Kh'awr Umraya           4ffi       .6 s                                 INTERNATIONAL BO0UNDARIES                         50'       



4'41                                                                                                    0                                 I
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
ROAD MAINTENANCE                                                                                                      -
AND REHABILITATION PROGRAM                                                                                      .                            OMAN
N
16'             l7WAWM6hu6,00-11WN=    *v 17w     soi to    k*Iwft r *  I
bI4~~~~~~~y  ~~~C                                                                             AL  MAHRAH
r       %6% ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HDAATThamud
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
tS'  //\
I Ghurof ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~<IGela
pe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H B                                     A                         Ruw@>Sdu&X~d                                                 n 
To Sa -ldAt                                  ld{h 
I,.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~i
A                   a a                                                           ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~SahuS*    A8AJAN SEA:
Khamer               lyan                       ~~~~~~~~~~ROADS FOR ASPHALT OVERLAY
ROAS OR ITMINOUS SURFACE TREATMENT
aq  air   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~0                         MAINTENANCE SUICAWPS                 14'-
/'MU    5  Id                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED ROAD UNDER FOURTH HIGHWAY
Law a                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT
Ha ayn                                     WADIS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-ASPHALT ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
aiTO                                                                                                     AND VLG                  MAIN T
K'                                                                                                                        INTERNATN /'  )   IA  /T A
~~~~~~~~~~~ZnbrNAINL .C|P,/ALS                                                                                     ,          HAOR
~~~~~~~ u                                  4ai   r   jith/<> t                                                     _    aui






