Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19420 MAU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 28.2 MILLION (US$ 38.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO TBE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR THE
INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT FOR IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM FOR IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE
June 14, 1999
Rural Development 3
Country Department 15
Africa Region



-1-
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 1999)
Currency Unit    Mauritanian Ouguiyas
UM   = US$0.005
US$I = 205 UM
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFVP             French Voluntary Association (Association froanaise des volontaires du progres)
AGSECAL          Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
(PASA-Projets d'ajustement et d'investissement du secteur agricole)
APL              Adaptable Program Lending
ASP              Agricultural Services Project
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CIMOS            Interministerial Steering Committee for IDPIAM
(Comite interministeriel d'orientation et de suivi du PDIAIM)
CIRAD            Center for International Cooperation in Agricultural Research and Development
(Centre de cooperation internationale en recherche agronomique pour le developpement)
CNRADA           National Center for Agronomnic Research and Agricultural Development
(Centre national de recherche agronomique et de de'veloppement agricole)
CU-IDPIAM        Coordination Unit for IDPIAM
DEAR             Environment and Rural Equipment Directorate
(Direction de 1'environnement et de I'amenagement rural)
DPD              Detailed project design
DPSE             Policy and Monitoring/Evaluation Directorate (Direction des politiques et du suivi-dvaluation)
DRAP             Directorate for Agro-pastoral Resources (Direction de ressources agro-pastorales)
DRFV             Research, Training and Extension Directorate
(Direction de la recherche, de laformation et de la vulgarisation)
EIA               Environmental Impact Assessment
FAO              Food and Agriculture Organization
FNT              National Transport Federation (F&idration nationale des transports)
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
GIE              Economic Interest Group (Groupe d'interet dconomique)
IDA              International Development Association
IDPIAM           Integrated Development Program / Project for Irrigated Agriculture in Mauritania
IFAD             International Fund for Agricultural Development
M&E              Monitoring and Evaluation
MDRE             Ministry of Rural Development and Environment
(Ministare du developpement rural et de 1 'environnement)
NGO              Non-Governmental Organization
NPV              Net Present Value
OMVS             Senegal River Valley Development Agency (Organisation de mise en valeur dufleuve Senegal)
ONS              National Office of Statistic (C?fice national de la statistique)
OSP              Socioprofessional Organization (Organisation socioprofessionelle)
RDS              Rural Development Strategy
SONADER          National Agency for Rural Development (Societt nationale pour le developpement rural)
SONIMEX          National Agency for Import/Export (Societe nationale d'import-export)
UM               Mauritanian Monetary Unit (Ouguiya)
UNCACEM          Union of agricultural savings and loan cooperatives (Union nationale des cooperatives agricoles
de credit et d'epargne de Mauritanie)
Vice President: Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director: Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager: Jean-Paul Chausse
Team Leader:  Abdelkrim Oka



Mauritania
Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. Program       Purpose and Development Objective of Phase I ................................................................2
Al. Program       Purpose and Phasing .................................................................2
A2. Program       Description .................................................................3
A3. Key Program        Performance Indicators .......................             ..........................................3
A4. Phase I Development Objective and Key Performance Indicators ..........................................4
A5. Phase II Development Objective and Key Performance Indicators ........................................5
A6. Phase III Development Objective and Key Performance Indicators .......................................5
A7. Triggers to Move from           Phase I to Phase II .................................................................6
B. Strategic Context ......................................................................7
B1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Program .............7
B2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy .......................................................................8
B3. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices ..................................... 13
C. Summary Description of Phase I of the Program ......................................................................           15
C 1. Components of Phase I of the Program              .............................................. ........................ 15
C2. Main Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project ......................................... 16
C3. Benefits and Targeted Populations ......................................................................           16
C4. Institutional Arrangements and Project Implementation ....................................................... 16
D. Program        and Project Rationale ......................................................................                   17
DI. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Program                 and the Project Design ............       ................... 17
D2. Program       Alternatives Considered, Reasons for Rejection and Rationale for an APL ........... 18
D3. Major Related Projects ......................................................................                      21
D4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership .................................               ........................ 22
D5. Value-Added of Bank Support in this Program ..................................................................... 22
E. Summary Cost-Benefit and Financial Analysis of the Project ....................................................... 22
El. Economic Analysis ......................................................................                           23
E2. Financial Analysis ......................................................................                          24
E3. Analysis of the Financial Institution ......................................................................       25
E4. Fiscal Impact ......................................................................                               25
E5. Technical Analysis ......................................................................                          26
E6. Institutional Analysis ......................................................................                      26
E7. Social. Analysis ......................................................................                            27
E8. Environmental Assessment ......................................................................                    28
E9. Participatory Approach ......................................................................                      28



- ii -
F. Sustainability and Risks ..............................                        29
Fl. Sustainability ..............................                           29
F2. Critical Risks ..............................                           30
F3. Possible Controversial Aspects .............................. 31
G. Main Loan Conditions ..............................                            31
G1. Effectiveness Conditions ..............................                 31
G2. Conditions of Negotiations ..............................               32
H. Readiness for Implementation ..............................                    33
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ..............................                   34
Annexes
Annex 1.     Program and Project Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Description of Phase I
Component A   Development of a Sound Policy, Legal and Institutional Framework
Component B   Development of Basic Infrastructures
Component C   Support to Farm Management and Organization
Component D   Support to Traditional Crops
Component E   Diversification Promotion
Component F   Environment Impact Mitigation Measures
Component GI Project Management
Component G2 Monitoring and Evaluation
Special Topic  Investment Financing Mechanisms - Loans and Subsidies
Annex 3.     Estimated Costs of Phase I of the Program
Annex 4.     Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.     Financial Analysis - Project Level
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.     Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.      Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Status of Bank Group Operations in Mauritania
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Annex 11.    Letter of Development Policy on Irrigated Agriculture in Mauritania
Annex 12.    Environmental Assessment
Maps IBRD 30312
IBRD 30313



Mauritania
Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region
Country Department 15
Date: June 14, 1999                                 Team Leader: Abdelkrim Oka
Country Manager/Director: Hasan Tuluy               Sector Manager/Director: Jean-Paul Chausse
Project ID: MR-PA-44711                             Sector: Agriculture
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Lending (APL)  Themes: Poverty Targeted Intervention
Targeted Interventions of the Project:  [XI Yes   [ ] No
,§ , s ::. 't i W ,n>'' Dat,"~ -
I A:II1 Cozi   Beneficiri,¢  (jo%emmeni   CCofinaciers  I DA
PhaseI1:       2000 - 2002 (3 years)               46.0           3.7           3.7            0.5       38.1
Phase 11:      2003 - 2006 (4 years)               45.0           5.0           5.0                      35.0
Phase III:     2007 - 2010 (4 years)               45.0           5.0           5.0            6.1       28.9
Entire Program            (11 years)              136.0          13.7          13.7            6.6      102.0
Project financing data:
[ ] Loan            [X] Credit           [  Guarantee        I ] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$ m/SDR m): US$ 38.lmillion
Proposed terms:            [ ] Multicurrency       [X] Single currency:
[  Standard variable   [X] Fixed                          [ ] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):           10
Years to maturity:             40
Commitment fee:                  0.5 %
Service charge:                 0.75 %
Contribution of the Mauritanian Government
Contribution of Mauritanian Beneficiaries                         3.7                                 3.7
Cofimanciers                                                      0.5                 -               0.5
IDA                                                               15.2              22.9             38.1
Total                                                            23.1               22.9             46.0
Borrower: Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania (GIRM)
Guarantor:
Responsible agencies: MDRE (UC-IDPIAM), SONADER, UNCACEM
Estimated,D,ir.Ret _ 
A nnuls.l                    I0           _            4            2.1   |_.



- 2 -
A. Program Purpose and Development Objective of Phase I
1.      Mauritania's long-term vision is the Senegal River Valley turned into one of the main sources of
its development and economic growth. By using as effectively as possible its limited and vital arable land
and water resources and the electric energy from the Manantali dam - from 2002 onward - Mauritania
will be able to create a dynamic and competitive agricultural sector able to supply the domestic market
and find a niche in the international market. The Senegal River Valley, which already is home to 50
percent of Mauritania's rural population, will be the first to benefit, but the positive impact of this
development will go beyond the Valley, since it will affect consumers throughout the country. This
vision involves also the long-term development of a land market that will encourage greater productivity
of land resources and the sustainability of investments, without resulting in insecure land tenure for poor
and vulnerable groups. The vision includes the improvement in the standard of living and a reduction in
the number of people living below the poverty line.
2.      This vision of the Government is reflected in its overall strategy, specifically to achieve rapid
economic and social development led by the private sector, with a State whose role will be to create the
basic conditions needed to promote broad-based growth and to contribute actively to poverty alleviation
efforts.
3.      In the medium term, Mauritania envisions most of the existing irrigated schemes currently under
production being rehabilitated - to the extent economically feasible - and entering into a sustainable
production mode that would integrate intensive rice production and other agricultural activities
(diversification, silviculture, livestock, and fisheries). The first priority for Mauritania is to rehabilitate
degraded irrigation schemes still under production, and to expand collective schemes in which family
parcels are too small to be economically viable or even to cover the family's subsistence needs.
Reclaiming abandoned irrigation schemes and developing new ones will be a secondary priority since it is
more costly, unless these schemes are for diversification, i.e., for crops with much higher added value
than rice.   In any case, these priorities are only indicative, since the decision to proceed with
rehabilitation, extension or development of new schemes, as well as the choice of crops, rests ultimately
with farmers themselves, in consultation with the financing agencies eventually supporting them. These
choices and decisions will undoubtedly be based on economic and financial criteria'
AL. Program Purpose and Phasing
4.      The development objective of the Integrated Development Program for Irrigated Agriculture in
Mauritania (IDPIAM) is to increase agriculture value-added, income and employment population living
in the Senegal River Valley. This will be aecomplished through the judicious use of the most precious
natural assets in this country, which is 90 percent desert: the Valley's water and arable land. The Program
will also have an impact beyond the Valley itself: (a) by generating employment and income upstream
and downstream of production (input supply, creation and maintenance of infrastructures, equipment
repair and maintenance, processing, transportation and marketing of produce and exports); (b) by
providing consumers with new agricultural products (fruits, vegetables, oil seeds, etc.) from the Valley to
replace hitherto costly imported products; and (c) by improving the balance of trade through a reduction
Given that new irrigation schemes are likely to be too costly and not economically viable, except in the case of diversification crops and high-
value export crops, it is likely that most fanners will opt for rehabilitation. Farmers would not borrow money to carry out a non-viable operation,
knowing they would be unable to repay the loan and thus running the risk of being sued for non-repayment of debts and perhaps losing their land
and other assets. Requests for new irrigated schemes will therefore be carefully scrutinized by the credit agency, which will not wish to incur
great risks. The possibility exists for the development of newv schemes for collective poor farmers through funding by other donors. To avoid
distortions, such creations must follow the general principles of the global PDIAM: demonstrated economic retum, beneficiary's participation,
long-term credit, and targeted matching grant (for poverty allrviation purposes). The level of grants which should be calculated on the basis on
projected cash flow of expected farm revenues and be judged acceptable by IDA.



- 3 -
in agricultural imports and the development of exports. In addition, through the creation of rural
employment and incomes, the IDPIAM will reduce rural migration toward urban centers and eliminate
the unemployment and social problems it causes. This program will thus help to alleviate poverty.
5.     The IDPIAM program's total duration will be eleven years. IDA plans to support it through a
three-phase Adaptable Program Lending (APL): a first phase of three years followed by two phases of
four years each.
A2. Program Description
6.     The overall program (IDPIAM) aims for the rehabilitation of nearly 20,000 ha and is expected to
be supported by several donors. The part financed by IDA (the IDPIAM-IDA or Program) will be the
central component of this overall program and will, over a period of eleven years, contribute to the
rehabilitation or extension of 11,000 ha of existing irrigation schemes and the development of 2,000 ha of
new irrigated schemes, the latter intended for diversification crops. Other donorsare expected to help for
the rehabilitation of an additional area of 10,000 ha during the same period.
7.     During its eleven years of implementation, the proposed IDPIAM-IDA will allow the
Government to: (a) establish appropriate economic, legal and institutional policies; (b) provide basic
public infrastructures; and (c) supply the support services necessary for the development of a flourishing
private sector-driven agriculture sector in the Senegal River Valley. The Program will also help farmers
obtain the necessary financial resources to fund investments designed on sound economic grounds. It will
address, at the same time, the environmental issues created by irrigation infrastructure and other works.
Its impact will therefore go beyond the objective of rehabilitation/extension/creation of 13,000 ha
irrigated schemes, in that it will also help strengthen the economic, legal and institutional framework
indispensable for the Program's socio-economic, and financial sustainability.
8.     The IDPIAM-IDA   includes public funds for (a) public goods and services (important
infrastructures, agricultural extension, market development, social services, and environmental impact
mitigation); (b) the establishment of lines of credit (loans for equipment, production and marketing); and
(c) subsidies (matching grants) to support private investment in irrigated land improvement, crop
production and marketing.
A3. Key Program PerformancehIndicators
9.     For the target area, the key indicators for the IDPIAM-IDA will be:
a) overall agricultural growth: increase in total value-added of agricultural production (average
7 percent per annum);
b) agricultural diversification: increase in the value-added of non-rice crops (average 10 percent
per annum);
c) productivity: land and labor productivity increase;
d) economic return: improved competitiveness of the main crops;
e) poverty alleviation: reduction in the percentage of people below the poverty line in the
targeted area (from 60 to 20 percent) by the end of the Program;
f) enhanced food security: increased incomes and reduction of the gap between food demand
and domestic food production;
g) access to land, water, services and credit by the poor, and
h) environmental sustainability: reducing water logging, salinity and waterborne diseases.



- 4 -
10.     Indicators are also defined for each phase's objectives. Some will be used as triggers between
phases.
A4. Phase I Development Objective and Key Performance Indicators
(see Annex 1)
11.    The objective of the first phase (the Project) of the IDPIAM-IDA is to lay the foundations for a
sustainable development of irrigated agriculture in technical, financial, environmental and socio-
economic terms.
12.    The first phase (the Project) will consist of the following components: (i) creation of an enabling
policy, legal, and institutional framework; (ii) development of basic public and private infrastructure; (iii)
improvement of farmers and farmer associations' management and organization skills; (iv) strengthening
of the traditional irrigated agriculture subsector; (v) promotion of agricultural diversification; (vi)
implementation of measures to mitigate project adverse environmental impacts; and (vii) Project
management and monitoring & evaluation.
13.    Phase I (the Project) is expected to provide the necessary incentives for the rehabilitation and
extension of existing irrigated schemes over an area of about 3,000 ha and for the development of new
schemes over an area of about 100 ha.2 Some of the Project's components (support to farm organization
and management; support to traditional crops; support to diversification; environmental mitigation) will
have a positive impact on an area well beyond the 3,100 ha targeted in this first phase, since they will also
be beneficial to schemes that will be rehabilitated by other donors, in addition to theIDPIAM-IDA. This
aspect is important when attempting to estimate the cost of the Project per hectare as the Project total
costs cannot be attributed to the only 3,100 hectares targeted for rehabilitation, extension or creation.
14.     The key indicators for the first phase will be:
* continued absence of rice sector (distortions, as a result of measures introduced in 1999;
*   implementation of regulations associated with Decree 98/48 on transport sector liberalization;
satisfactory rate of repayment (at least 95 percent) of loans granted bythe agricultural credit
agency (UNCACEM);
* operational and financial self-sufficiency achieved by UJNCACEM by 2001;
* satisfactory level of eligible and fulfilled credit requests (at least 75 percent of irrigated
scheme development targets);
* establishment of transparent and accessible land registries allowing verification of land use
permits and temporary and permanent concessions;
*   transparency, equity and security of land tenure judged satisfactory, as deterrnined by results
of participatory surveys;
*   satisfactory access of poor farm families to agricultural services, as determined by the of
participatory surveys;
*   economic return on Government-supported investments in irrigated schemes demonstrated
satisfactorily on the basis of initially available results;
*   improved cost-benefit ratios for rice and new diversification crops on the basis of initial
available results;
2 These rehabilitation and new developments will be carried aut in areas where the basic rural infrastructure (roads, drainage and main canals)
already exists and will be confirmed by the feasibility studies submitted to UNCACEM for the obtention of credit.



-5 -
* establishment of procedures for collecting water charges and fees for management and
maintenance of public infrastructure works;
*  completion of feasibility studies, including EIAs, for off-farm infrastructures (crucial for
investments planned under Phase II).
A5. Phase II Development Objective and KeyPerformance Indicators
15.    The objective of the second phase of the Program is to consolidate Phase I achievements and
continue providing incentives and support to producers for increasing the area of rehabilitated schemes
and the new creations. Phase II will have the same main components as Phase I (see paragraph 12).
16.   It is expected that, upon completion of the second phase: (a) the number and volume of new and
higher value-added crops will increase; (b) investments made in Phase I will have become physically and
economically sustainable; (c) income-generating activities will have significantly increased in the target
areas; and (d) capacity building will have been accomplished. It is also expected that, based on the
experience and results acquired under Phase I, an additional 4,000 ha of rehabilitation and/or extension
will be carried out, and 700 ha of new irrigated schemes for diversification will be developed.
17.    The key indicators for the second phase will be (see Annex 1):
*  satisfactory access of poor families to land and agricultural services, as determined by results
of participatory surveys;
*  satisfactory repayment rate (continues to be at least 95 percent) on loans granted by
UNCACEM;
*  amount and collection of water fees and collective infrastructure charges judged adequate for
maintenance of those infrastructures;
* satisfactory management of collective infrastructures, based on technical assessments;
* awards of land-use permits, temporary concessions, and permanent concessions, are in
accordance with land tenure legislation;
* satisfactory rate of rehabilitation/extension/new development (over 75 percent of targeted
areas);
* economic return on Government-supported diversification efforts demonstrated satisfactorily
on the basis of initially available results; and
* emergence and increase of new, non-farm activities (in number of activities and jobs, and in
income-generation).
A6. Phase IIDevelopment Objective and Key Performance Indicators
18.    The objective of the third phase of the Program will be to achieve the sustainability of the scheme
rehabilitation and development of production systems introduced under the two preceding phases and
apply the Program approach to other schemes in the Valley. This objective would be attained through
interventions similar to those of Phases I and II, namely: (i) providing farmers with the necessary
technical assistance and credit; (ii) directly funding off-farm public infrastructures; (iii) supporting a
program of R & D; and (iv) monitoring, analyzing and regularly adjusting the sector's economic policy,
legal and institutional framework. Depending on the results of the first two phases, the level and form of
credit and matching grants will be modified. The third phase is an expansion phase during which an
additional 4,000 ha of irrigated schemes will be rehabilitated and 1,200 ha of new schemes will be
developed.



- 6 -
19.   The key performance indicators at the end of this third phase will be:
*  overall agricultural growth: increase in total value-added of agricultural production (at least
seven percent per annum);
*  agricultural diversification: increase in value-added of non-rice crops (averaging 10 percent
per annum);
*  increased productivity: increased productivity of land and labor;
* economic return: increased competitiveness of main crops;
* poverty alleviation: reduction in percentage of the population living below poverty threshold
in the target area (from 60 to 20 percent) by the end of the Program;
* environment: reduction in water logging, salinity and waterbome diseases;
* improved food security: increased incomes and reduction of disparity between consumption
and domestic production;
* access of poor populations to land, water, services and credit; and
* UNCACEM reimburses IDA line of credit extended by Government in accordance with
conditions of credit agreement.
A 7. Triggers to Move from Phase Ito Phase II
20.    Triggers fbr moving from Phase I to Plhase II will be that:
* liberalization measures for agricultural markets and transport services, as agreed upon
between the Government and IDA in the 1999-2002 PFP, remain in place;
* tJNCACEM has achieved operational and financial self-sufficiency by 2001;
* credit and investment subsidies granted in accordance with procedures agreed upon with
IDA;
* awards of land use permits, temporary and permanent concessions are in conformity with
land tenure regulations;
*  establishment of transparent and accessible land registries allowing verification of permits
and temporary or permanent concessions;
*  procedures are established for the collection of water fees and operation and management
charges for public infrastructure works;
*  economic return  on  Govermnent-supported  irrigation  infrastructures  demonstrated
satisfactorily; and
*  performance of SONADER judged satisfactory according to criteria set out in the
performance contract.
21.    The triggers for moving from Phase I1 to Phase III will be that:
* the favorable economic, legal and institutional environment created during Phase I is
maintained and improved;
* UNCACEM's financial self-sufficiency is maintained;
* UNCACEM reimburses the IDA credit line extended by the Government;
* credit and investments subsidies are awarded in accordance with procedures agreed upon
with IDA;
* awards of land use permits, temporary and permanent concessions continue to be in
conformity with land tenure regulations;
*  transparent and accessible land registries are maintained and are used for the verification of
land-use permits, temporary concessions and permanent concessions;
*  adequate water fees and collective infrastructure charges are; and



- 7 -
* economic return on Government-supported diversification activities is demonstrated
satisfactorily on the basis of available results.
B. Strategic Context
22.    Over half (51 percent) of the 2.3 million Mauritanians (1995) live in rural areas, which remain
underprivileged in comparison to the cities. In the rural areas, 50 percent of children go to primary school
(whereas primary school enrollment approaches 100 percent in urban areas); one out of five women can
read and write (one out of three in urban areas); and, on the nutritional front, one in three children under
the age of five is malnourished.
23.    Nearly half of the rural population resides in the Senegal River Valley. Traditional economic
activities in the Valley include livestock, rainfed and flood recession agriculture, and fishing in the
Senegal River and its tributaries. A modern irrigated agriculture has emerged over the last twenty years
and has expanded with the construction of two dams on the Senegal River: Manantali upstream and
Diama downstream. Although the Valley fares better than other rural areas of the country, over half of its
population is living below the poverty threshold.
24.    Over the last twenty years, the concern of the Government and its development partners has been
to: (a) improve the living conditions of poor and destitute population particularly those living in the
Valley; and (b) promote the emergence of a modern, competitive agricultural sector by encouraging
private initiative and investment. This concern has resulted in the creation and equipment, by: (a) public
services, of village or community irrigated schemes in which each family is granted a plot of about 0.5 ha
parcel; and (b) private sector, of individual schemes varying in size from a few hectares to several
hundred hectares. Because the Valley continues to attract destitute population from drought-stricken
areas, poverty alleviation in the Valley will remain one of the Government's top priorities. In different
ways, these two types of farming help reduce poverty.
Bl. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Program
(See Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16595         Date of latest CAS discussion: May 21, 1997
25.    The overall CAS goal is to help Mauritania achieve rapid, equitable and sustainable growth,
create employment and thereby reduce the number of Mauritanians living in poverty. In particular, the
CAS supports the Government's long-term strategy for the rehabilitation and sustainable development of
irrigated agriculture and the construction of basic rural infrastructures in the Senegal River Valley. The
key element in this strategy is the overall Integrated Development Program for Irrigated Agriculture
which covers the whole Valley and will call on the assistance of all donors. The part to be financed by
IDA program, here the IDPIAM-IDA or the Program, will constitute the masterpiece of this overall
program. IDPIAM-IDA therefore conforms to CAS objectives.



- 8 -
B2. Main Sector issues and Government Strategy
Sector Facts and Issues
Sources of rural sector growth
26.    On the demand side, strong internal demand for agricultural products can be expected based on
the rapid population growth (2.8 percent), anticipated GDP growth of five to six percent per annum, low
inflation (four percent), and significant income elasticity for numerous highly preferred foodstuffs - such
as meat, fruits and vegetables and high-qualitv rice. Between 1988 and 1996, per capita domestic demand
for rice grew at an annual average rate of 5.4 percent (according to data from the Office National de la
Statistique -ONS-), and at 5.2 percent according to the consumption budget (consommation apparente).
Thus, rice consumption is running ahead of average population growth and is just slightly behind urban
population growth (5.6 percent). Annual consumption of vegetables is estimated at about 60 kg per capita
in Nouakchott and about 20 kg per capita in rural areas. As a result of rapid settling and growing
urbanization, dietary habits are shifting towards increased consumption of fruits and vegetables
(tomatoes, cabbage, carrots, potatoes, bananas, melon, okra, etc.). At present, production in the Valley,
estimated at 30,000 tons, satisfies only a part of the demand due to the strong seasonal pattern of
production (January through April).
27.    As for regional and international demand, the outlook is good for horticultural products where
there is a potential for developing profitable exports (off-season European markets). Experiments in the
exportation of okra and green beans and recent tests on melon have been promising as local and European
markets responded positively.
28.    On the supply side, Mauritania has the potential to fill domestic demands and a portion of the
international demand. It has considerable surplus production in livestock but, given the country's desert
climate, it is in irrigated agriculture that the potential sources of growth remain important. Mauritania
can achieve a comparative advantage in fruit and vegetable production and, possibly, in high-quality rice,
if crop diversification, improvement and intensification are introduced. In this area, Mauritania also
possesses an important asset: the existence of dynamic entrepreneurs willing to invest in agriculture and
highly adept at business.
29.    In addition to food crops, livestock and fuelwood constitute an important resource, in terms of
supply and demand, in the rural economy. Livestock supply is very important and there is an important
regional demand for livestock on the hoof andi freshlfrozen red meats and international demand on skins
and hides. As for fuelwood, estimates indicate that consumption of is eight times higher than the
estimated annual volume increment of natural forest, which means that there is strong and rapid erosion
of productive capital. There is also an important demand for other wood products that cannot be satisfied
locally from the natural forests but for which man made plantations could be an opportunity.
The irrigated sector in Mauritania and its problems
30.    With the exception of a very limited area (250 ha) in the oases, Mauritania's irrigation potential
lies entirely within the Senegal River Valley for a total area of 135,000 ha' This figure does not include
the natural and man-made flood zones where controlled flood recession agriculture is taking place. Flood-
OMVS authorities initially estimated that available water couli irrigate a total of 375,000 ha along the Senegal River Valley, of which 135,000
ha are in Mauritania. Experts now believe that these figures neeJ to be revised downward.



-9-
recession agriculture is, strictly speaking, not considered to be irrigated agriculturd in the framework of
this document.
31.     A typology of irrigated schemes may be distinguished based on their size (small, medium or
large) and their mode of management (collective or individual). The collective schemes are the oldest
type. They received important public support until 1990/91, at which time the State disengaged itself
from several production and processing-related activities. The development of large collective schemes is
currently assisted to a great extent by SONADER, which has disengaged from that of smaller collective
schemes. Up to now, the irrigated schemes have covered a total area of about 47,000 ha under full water
control, of which only less than 20,000 ha are currently under cultivation.
32.     According to SONADER's 1994 survey, the regional distribution of schemes showed that 71
percent of the area was concentrated in Trarza and the rest in the Haut Fleuve (18.5 percent in Gorgol and
10.5 percent in Brakna). Gorgol, however, had 63.3 percent of the large collective schemes (as against
27.2 percent in Trarza and 9.5 percent in Brakna). A survey carried out in 1998 in connection with
preparation of the IDPIAM shows that, in terms of numbers, 66 percent of the schemes owned by
individuals are under 40 ha and represent, in terms of acreage 26 percent of the total area individual-
owned farms. In other words, one third of the individuals are cultivating nearly three-quarters of the area
belonging to this category.
33.     Mauritania's rural sector faces numerous constraints: (a) exclusive focus on rice, a sector in
which performance remains low; (b) limited agriculture credit resources; (c) inadequate road and
transportation infrastructure; (d) low level of expertise on the part of producers; (e) weakness of
institutions charged with supporting rural activities; (f) environment problems associated with irrigation
water; (g) abandonment of irrigation schemes; and (h) slow pace of implementation of land tenure
securement process.
34.     Exclusive focus on rice production, and mediocre results obtained.     Until recently, public
investment in irrigated lands favored rice. In addition, this crop enjoyed high protective tariffs (48
percent in 1998, 45 percent en 1999), seasonal credit at an advantageous below market rate (12 percent),
quotas setting for rice imports in exchange of paddy purchases, and marketing subsidies (Table 1). Over
the period between 1986/87 and 1996/97, the area planted with rice each year varied from 6,600 ha to
19,758 ha. Annual production ranged from 33,000 to 66,748 tons between these same periods. Average
yield was 3,785 tons/ha, with a minimum average of 2,813 t/ha in 1991/92 and a maximum average of
5 ton/ha in 1986/87 (cropping intensity limited less than 1.0 on average). Despite this support, local rice
has trouble asserting itself vis-a-vis imported rice, in terms of price and quality. It only maintains its
footing in relation to imported rice thanks to high tariffs and importers' obligation to buy local rice first.
These measures do not really benefit farmers, except over the very short term. They are detrimental to
consumers, especially poor consumers, for whom rice is a staple food for which they must pay high prices
and tolerate inferior quality. Thus, despite a noted increase in production, results do not meet the goals of
broad-based, sustainable growth and poverty alleviation. From the standpoint of resource allocation,
producers also have no incentive to try other crops in which Mauritania could prove to have a competitive
advantage.
4Natural flood zones are found along the Senegal River and its tributaries and are used for flood recession agriculture involving an area ranging
from 150,000 ha in years of good rainfall to 50,000 ha in dry years (during the worst drought years, the figure dropped as low as 12,000 ha
(1972)). Average crop yield is 450 kg/ha (for sorghum) but varies considerably depending on rainfall. Manmade flood recession areas are also
found behind small and medium-sized dams in the rainfed area of the country and constitute a cultivable area ranging from 10,000 ha to
50,000 ha/annum depending on rainfall.



- 10-
Table 1: Paddy production and marketing subsidies,
1992/93 - 1998/99
Production of  Production   % of total Trarza's %  Average     Interest  Interest subsidy
Season     paddy    bought by the pool production  of pool  purchase price  rate for  (millions of UM)
(T)           (T)       bought by  purchases   (UM/kg)     paddy
the pool                          purchase
1992/93    37,045         6,600        18%        N/D        N/D         N/A          N/A
1993194    31,920        15,400        48%        98%        26.0        N/A         N/A
1994/95    31,691        12,900        41%        89%        31.5        N/A          N/A
1995/96    55,000        15,400        28%        79%        41.6        12%          77
1996/97    66,700        28,250        2.2%      98%         42.0        14%          166
1997/98    80,942        44,800        55%        90%        42.1        17%          321
1998/99    83,000*       30,000**  -36%           85%    -   42.0        20%          252
Sources: MDRE, UNCACEM, Gergely Report (1997)  NA: Data unavailable  N/A: not applicable
* Rainy season 1998/99        ** Collection in progress (as of March 1999)
35.    Limited agricultural credit resources.  The only agricultural credit agency serving the rural
environment is UNCACEM, whose capital comes essentially from grants from the Government and
donors. Until recently, loans granted by tNCACEM were geared to rice and were only short-term
seasonal credit, in addition to a small amount of medium-term credit for equipment purchases. Farmers,
however, need short-term credit for diversification crops and long-term credit for rehabilitation, extension
and the creation of new schemes. Also, short-term credit is needed for rice and other crop marketing.
36.    Mauritanian commercial banks have essentially short-term  liquidity assets and consequently
provide only short-tern loans. They shun agriculture-related activities, except for food imports (Table 2).
Their behavior can be explained by the fact that the agricultural sector is perceived as risky due to: (i) its
low level of performance; (ii) its great dependency upon the weather (risk of droughts) and uncontrollable
natural phenomena; and (iii) the perishable nature of agricultural products. Also, rural credit has an
uneven track record. Finally, there is little incentive for commercial banks to get into the local market
since there is a credit agency, UNCACEM, that lends at 12 percent when the interest rate for short-term
Treasury bills has been 16-17 percent, and market rates higher for average clients.
37.    Inadequate road transport infrastructure . Access to remote areas, even to those with very great
potential, such as the area between Rosso and Boghe, is difficult. In addition, the absence of competition
among road transporters, due to a monopoly until recently held by the Federation nationale des
transports, has kept prices relatively high for producers in the Valley. This situation will certainly change
as a result of the recent law (July 1998) on the liberalization of transport services, which has started being
put into actual practice in May 1999. The same applies to air transport, the cost of which currently
account for 50 percent of the value of agricultural exports.
38.    Low-level of producer expertise.   Many producers and farm    organizations still lack basic
knowledge of management and production techniques, and have limited access to agricultural extension.
Regarding the low supply of horticultural products, the main constraints are producers' lack of
experience with different varieties and cropping techniques, the absence of post-harvest infrastructures,
and the lack of information on processing methods as well as on price trends, for local and export
markets. Domestic research is weak and is not geared to farmers' needs. Results of regional and
international research are not easily accessible to farmers. The IDA-supported Agricultural Services
Project (ASP), initiated in 1994, has achieved positive, through limited, results.



- 11 -
Table 2: Loans granted by Mauritanian commercial banks 1992 - 1997
(millions of UM: end of period)
1992    1993   1994    1995    1996   1997    Average    %
Short term         34,538  37,579  28,334  28,258  30,214  31,935  31,810  94.41%
Agriculture & livestock     449     435     236    340     394     135     332    0.98%
Fisheries                 12,758  13,931  10,634  10,594  9,391  8,546   10,976  32.57%
Mining                       141    178     212    258       1       4     132    0.39%
Manufacturing              2,346   2,072    796    393     646   1,019    1,212   3.60%
Construction               1,156   1,080    786    857     597     444     820    2.43%
Transport _                 924    1,081    206    200     168     276     476    1.41%
Services                   1,835   2,031  1,399    950    1,606   1,786   1,601   4.75%
Trade                     11,364  13,062  9,850   9,694  10,926  12,518  11,236  33.35%
_ Other                      3,565  3,709   4,216   4,971  6,487   7,206   5,026   14.92%
Medium term          3,306   2,624   1,157  2,193   1,163    860    1,884   5.59%
Agriculture & livestock      406    387      75     33       0       0     150    0.45%
Fisheries                  1,457    884     486    494     372     159     642    1.91%
Manufacturing & construction  570   561      58    348     309      57     317    0.94%
Services & transport        356     328     364    472      23     131     279    0.83%
Other                        517    464     176     846    460     513     496    1.47%
TOTAL                       37,844  40,203  29,492  30,451  31,377  32,795  33,694 100.00%
Sources: IMF; Central Bank of Mauritania (from Economic Intelligence Unit)
39.     Weakness of institutions supporting rural activities. The pool of qualified civil servants and
technicians is limited, and there is a need to help the rural sector design, implement and monitor rural
development strategies and programs. Information on the rural sector is also nonexistent, poorly
organized or difficult to access for potential users, and especially for the private sector. The lack of
capacity to collect, process and analyze statistical data on the sector makes monitoring and evaluation, as
well as decision-making, difficult.
40.     Environmental issues related to irrigation.  In irrigated areas, water logging, salinity and
waterbome diseases are important environmental threats.      Water logging and salinity affect soil
productivity, whereas waterborne illnesses have an impact on workers' productivity and thus on their
incomes. In these areas, reduced flooding also has a detrimental effect on flood recession agriculture and
on the replenishment of water tables that feed wells.
41.     Abandonment of schemes. Out of a total potential area for irrigation in the Valley of 135,000 ha,
a total of 40,000 ha have already been developed, almost exclusively for irrigated rice production.
Unfortunately, half of this irrigated area has been abandoned due to various problems. Generally, the
large publicly-financed schemes were well designed and relatively well maintained, but the same cannot
be said of most small village-level irrigation schemes (put into production over the past 15-20 years) and
individual schemes (created since 1987). For the latter two types, the excepted regular maintenance and
repairs have never occurred. In Trarza especially, the substandard design and implementation of
individual self-financed schemes resulted in poor drainage and therefore in water logging and salinity.
The results of the 1998 survey confirm that most of these schemes are in an advanced state of
deterioration, as had been noted in 1994. One or a combination of the following problems are present on
the schemes: frequent breakdown of motorpumps on nearly half (49 percent) of the schemes, faulty
grading (48 percent of schemes), problems with primary canals (43 percent), infrastructures (26 percent),
drains (22 percent) and secondary canals (22 percent). Other factors, including the above-mentioned lack
of credit and poor management have contributed to the abandonment of mostly individual schemes, which
is always preceded by a progressive drop in yields. Without rehabilitation, it is estimated that most of the



- 12-
small village-level and individual schemes currently in production will meet the same fate in the near
future (see hypothesis of economic analysis)
42.    Slow pace of implementation of land tenure securement process. Secure land tenure became an
issue in the irrigated zones once the regularization of the Senegal River's water regime and the provision
of public infrastructures boosted land values and attracted new investors. Traditionally, these areas had
been used by communities practicing rainfed or flood-recession agriculture and livestock raising under
traditional tenure rights. Modem land tenure law, introduced in 1983, and its application decree which
was revised in 1990, considers that land belongs to the Nation, that the State can distribute land, and that
every citizen has a right access of land. Certain failings in the distribution procedures were noted once
the land tenure law began to be applied, but the situation is now reasonably under control. Procedures for
obtaining land use and property rights were defined, tested on a pilot basis in Trarza (under the IDA-
supported PASA), and are now being applied to the rest of the Valley. There is a need, however, to
prescribed technical norms for the creation/rehabilitation of schemes, and to demand that recipients
respect the land development norms, starting with the initial obtainment of a land-use permit. This is
important since the State has a stake in developing lands that were costly in terms of basic structural
investments and that were subsequently awarded to users at relatively low cost.
43.    Given the importance that the Government attaches to poverty alleviation, it will be necessary to
establish mechanisms and a taxation system, allowing land in the Valley to be distributed as transparently
and equitably as possible. It is worth repeating that of a total area of over 40,000 ha of irrigated land
distributed by the State, only an area of about 20,000 ha is currently in production and is producing yields
below 4 tons/ha with a cropping intensity of less than 1. This means that a large proportion of this
precious land is unexploited or underexploited. Priority should therefore be given to developing lands
already attributed and, eventually, to the re-assignment of these lands (in cases of non-exploitation or
abandonment) rather than to assigning new parcels.
44.    A series of measures will be taken to address the above-mentioned issues prior to the start-up of
the IDPIAM, and over its first three-year phase.
Government Strategy
45.    The main goal of the Governmenrt's reform program is to alleviate poverty by means of
accelerated private sector-led growth. The strategy for attaining this objective consists of: (i) assigning
the rural sector a larger role within the economy; (ii) developing basic infrastructure; (iii) promoting
private sector development; (iv) improving the environment for employment creation and poverty
reduction; and (v) restructuring and modernizing the public sector. In this strategy, the rural sector is
considered a major source of employment creation and income generation.
46.    The Government, with Bank and donor assistance and with the participation of major
stakeholders in the rural sector, recently de-veloped a comprehensive rural development strategy (RDS)
with four objectives: (i) promote the growth of diversified and competitive agriculture; (ii) integrate the
livestock sector into the national economy; (iii) promote employment and alleviate poverty; and (iv)
reduce the degradation of the natural resource base upon which agricultural production depends. This
strategy was supported by the donor community (Consultative Group, March 1998). In the rainfed zones,
the Bank already supports the Rainfed Natural Resources Management Project, whose objective is to
control and, hopefully, reduce the spiral of poverty so well illustrated in this part of the world by the
confluence of population growth, environmental degradation and reduced agricultural production. For the



- 13 -
irrigated part of the country, the Senegal River Valley, the proposed Program is an important step towards
the implementation of this comprehensive rural development strategy.
47.    The key policy and institutional reforms under consideration to support the Program are: (i) a
simplified and transparent agricultural tariff policy - taking into account the fact that domestic taxes
applied only to imported products increase the overall level of taxation of imported products; (ii) the
elimination of the coupling of domestic marketing of paddy and import of rice; (iii) the liberalization of
transport services; (iv) continued implementation of land tenure reform, with adequate safeguards and a
monitoring system; (v) a clear incentive structure (including a credit system, a transparent investment
subsidy framework, and the implementation of such reforms in banking and savings as would be
recommended in the banking sector); and (vi) the establishment of a sound capacity within the.Ministry of
Rural Development and Environment (MDRE) for strategic planning, economic assessment, monitoring
and evaluation, agricultural information and statistics, and coordination/cooperation. The progress and
success of these reforms will be the triggers for the second phase of the (APL) Program.
48.    The Government is to be commended for its commitment to liberalize the rice and transport
sectors and to continue the implementation of land tenure rules and regulations, as is clearly indicated in
the just agreed-upon 1999-2002 Policy Framework Paper (PFP). The Govemment has adopted in May
1999 a Letter of Development Policy for the irrigated sector (Annex  1), which reflects these measures.
In the area of agricultural credit, the only rural credit institution in the country-UNCACEM-has
committed itself to an interest rate policy to achieve operational and financial self-sufficiency.
B3. SectorIssues to beAddressed by theProjectand Strategic Choices
49.    The current economic, legal and institutional framework is a good basis for starting theProgram
with solid chances of success. However these policy measures need to be implemented, monitored and, if
necessary, modified in the course of Phase I of the IDPIAM-IDA. The Program will help the
Government strengthen the economic policy and legal framework and develop the institutional capacity
of MDRE, SONADER and UNCACEM. (see Annex 2-A). It will also help address the main
development issues of irrigated agriculture: access to credit, diversification and the development of
technical and managerial capacities on the part of producers.
Improvement of the economic policy and legal framework
50.    This will involve: (a) bringing Mauritania's agricultural tariffs into line with the customs regime
of other countries in the region; (b) liberalizing the rice sector and implementing the accompanying
measures; (c) pursing the transport sector liberalization measures; (d) developing the design and
implementation of norms for irrigation infrastructures in order to ensure the sustainable use of irrigated
lands; (e) enforcing land legislation in accordance with recommendations of the land tenure study; (f)
facilitating exports; and (g) adapting the legislation on farmer's organizations to the IDPIAM context.
Strengthening the capacity of rural support institutions
51.    To strengthen the capacities of MDRE, emphasis will be on support to the MDRE's new
Directorate for Policy and Monitoring/Evaluation (DPSE) as well as on consolidation and strengthening
of the statistics-gathering system for the rural sector. For SONADER, the Project will support the
recommendations that emerged from the study of this agency's restructuring. The State will bear the
costs related to personnel reduction resulting from this restructuring. Technical assistance for UNCACEM
will be financed under the Project in order to help the institution remedy its deficiencies and develop new
products.



- 14 -
Promotion of diversification
52.    The IDPIAM's diversification component will help private operators, economic interest groups
(GIEs) and cooperatives to take advantage of two avenues of diversification: the local and international
markets. The IDPIAM will help set up a multidisciplinary taskforce charged with coordinating a program
of pilot, private sector-led interventions, with the main objective of identifying and perfecting agronomic
techniques (varieties, techniques) and logistical schemes (processing, refrigeration) that would make it
possible to meet the needs of local markets and even of export markets. The objective during Phase I will
be to increase the local market supply of competitively-priced fruits and vegetables from the Valley, and
to have the beginnings of sustained export activity by the end of Phase I.
Financing mechanisms, credit and matching grants
53.    The Project will address the basic question of limited credit access (paragraphs 35 and 36).
Financing, in the form of loans, will be provided to interested financial institutions to enable them to grant
short, medium and long-term credit to producers and others involved in the rural sector. For the time
being, the only financial institution active in lhe rural sector that has expressed an interest in pursuing and
expanding its activities is UNCACEM (paragraph 35). In order to remove the obstacles (identified in
paragraph 36) preventing commercial banks from financing rural activities, the following measures are
being taken: (i) establishment of an incentive framework (credit system, matching grants, reform of
savings and loan agencies); (ii) liberalization of the rice sector, which will lead to greater demand for
credit, especially from rice growers; and (iii) demonstration effect of projects successfully financed by
UNCACEM, which will show that risk management is possible and that agricultural lending can be
profitable, including in the medium or long term.
54.    Without assistance in the form of matching grants (complementary subsidy), the high cost of
rehabilitation and equipment would be out of reach of the poorest populations with very limited capital.
In addition, these borrowers would face severe cash flow problems since, in order to ensure the viability
of the financing institution, the repayment period for long-term credit is much shorter (8 years) than the
life of the investments (20 years). The Project will, therefore, grant targeted subsidies with the objective
of limiting the level of indebtedness of the poorest producers who use credit. This subsidy, which will be
a complement to the personal contribution and to credit obtained from UNCACEM, is considered to be
the least costly way to help the poor, especially those living on collective schemes who consume much of
what they produce. Indeed, allowing the poorest rural inhabitants to exploit the scarce resource of land is
the most effective may to generate increased revenue and bring about a sustained reduction in poverty.
55.    One alternative to the targeted investnent subsidy would be a non-targeted, monetary subsidy to
collectives and individual smallholders, in the hope that they would use the funds for productive and
sustainable investments in agricultural production, marketing and processing. However, with such non-
targeted subsidies - which would also have to be granted in a lump sum or in scheduled payouts - there is
no effective way of monitoring; (i) beneficiary eligibility, and (ii) use of the funds for the intended
purposes.
Technical and managerial support to producers
56.    This support is intended to remedy the managerial weakness of producers and producers'
organizations and to improve technical expertise in the areas of irrigated scheme maintenance and
production. This support is already being provided under the IDA-financed Agricultural Services Project
(ASP) and will be strengthened under the Project (components (c), (d), and (e)).



- 15 -
C. Summary Description of Phase I of the Program
(see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost analysis)
Cl. Components of Phase I of the Program
Components and sub-components                                               IDA Financing     Total Financing'
(in US$ '000)
Amount     %       Amount     %
A. DEVELOPMENT OF A POLICY, LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
1. Improvement of the policy and legal framework                                 719    96.8       742      1.6
2. Strengthening of institutional capacities
Support to MDRE                                                                503     93.6      537      1.2
Support for an agro-pastoral information system                                941     80.6     1,168     2.5
Support to SONADER                                                             284     46.8      606      1.3
Support to UNCACEM                                                             644     94.2      684      1.5
Subtotal Strengthening of institutional capacIies                              2,372     79.2     2,994     6.5
Subtotal DEVELOPMENT OF A POLICY, LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK              3,090     82.7     3,736     8.1
B. DEVELOPMENT OF BASIC INFRASTRUCTURES
1. Public infrastructure (hydraulics, communications/roads)                    1,564     96.2     1,626     3.5
2. Rehabilitation / extention I creation of private irrigated schemes          7,435     78.8     9,438    20.5
3. Research and development                                                    1,367     66.7     2,052     4.5
Subtotal DEVELOP BASIC INFRASTRUCTURES                                          10,366     79.0    13,116    28.5
C. SUPPORT TO FARM MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATION
1. Support for farm management                                                 1,029     92.9     1,108     2.4
D. SUPPORT FOR TRADITIONAL CROPS SUBSECTOR
1. Support for traditional crops                                              10,072     86.1    11,700    25.4
E. DIVERSIFICATION PROMOTION
1. Development of Infrastructure                                               1,649     59.5     2,770     6.0
2. Diversification promotion antenna                                           2,280     81.3     2,803     6.1
3. Diversification promotion activities                                        2,196     91.9     2,390     5.2
4. Quality Control                                                                95     87.8       109     0.2
Subtotal DIVERSIFICATION PROMOTION                                               6,219     77.0     8,072    17.5
F. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MITIGATION MEASURES
1. Environmental monitoringlevaluation                                           948     88.6     1,069     2.3
2. Land use plans                                                                600     83.1      722       1.6
3. Development of norms                                                           45     94.1       48      0.1
4. Environmental impact mitigation measures                                    1,097     84.2     1,302      2.8
Subtotal ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MITIGATION MEASURES                                2,689     85.6     3,141     6.8
G. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING & EVALUATION
1. Project Management                                                          2,563     87.9     2,916     6.3
2. Monitoring and Evaluation                                                     815     87.1      936      2.0
Subtotal PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING & EVALUATION                          3,377     87.7     3,852     8.4
H. PROJECT PREPARATION                                                           1,300    100.0     1,300     2.8
TOTAL                                                                       38,143     82.9    46,025    100.0
'Cost includes taxes and contngencies.



- 16 -
C2. Main Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project
(See Section B3)
C3. Benefits and Targeted Populations
57.    Benefits will include: (i) increased production, productivity and income of farmers in the
irrigated areas; (ii) development of new employment-generating activities upstream and downstream of
agricultural production; (iii) a greater role for rural communities and producers in decision-making; and
(iv) better nutrition and health.
58.   The main beneficiaries of the Program's Phase I will be over 2,000 smaliholder families in the
Valley (cooperative members) and numerous owners of small individual schemes who will receive credit
and matching grants to rehabilitate or expand their irrigated schemes and who will receive assistance in
the management and maintenance of infrastructures and in production techniques. Women's groups will
benefit particularly from the Project through the diversification component, since women traditionally
handle market gardening while the men devote themselves to cereals production. Another beneficiary
group will be owners of medium-sized schemes who will, for the first time, have access to credit for the
rehabilitation of irrigation schemes.
59.   Most producers in the Valley will also benefit from the Project's interventions thanks to the
development of rural public (non-farm) infrastructures; better access to capital and agricultural services;
and to the enabling policy, legal and institutional environment that will be created.
60.    Another important beneficiary category would be all rural and urban population-all rice
consumers-who will, from now on, be able to obtain a better quality product at a lower price. They will
also have access to locally produced fruits and vegetables that have, up until now, been imported and
available only to the more affluent. The nutritional status of the poorest populations will thus be
improved.
61.   Indirect beneficiaries of this Project include: (i) rural and urban labor force, due to the increased
job opportunities created in agriculture and its related activities; and (ii) private entrepreneurs engaged in
the supply of agricultural inputs, equipment rental, manufacture/repair of agricultural equipment; and in
the collection, processing and marketing of agricultural products for local and international markets.
Other beneficiaries may include those involved in engineering and consulting.
C4. InstitutionalArrangements and ProjectImplementation
(see Annex 2-GI)
62.    Overall responsibility for Project implementation will rest with the Ministry of Rural
Development and Environment (MDRE). This responsibility will take into account the reform policy
initiated by the Mauritanian Government, which recommends that ministries disengage themselves from
certain implementation functions, leaving them to private operators, and that public service activities be
reoriented towards policy, strategic planning, public investment planning and monitoring/evaluation. The
following set-up is therefore envisaged:
* policy coordination of the IDPIAM will be handled by an Interministerial Coordinating
Committee;
* guidance of the IDPIAM will be handled by a Steering Committee;
* a Project Coordinating Unit (CU..IDPIAM, already created) will be responsible for overall
Project management and coordination, financial management and monitoring and evaluation;



- 17-
*  oversight of studies and public infrastructure works and assistance to producers in the areas
of investment management and production techniques will be handled by SONADER;
*  credit will be handled by UNCACEM; this function will be opened to other financial
institutions under Phases II and III of the Program;
*  support monitoring and control functions will be handled by various services within MDRE,
namely: the Directorate for Planning and Monitoring/Evaluation (DPSE); the Directorate for
Environment and Rural Equipment (DEAR), the Directorate for Research, Training and
Extension (DRFV); and the Directorate for Agro-Pastoral Resources (DRAP);
*  specialized support functions will be provided by services other than MDRE, namely: the
National Statistics Office (ONS), NGOs, OSPs and GIEs.
D. Program and Project Rationale
Dl. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Program and the Project Design
63.    The Program and the Project design draws from: (i) IDA's and other donors' assistance to
Mauritania; (ii) Mauritania's own experience in irrigated agriculture (over 20 years); (iii) experience in
other countries in the region; and (iv) the Bank's worldwide experience in irrigation development. These
experiences are mentioned in the sectoral questions addressed in the preceding paragraphs. Several
valuable lessons have been derived from this experience and from IDA's involvement in irrigation -
particularly the Agricultural Adjustment and Investment Project (Cr. 2093-MR) and the Small-Scale
Irrigation Project (Cr. 1571-MR):
*  rice produced in large-scale irrigation projects requiring an extensive and sophisticated
irrigation and drainage network and heavy pumping equipment is generally not economically
viable because production costs are too high to compete against imported rice. In addition,
individual large schemes involve salaried labor and even mechanization, resulting in even
higher costs than in collective irrigated schemes. Conversely, rice production on small
irrigated schemes, especially if they use family labor, can be economically sustainable;
*  rice production achieved in the Middle and Upper Valley is less subject to competition from
imported rice (via the port of Nouakchott) since it supplies a nearby (local and hinterland)
market where it has a competitive advantage due to transport costs;
*  to be sustainable, irrigated agriculture must produce more than one harvest per year, promote
diversification, and integrate other rural activities such as livestock raising,silviculture and
river fishing;
*  operation and maintenance (O&M) of collective hydraulic infrastructures can only be
sustainable if beneficiaries are made directly responsible for it. However, public services
must provide them with training to organize themselves;
* the management of large collective schemes, currently assisted to a great extent by
SONADER, must be transferred to cooperatives in a gradual fashion after the appropriate
preparation and training of beneficiaries. Any unplanned transfer that is not accompanied by
assistance is doomed to failure;
*  credit is indispensable for irrigated agriculture, not only for crop production and marketing
(short-term), but also, and especially, for the equipment of schemes (medium- and long-
term.); Complete subsidization, even for the poorest populations, has a very detrimental
effect;



- 18-
*  access to credit is a powerful instrument of gaining access to land; therefore, adequate
mechanisms should ensure that credit is equitably distributed in accordance with basic credit
access principles;
*  poor drainage is one of the main causes of such environmental problems as water logging and
salinity;
*  major infrastructure, such as irrigation, drainage and access roads, is essential to the
promotion of irrigated agriculture and requires the financial support of the Government
(public funds); and
*  policy reforms carried out under the AGSECAL must be updated and pursued.
64.    Other lessons can be learned from previous experiences: (i) the practice of rice monoculture and
the emphasis on food self-sufficiency have not fostered the emergence of a modem and competitive
agriculture, nor has it reduced rural poverty, (ii) the heavy dependency of this monoculture on public
financing has not allowed a self-sustaining irrigated agriculture to develop; and (iii) the fragmented and
uncoordinated donor assistance has made it difficult for the Government to set priorities and manage
human, material and financial resources properly.
65.    Based on these lessons learned from past experience, the Program and the Project will implement
the following recommendations:
*  Design of irrigated schemes. Rehabilitation, extension and/or creation of new schemes to be
carried out under the proposed Program must be viable from the technical, economic and
environmental standpoints and must conform to norms set out in the Implementation Manual
for Phase-I. In the event that norms are not respected, the farmer: (i) will not receive
authorization to rehabilitate, extend or create new schemes; (ii) will not get access to credit or
subsidies; (iii) may be subject to fines if he/she proceeds to violate norms; and (iv) could lose
his/her rights over the land in this case, temporary concession. The Government will update
MDRE Circular No. 008 concerning management norms for irrigated schemes and will
publish an Implementation Manual.
*  Matching grants (complementary subsidies).  In addition to short-term  credit already
available for working capital, farmers will have access to medium- and long- term credit, as
well as to subsidies (for the poorest) to allow them to design, implement and equip their
schemes properly and to have technically, economically and environmentally viable farms.
*  Technical and managerial expertise. Assistance to farmers (one of the Project's main
components) will increase their level of technical and managerial know-how.
*  Monitoring of project implementation and impacts. A sound monitoring and evaluation
system using effective indicators and beneficiary assessments, will be set up to ensure proper
Project implementation, measure impacts and provide decision-makers with relevant
information for timely adjustments.
D2. Program Alternatives Considered, Reasons for Rejection and Rationale for an APL
66.    Achieving the main objective of the Program (to increase agricultural value-added, rural
employment and income, and reduce poverty) will require a coherent and well-integrated set of actions in
the areas of:  (i) economic, legal and institutional policies; (ii) infrastructure investments; (iii)
strengthening of farmers' capacities for management; (iv) helping farmers water production,



- 19 -
diversification, processing and marketing skills; (v) development of financial intermediation; and (vi)
environmental protection.
67.    The option chosen was the integrated and participatory rural development approach. This
approach has the advantage of being all-encompassing and of taking into account all the key problems
that arise. It has the disadvantage, however, of being complex and difficult to grasp and implement.
Because it seeks to be participatory, it cannot propose a blueprint, i.e. an elaborate work and investment
program prior to project start-up, since the Program is supposed to be designed as its implementation
proceeds and as the various participants take things in hand. The approach must, therefore, be flexible
and iterative.
68.    Four other options were considered for this Program.
*  The first option was to consider another project of the Small-Scale Irrigation, or irrigated
village perimeter type, with subsidies for scheme rehabilitation and assistance to producers in
the areas of management and production techniques, with a view to reducing poverty. This
formula was rejected since rehabilitation in itself does not resolve issues related to marketing,
competitiveness and long-term financing.
*  The second option considered was to provide short-, medium- and long-term credit lines at
market rates and allow private initiative to take its course. This would have resulted either in
under-utilization of financial resources if the credit institution were to behave with the
required prudence, or in bankruptcy if this institution were to respond to credit requests
hastily and without in-depth examination.
*  The third option envisioned was a series of small sub-sectoral projects, each dealing with one
aspect of the problem. One advantage of this formula would have been simpler projects to
manage. The drawbacks would have been: the problem and the expense of coordination
among numerous projects; the waste of human resources for the preparation and management
of several projects; and the absence of any guarantee that all projects would receive support
and be implemented at the required time. Experience has shown that coordination among
projects is one of the biggest difficulties, especially when they are financed by different
donors.
*  The fourth option was a hybrid sector adjustment/investment operation such as the preceding
AGSECAL. The disadvantage of this approach is that the adjustment measures are not
sufficiently linked to the investment operation itself, and that these measures are often taken
to satisfy the requirement of rapid disbursement rather than as proof of true Government
commitment to the proposed reforms. In addition, rapidly disbursed funds under sectoral
adjustment operations do not necessarily benefit the sector for which they are theoretically
intended.
Rationale for an APL
69.    Before engaging in an ambitious and costly investment program, Mauritania must: (i) create an
enabling environment in terms of policies for import taxation, transportation, land tenure, and rural
financing; (ii) demonstrate the success of new technologies and new crops; (iii) develop the base for
economically sustainable crop production; (iv) bring farmers up to a satisfactory level of technological
know-how and organization; (v) scout markets to identify commercial niches; and (vi) launch feasibility
studies for future major infrastructure works. These reasons justify the phased approach that an APL
offers. Also, the investments that the Government and private sector must make are long-term



- 20 -
investments that require long-term commitment on the part of all partners, including donors. These
investments are also part of the overall IDPIAM which spans a period of eleven years and involves
several donors. This overall program is part of the Government's Rural Development Strategy which has
been supported by the donor community. Finally problems of poverty alleviation do not have short-term
solutions.
70.    The proposed long-term APL:
*  is linked to long-term (6-10 years) interventions (infrastructures);
*  grants financing for a long-term (11 year) development strategy, beginning with an initial
series of interventions, in accordance with agreed-upon triggering events and objectives;
*0 has discrete, divisible and phased investments, with physical targets for rehabilitation over a
long time horizon;
*  includes a logical sequence of events and a phasing of activities defined by milestones
(triggers) and policy requirements; and
*  follows demonstrable cost-benefit and program justification based on broadly acknowledged
economic parameters, such as improved yields, increased cropping intensity, and
diversification.



-21 -
D3. MajorRelatedProjects
(financed by the World Bank and/or other development partners)
(completed, ongoing, and planned)
Latest Supervision Ratings
Sector Issue                              Project                                 (Form 590)
(Bank-financed project only)
Implementation   Development
progress (IP)  objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Natural Resource Management   Rainfed Natural Resources Management                     S                S
(Cr. 2965 -FY 1997)
Ag. Extension, Research and   Ag. Services                                             S                S
Training                      (Cr. 2575 - FY 1994)
Ag. Adjustment and Irrigation  Ag Sector Adjustment and Investment                     S                S
(Cr. 2093 - FY 1990)
Livestock                     Livestock II                                             S                S
(Cr. 16580 - FY 1986)
Irrigation                    Small-Scale Irrigation                                  NA               NA
(Cr. 1571 -FY 1985)
Irrigation                    Gorgol Noir Irrigation                                  NA               NA
(Cr. 1068-FY 1981
Irrigation                    Technical Assistance to SONADER                         NA               NA
(Cr. 694 - FY 1977)
Other development agencies
Ag. Extension                 PSSA
(FAO)
Credit                         Line of Credit and Technical Assistance to UNCACEM
(Germany)
Irrigation                    Maghama 3 Irrigation Scheme
(Islamic Development Bank / Saudi Development Fund
Irrigation                    PPG2 - Gorgol Irrigated Pilot Scheme
(European Union)
Irrigation                    Access Road and Drainage at Foum Gleita
(Abu Dhabi)
Irrigation                    Lac R'kiz Scheme
(IDB)
Irrigation                    M'Pourie Scheme
(IFAD)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (highly satisfactory), S (satisfactory), U (unsatisfactory), HU (highly unsatisfactory), NA (not applicable)



- 22 -
D4. Indications ofBorrower Commitmentand Ownership
71.   In 1995, the Borrower prepared a long-term development strategy for the Senegal River Valley
(the overall IDPIAM), which was presented to the donor community at a roundtable in October 1995, and
received their support. In 1997/98, the Government prepared a countrywide Rural Development Strategy
(RDS) which confirmed the importance given to the development of the Valley. The RDS was presented
at the March 1998 Consultative Group Meeting and was positively received by the donor community. In
may 1999, to confirrm its commitments and to support its request to IDA for the funding of the Program,
the Government prepared and approved a Letter of Development Policy for Irrigated Agriculture
(LDPIA) for the period 1999-2010. Although the process has been slow, there is no doubt that a profound
paradigm shift is occurring at all levels. The Government willingness to move away from past,
unsuccessful practices is demonstrated by the following decisions it has recently taken:
  commitment (letter dated May 9, 1999) to: (a) no longer subsidize the interest rate on loans for
local rice marketing; (b) avoid intervening in the determination of domestic paddy prices; and (c)
guarantee that private importers will not be forced to buy a quota of local rice in order to import
rice (see Annex 2A par. 3);
* announcement made to all parties involved in the rice sector of above Government measures
(letter dated May 16, 1999);
*  agreement on a draft joint circular to be issued by the Ministries of Development and
Environment, Interior and Hydraulics setting out minimum technical norrns for irrigated schemes
to be respected by users (May 19, 1999);
*  preparation of a draft Performance Contract for SONADER and agreement and changes to be
introduced (Government letter dated May 18, 1999); and
*  adoption by UINCACEM of an interest rate policy geared to ensuring its operational self-
sufficiency by FY2000 and its financial self-sufficiency by the end of 2001.
D5. Value-Added of BankSupportin thisProgram
72.    The proposed Program involves investment components supported by capacity-building measures
and institutional and policy measures comparable to those initiated under the AGSECAL (1990-1996).
The Bank has a definite comparative advantage in supporting such a comprehensive approach and has
played a lead role in supporting the AGSECAL, the IDPIAM and the RDS. Since the October 1995
roundtable in Mauritania, donors have expected the Bank to assume that leadership, and some have
delayed operations, waiting for the Bank to jump start the IDPIAM. IDA will therefore continue to make
every effort to work in close collaboration with other donors interested in funding parts of the overall
Mauritania-IDPIAM program. In order, however, to avoid complicating financing procedures, a decision
was made to work closely with other donors in the framework of the overall IDPIAM, but not to seek
formal joint funding of the program, at least not during the first (three-year) phase of the APL.
E. Summary Cost-Benefit and Financial Analysis of the Project
(Detailed assessments are in the project files, see Annexes 4 and 5)
73.    The Project's main benefits will be: (a) increased agricultural income for producers on
rehabilitated or newly created irrigation schemes and (b) better maintenance of the irrigated schemes to
secure high and sustainable yields. The Project will have spillover effects upstream and downstream
through the creation of employment and non-farm revenues.



-23 -
74.    The construction of wells will help reduce the incidence of waterborne diseases and will reduce
the drudgery of the women's water-carrying chores. These activities are highly cost-effective (costing less
than US$ 100 per Disability-Adjusted Life-Year (DALY) saved. Activities geared to increasing
accessibility through the construction of small bridges and culverts on access roads, in anticipation of the
construction of rural roads under Phase II (following feasibility studies), will make it possible to open up
areas of high potential that had thus far been isolated.
75.    Cost-benefit analysis has been undertaken for the infrastructure components dealing with
rehabilitated and newly created schemes under Phase I, the plan being to develop 3,100 ha during this
first phase. Only tangible, direct and measurable benefits have been taken into account, but other indirect
benefits will help contribute to the Project's economic return. Since investments are carried out on
demand, the sites and scope of activities are not known beforehand. The analysis is therefore illustrative,
and will be repeated during implementation for each request to ensure that the Project supports only
financially and economically viable operations. Thirteen farm models were considered..
El. EconomicAnalysis
(See Annex 4)
Cost-Benefit Analysis of Schemes: NPV= US$6.4 million; ERR = 28.5 percent
(1 $US = 205 UM, US$ million, base year: 1999)
Current value of flows 12 percent
For all of the 3,100 ha under Phase I
UM$ millions                 US$ millions
Economic       Financial     Economic      Financial
Analysis      Analysis      Analysis       Analysis
Benefits
Operating revenues          2,376         3,096            11.6         15.1
Investment costs           -1,061         -1,261           -5.2          -6.2
Net additional benefits      1,315         1,835            6.4          9.0
IRR                        28.4%          28.5%          28.4%        28.5%
76.    Cost-benefit summary. The economic rate of return (ERR) for the farm models ranges from 17
percent (model: rice, individual farmers in Trarza) to over 200 percent (model: vegetables, cooperative
farmers in Trarza), with, in between, a rate of 38 percent (model: rice + vegetables + windbreaks,
collective producers in the Haut Fleuve). The natural protection enjoyed by the Haut Fleuve (because of
its distance from Nouakchott, the entry point for imported rice) and the use of family labor on collective
schemes increase the profitability of the rice model for collective producers in this region (ERR = 19
percent). The crop diversification model (rice + vegetables + windbreaks) seems to offer the best large-
scale prospects (see Annex 4). The overall ERR is 28.4 percent, based on the estimated distribution of the
selected models and the calendar for the rehabilitation work on 3,100 ha during the three years of Phase I
(which obviously cannot be predicted).
77.    Key assumptions. The underlying key assumption are that:
(a) production and agricultural income (rice and diversification crops for the local market) will
increase under the "with project" scenario relative to the "without project" scenario;



- 24 -
(b) improvement of irrigation schemes and of agricultural services will result in increased yields and
cropping intensity, especially for rice. Under similar ecological conditions, the best Senegalese
producers in the Delta obtain year after year 10 tons of paddy/ha;
(c) without the Project, most irrigated schemes would not have access to credit and would suffer
considerable deterioration (see paragraph 41). Indeed, the IDPIAM will not be assisting large,
well-designed and relatively well-maintained collective schemes, but instead small
village/community schemes (over 15-20 years old) and individual schemes (over 5-10 years old).
These were meant to be regularly maintained and quickly repaired, when necessary, but such
work has not been performed (see pa. 41);
(d) there is a constant estimated price of US$ 200 FOB Bangkok on which the parity price of rice is
based;
(e) the liberalization of the rice sector and its accompanying measures will improve the quality of
paddy (10 percent discount relative to imported rice) and the processing rate (65 percent); and
(f) the long-term opportunity cost of capital in Mauritania is estimated at 12 percent, a figure
considered as at the high end.
78.    Sensitivity analysis. The sensitivity analysis is based on estimated switching values (a change in
the value of key factors that lowers the ERR to 12 percent, taken as the long-term opportunity cost of
capital in Mauritania). The risk threatening the achievement of the Project's economic benefits could
come from reduced paddy yields, reduced paddy prices, or from an increase in the foreign exchange rate
(Annex 4). These risks are higher for individual rice-only producers (switching values in these cases
are -9 percent for paddy yields and -12 percent for paddy prices) compared to those for collective rice
farmers in the Haut-Fleuve (switching values of -17 percent for paddy yields and -24 percent for paddy
prices). The benefits from diversified crops, and especially vegetable production systems, are much less
susceptible to these risks.
79.   In order to reduce the risks associated with declining paddy yields, the Project will require better
design of irrigated schemes and will support better access to credit and to agricultural services (including
farmer-to-farner visits to extend best practices). The Project has developed a comprehensive package
aimed at improving rice productivity (Annex 2-D). To buffer the impact of fluctuations in rice prices -
and therefore in farmers' incomes - the Project will provide incentives to producers to diversify their
crops to reduce their dependency on rice, and will develop an information system to keep farmers up-to-
date on market conditions.
E2. FinancialAnalysis
(see Annex 5)
Cost-benefit analysis of schemes: NPV = US$ 9.0 millions; ERR = 28.5
80.    Summary of costs and benefits. The financial rate of return (FRR) for the various farm models
ranges from 19 percent (model: rice-only, individual farmers in Trarza) to over 100 percent (model:
vegetables, cooperative farmers in Trarza) with, between, a rate of 37 percent (model: the rice +
vegetables + windbreaks, cooperative producers in the Haut Fleuve). As is the case for economic
benefits, crop diversification offers the best large-scale prospects. Overall, for the 3,100 ha of schemes
developed under Phase I, the net financial benefits of the Project are substantial, as indicated by the net
present value (NPV) and the FRR (28.5 percent).
81.    Key assumptions. The main assumption (aside from those concerning improved paddy yields and
the parity price of paddy) is a tariff of 23 percent (DFI + TST), taken as overall long-term taxation of
imported rice. Mauritania is committed to simplifying and reducing its tariffs and to bringing them into



- 25 -
line with those of other countries in the region. Since those other countries do not - in connection with
poverty alleviation efforts - impose internal taxes (VAT or FMI) on staples such as rice, Mauritania is
expected to follow suit in time. There will be no financing of public infrastructures for which recovery of
management or maintenance costs have not been considered.
82.    Sensitivity analysis. Risks are associated with declining paddy yields (switching value -11
percent for rice-only individuals in Trarza), with declining paddy prices (switching value -12 percent in
Trarza), and with an increase in the foreign exchange rate (switching value 15 percent), but there is
relatively little risk associated with increased costs of the irrigated schemes. These risks are relatively
less severe for rice collective farmers in the Haut Fleuve. The impact of a cost overrun on a scheme is
small when it is assessed over the project's 20-year lifespan, but its effect could be catastrophic over the
short term since it would affect producers' ability to repay their loans (over 8 years). The impact of tariff
reductions on prices is diluted in part by the high local distribution costs which are, for the most part,
fixed.
83.    Risk-reduction measures suggested by the economic analysis will have a similar impact on
financial benefits. For collective producers and individuals with parcels of less than 40 ha, the subsidy
will help reduce their cash flow constraints, and therefore will reduce the risks identified in the sensitivity
analysis.
E3. Analysis of the Financial Institution
(See Annex 5)
84.    UNCACEM faced large operating losses during the first years of its existence due to: (a) high
provisions for unrecoverable loan losses that had not been sufficiently provisioned during those initial
years; (b) relatively high operating costs relative to a low level of activity; (c) low interest rates (12
percent for all types of credit, whereas market rates climbed much higher (to 17 percent or more). This
situation has improved considerably since 1997: credit recovery rates improved significantly, reaching 97
percent, and a financial adjustment was made in May 1999.
85.    As a condition for negotiations, UNCACEM agreed to adjust its interest rates in order to achieve
financial self-sustainability by the second year of the project at the latest (paragraph 71).
E4. FiscalImpact
(See Annex 5)
86.    The Project's fiscal impact on the Government budget will be positive. The net present value of
the investment subsidy will be almost entirely offset by taxes on agricultural inputs and production
equipment. The net present value of beneficiaries' contributions will also be higher than that of the
investment subsidy.
87.   Inflows include IDA disbursements, the reimbursement of the line of credit to UNCACEM,
import taxes on agricultural inputs and equipment and savings derived from the elimination of subsidies
on paddy marketing (see Strategic Context). UNCACEM will repay the line of credit with interest
covering the IDA service charge, the exchange risk and the Government's charges for managing the
funds.
88.    Outflows will finance: (i) the line of credit to UNCACEM; (ii) the investment subsidy; (iii) other
matching grants (financing the construction of small storage units for poor collectives and the pilot
diversification operation); (iv) extension and research; and (v) roads and social service infrastructures.



-26 -
Additional recurrent declining costs (progressively phased out over 5 years after the end of the Project)
are estimated net of taxes. Because of the additional local rice production, the Government will lose out
on taxes on the equivalent imported rice, but this loss corresponds to a gain for producers.
E5. TechnicalAnalysis
89.    Rehabilitation, extension and new creation works will be designed, implemented and maintained
in accordance with technical norms defined by the Government. MDRE's Circular No. 008 specifies
technical norms for the calibration of irrigation and drainage works, and for the size and leveling of
parcels. These norms have been updated and set out in a circular to be issued jointly by the MDRE and
other ministries responsible for - or involved in - their application. A draft circular accepted by IDA has
been accepted as a condition of negotiations of Phase-I of the IDPIAM-IDA. These norms will ensure
that public lands, up to now distributed at little cost to farmers, with credit and subsidies made available
to them to develop these lands, as well as public funds invested in the creation of rural public
infrastructures (dams, dikes, drainage ditches, canals and roads) are used in the most efficient manner
from the social, economic and environmental standpoints.  These norms take into account the
environmental particularities of the Valley (salinity and water logging) by emphasizing appropriate
drainage systems. Respect of these norms will be a condition for access to temporary and permanent land
concessions. It would also be a condition of access to investment credit and subsidies. Information,
extension and training programs will strengthen producers' technical know-how. These programs will
include the introduction of new irrigation technologies to be tested.
E6. InstitinoalAnalysis
90.    Despite their long experience, MDRE and SONADER' s capacities need to be improved. Faced
with changes in the Government's role and the rise of the private sector, these institutions have been
unable to adapt and have seen their funding sources (essentially external aid) dry up while they still retain
large staffs, some of them with outdated ski]ls. They therefore need to be restructured. This is especially
true of SONADER, which is to play a key rcle in the implementation of the Program.
91.    For MDRE, the emphasis wilt be on supporting the Directorate for Policy and
Monitoring/Evaluation (DPSE), which will be set up in 1999 and made responsible for coordination
between (a) MDRE's various departments; (b) MDRE and its decentralized agencies; and (c) MDRE,
other ministries, NGOs and development agencies. Under Project funding, the Office national de la
statistique (ONS) will assist MDRE in restructuring, strengthening and making more effective its
statistical services.
92.    SONADER's mandate and work program have been defined in a performance contract that is
currently being ratified by the Government. This performance contract will be accompanied by a
restructuring to be carried out during Phase I of the Program, on the basis of a study planned for the
second half of 1999.
93.    Funding has been earmarked undet the Agricultural Services Project for the development and
strengthening of the capacities of these two institutions (MDRE and SONADER).  Additional
interventions will be financed under the Project.
94.    UNCACEM currently receives full-time technical assistance from France and Germany, under a
contract due to run out soon. It has been agreed that technical assistance will be provided under the
Project but on a declining basis and with a specific plan for training local managers (local capacity



- 27 -
building) and for the phased withdrawal of this technical assistance. Such assistance must not become a
substitute for local staff.
95.    Since MDRE, SONADER and UNCACEM are receiving support from several donors under
various projects, every effort will be made to coordinate with other donors the necessary technical
assistance in the areas of capacity- building and project management.
E7. SocialAnalysis
96.    Poverty . The Project will target poor farmers and vulnerable groups by helping them obtain
better access to agricultural credit and subsidies for productive investments and rural infrastructures; to
land; and to know-how (training and extension); and by promoting women development. It will support
farmer participation in the design, implementation, management and maintenance of investments. Data
collection and analysis for a participatory evaluation ofthe Project's social impact has been carried out on
a sampling of schemes. The results of the analysis helped improve Project design and work out the best
ways of reaching the target groups. There were also used to test the diagnostic tools that will
subsequently be part of the Project's monitoring and evaluation system (M&E).
97.    Access to credit and subsidies. Targeted subsidies for irrigated schemes rehabilitation or
extension will be granted under the Project to cooperatives whose members have individual parcels of 2
ha or less on average, and to individuals owning total areas of less than 40 ha or less under rice. Similarly,
subsidies will be made available for the development of new small irrigated schemes (less than 5 ha)
intended for diversification by cooperatives or individuals. Safeguards will be introduced to ensure the
transparency of lines of credit and subsidies and to ensure that these resources go to those beneficiaries
for whom they are intended.
98.    Access to land. The current land tenure system guarantees in principle: (i) equitable access to
land; (ii) priority access to this land for communities living in the Valley and their involvement in
decision-making; and (iii) the preservation of land tenure rights of the poor. There are currently three
agencies and one commission monitoring the enforcement of land tenure laws: The Ministry of the
Interior (Land Registrar's Office); the Ministry of Rural Development and Environment (Office of Land
Tenure); the Ministry of Finance (Office of Property Tax) and the Consultative Commission on Land
Tenure. The land tenure system does not pose a problem in and of itself for the proposed Project.
However, the situation will be closely monitored, and no financial support will be authorized for
irrigation schemes affected by land tenure conflicts.
99.    Access to know-how. The provision of basic technical assistance (through the extension sub-
component) that poor smallholders need most will also help reduce the incidence of poverty.
100.   Women's issues . Investment in drinking water to improve rural health and reduce the amount of
time spent carrying water on long distances, especially by women, will help reduce poverty and free up
women's productive capacity. This capacity will be used for market gardening activities, traditionally
managed by women, that generate a great deal of value-added.



- 28 -
ES. EnvironmentalAssessment
Environmental category     [X] A   [ ] B   [ ] C
101.   The Project and the Program area face environmental problems caused by:  (i) existing
infrastructures (the Manantali and Diama darns and major hydraulic canals); and (ii) infrastructures that
will be created under the program. The latter include: (a) major public civil works (main canals and
drains, etc.); (b) minor public works (connecting roads, small bridges, etc.); (c) the rehabilitation,
extension and creation of small irrigated schemes; and (d) small village infrastructures (wells, grain
storage, etc.). According to Bank procedures, only the infrastructures described under (a) belong to
environmental category A; the rest are in category B. The program as a whole, however, is classified as
category A.
102.  During Phase I of the Program, there will be no major infrastructure works, but instead only
feasibility studies which will include environmental impact assessments (EIAs). Land use plans will be
prepared in a participatory manner and technical and management procedures will be prescribed to ensure
sound environmental management. For all new activities to be carried out. on the irrigated schemes,
satisfactory EIAs will have to be produced. In addition, a system of environmental monitoring for the
Valley will be developed and enforced to help decision-makers take adequate preventive and mitigation
measures. Funds will be mobilized under IDPIAM to finance impact mitigation measures identified in the
course of Project preparation and during implementation. Details are provided in the Working Paper on
the environment available in the Project files.
103.   Works aimed at rehabilitating and exploiting existing or new irrigated schemes will have an
impact on waterbome illnesses such as intestinal parasites, bilharzia and malaria. IDA funds have been
made available to Mauritania under the Second Health Project, especially for efforts to combat
waterbome diseases. Measures to mitigate health impacts will therefore be financed under that project.
The IDPIAM will finance annual surveys of the effects of new infrastructures on the incidence of
infectious diseases and will propose mitigating measures to be financed under the Health Project.
E9. ParticipatoryApproach
Main beneficiaries and other affected groups
104.   The Project deals mainly with the rehabilitation of some existing irrigated schemes whose owners
are well known. They have been consulted throughout the process and have been involved in the
diagnostic and design steps leading up to the IDPIAM. In any case, it is important to stress that the
selection of the irrigated schemes to be supported under the Project and the nature of the works to be
carried out will not be determined by IDPIAM staff but rather by the owners of the schemes themselves,
who will need to make explicit requests. They will further have to make a personal direct contribution (in
cash or in kind) and finance part of the investment by means of a personal loan from a credit agency
(UNCACEM). The IDPIAM can not, therefore, be implemented without their solid commitment and
will. There is no doubt that some producers would prefer to maintain the status quo, i.e. the Government
pursuing a protectionist approach (high tariff barriers for imported rice), total or partial interest subsidy
for loans for production, marketing and equipment purchase; total subsidization of irrigated perimeter
development (for collectives). Frequent, long and animated debates have taken place to persuade farmers
that the short-term view was totally unsustainable and, it was, in fact, keeping them in a permanent state
of dependency and semi poverty, whereas the IDPIAM was aimed at significantly improving theirsocio-
economic conditions. Women were particularly supportive as they are the most involved in crop



- 29 -
diversification (vegetables) - the most promising market niche and one for which they will henceforth be
able to get credit as well as technical and marketing advice.
Other key stakeholders
105.   People providing services to producers or involved upstream or downstream of production have
participated in various stages of project preparation. This was the case for suppliers of agricultural
equipment and inputs, rice mills, transporters, NGOs, institutions involved in training, research and
extension, buyers and importers of rice and other agricultural products. Representatives of local and
central government agencies also participated in all stages:  diagnosis, definition of objectives,
intervention strategies and action plans. The main donors were consulted throughout the process.
F. Sustainability and Risks
Fl. Sustainability
106.   All irrigation investments, to be selected for funding, will have to demonstrate their economic and
financial profitability.  Long-term  profitability can be affected by the success (or failure) of the
establishment of water and maintenance fees, and the recovery of a reasonable and acceptable proportion
of those fees. Clear procedures for setting, collecting and managing the use of those fees will be
developed and enforced. Adverse world market fluctuations would pose risks for local agricultural
production with increased integration into world markets. Providing better market information to market
participants and by promoting diversified agricultural production and processing activities would mitigate
this.



- 30 -
F2. Critical Risks
(reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                       Risk                Minimization Measures
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ R a tin g   R s   i i i a i n M a u e
Annex 1-cell "from outputs to objective"
. Appropriate transport and marketing policy   M      * Coordinated action with other sectors and
programs concerned by same issue
* Appropriate fiscal and tariff policy         S      * Maintain regular policy dialogue. Support
policy analysis and implementation via PFP
and CAS exercises.
* Capacity for monitoring implementation of    M      * Support to the newly created Policy and
existing policies                                     Monitoring & Evaluation Directorate
* Incorporate measures in PFP and CAS
* Efficient and equitable financial intervention  S   * Development of capacities, technical
assistance, donor coordination, effective
monitoring and supervision, audits
. Coordination capacity of public and private  M      * Maintain effective monitoring
agencies involved in management and
organization training
Annex 1-cell "from Components to Outputs"
* Capacity of Project's participants to effectively  M  * Establishment of a sound M&E system
plan, monitor and evaluate their activities
* Competence of project staff and support      S      . Stringent recruitment criteria, better selection
services (technically and managerially) and           procedures, training, and performance
adequate coordination                                 monitoring and evaluation.
* Stability of project staff                   M      * Better incentives and working conditions
* Efficient extension and training system      M      * Strong linkage and regular dialogue with Ag.
Services Projects. More demand-driven
program.
* Good performance monitoring and evaluation
* Adequate market facilitation                 S      * Efficient market information systems.
Beneficiary involvement.
* Good donor coordination                      M      . Formal and regular donors' meetings and
systematic exchange of information and
reports.
* Good Government coordination                 M      . Formal and regular govt.-donor-beneficiary
meetings
Overall Risk Rating                M      * Well designed and effective Project
Monitoring and Evaluation
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Moderate Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



- 31 -
F3. Possible ControversialAspects
Risk               Type of    Risk     Risk Minimization Measure
Risk     Rating
Social conflicts                   S        M      Ensure that land tenure law is
applied with transparency and
equity based on the Trarza pilot
_______________________________          __________   operation.
Spread of waterbome diseases       0              Proper sanitation, hygiene
education and treatment, and
adequate water supply points.
Type of risk- S (social), E (Ecological), P (pollution), G (governance), M (management capacity), 0 (other)
107.  Other Project risks include the non-respect of land tenure law, especially vis-a-vis the poorest
farmers. There will be no credit or subsidy without a land-tenure documents (authorization to cultivate
temporary or permanent concession). In addition, such legal documents will be used to prevent borrowers
from trying to circumvent the credit limit set for rehabilitation. Given the critical importance of this
issue, careful stakeholder analysis has been undertaken during appraisal and recommendations are made
for monitoring and evaluation. As for the credit institution, UNCACEM, it was subjected to intensive
review to ensure effective credit delivery. UNCACEM will be closely monitored and is expected to
achieve operational and financial self-sufficiency during Phase I (a trigger for Phase II). To mitigate the
effects of foreign exchange fluctuations, the World Bank and IMF are helping the Government to
implement sound monetary and exchange rate policy reforms.
G. Main Loan Conditions
GI. Effectiveness Conditions
108.  To satisfy effectiveness conditions, the following measures must be taken in a manner judged
satisfactory by the Bank:
(a) establishment of a Project Account and deposit into such account of the initial amount;
(b) selection of independent auditors for the financial and accounts audit of all accounts of
IDPIAM (UC-IDPIAM, SONADER and UNCACEM);
(c) establishment of a computerized accounting and financial information management system in
UC-PDIAIM, acceptable to the Association and appointment of a financial
specialist/accountant;
(d) establishment of a procurement management system in UC-PDIAIM acceptable to the
Association and appointment of a procurement specialist;
(e) establishment of a computerized monitoring and evaluation system in UC-PDIAIM
acceptable to the Association and appointment of a monitoring and evaluation specialist;



- 32 -
(f) adoption of the Project Implementation Manual, and the Grant Procedural Manual, each in
form and substance acceptable to the Association; and
G2. Conditions ofNegotiations
109.  The following conditions of negotiations have been fulfilled in a manner satisfactory to the Bank:
(a) commitment on the part of Government to take necessary measures to ensure production,
processing and marketing of rice, as stipulated in Annex 2 of this document (Government
letter dated May 9, 1999);
(b) announcement made to all parties involved in the rice sector of Government measures
regarding production, processing and marketing of rice(Government letter dated May 16,
1999);
(c) adoption by Government of a Letter of Development Policy for Irrigated
Agriculture(Government letter dated May 31, 1999);
(d) agreement on a draft joint circular to be issued by the Ministries of Development and
Environment, Interior and Hydraulics setting out minimum technical norms for irrigated
schemes to be respected by users (May 19, 1999);
(e) commitment on the part of Government not to nominate staff, key to the implementation of
the IDPIAM, without prior consent of the Bank (Government letter dated May 16, 1999);
(f) presentation of a draft Performance Contract for SONADER and agreement and changes to
be introduced (Government letter dated May 18, 1999);
(g) adoption, by authorized authorities of UNCACEM, of an interest rate policy geared to
ensuring its operational self-sufficiency by FY2000 and its financial self-sufficiency by the
end of 2001, and presentation of a tentative budget showing the conditions for operational
self-sufficiency for the year 2000 (UNCACEM's Board minutes of May 16, 1999);
(h) settlement by UNCACEM of its client accounts in accordance with its auditor's
recommendations (Auditor's letter dated May 12, 1999);
(i) presentation of UNCACEM's audit report for fiscal years 1996 and 1997, and initiation of
audit for 1998 (Auditor's letter dated May 12, 1999);
(j) adoption by UNCACEM of new Procedures Manual as required by the planned new banking
instruments (UNCACEM's Board minutes of May 16, 1999); and
(k) presentation of a summary document describing the Monitoring/Evaluation system to be put
in place for the project.
G3. AgreementReachedatNegotiations
110.  During negotiations, it was agreed with the Borrower that:
(a) six months after the effective date, the Borrower will have entered into a Performance
Contract with SONADER, in form and substance acceptable to the Association;
(b) by December 31, 1999, the Borrower will have; (i) appointed, in UC-PDIAIM, a
diversification coordinator, a marketing expert, a research and development expert, and an



- 33 -
agricultural expert; (ii) appointed a monitoring and evaluation expert in each of MDRE's
regional centers in Boghe, Kaedi and Rosso to assist UC-PDIAIM in the collection of data,
their dissemination and the coordination among entities involved in the agricultural sector in
the Project Area; (iii) established CADI and nominate its members; (iv) established CIMOS
and nominate its members; (v) established CP and nominate its members; and (vi) established
CCD under the chairmanship of UC-PDIAIM and nominated its members; and
(c) by July 31, 2000, the Borrower will have: (i) prepared and adopted regulation for the
application of Decree No 98/48 of June 18, 1998 on public transport liberalization; (ii) carried
out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association, designed to strengthen its
financial management system for the Project and develop, not later than twenty-four months
following the Effective Date, a system acceptable to the Association for the preparation of the
financial management report, the physical Project implementation report and the Project
procurement report.
111.  It was also agreed that UNCACEM will have:
(a) furnished to the Association, before July 31, 1999, a non-qualified audit report for its fiscal
year 1998, undertaken by auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b) appointed, before July 31, 1999, an independent auditor, acceptable to the Association, under
terms of reference acceptable to the Association, for the purpose of auditing its accounts until
the completion of the execution of the Project;
(c) entered, before December 31, 1999, into an agreement with a consultant firm acceptable to
the Association, for consultant services under the Project, in form and substance acceptable to
the Association;
(d) maintained at all times, until the completion of the execution of the Project qualified and
experienced staff, acceptable to the Association, in the positions of director general and
expert in charge of finances/accounting.
(e) utilized all amounts received in repayment of agricultural credit provided under the Project to
finance further agricultural projects undertaken by private and/or cooperative community
customers in the Project Area
112.  In addition, it was agreed with the Borrower that SONADER will have:
(a) by July 31, 2000 initiated its reorganization in accordance with terms of reference and an
action plan acceptable to the Association; and
(b) by the time of the Midterm Review, subcontracted at least half of the monetary volume of
services rendered, works executed, training delivered and supervision performed in the course
of carrying out its part of the Project.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ]    Engineering design documents for first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation    l[x] Not applicable.
[x]    The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[x]    The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.



- 34 -
[ ]    the following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]    This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[X]    The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies
Task Team Leader: Abdelkrim Oka
Sector Manager/Director: Jean-Paul Chausse
a (               H
Country Manager/Director: Hasan Tuluy



PROGRAM AND PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Mauritania: Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
Summary Description                                        Key indicators                                  Means of verification          Critical conditions
Overall CAS Objective
"to assist Mauritania achieve a higher,
sustainable and equitable growth, create
employment and ... reduce poverty"
Sector-related CAS Objective
Support Mauritania's rural strategy which
consists of: (i) diversifying agriculture,
accelerating its growth and making it      * Improvement of human development indicators                        * Relationship to human
competitive; (ii) integrating the livestock sector  * Proportion of agricultural GDP in national GDP              development
into the economy; (iii) promoting employment  * Migration towards the capital
and alleviate poverty; and (iv) reducing the  * Volume of private sector investment in the Valley/volume of subsidies  . National statistics
degradation of the natural resource base.  * Competitive supply of the products of irrigated agriculture on national and  * Macro-economic reports
intemational markets
Program-linked CAS objective               * Number and percentage of smallholder beneficiaries
"Support the long-term investment program for
the rehabilitation of irrigated agriculture and the
establishment of basic rural infrastructures
throughout the Senegal River Valley by means
of the Integrated Development Program for                                                                                                                                       LA
Irrigated Agriculture (IDPIAM)".
Program Development Objective              * Overall agricultural growth: increase in total value added of agricultural  . Study of base-line social and  * Sustained commitment by
production (annual average 7%)                                       environmental impact            Govemment to an
Increase agricultural value-added, and the  * Agricultural diversification: increase in the value-added of non-rice crops  . Inventory of irrigated schemes  appropriate economic
employment and incomes of populations living  (annual average 10%)                                              . Thematic studies                policy, legal and
in the Senegal River Valley through judicious  * Productivity: land and labor productivity increase             . Core IDPIAM M&E                 institutional framework
use of the most precious of this desert country's  * Economic retum: improved competitiveness of the main crops  . National statistics          * Favorable world market
natural assets: the river's water and the arable  * Poverty alleviation: reduction in the percentage of people below the poverty line  . Land-use map  conditions
land along the river valley.                in the targeted area (from 60% to 20%) by the end of the program    . OMVS report on water resource  . Proper management of
. Enhanced food security: increased incomes and reduction of the gap between  use                      OMVS infrastructures
food demand and domestic food production                                                           * Adequate coordination of
* Access to land, water service and credit by the poor                                                 all projects in the Valley
.   Environmental sustainability: reducing water logging, salinity and waterbome                     . Absence of major social
illnesses                                                                                            conflict in the Valley



PROGRAM AND PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Mauritania: Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
Summary description                                          Key indicators                                   Means of verification           Critical conditions
Phase I - Development Objective                                  Main Indicators
Lay the foundation for a sustainable        . Continued absence of rice sector distortions, as a result of measures introduced  . Official gazette   . Dynamism and coordination
development of irrigated agriculture, in      in 1999                                                               . Policy implementation            of public and private
technical, financial, environmental standpoints  * Implementation of regulations associated with Decree 98/48 and Bylaw R075  monitoring reports      institutions involved in the
and socioeconomic terms.                      on transport sector liberalization                                    * UNCACEM statistics               Valley
. Satisfactory rate of repayment (at least 95%) of loans granted by UNCACEM.  . SONADER statistics      . Dynamic process of
* Operational and fmancial self-sufficiency achieved by UNCACEM by 2001  . Dossiers on rehabilitation of   developing a legal
* Satisfactory level of eligible and fulfilled credit requests (at least 75% of  irrigated schemes         framework
irrigated scheme development objectives)                             . Annual balance sheets of       * Equitable and efficient
* Credit for non-rice crops accessible to producers fulfilling credit conditions  irrigated schemes        credit procedures
* Improved efficiency (volume of credit & response time) of UNCACEM in  . Thematic studies              * Pricing and market
providing credit to individuals and cooperatives                     . Report on diversification efforts  arrangements not
* Improved efficiency of SONADER in accordance with criteria set out in  . M&E reports on various          discriminating in favor of
Performance Contract                                                    projects in the Valley          rice and against diversified
. Awaids uf llid use pemiiis mid icpratry or permaneni concessions are in  * Beneficiary assessments       crops.
accordance with applicable land tenure laws                          * Base-line situation with regard  . Availability of qualified
* Establishment of a transparent and accessible land registries allowing  to technical, managerial and     labor
verification of land use permits and temporary/permanent titles         organizational capacities of the  . Literate farmers
. Transparency, equity and security of land tenure judged satisfactory, as  irrigated schemes           . Organization of farmers
determined by results of participatory surveys                       * IDPIAM's annual plan
* Satisfactory access of poor families to agriculture services, as determined by  . Progress reports
results of participatory surveys                                     . Annual reports
. Economic retum on Govemment-supported investments in irrigated schemes
demonstrated satisfactorily on the basis of initially available results
* Improved cost-benefit ratio for rice and new diversification crops on the basis
of initial available results
* Establishment of procedures for collecting water charges and fees for operation
and maintenance (O&M) of public infrastructure works
* Completion of feasibility studies, including ElAs, for off-farm infrastructures
(crucial for investments planned under Phase 11)



PROGRAM AND PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Mauritania: Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
Summary description                                            Key indicators                                     Means of verification            Critical conditions
Triggers for passage from Phase I to Phase 11               (See above)
* Liberalization measures for agricultural markets and transport services, as
agreed upon between the Government and IDA in the 1999-2002 PFP remain in
place
* UNCACEM has achieved operational and financial self-sufficient by 2001
. Investment credit and subsidies are granted according to IDPIAM procedures
* Awards of land use permits, temporary and permanent concessions are in
conformity with land tenure regulations
* Establishment of transparent and accessible land registries allowing verification
of permits and temporary or permanent concessions
* Procedures are established for the collection of water fees and O&M charges for
public infrastructure works
. Economic return on Govemment-supported irrigation investments demonstrated
satisfactorily
* Performance of SONADER judged satisfactory according to criteria set out in
Performance contract
-J



PROGRAM AND PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Mauritania: Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
Summary description                                                   Key indicators                                     Means of verification  Condition critique
Phase 11 - Development Objective                                           Main indicators
Consolidate accomplishments of Phase I and provide  . Satisfactory access of poor families to agricultural services, as determined by results of  (See above)
incentives and support to producers and investors to  participatory surveys
increase area of irrigated schemes to be rehabilitated,  - Satisfactory repayment rate (at least95%) of credit granted by UNCACEM)
expanded or newly created.                         * Reimbursement by UNCACEM of IDA credit line granted by Govemment
. Amount and collection of water fees and collective infrastructure charges judged adequate for
maintenance of those infrastructures
* Satisfactory management of collective infrastructures, based on technical assessments
. Awards of land use permits and temporary or permanent concessions are in accordance with
applicable land tenure laws
* Transparent and accessible land registries are in place, allowing verification of land use
permits, temporary concessions and permanent concessions
. Satisfactory rate of rehabilitation/expansion/new creation (over 75% of targeted area)
* Economic return on Govemment-supported diversification activities demonstrated
satisfactorily on the basis of initial available results
* Emergence and expansion (in number, jobs and income-generation) of new non-farm
activities
Triggers for passage from Phase 11 to Phase III
* The favorable economic, legal and institutional environment created under Phase I is
maintained and improved
* UNCACEM's financial self-sufficiency is maintained
* UNCACEM reimburses the IDA credit line extended by Government
* Credit and investment subsidy are awarded in accordance with IDPIAM procedures
. Awards of land use permits, temporary and permanent concessions are in conformity with
land tenure regulations
* Transparent and accessible land registries are in place, allowing verification of land use
permits and temporary or permanent concessions
* Amount and collection of water fees and collective infrastructure charges judged adequate to
maintenance of those infrastructures
* Economic return on Govemment-supported diversification activities demonstrated
satisfactorily on the basis of available results



PROGRAM AND PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Mauritania: Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
Summary description                                                    Key indicators                                     Means of verification   Condition critique
Phase III - Development Objective                                            Key indicators
Achieve sustainability of irrigated schemes and    * Overall agricultural growth: increase in total value-added of agricultural production (at least  (See above)
production systems introduced during Phases I and 11  7% /annum)
and apply the same to other irrigated schemes in the  . Agricultural diversification: increase in value-added of non-rice crops (averaging
Valley.                                               1 0%/o/annum)
. Increased productivity: increased productivity of land and labor
* Economic return: increased competitiveness of main crops
. Poverty alleviation: reduction in percentage of the population living below poverty threshold
in the target area (from 60% to 20%) by the end of the program.
* Environment: reduction in waterlogging, salinity and waterbome diseases
* Improved food security: increased incomes and reduction of disparity between consumption
and domestic production
* Access of poor populations to land, water, services and credit
. UNCACEM reimburses IDA line of credit extended by Govemment in accordance with
conditions of credit agreement



PROGRAM AND PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Mauritania: Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
Summary description                                           Key indicators                                    Means of verification             Critical conditions
Results of Phase I (output)
A. Development of a sound policy, legal and                                                                            * Official gazette
institutionalframework                                                                                              * Policy implementation
monitoring reports
* Legal and regulatory texts are satisfactory  * List of texts adopted and date                                       * UNCACEM statistics             * Capacity for monitoring
and applied in the areas of import tariffs,  * Number of monitoring reports on enforcement of regulations in these specific  * SONADER statistics      implementation of existing
transportation, land tenure, producer        areas                                                                  * M&E reports on various            policies
organizations, and management of water and  * Number of training sessions carried out to strengthen capacities of institutions,  projects in the Valley
the environment                              themes and number of beneficiaries by type of institution              * Beneficiary assessments
* Institutional capacities strengthened in the  * Skill level of SONADER (number of farms monitored and frequency; level of  * Base-line situation with regard
areas of credit ((UNCACEM), policy and       cost recovery for management and maintenance; number of irrigated schemes  to technical, managerial and
strategy, statistics, planning, intemal controls  transferred to users                                                organizational capacities of the
and coordination (MDRE), support to       * Skill level of UNCACEM (restructuring of staff; reduction in processing time  irrigated schemes
producers (SONADER and private              for dossiers                                                            * IDPIAM's annual plan
stakeholders)                             * Roles and actual skills of MDRE (economic policy documents              * Progress reports
prepared/reviewed; analysis and dissemination of agricultural statistics;  * Annual reports
monitoring/evaluation documents for MDRF's projectO)
B. Development of basic infrastructures
* Feasibility studies, RFP and DFS available  * List of studies and dates                                             * Rehabilitation requests        * Efficient and equitable
and adequate for public infrastructures to be  * Area and number of irrigated schemes rehabilitated by type of irrigated scheme  * Dossiers on rehabilitation  financial intermediation
carried out under Phase 11                   (large collective, collective, individual, 40 ha +, individual < 40 ha)  (technical, environmental,
* Schemes rehabilitated, expanded and newly  * Time elapsed for processing of rehabilitation dossiers from receipt of request to  economic, managerial files))
created                                     sign-off on works                                                       * Progress reports
* Results of R&D on pumping systems,        * List of research results available on extension
irrigation and drainage techniques        * Number and type of contract awarded, number and type of beneficiaries
C. Support tofarm management and
organization
* Skills strengthened in the areas of literacy,  * Number and themes of training sessions - support provided to increase skills of  * Diagnosis of needs  * Coordination capacity of
management, organization, supply,            farmers and their organizations, by type of irrigated scheme           * Reports on assisted self-         public and private
marketing, credit, partnerships, irrigated  * Number of requests forwarded to fund for management                     assessments                      participants in support of
scheme and equipment maintenance          * Number of beneficiaries of this training (men and women)                * Training programs                 management and
* Number and types of service providers serving producers                                                    organization



PROGRAM AND PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Mauritania: Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
Summary description                                         Key indicators                                  Means of verification            Critical conditions
Operational results of Phase I (output)
D. Support to traditional crops subsector
. Skills improved for producers and extension
agents in the areas of production, storage,  * Number and themes of producer training sessions carried out, by type of  * Annual work programs of  . Appropriate transport and
processing, conservation techniques and     irrigated scheme                                                      participants                      marketing policy
intermediate mechanization                . Number and themes of extension agent training sessions carried out, and  . Progress reports
. Availability of high quality seed            number of beneficiaries (men and women)                            * Annual balance sheets
* Functional rice quality monitoring system  * Level of production and yield, by type of irrigated scheme and crop  * Thematic studies
* Information systems on rice prices, markets  * Quantity of high quality seed produced and used                  * UNCACEM Statistics
and inputs and use of the systems by      * Number of markets using established quality norms
producers for decision-making             . Rate of dissemination of information on prices and markets by type of user
* Volume of credit and rate of repayment by type of irrigated scheme
E. Diversification Promotion
* Diversification products tested and proved  * Area brought under diversification production , by type of irrigated scheme  * Annual work programs  * Appropriate fiscal and tariff
promising                                 * Number and type of opportunities identified on local and export markets and  * Market studies           policy
* Professionalization of diversification       specifications of mparator products                                * Progress reports
subsectors (identification of opportunities,  * Number of market tests carried out, number judged promising, and number  * Annual balance sheets  * Appropriate transport          v
planning and evaluation, problem resolution,  of comparator products identified from these tests .                                                  policy
management of logistical and commercial   . Number and type of operational participants by level in commodity
groupings, continuity of marketing ties)    subsectors (upstream, production, downstream)
. Operational pest control services at ports and  * Level of public and private investment by activity within a commodity
airports                                    subsector
* Operational logistical and refrigeration  . Time elapsed for processing of dossiers on pilot diversification activities
infrastructures                           * Number and type of public and private infrastructures
. Existence of a database on market data and
comparators for products developed
F. Environmental impact mitigation measures
. Environmental observatory operational     * Geophysical database on the state of the environment available and updated
* Land use plan                             * Number of training sessions carried out and themes, types of beneficiaries  * Annual activity program
* Environmental norms adopted and followed  . Area or region covered by land use plan                             * Progress reports
* Mitigation measures carried out (tree planting,  * List of environmental norms adopted and % of irrigated schemes applying  * Annual balance sheets
socio-collective facilities, health monitoring),  these norms                                                  * Land use plan
etc.)                                     . List of measures carried out and number thereof, number of beneficiaries  * Official gazette



PROGRAM AND PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Mauritania: Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
Summary description                                          Key indicators                                   Means of verification             Critical conditions
Operational Results of Phase I (output)
G. Project management and monitoring &        . Database functioning, up-to-date and used for management and decision-  * IDPIAM's technical and
evaluation                                    making under IDPIAM                                                   financial reports
* Number of consultation meetings involving participants in the Valley, type  * M & E d'base
of regular participant                                              * Market data d'base
* Number and type of beneficiary of subsidy and volume of subsidy handled  * Financial data d'base
by type of funding
* Response time to problems encountered
* Physical implementation rate by component and by activity
* Rate of disbursement by component and by expenditure category
* % contribution by beneficiaries
* Volume of procurement (contracts, convenlions) and types of beneficiaries



PROGRAM AND PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Mauritania: Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
Summary description                                     Key indicators          Means of verification                 Critical conditions
Components/Activities of Phase I                                 Costs:
(x000 dollars)
A.  Development of a soundpolicy legal and institationalframe work                           3,736
*Procedures manual                 . Capacity of participants to plan,
* Study, adoption, dissemination and monitoring of application of favorable policies (credit,  742   * Annual activity programs             monitor and evaluate their activities
marketing, transport, management of public infrastructures, environmcnt, producers'                * Technical and financial progress
organizations)                                                                                       reports                           * Stability of staff
* Strengthening of institutional capacities (MDRE, UNCACEM, SONADER)                    2,994        . M & E reports
B.  Development of basic ifrastructures                                                     13,116        * Procedures manual
* Feasibility studies of public infrastructures                                         1,626        * Annual activity program
. Rehabilitation, extension, creation of collective and individual irrigated schemes    9,438        . Dossiers on rehabilitation requests
. Research & development of irrigation, pumping and drainage techniques                 2,052           reports
. M & E reports
C.  Support to farm management and organization                                                           .      Procedures manual            .       Competence of support services and
1,108        * Annual activity programs             adequate coordination
. Diagnosis, training and monitoring of managerial and organizational capacities                     . Dossiers on funding requests
* Technical and financial progress
reports
* M & E reports
D.  Support to traditional crops subsector                                                  11 700        .      Procedures manual                                                   4x
D S ott incr,7  * Annual work programs
* Research and extension                                                                             * Dossiers on funding requests
* Financial support to traditional crops                                                             * Dossiers on fing requess
* Training and study trips for producers and extension agents                                           reports
* Information system of rice prices, markets and inputs                                              * M&E reports
* Rice quality control
E.  DiversiUlcation promotion                                                                8,072        . Procedures manual
* Annual work programs
* Development of infrastructure                                                         2,770        * Dossiers on funding requests
* Diversification promotion antenna                                                     2,803        * Technical and financial progress
. Diversification promotion activities                                                  2,390           reports
* Quality control                                                                         109         * M&E reports
F.  Environmental impact mitigation measures                                                 3,141        . Procedures manual
. Environmental monitoring/evaluation                                                   1,069         *Annual work programs
* Land use plan                                                                           722         *Dossiers on fuinding requests
Development of norms                                                                      48         * Technical and financial progress
* Environmental impact mitigation measures                                              1,302           reports
*M&E reports
G.  Project management and monitoring & evaluation                                           3,852        * Procedures manual                 * Competent project staff (technically  >
* Annual activity program             and managerially)
* Management of matching grants                                                                       * Annual technical and financial    * Stability of project staff
* Coordination of IDPIAM activities                                                     2,916           progress reports 
* Administrative and financial management                                                 9             Audit  r
* Supervision M&E                                                                         936        ___Audit



- 44-                              ANNEX 2-A
Component A: DEVELOPMENT OF A SOUND POLICY, LEGAL AND
INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
Mauritania: Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
(US$ 3.736 million)
A. Improvement of the economic policy and legal framework (US$ 0.742 million)
1.    Mauritania has established a relatively favorable economic and legal environment for the
implementation of a program such as IDPIAM, namely: (i) a national development strategy; and (ii) a
Rural Development Strategy (RDS) presented to the Consultative Group in Paris in March 1998; (iii) a
ten-year development policy for irrigated agriculture prepared in 1995 and revised in 1999 in the form of
a Letter of Development Policy for Irrigated Agriculture (LDPIA); (iv) a policy of government
disengagement and promotion of the private sector; (v) a transport liberalization policy; (vi) a tariff and
market policy aimed at liberalizing trade; (vi) a policy of liberalization of foreign exchange rates; and
(viii) a land tenure legislation allowing the regulation of land attribution in the irrigable areas. This
legislation and some of these policies still need to be effectively enforced, however, and others require
adaptation. Also, regular monitoring of the implementation of these legislation and policies is required
over the course of the IDPIAM. Funds will be made available under IDPIAM to facilitate these activities.
Agricultural tariffs
2.     The aggregate tax rate imposed on the principal type of imported rice increased from 41 percent
to 47 percent from 1997 to 1998. While import duty for broken rice was reduced from 30 percent to 25
percent, value added tax (VAT) increased from 5 percent to 14 percent. Under the 1999-2002 Policy
Framework Paper (PFP), the Government committed itself to applying a maximum of 23 percent of
cumulative tariffs, including statistical taxes, retaining a single VAT rate, which will be applied to
imported as well as local rice. Mauritania is also committed to bringing its tariff regime into line with
that of other countries in the region. Since those countries do not apply any VAT or FMI to basic staples
such as rice, Mauritania is expected to eventually follow suit.
Liberalization of rice marketing
3.     Current arrangements in rice marketing, namely: (i) the determination of a producer price; (ii)
guaranteeing the purchase of local rice by importers by asking them to also buy a portion of domestic rice
production; and (iii) the establishment of a system of marketing subsidies, result in poorpublic resource
allocation, and lack of incentives for farmers to invest in crop diversification. Liberalization of local rice
marketing is consistent with the Government's intention to refrain from market intervention. As stated in
its Letter of Development Policy for Irrigated Agriculture, starting with the 1999-2000 harvest season, the
Government will: (a) no longer subsidize the interest rate on loans for local rice marketing; (b) avoid
intervening in the determination of domestic paddy prices; and (c) guarantee that private importers will
not be forced to buy a quota of local rice in order to import rice. In support of this policy, IDPIAM funds
will be available for accompanying measures (consultants' services, studies, seminars, etc.)
Transportation
4.     Until recently, a monopoly on road transport services was held by the Federation nationale des
transports (FNT), which determined transport charges and decided on the choice of transporters. Public
authorities protected this monopoly by monitoring road traffic and checking that transporters had an FNT
permit. This system discouraged the specialization of modes of transport (livestock trucks vs. grain
trucks, for example) and did not allow for competition, which results in better quality transport and more



-45 -                              ANNEX 2-A
reasonable prices. The situation was therefore not conducive to the development of a dynamic and
diversified agricultural sector.
5.    In June 1998, the Government issued a decree (No 98/48 dated June 18, 1998) on the
liberalization of public transport opening up this activity to competition and authorizing transporters to
belong to the associations of their choice. The Government has made a commitment under the 1999-2002
PFP to implement decree No. 98/48 and Arrete R075 to effectively liberalize transport services. Under
the IDPIAM, the following activities will be undertaken: (i) monitoring of the enforcement of this
regulation; (ii) a study of commercial transportation needs in the Valley emerging from the growth of
agricultural activity; and (iii) an assessment of the financial resources (credit) to be made available to
promote the organization and equipment of local transport associations or cooperatives in the Valley.
Farmers' organizations
6.     Current legislation on socio-professional organizations does not give adequate latitude to farmers
and other socioeconomic groups to organize themselves to serve their own interests and facilitate credit
access. During Phase I of the program, the Government will carry out a review and overhaul of this
legislation.
Land tenure
7.     Mauritania's land tenure law rests mainly on Ordinance 83-127 dated June 5, 1983, concerning
the reorganization of tenure and registry, and its accompanying enforcement text, Decree N° 90-020 dated
January 31, 1990. This decree sets out the conditions under which any Mauritanian citizen can gain
access to rural land ownership. However, definitive property transfer to individuals can occur only after
ten years of continuous land exploitation. During this period, the requestor first obtains a land use permit,
then a temporary concession and, finally, a permanent concession, leading to land titling conferring
ownership rights. Land exploitation must be complete and permanent for it to result, 10 years after
obtaining the land use permit, in permanent concession and then in ownership of property that one can
freely sell, exchange or give away.
8.     An analysis of the current legislation has concluded that the legal framework regulating land
ownership in Mauritania is not an obstacle to the implementation of the IDPIAM as long as program
beneficiaries have valid documents (land use permits, temporary or permanent concessions) documenting
their rights. Also, the IDPIAM in itself cannot be the cause of land tenure problems or conflicts since the
mechanisms already in place to prevent such conflicts and protect smallholders have proven more or less
effective. Legal arrangements concerning conflict arbitration, as well as various circulars issued by the
Ministry of the Interior on guarantees given to resident communities, make it possible to prevent (and
resolve, if necessary) any problems arising from the assignment of parcels for agricultural use, and in
particular those conflicts resulting from encroachment on the living space of rural settlements and on
potential community land reserves.
9.     Based on the initial conclusions of the land tenure stud9 carried out in 1999, the following
activities will be carried out during Phase I of the IDPIAM:
*  establishment of a surveillance mechanism intended toforetell conflicts thatwould inevitably
arise from changes in the agricultural sector and in the irrigated subsector in particular, and to
lStudy aimed at creating an inventory of land tenure regularization and land registry operations in Mauritania from 1990 to 1997
and the development of an action program for 1998-2002.



-46 -                              ANNEX 2-A
monitor the efforts of the administrations charged with managing land tenure, at least in the
main districts (mounghataa) of the Senegal River Valley;
*  a study designed to assess the advantages, disadvantages and modes of application of an
agricultural land tax;
*  a study on the establishment of a progressive tax regime intended to incite landowners into
developing their lands and, thus, to discourage deliberate and speculative fallow periods;
*  a study of the possibilities, advantages and disadvantages of limiting individual agricultural
land size ownership;
*  preparation and issuance of a joint circular by the Ministries of Interior and Finance defining
the procedures for transferring property and the conditions for registering individual property
rights;
*  preparation and issuance of a joint circular by the Ministries of Rural Development and the
Interior defining the administrative procedures for verifying land rights that have not been
permanently assigned, so as to avoid fraudulent maneuvers that could be detrimental to the
agricultural credit institution; and
*  a preliminary study on the importance of current informal rural land market, as well as on its
winners and losers. This study will also shed light on the economic and social consequences
of this market.
Norms for design and implementation of irrigated schemes
10.   In order to ensure that the best irrigated lands are developed with a view to sustainable use, the
Government will require that all lands assigned by the State in the Valley be developed in accordance
with norms consistent with the preservation of national assets to which the State and the donor
community have devoted huge investments, especially for the Diama and Manantali dams. To this end,
MDRE's Circular No. 008 (1993) establishing norms for developing irrigated schemes in the Valley will
be replaced by a joint circular issued by the Ministries of Rural Development and Environment, Interior
and Hydraulics establishing minimum technical norms to be respected by the developers of irrigated
schemes before they progress to the stage of temporary or permanent concessions. This joint circular will
be an updated version of MDRE's Circular No. 008. Under IDPIAM, MDRE will receive help in
disseminating this new circular and in training the staff charged with its enforcement.
Export and trade facilitation
11.   Phase I of the program provides an opportunity to assess the scope of measures needed to
facilitate export and trade, with a view to implementing needed reforms in support of the large-scale
export activities envisaged under Phase II. This assessment, as well as the development of a reform
program, will be carried out with IDPIAM funding in the form of studies, consultants' services, seminars,
communications, and publications.



-47 -                              ANNEX 2-A
B Capacity building (US$ 2,944 million)
12.    Despite their long management records, MDRE, SONADER and UNCACEM need to improve
their managerial skills. The development and strengthening of skills within MDRE and SONADER is
planned under the Agricultural Services Project. Some support activities crucial to the implementation of
IDPIAM will be financed under that project.
MDRE
13.     Emphasis will be on the newly created Directorate for Policy and Monitoring/Evaluation
(DPSE). This directorate is responsible for policy making, monitoring and evaluation of policy
implementation, and of programs and projects, and for coordination within MDRE, between MDRE and
its agencies (such as SONADER), and among MDRE, other ministries and donors. The focus will be on
training DPSE staff and on developing a monitoring/evaluation system and effective tools for collecting
and processing the data needed for the M & E function.
14.    Prior to implementation of Phase I of the IDPIAM, staffing needs and required staff qualifications
will be identified. At the start of the IDPIAM, staff will be hired, their training programs defined and
their training initiated. A study will be carried out to design the monitoring/evaluation system to be set up
within DPSE. The system will be in place before the end of Year 2 of the IDPIAM.
15.    The capacity of collecting, processing and analyzing agro-pastoral data needs to be strengthened.
A study of existing information systems confirmed this need and recommended the creation of a system
(SIAP: Systeme d'informations agro-pastorales) whose objectives would be: (i) updating statistical tools
(sampling base, agro-pastoral typology, etc.); (ii) designing and carrying out periodic agro-pastoral
surveys; (iii) improving data management and strengthening the analysis of agro-pastoral data; (iv)
improving coordination between producers and the users of statistical data; and (v) strengthening
institutional capacity (restructuring of the statistics service - SSP - and improvement of its technical and
logistical capacities). The new system will be set up in three phases implemented over a period of ten
years: (a) preparation of statistical instruments and restructuring of SSP; (b) establishment of an
agricultural inventory and revision of the sampling base for other rural surveys; and (c) reforming the
system of agro-pastoral statistics. It is crucially important to maintain a basic system of reliable data, not
only as a tool for measuring and assessing the impact of agricultural policy, but also as a point of
reference for the IDPIAM's M&E system. For this reason, the IDPAIM will participate in this initiative
by financing (i) two agro-pastoral surveys over two years; (ii) the preparation (finalization of the
sampling methodology) for the market gardening survey; (iii) the follow-up survey of livestock markets
and agricultural production; and (iv) the establishment of operating accounts. The analysis of agro-
pastoral data and their use in developing policies and programs for agriculture and livestock will also be
supported by IDPIAM. These activities will be carried out by MDRE's Directorate for Policy and
Monitoring/Evaluation, in close collaboration with the Office national de la statistique (ONS). It is
expected that the SIAP initiated in the context of the household and agro-pastoralists survey in 1999 will
be gradually taken over by and run by the DPSE.
SONADER
16.    SONADER is a so-called EPIC (Etablissement public a caractere industriel et commercial) as
defined by a law dating from 1990. It is one of MDRE's important operators and, under the terms of a
triennial performance contract, handles the following three tasks: (i) delegated works contractor for
hydro-agricultural investments; (ii) management of State-supported public infrastructures; and (iii)
advising farmers and their groups. Under IDPIAM, SONADER will carry out the following: (i)



-48 -                             ANNEX 2-A
delegated works contracting for studies and basic infrastructures included in the program; (ii) assistance
to UNCACEM and MDRE for the monitoring and supervision of studies and irrigated schemes
rehabilitation work; and (iii) support to producers in the areas of techniques and farm management.
17.    SONADER, which is to play a key role in implementing the IDPIAM, has problems of excess
staffing and financial deficits. In addition, its financial management system is outdated. SONADER's
deficit is due to its excess staff and to the fac1 that it performs several tasks on behalf of the G;overnment,
but for which it is only partially remunerated, The tasks in question are some that have been included in
donor-financed projects, were supposed to continue after project's end and the donor's withdrawal, but
for which the State has not mobilized the necessary funds required to take them over.
18.   The draft of the new performance contract for 1999-2002, submitted to IDA as a condition of
negotiations of the IDPIAM and currently under approval, proposes a sound model of intervention and
management for SONADER. A restructuring study of SONADER will also begin at the start of the
project and will be completed during the first semester. This study's recommendations will deal with
strengthening SONADER's skills and profitability, and will also address the following needs:
* support for the voluntary departure of about 80 agents;
* an internal training plan to improve staff skills and redeployment; and
* support for an updated management system (consultants' services, procedures, materiel and
software).
UNCACEM
19.   UNCACEM     currently receives long-term technical assistance financed respectively by the
Agencefranqaise de developpement through 1999 (one technical assistant) and the German GTZ through
2000 (one full-time technical assistant, plus 20 man-months of ad hoc technical assistance and computer
and cartographic equipment.) At present, UNCACEM is not slated to receive any institutional support
beyond 2000.
20.    The institutional assessment performed during project preparation revealed the following: (a) a
need to improve management tools (absence of cash management, internal controls, budget
monitoring/control, integrated portfolio monitoring), and UNCACEM's managerial capacity in order to
make them compatible with the planned development program; (b) great needs in the areas of staff
training and human resource management; (c) excessive dependence upon permanent technical assistance
for day-to-day management, which requires a strengthening of the internal capacity for strategic
planning, technical monitoring, management and control.
21.   In order to remedy these inadequacies, support UNCACEM in the development of the planned
new products and foster the institution's growth, technical assistance will be provided to UNCACEM
under the PDIAIM Phase I by a consulting finn recruited through international competitive bidding.
22.    Terms of reference for this technical assistance will be as follows:
*  support to UNCACEM    in drahing up a human resources development plan (Year 1):
inventory of available resources and needs for such a development program, job definitions,
identification training and recruitment needs, development of an operational training programn
(two man-months);
*  establishment or improvement of management tools and monitoring of implementation:
synoptic performance charts, cash management, budget monitoring, monitoring of the



-49-                              ANNEX 2-A
portfolio and of high-risk clients; establishment of an internal control and inspection function;
creation of a plan for greater computerization. The establishment or improvement of
management tools will need to occur during the first year, with monitoring of implementation
following during the following years (4 man-months);
*  development of a training plan: (100 man-months of training (on the job), requiring 10 man-
months of trainers' time) including the following:
*  training of credit agents (new products, criteria for project evaluation, economic and
financial analysis of projects, initiation to irrigated perimeter development, monitoring
and control of projects, cooperative organizations and the participatory approach, etc.)
This training will be open to employees of interested commercial banks, so as to lay the
groundwork for, and facilitate, their interventions in the rural sector during the program's
subsequent phases;
* training of managerial and administrative staff (management methods, internal controls,
inspection, etc.);
*  training for administrators (mutual credit, risk management, project evaluation criteria,
principles of bank management, etc.); and
*  training of stockholders.
*  support for the introduction of new products (diversification loans, irrigated scheme
development loans, marketing loans: introduction of defined procedures and practical modes
of processing credit dossiers; systematic follow-up (during the first year), and then more
selective follow-up of (over subsequent years) of the processing of dossiers dealing with the
new products (5 man-months)
* ad hoc support for evaluating the feasibility of very technically specialized projects (3 man-
months).
23.    The human resources to be deployed total about 24 man-months. Technical assistance will need
to be contracted on the basis of Bank-approved terms of reference. The expected duration of the technical
assistance contract is three years, a period corresponding to the duration of Phase I. This assistance will
not be full time during these three years but on a declining basis and will notbe used as a replacement for
UNCACEM regular staff. In addition, IDPIAM will finance the acquisition of additional computer
equipment for UNCACEM.
Donor Coordination
24.    Since the MDRE, SONADER and UNCACEM are receiving support from several donors under
several projects, there will be an effort at coordination to ensure that capacity building is adequately
supported. All activities will also be coordinated with other donors to help ease and streamline the
institutional environment and the operating procedures of these institutions.



- 50-                              ANNEX 2-B
Component B: DEVELOPMENT OF BASIC INFRASTRUCTURES
Mauritania: Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
(US$ 13.116 million)
A. Public Infrastructures (1.626 million)
1.     Over 11 years, the IDPIAM will finance (a) the construction of basic hydraulic infrastructures
facilitating access to water and the drainage of irrigated schemes; (b) the construction or repair of roads
and access roads to the irrigated schemes; and (c) general studies in anticipation of future investments.
2.     Under Phase I, the IDPIAM will finance: (a) the prior studies for the basic infrastructures
mentioned above up to the detailed project designs (DPD) and the preparation of bidding documents; (b)
the construction of crossings and small bridges on the itinerary of the future roads to be built in Phase II
in the area of Gani-Dar El Barka; and, (c) terms of reference for the general studies. Thus, with the
exception of the bridge works around Gani-Dar El Barka, structural infrastructure works are scheduled for
Phase II. A maintenance policy for these infrastructures requiring user participation was drawn up during
project preparation and will be put in place under Phase II.
a) Hydraulic infrastructures
3.     Basic hydraulic infrastructures will be provided to facilitate access to water and the drainage of
irrigated schemes in the Gani-Dar El Barka area, between the cities of Rosso and Boghe, as well as in the
Gorgol Valley, since these two areas are the only ones where there are schemes under production and
where such infrastructures are nonexistent and not planned to be constructed under other donor financing.
4.     Hydraulic infrastructures around Gani-Dar El Barka will include: (i) construction of two water
control installations and the excavation of a drainage collector to improve the current situation; (ii)
construction of a dike and a water control installation to improve existing flood-recession crops on 900
ha; and (iii) the regrading of 4 marshes to allow for future expansion. Only DPDs and the preparation of
bidding documents will be financed under IDIPIAM's Phase I.
5.     Hydraulic infrastructures in the Gorgol Valley will be determined under a master plan that will
propose an optimal distribution of available water amongst the various existing (and potential) irrigated
schemes. Only the master plan, the detailed feasibility and the preparation of the bidding documents will
be financed under IDPIAM's Phase I.
b) Roads and tracks
6.     The IDPIAM will finance the construction of access tracks for the irrigated schemes in the Gani-
Dar El Barka area, as well as the bridges on the Kaedi-M'Bout access road leading into the Gorgol Valley
and to the irrigated schemes at Foum Gleita.
7.     Under Phase I, the IDPIAM will finance the construction of small bridgeworks and crossings on
these tracks, including five bridges over large marshes and 22 crossing over smaller marshes. The tracks
themselves will be financed under subsequent Phase II, on the basis of detailed studies. Feasibility studies
for the repair of the small bridges/overpasses on the existing Kaedi-M'Bout laterite road will be financed
under Phase I.



-51-                              ANNEX 2-B
c) General studies
8. For purposes of long-term planning, even beyond the program's Phase III, the IDPIAM will finance
master studies of water consumption by hydraulic infrastructures and an update of the master plan for the
use of Senegal River water, based on the management directives defined by OMVS. Under Phase I, the
IDPIAM will finance the production of terms of reference for these studies.
B. Rehabilitation, expansion and creation of irrigated schemes (US$ 9.438 million)
9.     Most individual Irrigated schemes financed by the private sector in Mauritania have serious
technical deficiencies that make them unprofitable under current conditions. This is obvious from their
rate of abandonment, which approaches 50 percent.
*  Hastily designed and sloppily built, their technical characteristics prevent them from being
physically and economically sustainable: canals are not compacted, which leads to operation
and maintenance problems, and pumping equipment is of low yield.
*  Individual irrigated schemes have often been created on soils ill-suited to the proposed crops
(too sandy for rice, or too compact for diversified crops), and irrigation currently practiced
(by flooding) does not allow for double culture because it is suitable for rice, but not for other
crops.
*  Soils and aquifers in the Delta are saline, and in the absence of adequate drainage, this
salinity lowers paddy yields by 1 ton/ha; the waters of the Senegal River are slightly alkaline,
leading to long-term risks for the soils in the Middle and Upper Valley.
10.   The collective irrigated schemes generally, better designed and constructed than individual
schemes, thanks to Government technical and financial assistance, suffer from lack of subsequent repair
and maintenance leading to their progressive degradation.
11.   Since the development of new large schemes is too costly (about US$ 12,000/ha), the IDPIAM
will essentially focus on the rehabilitation and/or extension of existing schemes. The development of new
collective village schemes for rice production which could be considered for financing by other donors in
the context of poverty alleviation as long as these investments, will adhere to the general principles of the
IDPIAM as a whole: demonstrated economic return; beneficiary participation in the creation of these
infrastructures; investment credit, and matching grants (complementary subsidy) calculated on the basis
of predicted cash flow of agricultural revenues. The Government will require IDA's prior approval for
the development of these schemes.
12.   The rehabilitation/extension of existing schemes consists of: (a) rehabilitating and securing
existing irrigation networks to make them more sustainable (compacting of main canals, leveling) and
providing pumping equipment better suited to the new water levels behind the Diama dam; (b) installation
of a drainage system to limit salinization problems; (c) expansion of irrigated areas of collective schemes
where fanner's plots are too small. The creation of new schemes under IDA funding will be restricted to
small pilots schemes targeting crop diversification. Works will be performed in accordance with norms,
including environmental norms, defined by the Government and approved by IDA.
13.   The rehabilitation/extension of existing schemes and the development of new ones will be carried
out at the request of individual or collective farmers throughout the Valley, in accordance with procedures
allowing them to choose investments based on their ability to implement them, to participe in their
construction, and to repay loans they will have taken out. The implementation of this component will



- 52 -                            ANNEX 2-B
therefore be accompanied by a training program intended for public servants, as well as for consultants,
dealing with participatory project design. The ultimate goal, by the end of Phase III of the IDPIAM, is
the financing of about 11,000 ha of rehabililation/extension of irrigated schemes, mainly for rice, and
about 2,000 ha of new schemes for diversified crops.
14.   Phase I of the IDPIAM will be devoted mainly to: (i) creating an enabling and inciting
framework; (ii) financing the rehabilitation/extension of a firsttranche of 3,000 ha of existing schemes;
and (iii) financing 100 ha of new schemes for diversification. The 3,000 ha will be distributed as follows:
* 1,000 ha of schemes belong to collectives (rehabilitation and/or extensions);
* 1,000 ha of schemes belonging to individual farmers owning less than 40 ha (rehabilitation);
* 1,000 ha of schemes belonging to individual farmers owning more than 40 ha (rehabilitation).
C. Research and Development (US$ 2.052 million)
15.   In order to better utilize available water and land, three research and development (R & D) and
testing themes are envisaged:
*  improvement of existing pumping systems and introduction of new equipment in order to
reduce pumping costs for irrigated rice in the Delta by at least 20 percent;
*  testing of farmer's acceptance of techniques for draining and lowering salinity that are to be
developed by researchers; and
*  testing of new low-cost irrigation equipment and monitoring of existing equipment used by
farmers.
16.   During Phase I, R&D activities will be carried out with individual or collective farmers.
Incremental investments or operating costs attributable to the new techniques will be supported under the
IDPIAM, as well as the cost of monitoring and evaluation. The cost of short-term training and visits for
researchers will also be one by IDPIAM. Given the newness of the proposed techniques, the program,
which will be carried out by CNRADA, will receive external technical support from CIRAD under the
PSI-CORAF program and from the West Africa Rice Development Association (WARDA) for drainage
tests. The R & D program began under the Agricultural Services Project and will continue under Phase I
(and Phase II if required) of the IDPIAM.



-53 -                               ANNEX 2-C
Component C: SUPPORT TO FARM MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATION
Mauritania: Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
(US$1.108 million)
1.    Support to farm management and organization has two components: (a) support to collective
farmers, especially to grassroots farmer's cooperatives, classified as OSPs (organisations
socioprofessionnelles) and their federations; and (b) support to individual producers.
A. Support to Collective Farm Management and Organization
2.     The State's disengagement, particularly under the AGSECAL, from certain functions upstream
and downstream of production (input supply, credit, marketing) and from the management of collective
irrigated schemes has not always been accompanied by the strengthening of producers' organizations,
which are now called upon to assume several of these fuinctions alone. Some of these organizations are,
so weak that they have ceased organizing production activities on the irrigated schemes.
3.    It is, therefore, crucial to strengthen producers' organizations if agricultural production is to be
revitalized in the Valley under the IDPIAM. The plan is to ensure that OSPs get the training and
counseling they need in the areas of organization and management of input supply, inventory credit,
marketing as well as in the area of literacy, so that they have all the skills needed to fully assume their
roles. Experience has shown that these improvements can only be sustained if producers and their
organizations assume ownership and become the main doers and decision-makers. This is why the
approach used to support OSPs will be participatory.
4.     The goal assigned to the agricultural services under IDPIAM is to help producers' organizations
to organize themselves enough to handle all their collective functions efficiently.
Diagnostic analysis of OSPs
5.     An analysis of the organizational status of all OSPs in the Valley will be carried out using, among
other techniques, the "OSP satisfaction grid" developed by SONADER (Societe nationale de
developpement rural) and ACOPAM (Appui associatif et cooperatif aux initiatives de developpement a la
base) at Foum-Gleita. This exhaustive analysis will provide data on the baseline situation of producers'
organizations and will constitute the foundation for the IDPIAM's monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
system.
Improving the status of OSPs
6.     Certain aspects of the legislation dealing with cooperatives (OSP) status and its enforcement do
not appear particularly suited to the current context. Some examples of this include: the heavy
involvement of umbrella ministries in the entire decision-making process of cooperatives; the fact that the
legislation does not allow a village to have more than one cooperative for the samne purpose; and the
excessively long process for cooperative recognition. These shortcomings, in addition to making strict
enforcement of the legislation impossible in the field, run counter to the participatory spirit that is desired
in the context of supporting OSPs. Under Phase I of the IDPIAM, a consultation on the non-operational
aspects of the legal texts on cooperatives will be carried out. The texts will then be modified as needed:



- 54 -                              ANNEX 2-C
Training of OSPs
7.     Training of OSPs for (a) organization, (b) management, (c) literacy and (d) operation  and
maintenance (O&M) of irrigated schemes and equipment will be carried out during the first year (1999).
The beneficiaries will be 150 grassroots farmers' organizations in the project area. Specific help will be
provided to the three federating organizations at the large schemes of Foum-Gleita, Kaedi and Boghe, as
well as to the Union of Lexeiba and the Union of Women's Cooperatives at Tekane. This program will
be gradually expanded to other producers' organizations, covering all OSPs in the Valley by the end of
Phase I of the IDPIAM.
8.     Functional literacy. The functional literacy of the representatives of the organizations to be
supported by the program is an important factor in the OSPs' assumption of ownership of all the
management tools. It will enable organizations' members to read and use the appropriate management
manuals and other documents. Methodological documents have already been developed by ACOPAM in
this area. They will be tailored to each zone and used for functional literacy training. Government and
non-governmental organizations (NGO) with experience in this field, such as the State Secretariat for
Literacy, the Rural Producers' Training Center (CFPR) and ACOPAM, will be called upon, to implement
the programs.
9.     Management training. This component will deal with the training of OSP personnel to maintain
and use, in local languages, accounting and management documentation: receipts, stock inventories,
expenditure records, financial statements, credit monitoring files, records on pump maintenance and on
the maintenance of other agricultural equipment (tractors, harvesters).
10.    Organizational training. In the area of organization, members of OSPs will be familiarized with
the regulatory framework that controls their organization through training sessions dealing with the
legislation on cooperatives and its enforcement. They will be encouraged to organize the exchange of
information between bureau members and the General Assembly in a more systematic fashion, so as to
ensure the transparency of decision-making. In this connection, internal regulations will be developed by
the OSPs themselves and compiled into a-procedures manual on internal organization.
11.   Specific support tofederating organizations. The federating organizations will receive specific
support in the above-mentioned areas so that they can handle the important tasks of group-level supply
and marketing, management of marketing credit, production of financial statements, and operation and
maintenance of large schemes. Finally the federating organizations will be helped in their effort to
regularize their status.
12.    Training for the establishment and management of OSP's own funds. The OSPs, whether
cooperatives or federating organizations, will be encouraged to set up aside equity funds similar to those
created at Foum-Gleita so that they can self:finance a portion of their activities and have more latitude
vis-A-vis short-term credit. Support to OSPs will include the training needed to establish and manage
these funds.
B. Support to Management and Organization of Individual Farms
13.   Individual producers have irrigated schemes varying between few hectares to few hundreds of
hectares. Small individual farmers (less than 40 ha) represent 66% of the total number of individual
farmers population. Most of these farmers, who are newcomers to agriculture, have not yet developed the
skills needed to manage an agricultural undertaking. Support to these producers will be slightly different
from that provided to the OSPs, since problems of collective farm management and literacy do not apply.
This support will deal essentially with: (a) management of irrigation infrastructures and equipment; (b)



-55 -                                ANNEX 2-C
financial management; and (c) farm organization. They will be convened periodically to training sessions
on topics of interest to them. These topics will be determined in consultation with beneficiaries on the
basis of their needs. These periodic meetings will also be an opportunity for producers to trade
information on their experiences.
C. Support to Institutions and their Financing
14.    During Phase I of the IDPIAM, and because of the limited number of private firms and NGOs
with adequate skills capacity, the support to farmers in organization and management will be entrusted to
SONADER in its current zone of intervention. However, SONADER will work in partnership with
DRAP, the existing NGOs (AFVP, ACOPAM and CARITAS) and private firms.
15.   In order to ensure that SONADER and the associated institutions work on producers' priorities,
annual support programs will be systematically developed on the basis of village-level diagnostics and
will be designed at the grassroots level, before being consolidated at regional, then national, levels.
16.   In the zone of intervention of AGETA (Association generale des groupements d'exploitants et
eleveurs pour l'itude et l1emploi des techniques ameliories agricoles et animales), the plan is for this
institution to eventually become self-financing on the basis of payments of its own members' dues, once
these members are sufficiently numerous and able to pay dues corresponding to services rendered. In the
meantime, instead of direct budget support to AGETA, its members would receive support in the form of
grant representing a portion of their membership dues. The portion financed under the IDPIAM would
range from 90% for the poorest members to 20% for the others. During the first year of Phase I of the
IDPIAM, discussions will be held with AGETA to study this arrangement and to determine new levels of
membership dues. An agreement between the CU-IDPIAM and AGETA could be signed during the
second year.
17.    This support will be funded, in Year 1, jointly by IDPIAM and the IDA funded Agricultural
Services Project (ASP). Since the latter will close on December 31, 2000, funding for Years 2 and 3 will
be fully provided by IDPIAM.



- 56 -                             ANNEX 2-D
Component D: SUPPORT TO TRADITIONAL CROPS SECTOR
Mauritania: Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
(US$ 11.700 million)
1.    Support to traditional crops has tvo aspects: (i) improving the competitiveness of the rice
subsector by increasing productivity and the quality of locally-produced rice through appropriate
technical messages and financial and institutional support and improving rice processing and marketing;
and (ii) providing technical and financial support for the development of other traditional crops that are
currently cultivated on small areas.
2.     Support to traditional crops will be provided jointly, in Year 1, under the IDPIAM and the
Agricultural Services Project (ASP). Since the latter closes on December 31, 2000, funding for Year 2
and Year 3 will be provided under the IDPIAM.
Technical Support
Dissemination of messages to improve rice quality andproductivity
3.     Rice quality and yields (3-4 tons per ha) in Mauritania are currently below expectations. Under
similar ecological conditions, the Senegalese producers' association in the Delta achieves an average
yield of 5.5 tons per ha and a cropping intensity of 1.3. The best producers in Senegal steadily produce
yields of 10 tons per ha.' The following interventions are planned to improve rice productivity:
(i) production by CNARADA of pre-base IR and Sahel seed varieties, which have good tasting
characteristics. These pre-base seeds will be then reproduced by seed farmers for large-scale
commercial distribution to producers. Choosing the proper variety is the key to quality for
every agricultural product;
(ii) distribution to extension agents and producers of the manual on weed identification and
control, as well as training on the subject, since weed control is a major obstacle to improved
rice yield and quality;
(iii)support to producers' organizations to help them obtain the required fertilizer in a timely
manner and at a good price, including phosphate fertilizer, which is currently little used
despite its known positive impact on rice yield and quality;
(iv) use of the RIDEV software package to design and disseminate technical messages on rice:
sowing date, fertilizing date, irrigation schedules, harvesting timetable;
(v) improvement of extension agents' overall knowledge of rice cultivation to help themdispense
more effective advice on the subject. This training will be provided bythe West Africa Rice
Development Association (WARDA), a regional institution specialized in rice, which
possesses a vast experience in the Senegal River Valley; and
(vi) identification of the best producers and their cropping methods so that others can benefit from
their know-how. In this connection, farmer-to-farmer visits will be organized, including to
Senegal.
Information provided by the Union des perimetres autogeres de Dagana to the Bank Senegal Mission.



- 57-                              ANNEX 2-D
Dissemination of messages to improve the productivity offlood-recession crops
4.     The following technical recommendations to improve flood-recession crop yields will be
disseminated during Phase I of the IDPIAM: treatment of sorghum seed against pests, thinning, seed
density control, conservation of cowpeas in storage against weevil damage.
Technical support and promotion of other traditional crops
5.     The current trend is towards crop diversification, to reduce the risks associated with monoculture
and to help Mauritanian producers uncover crops for which they have a comparative advantage and that
will increase the profitability of their farms. Some of the diversification crops are already known to
farmers but are produced in a traditional way and at small scale. Their use will be promoted and improved
under the present component. The new diversification crops considered for larger scale production and
exports will be dealt with under the Diversification component under Annex 2-E.
6.     To help farmers in this regard, the following activities will be included under this component:
(i)  promotion of fodder and livestock feed production among milk producers in Trarza to
substitute for imported livestock feed (which is becoming more costly due to the declining
exchange rate of the Ouguya), and thus to foster the integration of livestock and irrigated
agriculture;
(ii)  development of irrigated oilseed crops and testing of artisanal oil presses. If proven
profitable, this activity would lead to local production of oil, an important item in
household budgets and in balanced diets;
(iii) promotion of wood production on irrigated schemes to reduce pressure on the country's
remaining forest resources and create new sources of farm income;
(iv) wide dissemination of artisanal methods of vegetable conservation. Such methods, which
are starting to become known in the rural sector, will allow households to have access to
vegetables all year round;
(v)  training of extension agents to deal with crops other than rice; and
(vi) funding of special extension services for crop diversification. Producers willhave access to
this funding on-demand by making a financial contribution (20 percent of the service cost
for OSPs and 50 percent for individuals). Such services will be contracted out to private
agencies and NGOs on a competitive basis. This initiative will give producers greater
control over the monitoring and evaluation of services they receive, and will prepare them
for greater involvement in the management of these services over the next two phases of
the IDPIAM. Also, it will help improve the quality of these services as a result of the
competition it engenders.
Promotion of an intermediate level of mechanization
7.     Almost all agricultural tasks on village irrigated schemes are either done manually, which is time-
consuming for farmers and often involves delays that hamper crop intensification, or with heavy
equipment (tractors, combine harvesters) at great expense.  Under this component, intermediate



- 58 -                               ANNEX 2-D
mechanization will be developed and tailored to the needs of smallholders. The following activities are
underway in this regard:
(i) introduction of animal traction for plowing on irrigated village schemes; this activity, in
addition to easing farmers' labor burden in manual plowing and leveling, will help integrate
livestock into irrigated agriculture; and
(ii) introduction of the artisanal rice thresher developed by WARDA and disseminated
successfully in other countries in the region (Senegal, Mali, Burkina Faso):  This
thresher/winnower will ease labor-intensive harvesting tasks and will foster intensification by
allowing fields to be rapidly cleared after harvest in preparation for the next crop. Indeed, the
overlapping of crops is currently one of the major obstacles to intensification.
Establishment of quality norms for rice and information system on national and international market
prices:
8.     Normalized quality standards for rice and paddy will be established, as well as an effective
information system for producers on national and international rice prices.
Financial Support
Financial supportfor production, storage a-d marketing
9.     A line of credit will be made available under this component to finance credits: (i) on short-term
basis for agricultural inputs for incremental production of all traditional crops (provided that they fulfill
credit eligibility conditions) and for marketing of local rice; (ii) on medium-term basis for rice and other
products processing equipment; and (iii) on a long-term basis for grain storage facilities. A subsidy is
envisaged to finance 30 percent of the cost of grain storage facility construction for producers'
organizations.



- 59-                              ANNEX 2-E
Component E: DIVERSIFICATION PROMOTION
Mauritania: Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
(US$ 8.072 million)
1.    In its Rural Sector Development Strategy Through 2010, the Mauritanian Government identifies
diversification as a priority avenue of development whose objectives are:  (i) improvement of
productivity, with emphasis on the adaptation of varieties and agronomic techniques; (ii) market
promotion of products for local consumption; (iii) export promotion for high-performing agricultural
enterprises through the development of partnerships; (iv) artisanal and industrial conservation and
processing, in order to absorb seasonal surpluses and expand markets. In all commodity subsectors, the
private sector is called upon to play a pioneering role in the exploitation of resources, through an adequate
volume of investment and the introduction of new modes of partnership. The State will provide a
favorable environment, through the development of infrastructures, an appropriate institutional
framework, and the necessary measures to promote investment. However, sustained efforts on behalf of
traditional farmers must be maintained in order to ensure the balanced development of the best-
performing crops.
Local market
2.     At the local level, consumption habits have changed as settlement has progressed, thus creating
demand for fresh fruits and vegetables and stimulating a great deal of upstream and downstream
economic activities. At present, the volume of production of Mauritanian farmers in the Senegal River
Valley (30,000 tons on 1,200 ha) covers only a part of these needs due to the pronounced seasonality of
production (mainly January - April). Production consists of staple foods such as onions, cabbage, carrots,
eggplants, tumips, sweet potatoes and tomatoes. Attempts have been made, however, to grow potatoes,
beets and okra, which are also prized by consumers. Finally, local fruit production is emerging with the
appearance of bananas, melons and citrus. During periods of shortage, imports from Senegal and Europe
fill the void left by local production, but at a high price that prevents poorer populations' access tofresh
fruits and vegetables all year round. During the 8-month, shortfall period, there is thus a strong unmet
demand at reasonable prices. This means that strong growth of the local market can be anticipated if
measures are taken to prolong the period of availability and increase the supply of lower-priced
Mauritanian produce. Lower priced fruits and vegetables year round will have a strong import
substitution, as well as a market expansion effect.
3.     Aside from the fruits and vegetable subsector, a need for fodder has emerged due to the
development of semi-sedentary raising of cattle and camels, which, in addition to their role in traditional
livestock activities, are supplying a nascent dairy industry. In addition, experiments with oilseed crops
(sunflower, groundnut, etc.) in the Valley point to the possibility of artisanal, and possibly industrial,
production of vegetable oils for local consumption.
4.    It is apparent that the local market for diversification crops is rapidly evolving and that measures
should be taken to accompany this process. The constraints faced by farmers practicing diversification
are of several types: (i) low level diversity of products and varieties on the market; (ii) high cost and
limited availability of high-performance seed suited to local conditions; (iii) lack of know-how regarding
fertilizer dosage, disease and pest management and agricultural techniques for the cooler off-season; (iv)
limited access to production zones, especially during the rainy season; (v) limited availability of
mechanical cultivation equipment suited to diversification crops; (vi) absence of refrigeration facilities
that would prolong the marketing period; (vii) low level of development of the processing industry, which



- 60 -                              ANNEX 2-E
limits market outlets to those handling perishable products; and (viii) absence of information on prices
and product flows on the local market.
Exports
5.     Recent experiments with private operators have demonstrated the potential for exporting fresh
fruits and vegetables to Europe (green beanis, okra, and melons). Results of these pilot operations are
sufficiently promising to allow one to anticipate the imminent start of an export industry. Although the
volumes exported will be smaller than the volume of local production, they create nevertheless an
undeniable source of hard currency for the country, and generate substantial profit margins for producers.
In the short term, the targeted market niches will include crops suited to the European off-season (green
bean, okra, melon, cherry tomatoes, and baby vegetables) and certain tropical fruits (papaya). Over the
medium term, fruit production (mango, guava) and processing (spices, flavor extracts) could be
envisaged. These are very competitive markets, but Mauritania has some comparative advantage that
will position the country favorably: (i) Mauritania is the closest source of tropical fruit to Europe, whether
by air or sea, which means a maximum transport time of 10 days to the main ports; (ii) from the
standpoint of climate, the low humidity, sunshine and temperature range are favorable to off-season
crops; (iii) basic irrigation and other infrastructure exist in the production zones along the Senegal river,
and particularly around Rosso; (iv) there are dynamic private entrepreneurs with considerable financial
resources; (v) factor costs are comparable to those of other exporting countries.
6.     A number of limiting factors persist, however, and will need to be overcome in order to attain the
degree of competitiveness required for viable and sustainable penetration of exports: (i) lack of logistical
and conservation infrastructures; (ii) low competitiveness / productivity of current production practices;
(iii) market participants' lack of information on external market conditions (prices, practices, norms, etc.);
(iv) poor access due to limited airline connections and irregular schedules of cargo ships; (v) highly taxed
packaging and other inputs; (vi) legal, fiscal and custom tariffs structure ill-adapted to export activities.
Diversification activities
7.     Table 1 shows the anticipated progression of diversification crop areas, based on the following
conditions: (i) strong growth of crops destined for local markets once agronomic constraints and logistical
and marketing bottlenecks are overcome; (ii) areas planted to fruit crops under Phase I of the IDPIAM
(citrus, mango, guava, other) expanding under Phases II and III, once agronomic parameters are more
firmly fixed; (iii) areas destined for the production of export crops starting with pilot-scale operations, to
be followed by an expansion of the area under production; (iv) participatory and flexible process chosen
(pilot operations initiated by operators and the market) allowing for an increasing proportion of crops not
currently envisaged (groundnut, various spices, etc.).
8.     IDPIAM's diversification component aims to overcome obstacles to the diversification of crops
in the Valley. The activities envisioned are aimed at helping to develop, through local private farmers,
marketing opportunities at the local and export levels, by means of targeted support measures aimed at
overcoming technical bottlenecks and farmers' lack of information. Diversification activities will revolve
around shared-cost pilot operations in support of the initiatives of private operators and cooperative
groups. During the initial learning stages, the design of pilot activities will be at the initiative of the
project. Subsequently, operators will be able to design and propose pilot operations to the program's
administrators.
9.     Strategic studies: In support of these pilot activities, strategic studies will help identify market
opportunities (local and export) as well as constraints caused by the legal, fiscal, customs, and regulatory



-61-                                ANNEX 2-E
environment. Although they will include a diagnostic aspect, these studies will aim primarily at
identifying scenarios for pilot activities that could be proposed to operators, as well as measures to
reduce, or even eliminate, the legal and regulatory constraints.
10.    Pilot diversification activities: Pilot activities will help operators or cooperative groups to
conduct the necessary technical and marketing experiments to develop a profitable activity and will
confirm operators' capacity to actually fulfill the technical and marketing potential indicated by the
strategic studies. This process will optimize the cost of the subsidy based on the factual information
generated by the pilot operation. Pilot activities financed under IDPIAM will be varied: (i)introductory
pilot activities: tests of the behavior of various promising varieties of new crops (fruits and vegetables) on
small parcels, introduction of new production techniques (greenhouses, drip irrigation), demonstration
units for various processing technologies (drying, juice extraction), evaluation of samples, test batches for
export, study trips to investigate markets (buyers, distribution networks, competitors, market trends); (ii)
pilot productivity improvement activities: experimental selection of cultivars adapted to the pre-harvest
gap period (for local markets), development of collection and processing schemes that optimize quality
(thernal protection at the point of harvest, packaging); (iii) pilot extension and coaching activities:
technical and commercial support to programs involving consolidation, operation of refrigeration
facilities by farmers' groups for the local market, application of quality norrns, export campaigns,
introduction of air transport logistics, initiation of promotional activities (fairs, produce labeling).
11.    Information and dissemination system: Monitoring of diversification activities requires a system
of information that: (i) provides time series data, for a set of local and export products, on market
volumes and prices; (ii) allows the design of a database that includes, among others, technical and
economic worksheets, specification of selection criteria, norms for processing and transportation
conditions, cost structure of local and export transit; and (iii) provides a database for M&E based on the
first two databases and the roster of IDPIAM clients.
12.    Institutional structuring: Regarding institutions, the diversification component of the IDPIAM
will support: (i) the introduction of a plant disease control service trained and certified by MDRE's
technical assistance and the training of personnel responsible for this task at ports and airports; (ii) the
creation of commodity subsector committees that will help establish specifications for various crops,
whether for export or the local market.
13.    Infrastructures: The IDPIAM includes a provision for a basic logistical unit whose operation will
be subcontracted out to a private firm by the CU-IDPIAM. This unit will provide operators engaged in
pilot activities with basic agricultural equipment and an efficient post-harvest logistical organization,
using simple and well-adapted technologies. Experiments with the local and export markets will be
carried out under optimal conditions: a collective processing center (including refrigeration facilities) in
the production zone (Rosso), farm-gate collection points, mobile isothermal/refrigerated equipment for
collection, and tractor trailers for transfer of containers to points of embarkation. Improvements will be
made to public infrastructures at the airport and port of Nouakchott: renovation of the Nouakchott
airport's freight area, replacement of weighing equipment, creation of a refrigerated storage area, and
purchase of lifting equipment. At the port of Nouakchott, electrical outlets and refrigerated storage areas
will be required.
Implementation Strategy
14.    The diversification component will be implemented under the aegis of the CU-IDPIAM. Due to
the experimental and highly operational nature of these activities, a special unit will be created within the
CU-IDPIAM. Under the direction of the Coordinator of the CU-IDPIAM, this unit will be staffed as
follows: (i) a person responsible for marketing, to whom questions of local and export marketing and



-62 -                               ANNEX 2-E
logistics can be referred; (ii) a person in charge of R&D, who will monitor the introductory and
productivity-boosting activities; (iii) an agro-economist in charge of the analyses needed to evaluate
dossiers on pilot diversification activities (pre-feasibility and diagnosis of results); this personwill also
handle the implementation and updating of ihe database; (iv) a resident, internationally-recruited technical
assistance based in Rosso who will act as the field coordinator for diversification activities; (v) ad hoc
technical assistance that will provide periodic assistance to the professionals in the unit on matters of
development methods, and M&E of pilot activities. The technical assistant in charge of field coordination
will be doubled by a local staff who will be trained on the job by the technical assistant whom he/she will
replace at the end of Phase I.
15.    The pilot activities will be financed on a shared-cost basis (subvention a couits partages) whose
resources will be earmarked for pilot diversification activities guided by private operators. This fund will
be administered by the CU-IDPIAM in accordance with specified procedures for disbursement and rules
for the attribution of subsidies.
16.    The diversification effort must be driven by the private sector. Thus, the CU-IDPIAM must seek
to involve the private sector in the definition and implementation of diversification strategies. A
consultative diversification committee will be created and charged with providing policy guidance on the
IDPIAM's diversification program. This committee will be made up of representatives of IDPIAM's
direct clientele, leaders of private enterprises, private groups, cooperative groups, support entities
involved in pilot activities, etc. The CU-IDPIAM will provide the impetus for this committee to evaluate
and express opinions on the various pilot diversification activity dossiers. During Phase I of IDPIAM, the
committee's role will be essentially consultative. Subsequently, depending on the degree of ownership
shown by its members, its role could be expanded to that of a commission on resource allocation or a
board of directors.
17.    The pilot activities will require sustained technical assistance to ensure the optimal
implementation of the pilot experiments and marketing programs in the rural sector. Experts assigned to
this function typically have a more operational than scientific profile and are recruited in Mediterranean
countries with considerable experience of conditions similar to those prevailing in the Valley. To back
them up, ad hoc missions of a more specifically scientific nature will be provided to perfonn diagnostic
analyses or fine-tuning program studies. Services of international marketing consulting firms will be
retained to perform the strategic fine-tuning of pilot activities in support of exports, and will come into
play downstream of the pilot export marketing activities: definition of specifications, search for partners,
coordination of product transit tests, etc. It will be necessary to subcontract some computer services for
programming and for the development of databases used for the diversification component (markets,
techniques, clientele).



- 63 -                             ANNEX 2-F
Component F: ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MITIGATION MEASURES
Mauritania: Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
(US$ 3.141 million)
A. Environmental Problems Associated with Irrigation
1.    The Valley's main environmental problems are: waterlogging, salinity and waterborne diseases.
Poor drainage is one of the main causes of waterlogging and salinity. These environmental problems
have an adverse affect on the productivity of land (waterlogging, salinity and alkalinity) and labor
(waterbome illnesses such as intestinal infections, bilharzia and malaria) and, thus, on the population's
income and quality of life. Also, outside of the irrigated areas, communities that depend on flood-
recession crops have been affected by dams that have reduced floods. In these areas, the reduction in
flooding has also had an adverse impact on aquifers that feed wells that, in turn, supply potable water to
local populations.
2.     The Valley's future environmental problems will be caused by: (i) existing infrastructures
(Manantali and Diama dams and their main hydraulic axes) and (ii) infrastructures that will be created
under the IDPIAM. The latter include (a) major civil engineering works (main canals and drainage
structures, etc.); (b) small public works (connector roads, small culverts, etc); (c) the rehabilitation,
expansion and creation of small irrigated schemes; and (d) small village infrastructures (wells, grain
stores, etc.). According to World Bank guidelines, only the infrastructure works described under (a) fall
into environmental category "A", nonetheless, the whole IDPIAM has been considered as under this
category.
3.     During Phase I of the IDPIAM, there will be no major infrastructrural works, but instead only
feasibility studies for works that could be carried out under Phase II. These studies will include
environmental impact analyses (EIAs). Phase I of the IDPIAM will, however, involve the rehabilitation
of nearly 3,000 ha of existing schemes (including some extension of those schemes) and 100 ha of new
schemes. For any new activities to be carried out on the irrigated schemes, satisfactory EIAs will need to
be produced based on norms developed at the beginning of the IDPIAM and will be periodically revised
during Phase I and beyond. It is expected that works aimed at rehabilitating and developing existing or
new irrigation schemes will have a positive impact on the prevalence of waterborne illnesses such as
intestinal parasites, bilharzia and malaria, since such works improve drainage and thus reduce the volume
of stagnant water.
B. Mitigation Measures: Components
4.    IDPIAM's environmental component will include the following main elements: (i) establishment
of a system of environmental assessment, management and monitoring; (ii) development of
environmental standards; (iii) creation of land use plans (plans d'occupation des sols - POS); and (iv)
concrete measures to mitigate environmental impacts.
(i) Establishment of an environmental assessment, management and monitoring system
5.    An environmental assessment, management and monitoring system for the Valley will be
developed and put into practice to help decision-makers take appropriate measures to prevent and mitigate
environmental impacts.



- 64 -                            ANNEX 2-F
6.     An environmental information system (EIS) will be set up to monitor general environmental and
natural resource trends all over the Valley, and more specifically in the irrigated areas.
7.     Data will be gathered on a regular basis in accordance with specified protocols and transferred to
an ordinary GIS-type map. This tool will be used as an information crossroads, which each agency
collecting data pertaining to it, but sharing that data with others through a computer network. The whole
mechanism will constitute an environmental observatory.  This facility will make it possible to: (1)
monitor the salinity or alkalinity of soils and their impacts on crop yields; (2) monitor the impact of
irrigation on the replenishment and salinity of aquifers; (3) model overall water consumption at the scale
of hydraulic units for purposes of planning irrigation at the scale of the whole Valley; (4) study trends in
the quality of surface water in channels, which are often used simultaneously for irrigation and drainage.
This environmental observatory will need to be linked to the environmental monitoring station that
OMVS intends to set up soon in Dakar. This will allow Mauritanian, Senegalese and Malian authorities
to collaborate on the resolution of environmental problems relevant to several countries located on the
Senegal River.
8.     MDRE lacks skills in the areas of environmental assessment, management and monitoring, and
also lacks specialists in EIA who could handle the implementation and monitoring of the environmental
component. A program of skills development in these areas will therefore be instituted under the
IDPIAM-IDA at the level of the agencies involved: (1) DEAR (Directorate for Environment and Rural
Equipment) which is responsible for developing terms of reference, evaluation and follow-up of EIAs;
(2) SONADER, which is charged witlh applying environmental standards and incorporating
environmental and social factors into water management; (3) local consultants responsible for carrying
out EIAs and for implementing mitigation plans; (4) the universities that will perform EIAs and
environmental research; and (5) NGOs involved in participatory planning for the preparation and
implementation of land use plans (plans d'oc.upation des sols - POS).
(ii) Development of environmental standards
9.     Environmental assessments indicate a need to respect certain technical criteria during the
establishment and the operation and maintenance of irrigation infrastructures. Some subject areas should
be subject to absolute technical standards, while other criteria are more on the order of"best practices"
recommendations that could be promoted bv means of incentives. The main themes to be dealt with
include: (1) implementation of water management schemes that limit salinity and alkalinity, as well as
drainage infrastructures; (2) arrangements to protect soils from wind erosion and sand encroachment; and
(3) arrangements for the use of fertilizers, herbicides and pesticides, as well as for sanitation and
prevention of waterborne illnesses.
(iii) Land use plans
10.   The lower and mid Valley, which are the main current beneficiaries of the spillover effects of the
dams on the Senegal River, are being rapidly settled by groups and individuals with little or no experience
with agriculture, and particularly with irrigated agriculture. In an anarchic fashion, some people are
occupying lands that they sometimes developed in a very rudimentary way. The consequences of this
settlement may prove costly. Developers and decision-makers lack the means to develop investment
strategies that take environmental and social constraints into account. The challenge is therefore to
develop a participatory technical approach that can: (1) promote the integration of irrigated schemes with
other activities in the Valley (rainfed and flood recession agriculture, livestock, fishing, hunting, etc.); (2)
develop a local consensus on the issues of sustainable development and land occupation, allowing all
stakeholders to participate in the definition and management of resources and spaces; (3) provide national
and local authorities with the data and tools needed to plan structuring investments on the basis of a



-65 -                              ANNEX 2-F
participatory and consultative approach to beneficiaries. Land use plans will therefore be prepared in
accordance with a participatory approach, and technical and managerial procedures will be recommended
to ensure efficient environmental and social management (avoidance of social conflicts related to land
use).
(iv) Concrete environmental impact mitigation measures
11.   Funding will be put in place to finance physical measures to mitigate negative environmental
impacts in the Valley, which will be identified in the course of program implementation. Details are
provided in the environment working document in the IDPIAM project file. In addition, specific funding
has been made available to Mauritania under the IDA-financed Health Sector Project to combat
waterborne diseases. Mitigation measures related to health will therefore be handled under that project.
IDPIAM will finance annual surveys of the effect of new infrastructures on the incidence of infectious
disease and will propose mitigation measures to be financed under the Health Sector Project.
C. Mitigation Measures: Implementation
12.   DEAR will be responsible for supervising environmental aspects of the project. It will ensure the
quality of EIAs, as well as the relevance and quality of mitigation measures. It will be responsible for
developing, putting in place and managing the system of environmental information and monitoring
called for under the program. The CU-IDPIAM will be charged with managing funds earmarked for the
environmental component.



-66-                             ANNEX 2-Gl
Component Gl: PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Mauritania: Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
(IJS$ 2.916 million)
1.    The basic principles underlying the IDPIAM's proposed organization and modes of
implementation of its components are based on the observation that, in order to have a system which
functions well, it is important to have a clear idea of the structure and position of the public sector and its
functions, roles, and responsibilities vis-a-vis the private sector. The principles can be summarized as
follows:
* separation of policy/strategic and program implementation functions;
* coherence between strategies and the implementation program;
* separation of the financing, "purchase" and delivery of services;
* competition among service providers;
* contractualization of services;
* specification of performance goals (in terms of results and not only in terms of resources
made available) for public as well as private service providers;
* correlation between performance goals and their measurable indicators, and between
financing and resources made available;
* performance monitoring and evaluation with reference to resources used;
* clear prior definition of individual and collective responsibilities;
* establishment of forums for information and consultation among users, private service
providers and public agencies; and
* involvement of clients or service beneficiaries/users as early as possible in the decision-
making process regarding investments.
2.     Overall responsibility for program implementation will reside within the MDRE, throughthe CU-
IDPIAM. This is consistent with Government reforms recommending that ministries withdraw from
certain implementation functions, leaving these to private operators, and that they reorient their public
service activities in the direction of policy, public investment planning and monitoring/evaluation. The
following arrangements are therefore planned:
* an Interministerial Policy Committee will provide policy guidance to IDPIAM;
* a Steering Committee will pilot the IDPIAM;
* the CU-IDPIAM, which already exists, will manage and coordinate the overall program,
funding and M&E;
* SONADER, under the aegis of MDRE, will exercise a delegated works oversight function
for studies and public investment works, and will help producers manage investments and
master production techniques;
* UNCACEM will handle the credit function, which will also be open to other financial
institutions under Phases II and III of the program;
* functions of support, monitoring and control will be exercised by various departnents of the
MDRE, including: the future Directorate for Policy and Monitoring/Evaluation (DPSE), the
Directorate for Environment and the Rural Sector (DEAR), the Directorate for Research,
Training and Extension (DRFV); and the Directorate for Agro-Pastoral Resources (DRAP);
and
* specialized support functions will be provided by agencies other than MDRE, and in
particular by the Office national de la statistique (ONS) and NGOs.



- 67 -                           ANNEX 2-GI
3.     The Interministerial Policy Committee (Comite interministeriel d'orientation et de suivi du
IDPIAM -- CIMOS) headed by the Minister of Rural Development, is made up of representatives of the
relevant ministries and donors. It develops policy, and evaluates and monitors the program's broad
themes with a view to harmonizing operations with national policy objectives. The relevant ministries
will be: Economy and Development, Finance, Trade, Hydraulics, and Interior. The relevant donors are
those currently involved in rural development in Mauritania.
4.     The Steering Committee (Comite de Pilotage du IDPL4M -- CP/IDPIAM) will be headed by the
Director of Planning and Studies at the Ministry of Economy and Development (MAED) and composed
of technical representatives of the relevant ministries, SONADER, relevant donors, representatives of
farmers and their organizations, NGOs and UNCACEM. The CP/IDPIAM will, in accordance with
decisions reached by CIMOS, define the program's policy orientations and rules, approve action plans and
assess implementation progress. This committee constitutes the institutional structure within which
decisions are made on policy, follow-up and harmonization of the IDPIAM's operations. Decisions are
made by this committee on the basis of information and proposals developed by the CU/IDPIAM, which
is the committee's main tool for deciding which measures to take and for monitoring of their application.
5.     The CU/IDPIAM, attached to the cabinet of MDRE, is responsible for programming,
coordination, supervision, financial management and monitoring/evaluation for the program as a whole.
It defines and creates the conditions under which the program is implemented. The actual implementation
of these activities will be contracted out on a competitive basis to competent public or private entities,
although CU/IDPIAM will also implement certain components.  CU/IDPIAM will be responsible for
preparing the program's annual financial statements in accordance with internationally accepted financial
principles and for seeing that these are certified. It will also issue periodic technical reports, and will
ensure that disbursements are handled in accordance with IDA guidelines. The financial management
systems will be computerized and will allow for expenditure monitoring by category, component and
implementing agency. Files on all financial transactions relating to the IDPIAM will be maintained and
made available to IDA. Special accounts will be opened at a commercial bank for CU/IDPIAM,
SONADER and UNCACEM. Two different independent auditors will perform financial and technical
audits each year.
6.     The DPSE will be responsible for supervising studies of sectoral policy, legal and fiscal reform,
as well as for studies and analysis of sectoral statistics.
7.     The DEAR will supervise the program's environmental aspects. It will ensure the quality of
Environmental Impact Assessments (ElAs), and the appropriateness and quality of mitigation measures.
It will be responsible for the development, installation and management of the information and
environmental monitoring system planned under the program.
8.     The DRFV, which is currently responsible for implementing the IDA-financed Agricultural
Services Project (ASP), will be responsible for IDPIAM-financed activities similar in nature to those of
the ASP. It will ensure the technical coordination of research, training and extension activities to be
carried out by specialized agencies.
9.     The DRAP will supervise activities associated with livestock and fodder crops, as well as support
to OSPs.
10.    SONADER, a so-called etablissement public a caractere industriel et commercial (EPIC) under
the authority of MDRE and subject to the Law of October 1990, is an important operator with three
assigned tasks under the terms of a triennial performance contract: (i) delegated works oversight for



-68 -                             ANNEX 2-GI
hydro-agricultural investments; (ii) management of State-financed public infrastructures; and (iii) advice
to farmers and farmer groups on irrigated schemes. In the context of IDPIAM's implementation,
SONADER will handle: (a) delegated works oversight for studies and works planned under the program;
(b) assistance to UNCACEM for studies and rehabilitation works on individual or village-level irrigated
schemes; and (c) extension in the areas of agricultural techniques, organization and management. These
activities will be carried out in partnership with NGOs such as AFVP and ACOPAM. SONADER will
also approve, on behalf of the Government, investment plans for schemes that are candidates for
rehabilitation or extension, or for the development of new schemes.
11.   During Phase I, UNCACEM will be responsible for providing short-, medium- and long-term
credit to finance productive activities and investmnents in the Valley. The procedures for granting loans
are detailed in Annex 2-ST of this document.



- 69-                            ANNEX 2-G2
Component G2: MONrTORING AND EVALUATION
Mauritania: Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
(US$ 0.936 million)
A. Rationale for the M&E system
1.    The IDPIAM's strategy for sustainable development in the Senegal River Valley rests entirely
upon the strengthening of producers' capacity and on the redefinition of the roles of the State and the
public and private services involved in supporting production, as well as in upstream and downstream
activities. This strategy involves a large number of stakeholders in the cycle of planning and decision-
making for program-supported interventions. At each stage (financing request, appraisal, approval and
detailed action plan, implementation, adjustments, regular balance sheets, consolidation of
accomplishments), certain key data are required.
2.     M&E is a management and decision-making tool that allows all stakeholders, i.e. producers,
private and public partners and all project staff, to understand the process thoroughly. Thus, the M&E
approach adopted under the IDPIAM consists of organizing a systematic flow of useful information
needed for analysis and decision-making by those involved in each step of the implementation of a
program or activity. Such a system also produces data sets that are compatible with each other. In-depth
statistical analysis can then be initiated at the national level, and medium- and long-term strategic policies
developed.
B. Description of the M&E system
3.     The Monitoring and Evaluation system will involve two types of monitoring: implementation
monitoring and impact monitoring.
4.    Implementation monitoring is concerned with the progress of program activities in relation to
forecasts. It provides updates on the status of the project's physical and financial implementation, as well
as on difficulties/issues encountered and proposed solutions.
5.     The detailed information needed for implementation monitoring is gathered from planning tools
that already exist: work plans, budgets and sources of financing, schedules, etc. This information can be
reorganized into three broad data categories:
* inputs, or resources contributed by the project (costs, humans resources);
* the implementation process (deadlines, problems, beneficiary assessments); and
* outputs, or the project's concrete accomplishments (physical quantities and number of
beneficiaries ).
6.     Data generated periodically by the implementation monitoring function will reveal possible gaps
between forecasts (planning) and actual accomplishments, i.e., the physical and financial implementation
ratio. Difficulties encountered and explanatory factors will be identified and analyzed in order to develop
the appropriate corrective measures. Implementation indicators such as the number of beneficiaries, their
assessment of the quality of interventions, human resource utilization ratios, and time elapsed for each
stage, will be calculated on an annual basis.



- 70 -                              ANNEX 2-G2
7.     An important aspect of the M&E system will be the linkage of the financial monitoring system
with the technical monitoring system: analytical accounting will be instituted, along with a common
nomenclature for activities, expenditure categories and cost centers.1
8.     Impact monitoring endeavors determine the extent to which the implementation of various
project activities has contributed to the desired development objectives. Although it is generally
recommended, in project planning, that a single objective and few indicators be identified, it is to be
expected that, in the case of a complex project or a program consisting of several different interventions, a
greater number of secondary objectives and indicators may be involved. While the number of objectives
and indicators should be kept as small as possible, it is important to keep in mind that the scope and
complexity of IDPIAM, as well as the large number of participants, could make impact evaluation
difficult if there are too few objectives.
9.     M&E will allow each stakeholder to perceive the "changes" caused by the implementation of
various project-supported activities. These changes will be evaluated in reference to a baseline situation
established prior to project start-up. Analysis of the baseline situation and of any changes that occur
requires an effective data-gathering mechanism allowing for the comparison of "with" and "without"
project scenarios with reference to: (i) ceitain types of project-supported activities (with and without
rehabilitation, with and without support for organization and management); and (ii) different types of
perimeters (e.g., small collective, large collective, small individual, large individual).
10.    In the case of IDPIAM, the data needed to describe, measure and categorize these changes can
be grouped into four broad categories of impacts, or what one might call the "pillars" of IDPIAM's
success:
* improvement of socio-economic conditions , perceptible at the farmers' level as well as
within rural communities affected by the development of irrigated agriculture, and among
urban consumers;
* strengthening of local capacities, so that farmers can be full-fledged and responsible
participants in the Valley's development;
* establishment of a favorable and enahling policy, legal and institutional framework that
allows stakeholders to participate fully in the decision-making and investment process; and
* preservation of the Valley's prodluctive natural resource capital, thereby ensuring long-term
sustainability of the production system.
11.    When organized in this way, all of this information constitutes the conceptual framework for
impact monitoring.
12.    The specific indicators for each of the broad impact categories have been identified during project
preparation, based on the specific issues posed in each area. They are included in the IDPIAM's Logical
Framework (Annex I).
13.    This framework may at first seem vast , but in actual practice each participant only undertakes a
limited number of interventions having a specific impact in one of the four main impact categories or
pillars. Thus, the number of indicators and the associated data-gathering are limited. The M&E
I A cost center is responsible for implementing an activity or en entire component. This means that the financing request, the
planning of activities, and the production of progress reports on activities for which it is responsible will occur at this level.
These different << cost centers >> will report on indicators specifically relevant to them.



-71-                              ANNEX 2-G2
Procedures Manual will include a guide to help organize impact monitoring data and limit it to data that
are useful and absolutely necessary.
C. Key M&E indicators
14.    At the central level, the quarterly project reports will summarize status and efficiency of
implementation, whereas annual reports will state the most significant changes observed in the field.
More specifically, a performance chart will be created to report on the key indicators monitored by
IDPIAM managers. These indicators are shown in the following table.
PERFORMANCE CHART
KEY INDICATORS FOR IDPIAM PHASE I
1. Continued absence of distortions in the rice sector, as decided in 1999.
2. Enforcement of Decree 98/48 and Bylaw R075 on transport sector liberalization.
3. Satisfactory repayment rate (at least 95%) on credit granted by UNCACEM.
4. UJNCACEM's operational and financial self-sufficiency assured by 2001;
5. Eligible and fulfilled credit requests represent at least 75% of development goals.
6. Creation of transparent and accessible land registries allowing the verification of land
use permnits and temporary or permanent land concessions.
7. Transparency, equity and security of land tenure, as measured by the results of
participatory surveys.
8. Satisfactory access to agricultural services for poor families, as indicated by the results
of participatory surveys.
9. Economic return on State-supported hydro-agricultural investments demonstrated
satisfactorily, as indicated by the first results available.
10. Establishment of procedures for collecting water fees and operation/and maintenance
charges for collective infrastructures.
11. Completion of feasibility studies, including environmental impact assessments (EIAs)
for non-farm infrastructures (required for investments planned under Phase II.)
D. Implementation of the M&E system
15.    Centers of decision and monitoring/evaluation. The institutional package chosen for the project
envisages three levels, or centers of decision-making and monitoring:
*   The local level. This level refers to individuals or collectivities wanting to set up an
infrastructure (irrigated perimeter, storage facility or processing infrastructure, etc.) They
will be responsible for identifying, planning, implementing, monitoring and evaluating the
investments they wish to make in order to rehabilitate or increase the profitability of the
infrastructure in question.
*   The regional level. This level refers to private and public services (SONADER, BAF,
UNCACEM, Regional directorate for rural development, NGOs, AFVP, AGETA, ACOPAM,
consulting firms, etc.) supporting local levels promoters either with financing (credit,
subsidies) or technical service delivery.
*   The national level. It refers mainly to Institutions responsible for policy guidance and
resources coordination for the development of the Valley, ensuring quality control, assistance



-72 -                             ANNEX 2-G2
to support services and strengthening of their capacities, and for the development of an
enabling environment.
16.   The personnel responsible for M&E are located at these three decision-making levels.
17.    The main tools used for M&E, in the areas of both implementation and impact monitoring, are
described in the M&E Procedures Manual and consist of the following:
*  the conceptual framework, which identifies useful indicators and data and organizes the
information needed for decision-making;
*  data-gathering tools adapted to: farmers and socio-professional organizations (OSPs); the
organizations that support them; and project staff (participatory tools particularly suited to
OSPs, financing request forms, monitoring notebooks, reports, guides to data-gathering for
impact monitoring);
*  tools for data synthesis and output (computerized performance charts, database, various
communication aids for the output and exploitation of results obtained at the irrigated scheme
level or at regional or national levels).
18.   Coordination of M&E and support to decision-makers. An M&E specialist will be recruited for
the CU-IDPIAM to help set up the various M&E tools for local stakeholders at the three levels of
intervention. This person's specific mandate will be to: (i) provide those involved with tools for
collecting and circulating the information that will provide structure for IDPIAM's management; (ii)
prepare performance charts for the data analysis needed to coordinate stakeholders' activities and improve
implementation; (iii) check the quality of data in the database; (iv) aggregate project activity data for the
preparation of reports to the Government and donors; (v) manage IDPIAM's database; and (vi)
collaborate with the Directorate for Policy and Monitoring/Evaluation on project impact monitoring.
19.   The M&E specialist will be aided in this task by three M&E staff at the regional level, inBoghe,
Kaedi and Rosso. Their specific mandate will include: (i) management of the database at the regional
level (pooling of irrigated schemes data transmitted by the person assisting farmers in organization and
management (component c); (ii) M&E training for stakeholders; (iii) monitoring the quality of field data;
and (iv) promoting the informal network of data output, dissemination and exploitation at the field level
in the interest of better coordination among stakeholders (BAF, UNCACEM, SONADER, DPSE).
E. Conclusion
20.    Outreach, training and close monitoring are key ingredients in the success of this type of M&E
system, given the large number of new ideas to be introduced and stakeholders to train. Success depends
on the following factors:
* well-defined objectives;
* accurate gauging of results in both quantitative and qualitative terms;
* definition of efficiency ratios and other indicators;
* proper time management and coordination of activity programs;
* adaptation of M&E tools to commtnity organizations to ensure their adoption;
* establishment of an effective analytical accounting system linked to the technical monitoring
function; and
* publication and exploitation of data and results in order to prevent M&E tools from being
perceived merely as checking tools.



-73 -                            ANNEX 2-G2
21.    An M&E training program, designed in a holistic and broadbased manner, will accompany the
system's implementation during the first few years, in order to help all stakeholders learn to use the
various M&E tools in their day-to-day activities.



- 74-                                 ANNEX 2-ST
Special Topic: INVESTMENT FINANCING MECHANISMS - LOANS AND SUBSIDIES
Mauritania: Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
A.      Credit
1.     The IDPIAM    will provide a line of credit to finance private sector's investment and seasonal
credit needs. Under Phase I, the credit line will be provided to UNCACEM. Under Phases II and III, it
may also be available, under the same conditions, to commercial banks if they display an interest in rural
sector financing and meet IDA's eligibility conditions.
Credit envelope for Phase I
2.      Under Phase I, the line of credit will consist of two non-fuingible envelopes:
+ Envelope A, of 572 million UM for long-term loans for investments in irrigated schemes
(rehabilitation, extension, and creation), broken down into three sub-envelopes, which are
also non-fungible:
*   sub-envelop Al, containing 123 million UMi for collective irrigated schemes which
are also eligible for matching grants;
*   sub-envelope A2, with 222 million UM2 for individually-owned irrigated schemes
whose owner has less than 40 ha (all schemes combined). This category is eligible for
small farmers' matching grants;
*   sub-envelope A3, containing 227 million UM3 for individually-owned irrigated
schemes whose owner has more than 40 ha. This category is not eligible for
matching grants.)
*  Envelope B, of 1.484 million UM, to be used by UNCACEM for the short, medium, or long-
term financing of any project (except for irrigated schemes covered by the preceding
envelope) provided that: (a) it has to do with the rural sector (farmers, downstream operators
or agricultural service providers); (b) it is in the IDPIAM project area; (c) it meets the
conditions of eligibility and economic and financial return specified in the following
paragraphs; (d) its risk level is acceptable from the banking standpoint.
3.      Envelope B is large enough to finance the following needs identified under IDPIAM-IDA:
-   production-related activities associated with the rehabilitation, extensions or creations
financed under envelope A above4 This will include medium-termn financing for irrigation
and agricultural equipment, and short-term financing for additional seasonal production
input credit)
'This allows (in taking account of reimbursements) funding for: I 000 ha of rehabilitation or rehabilitation/extension, based on
estimated average financing of UM 123,000 per ha; and t:ae creation of 50 ha of non-rice irrigated schemes, based on estimated
average financing of UM 133,000 per ha.
2 This allows (in taking account of reimbursements) funding for: 1000 ha of rehabilitation, based on estimated average financing
of UM 221,000 per ha; and the creation of 50 ha of non-fice irrigated schemes, based on estimated average financing of UM
243,000 per ha.
3This allows funding for 1,000 ha of rehabilitation, based on estimated average financing of UM 243,000 UM/ha
4That is, 3,000 ha of rehabilitation or extension and creation of 100 ha.



-75 -                             ANNEX 2-ST
-  post-harvest activities such as long-term financing for storage warehouses (planned
capacity of 15,000 MT), medium-term financing for processing equipment (planned
capacity of 10 000 MT for paddy processing) and short-term financing for marketing
(volume required for marketing credit of 15,000, 20,000 and 30,000 MT of paddy in year
1, 2 and 3 respectively).
Credit envelope for subsequent phases
4.     During the two subsequent program phases, complementary credit lines will provide financing
for: (a) the rehabilitation/expansion of 8,000 additional hectares and the creation of 1,900 ha of new
diversification schemes; (b) equipment and seasonal credit needed for diversification. Initial estimates
indicate a total additional financing need of about 2,000 million UM5
UNCACEM's credit procedures
5.     A draft Procedures Manual, including exact procedures for long-termn loans for irrigated schemes
and marketing credit (new banking instruments for UNCACEM), was drawn up by UNCACEM and
reviewed by IDA. This draft (which covers all types of credit granted by UNCACEM regardless of the
source of financing) has then been finalized and approved by UNCACEM's Board of Directors prior to
negotiations. Any subsequent change in the Procedures Manual will require IDA's non-objection.
Onlending
6.     The line of credit will be onlent by the Government to UNCACEM in local currency at a rate of
6%, which covers IDA's credit costs, the Govermnent's management expenses and the foreign exchange
risk assumed by the Government. The credit will be reimbursed in annual tranches, with each tranche
reimbursed by UNCACEM over ten years, with a 2-year grace period during which only interest due will
be payable.
7.     The Central Bank of Mauritania will exercise ex-post monitoring of UNCACEM's use of the line
of credit and of its respect of established loan procedures. The Bank's non-objection will be required for
the first five irrigated scheme loan dossiers, as well as for all dossiers for loans exceeding 10 million UM
each.
Conditions met by UNCA CEM or agreed upon
8.     Prior to negotiations (May 1999), UNCACEM   has (a) established a provisional operating
account, balanced and ready for the coming fiscal year (FY 2000) and adequate for its operational self-
sufficiency6; (b) defined the interest rates needed to achieve financial equilibrium for FY 2000, and set
credit rates for the upcoming cropping season (rainy season 1999/2000) at a level required for its
operational self-sufficiency by 2000, and in accordance with its own internal procedures (decision of the
Board of Directors). Detailed calculations concerning the provisional operating account and interest rates
have been submitted to IDA, which deemed them realistic and acceptable.
5Estimate to be refined by the end of Phase 1, based on the financing needs of banks that are beneficiaries of the line of credit.
6Operational self-sufficiency is defined as a volume of banking revenues at least equal to operating costs, plus a provision for
loan losses.



- 76 -                              ANNEX 2-ST
9.     UNCACEM      must have achieved operational self-sufficiency by 2000 and financial self-
sufficiency7 by 2001. From the outset of the program, the new banking instruments planned under the
IDPIAM (long-term loans and marketing credit) must, in particular, support interest rates compatible with
the goal of financial self-sufficiency.'
10.    UNCACEM     has settled its client accounts included in the balance sheet for FY  1998, in
accordance with the recommendations of the external auditing firm. Audit reports on fiscal years 1996
and 1997 have been completed, and the audit for FY 1998 will be carried out in June 1999.
B.     Subsidies
11.    The IDPIAM-IDA will finance targeted subsidies for various types of beneficiaries, under the
following conditions:
a) Subsidies to cooperatives for the rehabili;tation/extension of existing schemes and the development of
new diversification schemes:
12.    Regularly constituted cooperatives in possession of a land tenure legal document can be eligible
to subsidies for the rehabilitation/extension of their schemes or the development of new non-rice
schemes. These cooperatives must also be eligible to credit as subsidies will be in the form of grants to
match such credit and the personal contribution of the cooperative. For the extension of existing schemes,
access to subsidies will be limited to cooperative schemes with average individual farm sizes under 2 ha.
For new developments, only non-rice schemes with a maximum size of 5 ha will be eligible for subsidies.
This subsidy is justified on the following grounds:
*   poverty alleviation strategy: farms of this size, partially geared to household food needs,
cannot muster the cash flow needed to reimburse the entire cost of rehabilitation or new
creation over an 8-year period, wvhich is considered by banks to be the minimum acceptable
term (although the lifespan of the infrastructures is 20 years); and
*   environmental concerns: the establishment of environmental standards implies the creation of
a drainage system which represents an added cost for the farmer.
13.    The subsidy will cover 100% of the cost of the technical study and subsequently, 100% of works
oversight costs and 50% of the cost of works (excluding pumping equipment), provided that the study
confirms the operation's feasibility and the credit agency accepts the credit application. Based on the
estimated cost of works for a medium-sized scheme, the average subsidy would amount to 200,000
UM/ha for rehabilitations and rehabilitation/extension, and 209,000 UM/ha for new developments. The
subsidy may not exceed 250,000 UM/ha and 10 million UM per dossier.
7Financial self-sufficiency is defined as a volume of baaiking revenues adequate to cover operating costs, the provision for loan
losses, the actual cost of resources, and return to capital at market rates (around 16%).
8 According to financial projections made by the final preparation mission, the average interest rates needed for self-sufficiency
are close to market rates (i.e., rates offered by commerc:al banks to their best clients. )



- 77 -                            ANNEX 2-ST
b) Subsidies to individual farmers for rehabilitation of existing schemes or the development of new
diversification schemes
14.   The subsidies will be available to individual farmers for the following purpose and under the
following conditions:
- the farmers must be considlered eligible to credit by UNCACEM;
-  the proposed investment must be considered economically sustainable by UNCACEM and
by the Grant Committee;
-  the farmer owns less than 40 ha of irrigable land in total;
-  the subsidy must be for the rehabilitation of a maximum of 40 ha of existing rice production
scheme or for the development of a maximum of 5 ha of new diversification scheme.
15.    The subsidy to individually-owned schemes is justified by environmental protection concerns,
since the establishment of environmental standards implies the construction of a drainage system that
represents an additional expense for the farmer. The subsidy will also constitute a measure of small
agricultural enterprise promotion. Finally, it will be a means of promoting a new, sustainable type of
irrigated scheme (previous schemes, built hastily and without subsidies, have poorer technical
performance and shorter lifespan).
16.    The subsidy will cover 80% of the cost of the technical study. Subsequently, it will cover 80% of
the cost of works oversight and 20% of the cost of works, provided that the study confirrns the operation's
feasibility and the credit agency accepts the loan application. Based on the estimated cost of works, the
amount of the subsidy for a medium-sized scheme would average 93,000 UM/ha for rehabilitations and
99,000 UM/ha for new developments. The subsidy may not exceed 150,000 UM/ha and 5 million UM
per beneficiary.
c) Subsidy for construction of storage warehouses by SPOs
17.    This subsidy will be made available to cooperatives and cooperative unions receiving long-term
credit for the construction of such warehouses. The subsidy is justified, as in the case of the
rehabilitations, by poverty alleviation considerations, since cooperative members and unions cannot
generate the personal contribution required by the usual rules of sound banking practice. The subsidy
would amount to 30% of the cost of the investment or 1.2 million UM on average for a typical warehouse
with a capacity of 200 tons.
d) Subsidy for pilot diversification operations and new irrigation techniques
18.    Under Phase I, pilot activities are planned under the diversification component: establishment of
collection points and a collective processing plant equipped with refrigeration, creation of pilot units for
vegetable drying and artisanal fruit juice production, marketing and packaging tests for new products,
promotional activities and market prospecting trips. Pilot activities are also planned in connection with
new types of pumps and new irrigation techniques (e.g., drip hoses.)
19.    These activities, which are to be carried out by private operators (individuals or cooperatives)
with the support of the IDPIAM, will be subsidized to varying extents ranging from 25% to 75%,
depending on the type of beneficiary (individual or cooperative) and the level of risk associated with each



-78 -                            ANNEX 2-ST
activity. The subsidy is justified in this case by the innovative nature of the proposed activities, and by
the technical and commercial risk involved (and which makes the project ineligible for bank credit).
Total amount of subsidies planned under Phase I
20.    The total amount of subsidies is estimated as follows:
Subsidy (matching grant) for irrigated schemes  Millions UM
Cooperative schemes                             245
Non-cooperative schemes                         108
Subsides for cooperative warehouses               42
Subsidy for pilot diversification activities     195
Total                                            590
Management of subsidies
21.    Subsidy awards are decided by a Grant Committee consisting of one representative from the
MAED (committee president), the CU/IDPIAM, the DEAR, and the land registry office, one farmers
farmers' representative, and an agricultural economist assigned by MDRE.
C.     Processing of Credit and Subsidy Applications for Irrigated Schemes
22.    Dossiers to be submitted to UNCACEM and the technical committee in charge of subsidies will
include: an administrative file (including administrative documentation confirming that the applicant
meets the general eligibility criteria), a technical file (technical and environmental studies), an economic
and financial file (feasibility study and rate-of-return estimates), and a file containing an assessment of the
applicant's managerial capacities.
23.    The application processing procedure is summarized chronologically as follows (in the event that
the investment in question is eligible for a subsidy):
*  the cooperative (supported, if necessary, by a consulting entity) or non-cooperative farmer
applicant submits a preliminary application to UNCACEM;
*  UNCACEM assesses the client's eligibility (which involves, particularly in the case of
cooperatives, a diagnosis of its organizational capacities) and issues, if applicable, a
preliminary financing agreement and hands the dossier on to the committee;
*  the main contractor for the technical study is chosen by the applicant, from a list of State- and
UNCACEM-approved consulting firms;
*  the Grant Committee examines the dossier and makes a decision on financing the technical
study;
*  the study is approved by an oversight entity (which may be SONADER) jointly mandated by
the Government and UNCACEM;
*  UNCACEM     states its intentions regarding the financing of the project, subject to the
dossier's acceptance by the committee, and hands the dossier on to the committee; and
*  the Grant Committee announces ils decision on the award of the subsidy.
24.    For any irrigated scheme investment r eceiving a matching grant, the obtention of a loan must be
accompanied by a signed development contract between the client, UNCACEM, the agency in charge of



- 79 -                           ANNEX 2-ST
support to the farmer, and the IDPIAM, which clearly states the obligations and commitments of each
party.
25.    Once the loan and subsidy have been obtained, and after payment by the beneficiary of the
personal contribution (if applicable), the firm to be charged with performing the work will be selected on
the basis of competitive bidding (in which only firms jointly approved by the Government and UNACEM
may participate). Works oversight will be handled by the firm acting as main contractor. Performance
monitoring is handled by the monitoring entity.
26.    UNCACEM and the Grant Committee will make payments to firms, each for its respective
portion of project financing. The committee will entrust fiduciary management of subsidy funds to a
local commercial bank.
27.    For investments not eligible for matching grants, UNCACEM alone will process the applications,
in accordance with the procedures outlined above.



- 80-                             ANNEX 2-ST
Summary of Investment Financing Conditions
Cooperatives               Non cooperatives
with less than 40 ha  with over 40 ha
Schemes
Maximum amount of        10 million UM         5 million UM     No
subsidy                  250 000 UM/ha         150 000 UM/ha
Maximum amount of credit 6 million ULM         10 million UM     10 million UM
Rehabilitation
Subsidy                  100% studies and      80% studies and  No
oversight             oversight
50% works             20% works for less
than 5 ha
Personal contribution    10% (in kind)         10% (in cash)    Minimum 30%
(cash or kind)
Credit                   maximum 10% of the    maximum 70% of   Maximum 70% of
investment (other than  the investment  the investment
studies and oversight)
Expansion               ___ _
Subsidy                  100% studies and      no               No
oversight
50% works
Personal contribution    minimum 10% (in kind)
Credit                   maximum 40%           no               No
Creation of non-rice
schemes
Subsidy                  100% studies and      80% studies and  No
oversight             oversight
50% works             20% works
Personal contribution    10%                   10%              Minimum 30%
Credit                   Maximum 40% of the    Maximum 70% of   Maximum 70% of
investment            the investment   the investment
(other than studies and
oversight)                          _
Warehouse construction
Subsidy                  30% of works          No               No
Personal contribution    Minimum 10% (in       Minimum 30%      Minimum 30%
kind)
Credit                   Maximum 60%           Maximum 70%      Maximum 70%



-81-                             ANNEX 2-ST
Financing for irrigated schemes in an intermediate situation (UM)
Cooperative         Non cooperative      Non cooperative
(< 40 ha)           (> 40 ha)
rehabilitation/ Creation  Rehabilitation Creation  Rehabilitation  Creation
extension
Cost/ha                   ____
Study and oversight    40,179   38,123      39,130  38,123       39,130  38,123
Works                  317,787 341,230     310,544  341,230     310,544 341,230
Total                 357,965 379,353      349,675  379,353     349,675 379,353
Subsidy/ha
Of studies and         40,179   38,123      31,304  30,498           0       0
oversight
Of works               158,893  170,615     62,109  68,246           0       0
Total                  199,072 208,738      93,413  98,744           0       0
Personal
contributionAha        35,797   37,935      34,967  37,935      104,902 113,806
Credit/ha              123,097  132,680    221,294  242,673     244,773 265,547



- 82-                                       ANNEX 3
ESTIMATED COSTS OF PHASE I OF THE PROGRAM
Mauritania: Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
COMPONENTS                                                                            COSTS
(US$ '°00)
Local    Foreign   Total
A. DEVELOPMENT OF A POLICY, LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
1. Improvement of the policy and legal framework                                  207      473       679
2. Strengthening of institutional capacities
Support to MDRE                                                                 250      234       484
Support for an agro-pastoral information system                                 651      420      1,072
Support to SONADER                                                              423      133       557
Support to UNCACEM                                                              188      446       633
Subtotal Strengthening of institutional capacities                               1,512    1,233    2,746
Subtotal DEVELOPMENT OF A POLICY, LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK               1,719     1,706    3,425
B. DEVELOPMENT OF BASIC INFRASTRUCTURES
Public Infrastructure (hydraulics, communic./roads)                               284     1,172    1,456
Rehabilitation / extension / creation of private irrigated schemes              4,445     4,093    8,538
Research and Development                                                         1,039     872     1,910
Subtotal DEVELOPMENT OF BASIC INFRASTRUCTURES                                     5,768     6,137   11,905
C. SUPPORT TO FARM MANAGEMENTAND ORGANIZATION
Support for farm management                                                       279      742     1,020
Subtotal SUPPORT TO FARM MANAGEMNT AND ORGANIZATION                                 279      742     1,020
D. SUPPORT TO TRADITIONAL CROPS SUBSECTOR
Support for traditional crops                                                   5,698     4,797   10,495
Subtotal SUPPORT TO TRADITIONAL CROPS SUBSECTOR                                   5,698     4,797   10,495
E. DIVERSIFICATION PROMOTION
Development of Infrastructure                                                    1,457    1,076    2,533
Diversification promotion antenna                                               1,795      765     2,560
Diversification promotion activities                                              716     1,489    2,205
Quality control                                                                    45       55       100
Subtotal DIVERSIFICATION PROMOTION                                                4,014     3,385    7,399
F. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MITIGATION MEASURES
Environmental monitoring/evaluation                                               473      513       987
Land use plans                                                                    506      159       664
Development of norms                                                               22       22        44
Environmental impact mitigation measures                                          428      675     1,102
Subtotal ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MITIGATION MEASURES                                  1,429    1,369    2,797
G. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING & EVALUATION
Project management                                                               1,487    1,219    2,706
Monitoring and Evaluation                                                         443      412       855
Subtotal PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING & EVALUATION                            1,930    1,632    3,561
H. PROJECT PREPARATION                                                                -     1,300    1,300
Total BASE COSTS                                                                  20,835   21,067    41,903
Physical contingencies                                                            594      637     1,231
Price contingencies                                                              1,673    1,218    2,891
TOTAL PROGRAM COSTS (PHASE I)                                                     23,102   22,923    46,025



- 83 -                              ANNEX 4
COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS SUMMARY
Mauritania: Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
1.    The development objective of the IDPIAM  (Integrated Development Program for Irrigated
Agriculture ) is to increase rural value added, income and employment in the Senegal River Valley by
promoting more effective use of this desert country's most valuable assets: the valley's water and arable
land. The IDPIAM will also have indirect effects beyond the Valley by (a) generating employment and
income upstream and downstream of agricultural production (input supply, establishment and
maintenance of infrastructures, repair and maintenance of equipment, processing, transport and marketing
of produce, exports); (b) supplying agricultural produce (both traditional and new) to consumers at
reasonable prices; and (c) improving the country's trade balance through a reduction in agricultural
imports and the development of exports. The creation of employment and income in the Valley will help
slow rural migration towards the cities, where unemployment is causing serious social concerns. The
IDPIAM will, therefore, have a positive impact on poverty alleviation.
2.     Detailed cost-benefit analysis is carried out for income-generating land investments. Although it
is not quantified, the economic justification of the social investments (wells and public health services)
and rural infrastructures (small bridges and culverts) is very strong.
I.     Linkages to CAS and Macro-sectoral Framework
3.     The Government's central objective is to reduce poverty through accelerated, private sector-led
growth. The strategy for attaining this objective consists of: (i) assigning the rural sector a larger role
within the economy; (ii) developing basic infrastructure; (iii) promoting private sector development; (iv)
improving the environment for employment creation and poverty reduction; and (v) restructuring and
modernizing the public sector. The general objective of the CAS is consistent with this strategy and is "to
help Mauritania achieve rapid, sustainable and equitable growth, to create employment and thus reduce,
in absolute terms, the number of Mauritanians living in poverty."
4.    In this strategy, the rural sector is considered a major source of employment creation and income-
generation. With assistance from the Bank and other donors, and with the participation of major
stakeholders, the Government recently developed a Rural Development Strategy (RDS) that received the
support of the donor community (Consultative Group, March 1998). This strategy has four objectives: (i)
promote the growth of a diversified and competitive agriculture; (ii) integrate the livestock sector into the
national economy; (iii) promote employment and alleviate poverty; and (iv) reduce the degradation of
natural resources.
5.     The program proposed for the irrigated sector is an important step towards the implementation of
this RDS. (In the rainfed areas, the Bank is already supporting the Rainfed Natural Resources
Management Project, whose objective is to control and reduce the spiral of poverty in those areas.) The
main element in this strategy is the IDPIAM, which is to be financed by the donor community. The CAS
supports the Government's long-term strategy for the rehabilitation of irrigated agriculture and the
provision of basic rural infrastructures in the Senegal River Valley. The proposed IDPIAM-IDA is part
of this overall program and is thus consistent with CAS objectives.
6.     Macro-economic and sectoral pre-conditions are satisfactory for the program. Since 1985,
macro-economic performance (foreign exchange liberalization and streamlining of the trade regime) has
improved. Initiated in the 1990s, the Government's effort to reorient public resources to the social sector,
education and health services has significantly improved social welfare. A major achievement of this
effort has been a drop in the poverty rate from 57% to 50% between 1990 and 1996. However, while



- 84 -                               ANNEX 4
poverty was decreasing in the urban centers i(28%), it was increasing in the countryside (68%) despite an
impressive rate of growth in the rural sector (4.2%).
7.     The main policy and institutional reforms being prepared or considered to support the program
are the following: (i) a simplified and transparent agricultural tariff policy taking into account the fact that
domestic taxes applied only to imported products increase the overall taxation of imports; (ii) the
elimination of quota arrangements between. paddy marketing and rice imports; (iii) liberalization of
transport services; (iv) continued enforcement of land tenure law, with adequate safeguards and a
monitoring system; (v) a clear incentive structure (including a credit systems, a transparent framework for
investment subsidies, and the implementation of measures regarding savings and loan institutions, in
accordance with recommendations concerning the reform of the banking sector); and  (vi) the
development, within the Ministry of Rural Development and Environment (MDRE) a capacity for
strategic planning, policy analysis, monitoring and evaluation, agricultural statistics and information, and
coordination/cooperation. The progress and success of these reforms will be the triggers from the first to
the second phase of the APL.
8.     The Government is to be commended for its commitment to liberalize the rice and transport
sectors and to continue implementation of land tenure rules and regulations, as is clearly indicated in the
just agreed-upon 1999-2002 policy framework paper (PFP). UNCACEM has also committed itself to an
interest policy in order to achieve operational and financial self-sufficiency by 2001. The Government
has issued a Letter of Development Policy for the irrigated sector (Annex 11) that operationalizes these
measures.
II.    Analysis of Alternatives
9.     The approach chosen is an integrated and participatory rural development program approach.
This approach has the advantage of being holistic, as it takes into consideration all the issues involved. It
has the disadvantage, however, of being difficult to grasp and implement. Because it strives to be
participatory, it cannot present at the outset an elaborate blueprint for work programs and investments,
since the program is supposed to be designed as it is put in place and as the various stakeholders take
things in hand. The approach is therefore flexible and iterative.
10.    Four other alternatives were considered, but then rejected, as they were judged inferior to the
approach ultimately chosen.
11.    The first alternative was another project of the small irrigated scheme, or irrigated village scheme
type, with subsidies for scheme rehabilitation and assistance to producers in the areas of management and
production techniques, with a view to reducing poverty. This formula was rejected since rehabilitation in
itself does not resolve issues related to marketing, competitiveness and long-tenn financing.
12.    The second alternative considered providing short-, medium- and long-term credit lines at market
rates and allowing private initiative to take its course. This would have resulted either in underutilization
of financial resources if the credit institution were to behave with the required prudence, or in bankruptcy
if this institution were to respond to credit requests hastily and without in-depth examination.
13.    The third alternative envisioned was a series of small sub-sectoral projects, each dealing with one
aspect of the problem. One advantage of this formula would have been simpler projects to manage. The
drawbacks would have been: the problem and the expense of coordination among numerous projects; the
waste of human resources for the preparation and management of several projects; and the absence of any
guarantee than all projects would receive support and be implemented at the required time. Experience



-85 -                                ANNEX 4
has shown that coordination among projects is one of the biggest difficulties, especially when they are
financed by different donors.
14.    The fourth alternative was a hybrid sector adjustment/investment operation such as the preceding
AGSECAL. The disadvantage of this approach is that the adjustment measures are not sufficiently linked
to the investment operation itself, and that these measures are often taken to satisfy the requirement of
rapid disbursement rather than as proof of true government commitment to the proposed reforms. In
addition, rapidly disbursed funds under sectoral adjustment orations do not necessarily benefit the sector
for which they are theoretically intended.
Rationale for the APL option
15.   Before embarking upon an ambitious and costly long-term investment program, Mauritania must:
(i) strengthen and maintain an enabling policy environment in the areas of tariffs, transportation services,
land tenure and rural finance; (ii) demonstrate the success of new technologies and new crops; (iii)
develop the base for economically sustainable crop production; (iv) bring farmers up to a satisfactory
level of technological know-how and organization; (v) scout markets to identify commercial niches; and
(vi) launch feasibility studies for future major infrastructure works that will require users to contribute to
cost recovery. These demands justify the phased approach that an APL offers. Also, the investrnents that
the Government and private sector must make are long-term investments that require long-term
commitment on the part of all partners, including donors. These investments are also part of the overall
IDPIAM which spans a period of ten years and involves several donors. This overall program is part of
the Government's Rural Development Strategy which has been approved by the donor community.
Finally problems of poverty alleviation do not have short-term solutions.
16.   The proposed long-term APL program:   (i) is linked to long-term (6-10 year) activities
(infrastructures); (ii) provides financing for a long-term development strategy (11 years), starting with an
initial set of activities and using triggers and agreed-upon objectives; (iii) is made up of discrete, divisible
and progressive investments with physical objectives for rehabilitation over a long time period; (iv) is
characterized by a logical sequencing of interventions and a scheduling of activities determined by
triggers and policy requirements ; and (v) is based on a programming and cost-benefit rationale that can
be verified using generally recognized economic parameters, such as improved yields, greater cropping
intensity and diversification.
III.   Rationale for social investments and construction of small bridges/culverts
Wells and primary health interventions
17.   The provision of wells, and the primary health activities to be undertaken under the Health Sector
investment Project (see Annex 2-F), will help reduce the incidence of waterbome illness and the drudgery
of the women's watercarrying chore. These activities are highly cost-effective, costing less than US$ 100
per Disability-Adjusted Life-Year (DALY) saved (ref.erence Health Sector Investment Project in
Mauritania and Better Health in Africa). Lessons learned from BHA show that such services, beyond
their very high efficiency, have also reduced hospital admissions in certain African communities by
almost 50%. The services thus created affect a wide segment of the population in the program area.
Small bridges/culverts on access roads
18.   Phase I of the program will finance small bridges and culverts in the Gani Dar El Barka area, as
well as the studies needed for the construction of the roads themselves, which is planned under Phase I1.
This area between Rosso and Boghe has great promise but cannot fully exploit its potential because of its



- 86 -                                   ANNEX 4
inaccessibility. The need for access roads is generally acknowledged, especially by the rural population.
However, even though the public usefulness of these rural roads is not at issue, their maintenance can
present problems unless the respective roles of local populations and public services are clearly defined.
Studies proposed under Phase I will determnine more precisely the feasibility of building these roads and
will clarify the population's role in, and contribution to, their maintenance. In the meantime, to avoid
continually penalizing the area's population, the program will finance the most urgently needed items,
namely, small bridges and culverts to partially reduce their isolation.
IV.    Cost-benefit Analysis
Introduction
19.    Cost-benefit analysis was carried out for the infrastructure component involving irrigated
schemes under Phase I of this APL program (Table 1). Only real/direct measurable benefits were taken
into account, but there are other indirect benefits that will help improve the program's economic return.
(For example, support to producers will improve production and incomes, not only on irrigated schemes
financed under the program, but on other schemes as well. Improvement in the policy environment and
institutional capacities will benefit all producers in the Valley.) Since investments are to be demand-
driven, the type, size and siting of the schemes are not known beforehand. The analysis is therefore
illustrative; it will be taken up again during program implementation, as requests come in, in order to
ensure that the program   only finances financially and economically viable activities.  Although
illustrative, the analysis conforms as closely as possible to real conditions as it considers 13 production
systems (out of a possible 36) based on the following stratification: type of intervention (rehabilitation,
rehabilitation + extension, new creation), type of production system (rice only, rice + vegetables + wood,
vegetables only ), type of producers (collective, individual), and region (Trarza, Haut Fleuve). In the case
of the rice + vegetables + wood production system, each crop is cultivated on a separate plot but they all
use a common irrigation system. The average farm size is 40 ha for rehabilitation, as well as for
rehabilitation + extension, and 5 ha for new scheme creations. A total of 3,100 ha is anticipated during
Phase I.
Table 1: Present value of flows at 12% for the 3,100 ha under Phase I
[For activities with benefits measured in monetary terms]
(I $US = 205 UM/[, US$ million, base year: 1999)
UM$ Millions                     US$ Million
Economic         Financial      Economic         Financial
analysis        analysis         analysis        analysis
Benefits
Incremental operating           2.376           3.096            11.6            15.1
income
Costs
Incremental investment         -1.061           -1.261           -5.2            -6.2
costs
Net benefits
Incremental net benefits        1.315           1.835            6.4             9.0
IRR                            28.4%            28.5%            28.4%          28.5%
Note: The difference between economic and financial values of operating revenues represents the producer subsidy equivalent (PSE), which
arises from tariff protection. For net benefits, the difference represents the effective producer subsidy equivalent, which accounts for taxes on
inputs and equipment.



- 87-                               ANNEX 4
Economic analysis: Summary of costs and benefits
20.    The economic rate of return (ERR) for the typical farm models ranges from 17% (model: rice-
only, individual farmer in Trarza) to over 200% (model: vegetables, cooperative farmers in Trarza) with,
in between, a rate of 38% (model: rice + vegetables + windbreaks, cooperative producers in Haut Fleuve).
Natural protection of the Haut Fleuve (distant from Nouakchott, the point of entry for imported rice) and
the use of family labor on collective schemes increase the return on the rice-only model for collective
farmers in that region (ERR = 19%). The crop diversification model (rice + vegetables + windbreaks)
seems to offer the best large-scale prospects (see Table 2). Based on the anticipated distribution of the
selected models and the schedule for rehabilitation works on the 3,100 ha over the first three years of
Phase I (which we obviously cannot predict - Table 3), the overall ERR is 28.4%.
Key assumptions
21.    The key economic (and financial) assumption is that under the "with project" situation,
production and agricultural income (from rice and diversification crops for the local market) will increase
relative to what would happen "without the project." This increase comes from improved design and
implementation of irrigated schemes which translates - through better water management - into increased
yields, especially for rice (5 tons/ha in Years 2 through 5, and 6 tons/ha thereafter) and greater cropping
intensity (1.2 and 1.5, during the same period). Without the project, rice irrigated schemes that are
candidates for rehabilitation would see their yields decrease gradually from 3 tons/ha until the
abandonment of the scheme in Year 7.
22.    The assumption of paddy yields of 5 and 6 tons/ha is reasonable given that current yields of 8 to 9
tons/ha are already observed in the Valley next to much lower yields. Cropping intensities of 1.2 and 1.5
are also observed in Mauritania and are possible with improved water availability and timely cropping
practices (short cycle seed, plowing and weeding). One notes that under similar ecological conditions, yet
without the support of a holistic program such as IDPIAM, the Senegalese producers' association in the
Delta achieves an average yield of 5.5 tons per ha and a cropping intensity of 1.3. The best producers in
Senegal steadily produce yields of 10 tons per ha. The causes of lower rice yields in Mauritania are well
known (Annexes 2-B, 2-C, 2-D, and 2-F). In the absence of adequate drainage, salinity can lower paddy
yields by 1 ton/ha (Annex 2-B). Thus, better designed and executed irrigated schemes that reduce salinity
can be expected to boost paddy yields. Also, the program will study and develop ways for improving
existing pumping systems and introducing new equipment in order to reduce pumping costs for irrigated
rice in the Delta by at least 20 %. Furthermore, the programn has specifically designed component
"Support to Traditional Crops" (Annex 2-D) to include a comprehensive package of interventions aimed
at improving rice productivity. This component will finance: support to the production of quality seed
varieties (IR and Sahel) by CNARADA, with assistance from WARDA and CIRAD; training of extension
agents with assistance from WARDA; support to farmers' organizations to help them plan for timely
acquisition of fertilizer; identification of the best producers and their cropping methods, and then farmer-
to-farmer visits, including to Senegal, so that others can benefit from their know-how.
23.    The assumption for the <<without project situation>> of decrease in yields leading up to
abandonment of irrigated schemes draws from empirical observation in Mauritania. At present, 50% of
the established irrigated schemes in Mauritania have been abandoned. It should be noted that the
IDPIAM does not involve large, well designed and relatively well maintained public schemes, but instead
small village schemes (over 15-20 years old) and individual schemes (more than 5 - 10 years old). These
were designed with an expectation that rehabilitation would occur every 2-3 years, but this has not
happened even since they went into production. Also some of producers' organizations in village
irrigated schemes have gotten so structurally and organizationally weak that they have ceased all
production activities. It is therefore crucial to strengthen producers' organizations if agricultural



- 88 -                                ANNEX 4
production is to be re-launched in the Valley under the IDPIAM (Annex 2-C). As early as 1994,
SONADER diagnosed that rehabilitation was crucial for the great majority of these village and individual
irrigated schemes that were still in production. It is this awareness of the poor utilization of irrigation
potential and the abandonment of schemes that has prompted Mauritania and its development partners to
make the rehabilitation of existing schemes a first priority.
24.    Diversification crops for the local market (vegetables, wood from windbreaks), along with the
income that producers derive from them, will increase because producers will have greater access to
credit and agricultural services which, up to now, have been reserved exclusively for rice cropping. One
of the distinguishing features of the IDPIAM will be that it eliminates the distortions favoring rice,
especially were credit is concerned, so that producers have more incentive to produce other, more
profitable crops.
25.    The parity price for rice rests on an assumed constant price of US$ 250/ton in cost + freight (US$
200 F.O.B. Bangkok). Because of the liberalization of the rice sector and its accompanying measures
(Annex 2-A), the quality of local rice improves and its discount vis-a-vis imported rice is reduced to only
10% from the 20% noted up to now. Milling rate likewise increases from 62% to 65% (as in neighboring
Senegal). One could also have hypothesized product differentiation in local rice (long grain "Caroline"
rice, medium grain and broken rice), as is contemplated by rice processors, whereby a high premium
placed upon the high-quality and preferred "Caroline" results in higher average paddy prices. Production
costs include operation and maintenance (O&M) costs only on the irrigated schemes. The current
distribution of producers who could benefit from the program under Phase I indicates that Phase I will
only support producers using their own water distribution systems - drawing water either directly from
the river or from one of its tributaries. In other words, these producers do not depend on a public
distribution and drainage infrastructure for which they would have to pay their O&M charges.
V.     Sensitivity analysis/Switching values of critical items
26.    The sensitivity analysis is based on estimated switching values, or changes in the values of key
factors that reduce the ERR to 12%. (The rate of 12%, which is taken to be the long-term opportunity
cost of capital in Mauritania, should be considered at the "high end" for a poor and heavily indebted
country like Mauritania). Results indicate that the risk of non-realization of the program's economic
benefits could come from decreased paddy yields, lower paddy prices, or an appreciation of the Ouguiya
(Table 2). These risks are highest for individual rice-only farmers in Trarza: switching values are -9% for
paddy yields and -12% for paddy prices.' For the models as a whole, economic benefits are less sensitive
to an increase in the cost of investments that would occur at the beginning of the 20-year lifespan of the
scheme. The sensitivity analysis also shows that the benefits of diversified cropping systems, and
especially of vegetables-only systems, are less sensitive to a drop in the price of one of those crops. (Note
here that " > -50%" in Table 2 means that the decrease is greater than 50%).
27.    To mitigate the risk of a drop in paddy yields, the program will require better design of schemes
and will support greater access to credit and better agricultural services, including farmer-to-farmer visits
and other elements of the comprehensive package of interventions aimed at improving rice productivity
(paragraph 22). Since rice cropping is not dependent on Mauritania's uncertain rainfall, the risk of
decreasing yields is mainly attributable to those three elements.
'Note that individuals in Trarza would achieve the same economic return with an 11% increase in the price of
paddy (due to differentiation and the improved quality of local rice), coupled with yields of 6 tons and a cropping
intensity of 1.3 (at full development). This productivity is barely superior to that of the average producer on a self-
managed schemes in Senegal (paragraph 22). In other words, the switching value of -9% would be equivalent to the
average performance achieved on average in these schemes, a yield of 5.5 tons and a cropping intensity of 1.3.



-89 -                               ANNEX 4
28.    World prices for rice have recently risen because of unfavorable climatic conditions (such as El
Nino) and the financial crisis in Asia. World Bank projections for Thai 5% rice (the only type monitored
by the Bank for this purpose) are for a price of US$ 267/ton in 2010. This would translate into a price of
US$ 231/ton for Thai Al super (a discount of 20%) and US$ 240/ton for Al super fragrant (a discount of
10%), which is the most popular kind in Mauritania. These levels remain above the base price of the
cost-benefit analysis (US$200 F.O.B.). However, the world price of rice may undergo significant
fluctuations. The program cannot control these fluctuations, but it will help buffer their impact on
farmers' incomes by encouraging them to diversify and reduce their dependence on rice. The program
will also develop an information system to keep farmers better informed of market conditions.
29.    Regarding foreign exchange risks, Mauritania, the IMF and the Bank have embarked upon a
program to stabilize exchange rates, among other economic aggregates.



Table 2:
Cost-Benefit Summary and Risk Analysis Using a Farm Model (Preliminary results)
Trarza: cooperatives      Haut Fleuve: Cooperatives  Trarza: Individuals  Haut Fleuve: Individuals
Rice    Vegetables Diversification  Rice  Diversification  Rice  Diversification  Rice  Diversification
IRR: Financial
Rehabilitation  20%                  37%         21%         36%       19%       29%        20%        29%
Rehabilitation + extension  20%                 37%        21%         36%                       .
New creation           > 100%
IRR: Economic
Rehabilitation  20%                  38%         21%        37%         17       28%        19%        28%
Rehabilitation + extension  21%                 39%        22%         38%
New creation           > 200%
Switching values (financial)
Declining prices
Rehabilitation  -15%                > -50%       -19%      > -50%     -15%      > -50%     -18%       . 50/
Rehabilitation + extension  -14%              > -50%       -17%      > -50%
New creation            -50%
Declining yields
Rehabilitation  -12%                             -14%                 -11%                 -14%
Rehabilitation + extension  -12%                           -14%
Increased investment costs
(land)
Rehabilitation  45%                 > 100%     > 100%      > 100%     > 50%     > 50%      > 50%      > 50%
Rehabilitation + extension  45%               > 100%      > 100%     > 100%          .
New creation           > 1000%
Appreciation offoreign
exchange
Rehabilitation  22%               not sensible   35%     not sensible  22%    not sensible  33%    not sensible
Rehabilitation + extension  22%                            33%      not sensible



________ __  Trarza: cooperatives   Haut Fleuve: Cooperatives  Trarza: Individuals  Haut Fleuve: Individuals
Rice    Vegetables  Diversification  Rice  Diversification  Rice  Diversification  Rice  Diversification
Switching values (economic)
Declining prices
Rehabilitation  -20%         _      > -50.0%      -24%      > -50%      -12%      > -50%      -16%      > -50%
Rehabilitation + extension  -23%               > -50.0%     -26%       > -50%                          ___
New creation            > -50%
Declining yields                                                                                                  ._  . . .
Rehabilitation  -14%                              -17%                  -9%                   -12%
Rehabilitation + extension  -18%    __._._                  -20%     _
Increased investment costs
(land)
Rehabilitation  > 50%                > 100%      > 50%      > 100%      33%       > 100%      45%       > 100%
Rehabilitation + extension  > 50%              > 100%       > 50%      > 100%
New creation           > 1000%
Appreciation offoreign
exchange
Rehabilitation  37%                not sensible  > 50%     not sensible  15%    not sensible  20%     not sensible
Rehabilitation + extension  43%               not sensible  > 50%    not sensible                      .



-92 -                               ANNEX 4
Table 3:
Illustrative distribution of irrigated schemes (ha)
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Total
Trarza
Collective
Rehabilitation only
Rice only                             15         25          35         75
Rice + vegetables                     15         25          35         75
Rehabilitation extension
Rice only                             35         50          90        175
Rice + vegetables                     35         50          90         175
Creation
Vegetables only                       20         40          40         100
Individual with < 40 ha           _
Rehabilitation only
Rice only                            100        125         225        450
Rice + vegetables                    100        125         225        450
Individual with > 40 ha
Rehabilitation only
Rice only                            300        300         400       1,000
Total Trarza              620         740       1,140      2,500
Haut Fleuve
Collective
Rehabilitation only
Rice only                             10 1_5                 25 __0
Rice + vegetables                     10 1_5 _25                        50
Rehabilitation extension
Rice only                             35         50          90         175
Rice + vegetables                     35         50          90         175
Individual
Rehabilitation only
Rice only                             15         25          35         75
Rice + vegetables                     15         25          35         75
Total Haut Fleuve            120        180         300        600
GRAND TOTAL                 740         920       1,440      3,100



-93 -                                ANNEX 5
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS - PROJECT LEVEL
Mauritania: Irrigated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
I.    The financial rate of return (FRR) for representative farm models ranges from 19% (model: rice-
only, individual farmers in Trarza) to over 100% (model: vegetables, collective farmers in Trarza) with, in
between, a rate of 37% (model: rice + vegetables + windbreaks, collective farmers in HautFleuve). For
the vegetable model, it should be noted that the FRR is lower than the ERR because, while there is little
distortion in vegetable growing, the economic cost of rehabilitation is lower than its financial value. As
with the economic analysis, crop diversification is the best large-scale prospect. Overall, the program's
net financial benefits are substantial for the 3,100 ha to be developed under Phase I, as illustrated by the
net present value (NPV) and FRR (28.5%).
Key Assumptions
2.     The key assumption of the financial analysis (aside from improved paddy yields and the parity
price for paddy) is a customs tariff of 23%, taken as the long-term overall tax on imported rice. Overall
taxation is currently 45%, but it includes, aside from import taxes of 23% (droit fiscal al 'importation -
DFI-and statistical tax-TST), internal taxes that are applied only to imported rice. The value-added tax
(VAT) is 14% and a so-called impot minimum forfaitaire (IMF) 4%. Mauritania is committed to
simplifying and reducing its tariffs and to bringing them into line with those of other countries in the
region. For 1999, a ceiling of 23% has been set for import taxes (DFI +TST). Also, the Government will
carry out a study in view of simplifying the VAT regime and applying the same rate on imported and
local rice. However, since neighboring countries (WAEMU, for example) do not apply internal taxes
(VAT or IMF) to basic staples such as rice, it is expected that Mauritania will eventually follow suit.
3.    It should be noted also that producers will only assume the costs of operation and maintenance
(O&M) on their own infrastructures (see section on cost recovery below).
Sensitivity analysis/Switching values of critical items
(Table 2 of Annex 4)
4.     Financial benefits are subject, with a few variations, to the same risks affecting economic
benefits: risk of declining paddy yields (switching value: -11% for rice-only individual farmers in
Trarza), declining paddy prices (switching value: - 12% in Trarza), and appreciation in foreign exchange
(switching value: 15%). They are also relatively insensitive to increases in the establishment cost of
irrigated schemes. The impact of a cost overrun on an irrigated scheme is small when it is assessed over
the project's 20-year lifespan. However, its short-term effect is harmful since it affects producers' ability
to repay their debts (over an 8-year period).
5.     Regarding financial benefits, declining paddy prices could result from a decline in world prices or
from a general tariff reduction. It should be noted, however, that the impact of overall taxation on prices
is muted in part by high local distribution costs, which are mostly fixed. Thus, all other things being
equal, a change in overall taxation, for example, from 23% to 15% (i.e. a 35% drop) would lead to a
change in the parity price from 31.5 UM/kg to 29.4 UM/kg (i.e. a drop of 7%). It should also be kept in
mind that the 23% tax rate is the long-term assumption. With regard to exchange rates, a depreciation
makes imported rice more expensive (the increase in input cost is relatively less important). It is therefore
an increase in exchange rates (making imported rice cheaper) that would entail a risk of lowered financial
benefits from rice production.



- 94 -                              ANNEX 5
6.     The sensitivity analysis also shows the crucial importance of increased paddy yields in relation to
the "without project" scenario. Risk mitigation measures identified in connection with the economic
analysis will have a similar impact on financial benefits. It should also be noted that the financial analysis
considers the total cost of the investment before financing. It therefore does not include investment
subsidies. For collective producers and individuals with less than 40 ha who are receiving the subsidy,
that subsidy will reduce their cash flow problems and therefore the risks identified by the sensitivity
analysis.
Investment subsidy
7.     The program  provides targeted investment subsidies (matching grants) on poverty and
environmental grounds (see Annexes 2-A and 2-TS). Without subsidy, the poorest farmers (especially
collective farmers with less than 2 ha and who consume a portion of their own production) would have
difficulty repaying an investment loan whose duration is much shorter (8 years) than the lifespan of the
investment (20 years). Among individuals with less than 40 ha, one finds young managers and
newcomers to agriculture who also lack the capital to obtain credit without a matching grant. Subsidies
targeted specifically to investments and to defined groups are the most efficient way of bringing about
sustained poverty alleviation. An alternative to the targeted subsidies would be a non-targeted monetary
subsidy for collectives and small individuals, granted in the hope that they would use the funds for
productive and sustainable investment in agricultural production, marketing and processing. However,
with non-targeted subsidies of this type - which would also have to be dispensed in a single lump sum or
in scheduled payouts - there is no effective way to control and monitor: (i) that beneficiaries are eligible
and (ii) that the funds are used for their intended purpose. As far as income-generation by producers is
concerned, other alternatives would present only short-terrn solutions that would keep producers in a
situation of aid dependency. The targeted subsidy, as illustrated by the sensitivity analysis above, helps
reduce the program's risks for the poorest farmers.
8.     The purpose of the subsidy is also to encourage individual farmers with less than 40 ha and
collective farmers to build efficient irrigated schemes, including drainage systems, in order to reduce land
degradation. In the past, individual and collective farmers who set up irrigated schemes paid scant
attention to environmental problems (salinity, waterlogging) and therefore failed to internalize their costs.
9.     The subsidy covers two elements: study of the dossier and supervision of works by the
consulting firm (100% for collective farmers and 80% for individuals with less than 40 ha) and the cost of
the works themselves (50% on average for collective farmers and 25% for private individuals with less
than 40 ha), which is adequate as a guarantee for agricultural loans. For individuals with more than 40 ha,
access to a line of credit is deemed necessary to encourage them to carry out schemes in accordance with
the technical and environmental standards set up by the Government. The impact of the investment
subsidy is discussed in the section on fiscal impact.
Cost recovery and O&M
10.    Water users in Mauritania depend on a water delivery system either built by the Government or
by themselves. Producers in the first group, such as those on the large irrigated perimeters, also depend
on publicly-financed drainage network. Most producers in the second group, on the other hand, use
natural water courses for drainage. (Others would need better drainage systems such as the one proposed
in Phase II of the program.)
11.   Under Phase I of the program, potential beneficiaries will come from the second group, i.e., the
group that does not depend directly upon public irrigation and drainage infrastructures. These producers
will not be subject to additional charges for recovery of O&M costs of publicly-built schemes and



- 95 -                              ANNEX 5
irrigation systems. (The question remains that irrigation water is still inadequately charged to users. In
its Letter of Development Policy, the Government promises to address the issue of water management and
charges, which is linked to the issue of land taxes.) Producers will, however, be required to ensure the
proper O&M of the irrigation structures on their irrigated schemes. Estimated farm budgets cover all such
O&M costs (irrigation infrastructures and equipment), and will be specifically indicated in each farmer's
investment credit application.
12.    Phase II of the program includes the financing of basic infrastructures, including drainage. Cost
recovery for the O&M of these infrastructures will comply with Government policy in this area. Current
Government policy is to transfer responsibility for O&M of public irrigated infrastructures to users'
associations or cooperatives. For many small collective farms, this transfer occurred much too quickly
and resulted in O&M problems on the irrigated schemes. For large public schemes deemed too complex
to be immediately handed over to users, SONADER handles O&M on behalf of farmers, but the amount
and rate of cost recovery are unsatisfactory. These problems will be addressed under Phase I, and two
main triggers will need to be met before basic infrastructure investment can occur under Phase II. The
first condition will be that procedures for collecting and managing 0 & M fees for publicly-financed
schemes must have been developed during Phase I. The other condition will be that Government must
thoroughly review the regulatory framework of water user associations, with a view to granting them a
status for purposes of collecting and managing O&M fees for basic irrigation infrastructure. These
measures are incorporated into the Government's Letter of Development Policy.
Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities (UNCACEM)
13.    The factors underlying UNCACEM's heavy losses in the past years have been partly internal as
well as external to UNCACEM. In its early years of operation, IJNCACEM experienced higher levels of
loan delinquencies due to factors which can be traced to: (i) Government mandated programs for rice
production, and (ii) assumption of a loan portfolio (with substantial arrearages and delinquencies) from a
predecessor Government-agency. In this sense, UNCACEM as a private-sector institution was subjected
to public sector intervention. The need to make provisions for possible loan losses has contributed
substantially to UNCACEM's unfavorable results of operation. In addition, a requirement to make
supplemental provisions in conformity with prudential guidelines will adversely affect its financial
position and structure. The sensible approach has been for Government and UNCACEM to resolve in
1999 the delinquent portion of its portfolio (which has been identified) once and for all (balance sheet
items), so that UNCACEM may be allowed to normalize its provisioning activities (income statement
items).
14.    The evaluation of UNCACEM, conducted during the preparation phase in compliance with the
requirements of OP 8.30, showed in particular a remarkable improvement inUNCACEM's loan recovery
performance since 1997, and the need for a substantial increase in interest rates (now well below market
rates) in order to achieve operational and financial self-sufficiency.
15.    Taking into consideration the incremental activity generated by the program, and assuming
substantial yet acceptable increases in interest rates, the financial projections for UNCACEM indicate that
it can achieve operational and financial self-sufficiency in year 2001.



-96 -                                      ANNEX 5
Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities
Years Ending 1996 through 2001
(in millions of current UM)
199        997   |  1998      1999 T   2000      2001     Average annual
I                 ~~~~~~growth'
Actual                       Forecast             2001    2001
Income statement items
Operating income                  128        98       107       108       183      254      15%    53%
Operating expenditures            101       101       101       111       114       123      4%     5%
Cost of funds                           =__        _             18       46        64             89%
Provision for bad loans'           78   =   107        38         5         9        13    -30%    53%
Net profit                        -51      -110       -32       -26        14        54
Balance sheet items
Portfolio                         948      1009      1376      1369      1871     2441     21%     34%
Fixed assets                       37        34        54        60       70        78      16%     14%
Miscellaneous assets              337       600       100      500       500       600      12%    10%
Total assets                    1322       1643      1530     1929      2441      3119     19%     27%
Equity'                          1041      1291      1310      1311      1351     1401       6%     3%
(of which capital)               (88)     (104)     (130)     (130)     (170)     (220)   (20%)   (30%)
Liabilities (IDA funds)                                         586     1023      1671             69%
Short term and misc. liabilities  281       352       220        32       67        47     -30%    21%
Total liabilities               1322       1643      1530     1929      2441      3119     19%     27%
Ratios                                   =   =
Operational self sufficiency4    72%       47%       77%       93%      149%      187%  1
Financial self sufficiency'      66%       44%       67%       70%       93%      108%
Notes:
l Excel "rate" formula.
2Equity includes past govermnent's advances.
3Forecast of provision for loan losses is 5% of revenues.
4Operational self-sufficiency is defined as a volume of banking revenues at least equal to operating costs, plus a provision for
loan losses.
5 Financial self-sufficiency is defined as a volume of banking revenues adequate to cover operating cost, the provision for loan
losses, the actual cost of resources, and return to capital at market rates (estimated average of 16%).



-97 -                                ANNEX 5
Key Assumptions
16.    The underlying main assumptions are that UNCACEM (i) will reduce the high provisions for bad
debts on mature loans insufficiently provisioned during the first years of UNCACEM's existence (the
auditors' report recommends an additional provision on bad debt, which should be made prior to project
implementation); (ii) will reduce its relatively high operating costs, as compared to a reduced level of
activity; and (iii) will revise its interest rate policy in order to reach financial self-sufficiency during
Project Year 2 at the latest. This latter measure is a condition for implementation.
17.   The combination of: (i) resolution and rationalization of the delinquent loan portfolio, (ii) the
consequent normnalizing of its provisioning for loan losses, and (iii) adjustment in loan pricing (interest
rates) geared to attain operating (and subsequently, financial) self sufficiency will place UNCACEM on a
path towards self-sustainability. As no private commercial banks have thus far indicated interest in
participating as financial institutions for the Project's credit facilities, it is important that UNCACEM be
appropriately positioned to demonstrate the viability of lending to the rural sector, and the manageability
of risks involved, in order to attract the interest of the private commercial banks in the Pioject's
subsequent Phases.
18.    UNCACEM will continue to evaluate and assess the credit risks in the projects submitted to it for
financing under the Project. The Project's design adequately provides for appropriate institutional
capacity building and strengthening, especially of related project implementation agencies and
UNCACEM. Key government agencies involved in the Project, such as MDRE and SONADER will play
indispensable roles especially in identifying the eligibility of applicants for the investment subsidy
schemes envisioned, facilitating the use of qualified consultants to carry out the feasibility studies
providing the counterpart matching grants as subsidy payments. However, responsibility for credit risk
assessment and exposure will still rest with UNCACEM.
Fiscal Impact on Government finances
19.    A cash flow analysis of Government's inflows/outflows related to the program has been
conducted. The program's fiscal impact on Government finances will be positive. The net present value
of the investment subsidy will be almost entirely covered by taxes on inputs and agricultural equipment.
The net present value of beneficiaries' contributions will also be greater than that of the investment
subsidy. This is partially due to the fact that individuals having more than 40 ha have a beneficiary
contribution (and pay taxes on inputs and equipment), while having no access to the subsidy.
20.   Inflows. Inflows will include IDA disbursements, the reimbursement of UNCACEM's line of
credit, taxes on inputs and equipment, and Government savings resulting from an end to paddy marketing
subsidies. The UNCACEM line of credit (for rehabilitation, agricultural equipment, additional seasonal
credit) will be entirely recovered, with 6% interest (Annex 2-ST). The rate of interest on this credit line
will cover the service charge on IDA funds (0.75%), the foreign exchange risk and the Government's
administrative costs associated with managing the IDA funds. For other fiscal inflows, Mauritania will
rely essentially on import taxes, since its tax administration has limited capacity to recover income taxes.
The elimination of the paddy marketing subsidy will improve Government's financial situation. The
program will give Mauritania a chance to transform costly and inefficient subsidies into needed support
for better irrigated schemes and agricultural services.



-98 -                                ANNEX 5
Fiscal impact on Government finances
Net present value at 12%
Cash flow items                   UM millions  US$ millions
Budgetary inflows
IDA disbursements                                    6,276         30.6
Government contribution                               603           2.9
Reimbursement of UNCACEM                             1,063          5.2
Taxes on inputs and production investments            347           1.7
Marketing subsidies saved                            2,398         11.7
Total budgetary inflows                             10,688         52.1
Budgetary outflows
Project financing (IDA + Government)                 6,880         33.6
Recurrent costs (over 5 years)                        298           1.5
Loss of tax revenue on substituted rice imports       619           3.0
Reimbursement IDA                                     910           4.4
Total budgetary outflows                             8,706         42.5
Net fiscal cash flow                                    1,981          9.7
Amount of investment subsidy
Matching grants                                       385           1.9
Beneficiary contributions (Phase I)                   586           2.9
Recovery of matching grants through taxes on inputs   0.90         0.90
21.    Outflows. IDA funds and the Government contribution will finance: (i) the line of credit to
UNCACEM; (ii) the investment subsidy; (iii) other matching grants to help finance the construction of
small storage units for poor collective farmers and the pilot diversification operation; (iv) agricultural
extension and research; and (v) roads and social infrastructures. The Government will also assume the
additional recurrent costs of program management and services to farmers, to be phased out over five
years after the end of Phase I. (These recun-ent costs are estimated net of taxes.) Since additional local
rice production substitutes for rice that would otherwise be imported, the Govermnent will forego taxes
that it would have collected on the equivalent volume of imported rice. However, this "loss" corresponds
to a gain on the part of producers who have increased local production.
22.    Budgetary outflows will also include reimbursement of the IDA credit over 40 years, according to
the following schedule: 10 year grace period; repayment of 2% of the capital over the 10 years following
the grace period, reimbursement of 4% of the capital over the following 20 years. The service charge is
0.75% on the amount of disbursed, and not repaid, IDA funds.



-99 -                               ANNEX 6
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Mauritania: Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
A.     Procurement
1.    The program elements, their estimated costs, and the procurement arrangements are summarized
in Table A.
2.     All IDA financed civil works, equipment and materials will be procured in compliance with
IDA Guidelines for procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published by the World Bank in
January 1995 and revised January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999. Procurement of
consultant services and technical assistance will follow the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, published by the World Bank in January 1997 and
revised in September 1997 and January 1999. IDA's standard bidding documents for civil works and
goods, and standard request for proposals (see "Selection of Consultants", dated July 1997 and revised in
April 1998) will be used for all procurement under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and for the
selection of consultants. IDA's Standard Bidding Documents for works and goods, and Standard Bidding
Invitations ("Selection of Consultants", dated July 1997 and revised in April 1998) will be used for all
contracts under ICB and for the selection of consultants.
3.     Civil Works. Procurement arrangements for civil works for public infrastructure, irrigation
infrastructure, rural roads, market infrastructures, water and sanitation (totaling US$ 0.280 million) will
be entirely based on National Competitive Bidding (NCB), because civil works contracts will not exceed
US$ 200,000 per contract and are unlikely to attract foreign contractors. ICB is therefore not foreseen
for this program, although in the event that any civil works package exceeded US$ 200,000, ICB
procedures would be applied. Contracts for small rural road maintenance works and spot improvement
estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 1.925 million, will
be procured under lump-sum, fixed-priced contracts on the basis of quotations obtained from three
qualified domestic contractors invited to bid. The award will be made to the contractor offering the
lowest price quotation for the required work, provided he demonstrates the experience and resources to
complete the contract satisfactorily. Civil works contracts for public investments already made by the
Government as main contractor (maitre d'ouvrage) will be administered by a Govermnent agency, the
Societt Nationale de Developpement Rural (SONADER).
4.     Contracts for Goods. Equipment, materials, vehicles, motorcycles, computers, and furniture
will be grouped to the extent possible in lots of at least US$ 100,000. Those exceeding US$ 100,000 will
be awarded on the basis of ICB, using World Bank standard bidding documents for procurement of goods
(published in January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, and September 1997). Contracts for
office equipment, vehicles and materials locally available which cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent,
but more than US$ 30,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 0.210 million, will be procured
through NCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Small quantities of goods such as office supplies,
consumable materials and spare parts, which are normally available off the shelf at competitive prices and
which cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$ 30,000, will be procured through prudent national
shopping principles, based on price quotes obtained from three qualified suppliers, provided that the
aggregate amount does not exceed US$ 0.406 million over the entire duration of this phase of the
program. As the case may be, contracts for goods up to an amount not exceeding US$ 100,000 per
contract up to an aggregate amount of US$ 0.425 million may be procured by UN agencies (UNIPAC or
IAPSO).



-100-                                ANNEX 6
5.     Consultant Services. Consultant services financed by IDA will normally be selected through
competition among short-listed firms for which the selection will be based on quality and cost, by
evaluating the quality of the proposal before combining quality and cost evaluation for all bidders
obtaining the minimum qualifying marks for their technical proposals. For audits of a standard nature, the
least cost method will be most appropriate, and the firm with the lowest price will be selected, provided
that its technical proposal received the minimum qualifying marks. Services for small studies and
seminars which can be delivered by individual consultants will be selected through comparisons of
qualifications among those expressing interest in the assignment or through direct approach, on the basis
of work programs and terms of reference, whenever possible from a short-list of individual consultants.
Training and advisory services estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 will be procured through selection
based on the consultants' qualifications. Local support services, such as technical assistance and farmers'
training, may be procured through single source selection, provided that the consultant and/or NGO has
demonstrated experience and comparative advantage to carry out the tasks.
6.     Short lists for contracts not exceeding US$ 100,000 may be comprised entirely of national
consultants if a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are available to compete. However, if
foreign firms express interest in these contracts, they will not be excluded from consideration. Simplified
contracts will be used for short-term assignments (not exceeding six months), carried out by firms or
individual consultants.
7.     The Agricultural Line of Credit funded by IDA will be made available to UNCACEM by the
Government at an interest rate that covers all Government's costs, including the IDA lending rate,
currency exchange risk and overheads. UNCACEM borrowers who are main contractors for projects
receiving financing will follow commercial practices as stated in UJNCACEM's Manual of Procedures
and acceptable to the Government, and IDA. Commercial practices consist of obtaining price quotes
from at least three qualified contractors selected from an approved list prepared by SONADER and
provided to borrowers by UNCACEM. UNCACEM will inform borrowers of the approval of the line of
credit, and will, at the request of borrowers, make payment to contractors bytranches upon certification
of the works by an engineering firm responsible for works oversight, and confirmation by SONADER,
the Govermment's delegated contracting authority.
8.     The Agricultural Promotion Matching Grants will help small and poor farmers make up their
financial deficit for investments they wish to implement on their irrigated schemes, and which they are
committed to financing partly from their own resources and partly by means of credit. This assistance is
therefore intended to help them maintain a positive cash flow. Matching grants will also be used to help
people initiate pilot investments in crop processing and marketing. The use of matching grants will be
based on a Procedures Manual prepared by the Government and deemed acceptable by UNCACEM and
IDA. The Procedures Manual on credit use and the manual concerning matching grants will be similar in
many ways, since the two types of financing will serve for the same investments, although they will have
complementary functions. These funds will be managed by the CU/IDPIAM, but the decision to award
matching grants will rest with a commission composed of representatives of the Govermment and the
target groups. The disbursement of matching grant funds will follow the same procedures as for the line
of credit, after certification of works by the engineering firm and their approval by SONADER.
9.     Funds for the environmental mitigation component will be used to procure civil works, goods
and services for activities aimed at preventing or correcting negative environmental impacts.  A
committee chaired by the Program Coordinator will review requests made by public services or local
communities. The Directorate for Environment and Rural Development (DEAR) of the MDRE will have
the mandate for technical pre-review and clearance and for monitoring the implementation of works.
Procurement procedures will be those used for other public works under public investments as described
above.



-101-                                ANNEX 6
10.   Capacity Assessment and Management Arrangements
During negotiations:
* The Government submitted a draft procurement plan for the first year of the program and
provided assurances that standard bidding documents used under NCB procedures for civil
works and goods will be submitted for IDA's approval;
* an agreement was reached on rigorous monitoring of procurement;
* the Government provided assurances that it will: (a) use IDA's Standard Bidding Documents
for ICB and the Standard Bid Evaluation forms; (b) apply the procurement procedures and
arrangements outlined in the above documents; and (c) review the procurement plan and
procurement arrangements each year at the annual review with IDA; and
* the Government provided assurances that it will take the necessary measures to ensure that
procurement phases do not exceed the following target time periods:
Procurement phases                Maximum number of weeks
Preparation of bidding documents  4 (12 for large contracts)
Preparation of bids by bidders    4 (6 - 10 for ICB)
Bid evaluation                    2 (4 for large contracts)
Signature of contracts:           2
Payments:                         4
Prior to credit effectiveness:
* The capacity to manage procurement (as assessed by the procurement specialist at the Bank's
Resident Mission) must have been judged acceptable by IDA; and
* A procedures manual acceptable to IDA must have been adopted.
During imnplementation:
*  All bidding packages, bid evaluation reports and draft contracts submitted to IDA for
examination must contain an updated version of the procurement plan;
*  Information on procurement must be gathered and recorded as follows:
* Immediate recording by the borrower of information concerning the contract; and
*  The borrower must submit to IDA annual reports indicating: (i) revised cost estimates for
individual contracts and for the program as a whole, including best estimates for
contingencies; (ii) an updated schedule of projected procurement phases, including
deadlines and cost of accomplishing individual procurements; and (iii) that procurement
procedures have been adhered to.
11.   IDA reviews. Prior IDA review (see Table B) will be required for all goods and works contracts
valued at more than US$ 100,000. The prior review process will cover about 70 percent of the total value
of the contracts for works and goods. Selective post-review of contracts awarded below the threshold
levels will apply to about one in three contracts under SOE reviews carried out by resident mission staff
and/or consulting firms. Draft standard bidding documents for NCB will be reviewed and deemed
acceptable by IDA. Bank staff will also review the consultant selection process proposed by the



- 102-                               ANNEX 6
borrower. Prior review by IDA will apply to budgets, short lists, selection procedures, bidding
invitations, evaluation reports, and negotiated contracts.
12.   Prior review will be required for consultants' services valued at over $US 50,000 equivalent per
contract with firms, and at over US$20,000 per contract with individuals. All other contracts will be
subject to post review. The exception to prior review will not apply, however, to amendments to
contracts with firms that would cause the total value of the contract to exceed $50,000, or to amendments
to contracts with individuals that would cause the total value of the contract to exceed US$10,000, nor
would it apply to assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA.  For training in-country or
abroad, the training program, including the names of the proposed institutions, names of proposed
trainees, estimated costs, course descriptions, duration and dates of courses of study, will be submitted
every 24 months to IDA for review. The review process will cover 85 percent of the total value of
contracts for consultants' services.  Selective post review of contracts awarded below authorized
thresholds will apply to about one contract in three each year.
B.     Disbursements
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
13.   The proposed allocation of credit proceeds is shown in Table C. The IDA credit will be disbursed
over a period of forty-four months (from 1999 to 2003), with a closing date of December 31, 2002 and a
project completion date of June 30, 2003. All applications to withdraw proceeds from the credit must be
fully documented, except for contracts not subject to prior review by IDA. For the rest of the contracts,
disbursements will be made against SOEs certified by the head of each executing agency. Supporting
documentation will be retained by the executing agencies and made available for review by IDA
supervision missions and program auditors.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs)
14.   Requests for fund withdrawals will be properly documented for all expenditures to be paid out of
the IDA credit, except for the following contracts, for which disbursements will be made against SOEs
certified by the Project Manager: (a) contracts for goods with a unitary value below US$ 10,000
equivalent; (b) contracts with consulting firms with a unitary value below US$ 50,000 equivalent, and
with individual consultants for an amount below US$ 20,000 equivalent; (c) additional operating
expenses; and (d) training. Documentation of such SOEs will be retained by the CU/IDPIAM and made
available, on request, to financial and technical auditors and to IDA supervision missions.
Special Account
15.   To expedite disbursements and ensure that project funds will be available as needed, the
Government will open a Special Account for each executing agency (for a total of three Special
Accounts) at a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The authorized balances of Special Accounts A
(MDRE), B (SONADER), and C (UNCACEM) will be US$ 1.2 million, 0.8 million and 1.0 million
respectively, representing IDA's anticipated share of eligible expenditures for 4 months. Replenishments
of the Special Accounts will be made on the basis of monthly applications supported by full
documentation of SOEs as required and verified by the CU/IDPIAM's Administrative and Financial
Director.
16.   The Government will open in a financial institution a Program Account to cover its counterpart
contribution to the Program, to be used exclusively to cover expenditures under the program. The
Borrower will deposit into the Program Account an initial amount, in Mauritanian Ouguyas, of US$ 1.0



-103 -                               ANNEX 6
million equivalent. The opening of this account and the above-mentioned initial deposit will be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
Accounting, and Financial Management
17.   A system of accounting and financial management, based on internationally recognized
accounting standards, will be established and operational within the CUIIDPIAM. The recruitment of an
administrative and financial director and the putting in place of the accounting and management systems
must be done before credit effectiveness. It has been agreed that each of the three executing agencies
(CU/IDPIAM, SONADER and UNCACEM) will maintain accounts for the Project operations for which
it is responsible and will prepare the corresponding financial statements. The CU/IDPIAM will be
responsible for preparing annual consolidated financial statements. All documentation relating to
procurement, contracts and invoices will be retained by each agency and made available to supervision
missions and auditors.
18.   The World Bank has assessed the management systems currently used at the three executing
agencies in order to determine if they meet the eligibility conditions for the new LACI disbursement
procedures based on quarterly management reports (refer to report on "the evaluation of executing
agencies financial management systems" in the project's files). This assessment concluded that the
current systems would probably not furnish timely and accurate information on future program
implementation as required by the Bank, as far as LACI disbursement procedures are concerned.
Additional interventions will be needed prior to credit effectiveness, and action plans have been drawn up
for a period of 21 months with a view to strengthening management systems and introducing the LACI
disbursement procedures. In this connection, the Bank will carry out a second assessment of management
systems to determine whether conditions for the use of LACI have been met. This assessment will occur
at the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2000. Through the end of 2000, the replenishment of special
accounts will be made against SOEs. In addition to the financial statements that they must submit each
year, the executing agencies will submit quarterly management reports on financial statements, physical
implementation and management of contracts for goods, works and consultants' services.
19.   During negotiations, the Government provided assurances: (a) that program financial statements
will be audited in accordance with internationally recognized procedures by experienced auditing firms
acceptable to IDA. The audit reports and financial statements will be submitted to IDA within 6 months
of the end of the Government's fiscal year; (b) that, in addition to an opinion on the financial statements
expressed in their succinct report, auditors will be asked to: (i) review in depth all SOEs and internal
control procedures used for their preparation during the period under review, in order to express a
separate opinion on them; (ii) review the management and use of the special accounts in order to express
separate opinions on them as well; and (c) that, finally, the auditors will carry out a detailed review of the
Program's system of internal controls with a view to identifying its main weaknesses and making
recommendations for improvement. The results of this review will be incorporated into a Letter to
Management to be submitted to IDA along with the auditors' reports.



-104-                                           ANNEX 6
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Method'
(in thousands of US$)
Expenditure Category                              Procurement Method
ICB          NCB       Other       N.A.      NBF     Total Cost2
A. Civil Works
Construction of Bridges /a                                 279                                          279
(IDA share)                                               (233)                                        (233)
Other Constructions and Repairs                                     1,925                              1,925
(IDA share)                                                        (1,604)                           (1,604)
B. Goods
Vehicles                                   2,441                                                       2,441
(IDA share)                               (1,649)                                                    (1,649)
Equipment and materiel                     3,206           212       828                               4,246
(IDA share)                               (2,582)        (171)     (667)                             (3,420)
C. Specialized Services
Consultations & Studies                                            11,141                  539        11,680
(IDA share)                                                      (10,650)                           (10,650)
Supervision (SONADER)                                                594                                594
(IDA share)                                                         (495)                              (495)
Training                                                            2,110                              2,110
(IDA share)                                                       (2,110)                            (2,110)
D. Funding Private Sector Investments
Lines of credit (UJNCACEM) /b                                      11,101                             11,101
(IDA share)                                                      (11,101)                           (11,101)
Subsidies /c                                                        2,938                              2,938
(IDA share)                                                       (2,938)                            (2,938)
Beneficiaries Contribution                                                               3,705         3,705
(IDA share)
E. Severance pay                                                                   322                     322
(IDA share)
F. Additional operating costs                                                    3,383                    3,383
(IDA share)                                                                  (2,642)                 (2,642)
G. Project Preparation Facility                                        1,300                              1,300
(IDA share)                                                       (1,300)                            (1,300)
TOTAL                          5,647          492     31,938      3,705      4,244       46,025
(IDA share)                    (4,231)         (404)   (30,866)   (2,642)                 (38,143)
\a includes small scattered works at various times and in various locations.
\b IDA contribution to UNCACEM for loans to farmers.
\c IDA contribution in the form of subsidies for private sector promotion.
Note:  N.F.B. = Not financed by the Bank (includes items procured under co-financing, consultants' services under trust funds, any restricted
procurement, or miscellaneous items). Procurement methods for items designated 'other" and details on items designated "NFB" must be
explained in footnotes or in the text. Figures in parentheses refer to financing under the IDA credit.
X For details on procurement methods, see OM 11.02 "Procurer ent Methods for Invesmtent Operations." Details on consultants' services may
be more easily shown in Table Al (complement to Table A if needed.)
2 including contingencies



-105 -                                  ANNEX 6
Table A-1: Consultant Selection Procedures (optional)
(in US$ million)
Consultant                                                                       Total cost
Services                                Selection Method                         (including
Expenditure                                                                      contingencies)
Category
QCBS       QBS      SFB       LCS      CQ       Other   N.F.B.
A. Firms            6.08                        0.26        -   0.593                     6.93
B. Individuals                  -                  -     6.92       -                     6.92
Total               6.08                        0.26     6.92    0.59                    13.85
Note:  QCBS = Quality/Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-Based Selection
SFB = Selection on basis of Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Consultant Quality
Other = Selection of individual consultants (see Section V of Guidelines for Selection of
Consultants), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.F.B. = Not financed by the Bank
Figures in parentheses refer to amounts to be financed from the IDA credit.
3 SONADER supervision fees (direct agreement beetwen CU-IDPIAM and SONADER)



-106-                                ANNEX 6
Table B: Prior Review Thresholds and Recourse to Different Procurement Methods4
Expenditure Category    Contract    Value Procurement Method    Contracts subject to
(Threshold)                             prior review/Total
estimated value subject
to Prior review
US$                                     millions de US$
1. Civil works
> US$ 500,000      ICB                  US$ 0.0
<US$ 100,000      NCB                   US$ 0.28
< US$ 30,000       Quotations           US$ 0.0
2. Goods
>US$ 100,000       ICB                  US$ 5.65
<US$ 100,000      NCB                   US$ 0.21
<US$ 30,000        Quotations           US$ 0.0
3. Services
Firms      > US$ 50,000       QCBS                 US$ 5.20
< US$ 50,000       LCS                  US$ 0.26
SONADER            sole source          US$ 0.59
* US$ 10,00(I      CQ                   US$ 5.72
Individuals
* US$ 10,000       CQ                   US$ 0.0
Total value of contracts subject to prior review                US$ 17.91
4Generally, threshold vary depending on countries and projects. Consult OD 11.4 "Analysis of Procurement
Documents" and contact the Procurement Adviser for more information.



-107-                                ANNEX 6
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category                 Amount (in US$    Percentage of financing
millions)
(1)   Civil Works10%ofreg
(a) MDRE                               1,800,000        100% of foreign
(b) SONADER                              200,000     expenditures and 90%
of local expenditures
(2)   Vehicles                                                  100% of foreign
(a) MDRE                                 700,000     expenditures and 75%
(b) SONADER                              600,000      of local expenditures
(3)   Equipment
(a) MDRE                                1,600,000        100% of foreign
(b) SONADER                              700,000      expenditures and 80%
(c) UNCACEM                               100,000      of local expenditures
(4)   Consultant services and studies
(a) MDRE                                5,700,000
(b) SONADER                             4,200,000            100%
(c) UNCACEM                              300,000
(5)   Training
(a) MDRE                                1,000,000
(b) SONADER                             1,000,000            100°
(c) UNCACEM                              200,000             1
(6)   Loans for Subprojects                    9,400,000       100% of amounts
disbursed
(7)   Grants for Subprojects                   2,400,000       100% of amounts
disbursed
(8)   Incremental operating costs
(a) MDRE                                2,300,000
(b) SONADER                               600,000            80%
(9)   Refunding of Project Preparation                      Amounts due pursuant to
Advance                                   1,300,000    Section 2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(10)  Unallocated                               4,000,000
TOTAL                                    38,100,000



- 108-                               ANNEX 7
PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
Mauritania: Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
A.           Project Budget (US$000)              Planned                  Actual
Bank Budget                         747                     747
(including FAO/OCP)                   (332)                   (332)
B.           Project Schedule                     Planned                  Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (effective months)  24                    24
First Bank mission (identification)         Feb. 1996            Feb. 1996
IEPS Review Meeting                         Feb. 6, 1996         Feb. 6, 1996
PCD Review Meeting                           Sep. 14, 1998       Sept. 14, 1998
Final Preparation Mission                                        Oct. 19 -Nov. 04, 1998
Decision Meeting                            Feb. 16, 1999        Feb. 16, 1999
Pre-appraisal Mission                       Nov. 1998            Feb. 21 - March 14, 1999
Appraisal Mission                           Feb. 1999            Feb. 21 -March 14, 1999
Negotiations                                May 17, 1999         May 31 - Jun. 01, 1999
Board                                       July 8, 1999
Plan date of effectiveness                  Sept. 1, 1999
Preparation process was interrupted to allow Government to prepare: (i) a national Rural development
Strategy; (ii) an overall strategy for the irrigated sector; (iii) an in-depth study on the ricesubsector; and
(iv) a study on the agricultural credit in Mauritania. This has lead to a relative pause in the preparation
schedule between Feb. 1996 and Sept. 1998.
Prepared by:
- Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development
- Ministry of Rural Development and Environment
Preparation Assistance:
PPF:   US$1.300.000
PHRD: US$400.000



-109-                                ANNEX 7
People Involved In Project Preparation
Bank Staff                           Title
Abdelkrim Oka           Sr. Natural Resources Management Specialist
Task Team Leader (AFTR3)
Siaka Bakayoko         Financial Analyst (AFTS2)
Wolfgang Chadab        Disbursement Officer (LOAAF)
Adriana De Leva        Economist (AFTI1)
Francois Gadelle       Irrigation Engineer (AFTR3)
Joselito Gallardo      Financial Specialist (FSD)
Jean Roger Mercier     Sr. Environmental Specialist (AFTE 1)
Daniel Moreau           Sr. Agriculturist (AFMCI)
Marie-Jeanne Ndiaye    Team Assistant (AFTR3)
Ismael Ouedraogo       Agricultural Economist (AFTR3)
Ahmedou Ould Hamed     Procurement Officer (AFMMR)
Mohamed Ould Tolba     Agricultural Specialist (AFMMR)
Robert Robelus         Environmental Assessment Specialist (AFTEI)
Lucie Tran             Operations Analyst (AFTR3)
Hans Wabnitz           Counsel (LEGAF)
Consultants                          Task
Magaye Gaye            Financial Analysis
Nicolas Gergely         Credit and Rice Subsector
Jean Claude Gouhier    Implementation Manual
Anna Martella           Social Assessment and Impact
Jean-Paul Manshande    Environmental Health
Bachir Ainouche        Rice Processing
Annick Lachance        Monitoring & Evaluation and Logframe
Pierre Ponsy           Water User Associations and Institutions
Dominique Seran        Institution Capacity Building
Jean Michel Voisard    Crops Diversification / Ag. Export Promotion
Emmanuel Holder        Text Processing
Quality Assurance Team                    Title
Jean-Paul Chausse      Rural Development, Technical Manager (AFTR3)
Bernard Abeille        Pr. Procurement Specialist (AFTS2)
Carlos Cuevas          Pr. Financial Specialist (AFTP1)
Miguel Saponara         Sr. Economist (AFTM5)
Antoine Simonpietri     Sr. Statistician (AFTI1)
Khalid Siraj           Adviser (FSD)



-110-                                 ANNEX 8
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
Mauritania: Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
No                   Description                       Date             Auteur
I   Etude diagnostic sur lefonctionnement actuel de  March 1998   GLG Consultants
l'UNCACEMet reflexion strategique sur la                      SOFRECO
politique de cre'dit agricole adaptet? a la mise en
valeur de la vallie dufleuve Senegal
2   Politiques et strategies generales pour le   March 1998       M.D.R.E.
developpement du secteur rural. Horizon 2010
3   Etude de lafiliere riz en Mauritanie         March 1998       GLC Consultants
SONADER
4   PDIAIM- Composante diversification :Rapport  May 1998         Geomar
de la mission technique de mise en route de la               International
phase pilote. Filieres: melon et papaye
5   Etude sur 1 'entretien des amenagements en   June 1998        KIT
Mauritanie . la ve'getation et le desherbage des
reseaux d'irrigation (KIT-SONADER-Banque
Mondiale)
6   Etude d'ivaluation environnementafe du PDIAIM  August 1998    AGRER
7   PDL4IM: Rapport de preparation               September 1998   FAO-CP
8   PDIAIM- Composante diversification: Rapport  November 1998    Geomar
de la mission de demarrage du programme pilote.               International
Filieres: melon et papaye
9   PDL4IM: Attenuation de l 'impact             January 1999     Robert Robellus
environnemental. Document de travail
10  Etude sur le redressement organisationnel et  February 1999   SONADER
financier d'unperimetre hydro-agric ole et
disengagement de la SONADER:
Le,ons tiries de 1 'expe'rience de Foum-Gleita
11  PDIAIM: Rapport technique, composante        February 1999    Dominique Seran
institutionnelle
12  PDIAIM: Base de donnies sur les perimetres   February 1999    RIM-SONADER
irrigues de Mauritanie
13  PDIAIM: Note de synthese portant avis juridique  March 1999   1. Ould Abdel
sur les questions foncieres                                   Kader



- 111 -                              ANNEX 8
No                   Description                      Date            Auteur
14  Schema de gestion des amenagements          March 1999      Pierre Ponsy
structurants: cas de l 'amenagement du Gouere et
generalisation. Cadre juridique et reglementaire
et processus de mise en wuvre
15  Etude diagnostic et evaluation des bureaux  March 1999      ENNAJAH -
d'etudes mauritaniens                                       Consult
16  Synthese des travaux du groupe interministeriel  March 1999  RIM-IDA
d'experts dans le cadre de la mission de pre-
evaluation du PDWAIM
17  PDIAIM- Composante Diversification:         March 1999      Jean Michel
Document technique                                          Voisard
18  PDIAIM: tvaluation des systemes de gestion  April 1999       Magaye Gaye
financiere des agences d'execution
19  PDIAIM: tvaluation de l 'impact sanitaire du  April 1999    Jean-Pierre
programme et programmation des mesures                      Manshande
d'attbnuation
20   Procedures de 1 'aide incitatrice          May 1999         Nicolas Gergely
21   Evaluation participative de l 'impact social du  May 1999   Ana Martella
PD1AIM
22   PDWIM: Tableau des couits duprojet (COSTAB)  June 1999      IDA
23   PDIAIM- Composante Suivi-Evaluation        May 1999         Annick Lachance
24   PDWIM- Contribution a I 'amelioration de la  May 1999       Bachir Ainouche
qualite de l 'usinage du riz mauritanien



Status of Bank Group Operations in Mauritania
Operations Portfolio
As of 07-Jun-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions             and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                        disbursements a/
Project ID    Year              Borrower                Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 33
Active Projects
MR-PE-55003     1999    GOV OF MAURITANIE              NUTRITION (LIL)                          0.00        4.90        0.00         4.88     0.00        0.00
MR-PE-57875     1999   GOVT OF MAURITANIA              MINING SECTCAFACITY                      0.00       15.00        0.00        15.00     0.00        0.00
MR-PE-35689     1998    MINISTRY OF HEALTH & SOCI      HEALTH SECTOR INVEST                     0.00       24.00        0.00        22.98     3.72        0.00
MR-PE-1875      1997    GOVERNMENT                     RAINFEDNATRESMGT                         0.00       18.00        0.00        15.12     1.01        0.00
MR-PE-46650     1997   OMVS                            REGIONAL POWER                           0.00       11.10        0.00         8.27     5.82        0.00
MR-PE-1874      1996    MINISTRY OF PLAN               PUBLIC RESOURCE MGMT                     0.00       21.14        0.00         3.89     2.14        -.97
MR-PE-34106     1996    ISL. REP. OF MTA               INFRAST & PILOT DEC.                     0.00       14.00       0nn           8.99     1h.9 .1o
MR-PE-1857      1995    GOVT OF MAUAITTANIA            GENERAL EDUCATION 1'R                    0.00       35.00        0.00        17.28    19.07        0.00
MR-PE-38661     1995                                    FIN/PRIV.SCTR.CAPACI                    0.00        7.20        0.00         1.97     2.68        2.68
MR-PE-1864      1994    GOVERNMENT                     AGRIC SERVICES                           0.00       18.20        0.00         5.82     3.46        0.00
MR-PE-1872      1993    GOVERNMENT                     TECHNICAL/VOCATIONAL                     0.00       12.50        0.00         6.16     6.29        0.00
Total                                                                                           0.00      181.04        0.00       110.36    53.38        1.71
Active Projects     Closed Projects         Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 66.16             497.68              563.84
ofwhich has been repaid:                      0.00             163.12              163.12
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                181.04             321.45              502.49
Amount sold:                                     0.00              63.35              63.35
Of which repaid:                                0.00              63.35              63.35
Total Undisbursed:                             110.36               2.74              113.10
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-May-99.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



- 113 -                                                ANNEXE 10
COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
Mauritania: Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
Mauritania                                                         10/1198
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan     Low-     1
Mauritania    Africa  Incoms      Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (mtlFons)                       2.4       614     2,048                  Life expectnwcy
GNP per captta (Attas method, US$)                   450       500      350
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billons)                      1.1       309      722     |T
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Populabon (%)                                        2.5       2.7       2.1    [
Labor force(%)                                       2.7        2.6      2S3     GNP                              Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year avahlable, 1991-97)                            rapaJ                         enrollnent
Povert (i of populon below national poverty in&)      so         .N.Vz
Urban population (% of total population)              54        32       28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      53        62       59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              92        90       78
Child malnutrition (% otchildren under 5)             48        6. 81                       Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                76        44       71
Illiteracy (% of populaton age 15+)                   62        43       47
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-age poputation)  78        75       91                    Mauritania
Male                                                85        82      100                 -Lowmincome group
Female                                              72        67       81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ blions)                           0.52     0.80        1.1      1.1
Gross domestic investmentIGOP               42.4    30.6      22.1      19.0                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           38.5    56.4       53.6     45 3
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   2.9     7.7       13.9     13.2
Gross national savings/GDP                  20.2     3.2      17.3      15.6
Current account balance/GOP                   ..   -27.4      -4.7      -3.4    i
Interest payments/GDP                       1.5      3.9       2.7       3.0     Sain                         Investment
Total debt/GDP                             77.6    217.8     220.7     216.5
Total debt sernce/exports                   12.5     20.6      17.7     17.2    |
Present value of debt/GDP                    ..       ..     1451
Present value of debt/exports                -.       ..     248.0
Indebtedness
1976-8S  1987-97    1996       1997   199842
(average annual gowth)
GDP                                 1.6     3.3      4.7        5.1      4.6                    Mauntania
GNP per capita                     -1.1      1.0      1.9       2.9      2.1                 - Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       7.8    -0.9      7.3     -15.6       0.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997     Growth rates of output and investment (%)
fX of GOP)                                                                       4
Agriculture                                 28.5     26.6      24.8     25.5       .
Industry                                    33.9    31.1      31.6      29.0     20
Manufacturing                               ..     13.1      12.0      9.7      o
Services                                    37.7    42.2      43.6      45.5    .20     92                       9s    97
Private consumption                         65.2    80.5      72.2      74.6    -Q
General govemment consumption               31.8     11.8      13.9     12.2                      GO         GOP
Imports of goods and services              77.9     79.3      61.8      51.0
(average annual growth)                 1976-86  1987-97      1996     1997     Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                  3.2     3.2        3.3      9.6    40
Industry                                     2.6     2.6       2.9      -1.8
Manufacturing                                ..     0.1       9.4    -15.3    20
Services                                   -0.1      3.8       7.2       7.5
Private consumption                         3.1      3.3      -3.1      13.4
General govemment consumption               -9.9     6.6       3.1      -8.0
Gross domestic investment                   -2.0     0.0      27.5      -9.5    -20
Imports of goods and services                1.6    -0.9       3.0     -111.4                  Exports        imports
Gross national product                       1.5     3.6       4.5       5.5
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



-114-                                               ANNEXE10
Mauritania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1996      1997      Intlation (%)
Domestic prkes
(% change)
Consumer prices                                          7.4       4.7       5.0
Implicit GDP deflator                          6.0       7.3       3.5       5.7
Government finance
(% of GOP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                        24 8       30.5      26.4             92    93     94    95    96    97
Current budget balance                                  -0.9      12.8       9.6                   GDP deflator   '   CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                 -8.3       6.6       4.2                       da
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1197S     1S86       19S6       97      I Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                     418        485       413     rtoo
Iron                                                   142       207       216
Fish                                                   274       277       197
Manufactures                                                                             _    _ .              _
Total imports (cil)                                     400        435       380
Food                                                    91        97        85      20_
Fuelandenergy                                           27        109       95
Capital goods                                          1b1         85       68                a     5    9    9-    9    9
Export price index (1995'100)                            83        100       101          91    92   93   94    95   9     9
Import price index (1995=000)                            83        102        96     |*Exports                *Imports
Termsof trade (1995=100)                                100         97       105
BALANCg of PAYMENTS
1976     1S86       1996     119S7      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(USS millions)
Exports of goods and services                  201      453        586       497      0
Imports of goods and services                  353      637        676       560
Resource balance                              -152     -184        -89       -63
Net income                                     -59      -70        -56       -52          -II1111
Net current transfers                                    34         94        78
Current account balance                                -220        -52       -37      lo
Financing items (net)                                   210        101        92
Changes in net reserves                        -13       10        -50       -55       s
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)          82       53        145       204
Conversion rate (DEC, locaVS$)                 45-0     74.4      137.2     151.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997
(USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           407     1,749     2,415     2,376
IBRD                                           0       69          8         6      ComposItion of total debt. 1997 (USS millions)
IDA                                           19       77        359       372                  G5: 21-       1B:372
Total debt service                              26       94        113        96
IBRD                                           0       10          3         2                                     c.119
IDA                                            0         1         4         5
Composition of net resource flows
Officalgrants                                115       71        176       140
Ofricialcreditors                            113      130         58        33
Private creditors                             53        3         24        -2         E: t.07S               ,, D:662
Foreign direct investment                      2         5         5         3                               r
Portfolio equity                               0        0          0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                    3       29         35        29     A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  5       23         36        34     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                           0        6          4         4     C - IMF                        G - Short-ten
Net Iows                                       5        16        32        30
Interest payments                              0        5          3         3
Net transfers                                  5        11        29        27
Development Economics                                                                                                   10Q1198
MRTCAAGB



-115 -                        ANNEX 11
ISLAMIC REPUBLIQUE OF MAURITANIA
Honor - Brotherhood - Justice
MINISTRY OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT
Letter of Development Policy for Irrigated Agriculture
through 2010
May 25, 1999



-116-                               ANNEX II
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY FOR IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE
Introduction
The main objective of the Government is to reduce poverty through accelerated private sector-led
development. The Government intends in this way to consolidate and expand the positive results
of structural adjustment reforms initiated in 1985. The rural sector is slated to play a fundamental
role in reaching this main objective, in two ways: with over 56 percent of the country's
employment, about 26 percent of GDP and growth of nearly 10 percent in 1997, the rural sector
is expected to serve as the engine growth of Mauritania's development. Because poverty has
increased in the rural sector while it has diminished in the country overall from 57 percent to 50
percent between 1990 and 1996, the rural sector must be the focal point of the country's poverty
alleviation strategy.
With a territory 80 percent desert and subject to severe and repeated droughts, Mauritania is
naturally placing much of its hope in irrigation. The development of irrigated agriculture is
therefore a focal point of the Rural Development Strategy through the year 2010 adopted by
Mauritania in March 1998 with the support of its development partners. This Letter of
Development Policy sets out an operational framework for the irrigated agriculture strategy.
A. The irrigated agriculture sector in Mauritania
1. Irrigated schemes
Mauritania's irrigable potential was estimated in 1987 at 135,000 ha. Studies now underway
point to a need to revise this figure downward. The gross area of irrigated schemes is about
47,000 ha, for a net surface area of 40,000 ha under total water control, but fewer than 20,000 ha
are put into production each year. Irrigated schemes are categorized according to their size
(small, medium or large) and by the type of management arrangement: collective (or cooperative)
schemes and private, individually-managed schemes.
Large collective schemes, ranging in size from 500 to 2,000 ha, and accounting for a total area of
8,461 ha, are equipped with pumping stations or dams that allow for gravity irrigation. These
schemes were built with public financing (Government/donors) without beneficiary participation.
In general, their construction costs were exceptionally high. With the exception of M'Pourie,
they were built by the Societe nationale di? developpement rural (SONADER) which, for an
annual fee, still handles farmer outreach, operation and maintenance of the collective schemes.
Small and medium-sized collective schemes, ranging from 20 to over 100 ha each, for a total of
10,700 ha, have generally been built by the Government without financial participation from
beneficiaries. These schemes are equipped with motorized pumps and are managed by a farmers'
group or cooperative. These schemes are old, their infrastructures rudimentary, and the
individual plots extremely small - 0.2 to 1.0 ha -, which is often scarcely enough for a family's
on-farm consumption.
Private schemes, ranging in size from 10 ha to over 1,000 ha, for a total area of 21,100 ha, were
built at the initiative and expense of individual private farmers with no direct State aid. Their
infrastructures are generally rudimentary as well, but some have recently been reconstructed in a
May 25, 1999



-117 -                             ANNEX 11
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY FOR IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE
more durable fashion, with new irrigation techniques (sprinklers, drip irrigation, etc.) for
purposes of crop diversification.
2.     Potential sources of growth and results to-date
The potential sources of growth for irrigated agriculture are real and numerous. A potentially
strong domestic demand can be expected on the basis of the following factors: rapid population
growth (2.5 percent), anticipated income growth (GDP is increasing at 5.6 percent per annum);
significant elasticity of demand for the products of irrigated agriculture (rice, fruits and
vegetables, fish and fuel wood); and the anticipated control of inflation (target rate of 4.0
percent.) Domestic demand for rice, for example, increased an average of 5.4 percent between
1988 and 1996 - almost as much as urban population growth (5.6 percent) - according to
statistics provided by the Office Nationale de la Statistique. Rapid sedentarization and urban
growth (54 percent of the population now lives in cities) are accompanied by changes in dietary
habits in which fruits and vegetables are more emphasized. Domestic consumption of vegetables
is estimated to be about 60 kg/head/year in Nouakchott and at 20 kg in rural areas. It is estimated
that domestic consumption of fuel wood is eight times higher than the sustainable wood
production potential. As for international demand, Mauritania's small share of the European fruit
and vegetable market suggests an enormous potential still to be realized.
The Senegal River Valley has the potential to meet these domestic and international demands for
high value-added products. The share of domestic rice in total consumption went from 23
percent in the late 1980s to 33 percent over the 1994-97 period. Oilseeds, and especially
sunflowers, are another diversification niche according to a study on the scope for developing
this crop to meet part of the country's vegetable oil needs. Over the past few years, Mauritania
has begun to take advantage of the sustained European demand for fresh vegetables (green beans
and okra). Other promising crops include melons and papayas.
The significant progress made in institutional reform in the sector provides support to this growth
potential. Initiated in 1988, the agricultural sector structural adjustment program (AGESECAL)
clarified the role of Government and implemented key institutional reforms: disengagement of
the State and price liberalization; establishment of an agricultural savings and loan entity
(UNCACEM); initiation of land tenure reform; reorganization of the Ministry of Rural
Development and Environment (MDRE) and restructuring of the Societe nationale de
developpement rural (SONADER); definition of the National Agronomic Research Plan (NARP)
and of the Agricultural Services Project (ASP); professionalization of responsible agro-pastoral
organizations ; and, finally, accumulation of knowledge and improved institutional capacity in the
area of environmental protection.
Despite the progress made, results are still insufficient, however. Irrigated agricultural schemes
are essentially all devoted to rice, and diversification has had trouble making inroads. Despite
water control, yields and areas under rice have fluctuated greatly. Declining rice yields have also
been observed. Contrary to the expectations of rice projects, double cropping is rare.
Domestically-produced rice also fails to meet consumers' quality expectations. Thus, the current
profitability of rice is low in Trarza as far as the portion intended for consumption in Nouakchott
is concerned, and is only satisfactory in the mid and upper Valley for collective perimeters for
rice intended for consumption in this region.
May 25,1999



-118-                               ANNEX I I
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY FOR IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE
3.     Constraints and challenges
Irrigated agriculture faces many constraints which pose challenges for Mauritania. These can be
summarized as follows:
Poor design and rudimentary construction of irrigated schemes. Except in the large-scale
public schemes, the situation of irrigated schemes is one of advanced deterioration and under-
utilization of existing infrastructures, for lack of appropriate design and establishment of the
schemes. Indeed, most of the private or State-supported small and medium-sized schemes, were
poorly designed and carelessly built. Essential items were often omitted, including topographic
surveys, soil studies, drainage systems, and proper leveling. SONADER estimated in 1994 that
almost all perimeters in production were in need of rehabilitation. The abandonment of schemes
due to the absence of drainage infrastructures illustrates the need to build schemes in accordance
with construction specifications.
Poor management and maintenance of schemes and irrigation equipment. In addition to the
inadequate technical design of schemes, there is the lack of management and maintenance of the
schemes and equipment since their establishment. On large schemes as well as on collective and
individual schemes, maintenance of canals is inadequate. Frequent breakdowns of moto pumps
aggravate the situation and contribute to the abandonment of schemes.
Inadequate financing of irrigated agriculture. Financing in the rural sector remains
insufficient. Until recently, seasonal credit and equipment loans were reserved exclusively for
irrigated rice production. Access to this type of credit by small collective producers is still low.
As for long-term investment credit, it is entirely non-existent. The lack of long-term investment
credit (despite the considerable liquidity of commercial banks) has mainly to do with the
difficulty of mobilizing long-term funds on financial markets. However, even if long-term credit
were to become available, collective producers would still find access problematic because of
their inability to come up with personal equity.
In addition, despite the net improvement in its performance, UNCACEM is faced with an
accumulation of bad loans, dating from the first years of its existence, which create an operating
deficit. The interest rates it currently charges are not enough to ensure its financial self-
sufficiency. Policy discussions have highlighted the value of having an autonomous and
specialized credit institution that adheres scrupulously to sound bank management principles.
Domestic rice support policy, which discourages the production of high-quality rice and
crop diversification. Tariff protection for domestic rice, as well as the generous subsidies
granted by the State for its production and marketing, make rice the preferred crop in the Valley.
Indeed, counting the value-added tax (VAT) and the so-called imp6t minimum forfaitaire (IMF),
which do not apply to domestic rice, the overall tax on imported rice is the highest in this part of
Africa (48 percent and 53 percent in 1998, depending on the type of rice, and 45 percent in 1999
for all types of rice). The State has also granted significant budgetary subsidies (covering, among
other things, interest on 12 months of marketing credit for domestic rice, harvesting and threshing
costs, and fertilizer) totaling nearly 500 million UM. Producers thus lack incentives to innovate
and try diversification crops. Consumers are therefore penalized in two ways: the tax on
May 25, 1999



-119-                               ANNEX II
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY FOR IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE
imported rice and the protection of domestic rice increase consumer prices; and the quality of
domestic rice resulting from these measures is often mediocre because producers and processors
have no incentive to improve quality.
Secure land tenure. Secure tenure, whether of individual or collective lands, is an important
factor in encouraging producers to invest in and maintain irrigated schemes, infrastructures and
equipment to improve productivity. Current land legislation in principle ensures land tenure
security and therefore incorporates incentives for sustainable investment. However, the
enforcement of these laws is still hampered by the incompleteness of land transfer procedures,
the partial payment of land use fees and the absence of boundary markers. The protection of vital
spaces (espaces vitaux) and land reserves must also be reinforced. There is also no systematic
monitoring of land development, and in particular of the enforcement of Circular No. 008. A
pilot operation of irrigated land registry in Trarza Est, under the AGSECAL, pointed up the need
to flesh out the legal and institutional framework in order to protect rights and reduce sources of
conflict, as well as the importance of information and outreach directed at land users in order to
ensure the harmonious and transparent implementation of land tenure reform.
Low technological level of producers. Overall, a low level of fertilizer consumption is
observed (5,000 tons per year). Manure is for the most part lost to agriculture because of
nomadic herding practices and transhumance. Animal traction is still in its infancy in the Valley
and is practiced a little in the southeastern part of the country. Rice varieties do not meet
consumers' quality expectations. In general, the level of mastery of crop intensification
techniques needs much improvement. Fruit and vegetable production and processing techniques
that meet export standards remain to be developed for the most part.
Low level of organization on the part of producers. In addition to producers' low level of
technological know-how, one also observes a low level of managerial capacity among socio-
professional organizations. SONADER's abrupt disengagement highlighted the unpreparedness
of cooperatives to assume responsibility for managing large irrigated schemes. The drop in
yields on these large perimeters can be attributed to a great extent to this sudden withdrawal. The
need for an adequate management capacity will be felt even more as producers begin to gain
access to long-term credit.
Inaccessibility and the cost of transport. The paved road network is still limited. The
disastrous condition of such roads as the Rosso-Boghe highway and feeder roads make certain
areas with great productive potential inaccessible. In addition to access, however, the availability
of transport services, their organization and cost also play an important role in integrating
agricultural production into the economy. The creation in 1990 of a road transport depot in
Nouakchott for freight and mixed-use transport did not entirely live up to the agricultural sector's
hopes: transport charges do not emerge from competition between transporters and among
different freight systems, but have instead been fixed thus far by means of negotiations between
the Ministry of Equipment and Transport (MET) and the Federation Nationale des Transporteurs
(FNT). There was thus no guarantee that an improved road infrastructure would necessarily result
in reduced merchandise transport costs. Transport services were also uniform in type, since
transporters did not specialize.
May 25, 1999



-120 -                              ANNEX II
LETrER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY FOR IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE
Environmental degradation due to irrigation. The degradation of irrigated lands due to
waterlogging and salinization presents a challenge that Mauritania must confront immediately.
Over the medium and long term, salinization leads to the desertification of irrigated lands.
Irrigation also fosters the spread of waterborne diseases (malaria, bilharzia, intestinal parasites,
diarrhea diseases, Guinea worm, etc. ), stimulates the growth of opportunistic weeds, and helps
pests proliferate (plant-eating insects, rodents and especially grain-eating birds.).
B. A vision for development in the Valley
The widely shared vision in Mauritania for the Valley's development consists of the following:
*  Efficient and sustainable exploilation of precious land and water resources that are
crucial to the country's economic development;
*  Efficient land use based on an economic and institutional environment free of all major
distortions, in order to orient private investment towards activities that are most profitable
for the country;
*  A system of land exploitation whose growth yields broad-based benefits shared by all:
for operators, through the profitability of investments; for the agricultural sector, from
income and employment creation; and for consumers, in the form of lower prices for
staple foods.
This vision is consistent with the overall objectives of Mauritania's Rural Development Strategy
through the year 2000, which aims to:
*  help ensure food security;
*  alleviate poverty and improve rural employment as well as farmers' incomes;
* encourage the integration of agriculture into national and international markets;
*  protect and preserve national resources so as to ensure sustainable development.
For the irrigated sector, the attainment of'these overall objectives requires the following
interventions, based on the principle of economic return:
(a) intensification of rice cropping;
(b) introduction and expansion of crop diversification;
(c) integration of irrigated crop production with other rural activities;
(d) export promotion; and
(e) mitigation of environmental impacts.
These activities are the focus of the Integrated Development Program for Irrigated Agriculture in
Mauritania (IDPIAM), which is supported by all donors. This Letter of Development Policy
defines the steps that the State intends to take to support these activities.
C. Operational Plan of Action
The operational plan of action stemming from the development strategy for irrigated agriculture
involves the following areas: adherence to the macro-economic framework; management of
water and irrigated land resources; financing of irrigated agriculture; liberalization and promotion
May 25,1999



- 121 -                             ANNEX 11
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY FOR IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE
of product marketing; security of land tenure; capacity building; basic rural infrastructure; and
environmental mitigation measures.
1.    Macro-economic framework
(i) Exchange and interest rates. Changes in rates of foreign exchange, interest and inflation have
a profound impact on irrigated agriculture. Thus, depreciation of the Ouguiya causes the price of
imported rice to increase and provides additional protection to domestic rice. At the same time,
bank interest rates rose considerably in 1998 and 1999, especially vis-a-vis interest rates for
agricultural credit. In order to maintain a favorable economic environment, Mauritania will
continue its macro-economic policy dialogue with the World Bank and IMF, especially in
connection with the 1999-2002 Policy Framework Paper (PFP). The Government will ensure
that rural development policy is consistent with this macro-economic policy.
(ii) Agricultural tariffs. Despite the drop in import tariffs as such between 1997 and 1998, the
overall tax on imported rice increased over the same period. This was due to local taxes such as
the VAT and IMF applied to imported rice but not to domestic rice, and to an increase in the
VAT from 5 percent to 14 percent over the same time period. The Government will continue its
reform policy of reducing tariffs. Starting in 2002, the same VAT will be imposed upon
domestic and imported rice.
2.     Managing water resources and irrigated lands
(i) Updating of the Master Plan for the right bank. In connection with water management study
for the Manantali and Diama dams, OMVS is currently studying the management of the
Manantali dam. If the results of this study, which are expected to be available in 1999, are
different from those of the baseline study of 1987, the Government will review its priorities
regarding the development of irrigated schemes to bring them into line with the available
resources, and will update the Master Plan for the right bank. The Master Plan will be updated
within two years following the results of the study now underway.
(ii) Priority for the rehabilitation of irrigated schemes. In order to rebuild the irrigated subsector,
Mauritania will keep the focus on rehabilitation. The creation of new schemes will only be
considered for projects with a very high rate of return (probably for diversification activities).
This priority will be the guiding principle behind irrigated scheme development with all
Mauritania's development partners and will take effect immediately.
(iii) Better design of irrigated schemes. In order to ensure the physical sustainability of irrigated
schemes, the Government will promulgate in 1999, via an Ordinance or Circular, the concept of
the development and exploitation of irrigated schemes (as per the revised Circular No. 008) and
will see that these technical and environmental standards are applied to any new irrigated scheme
design developed with or without a matching grant from the State.
(iv) Operation and maintenance systems. In compliance with the standards set out in the revised
Circular No. 008, arrangements for scheme operation and maintenance will need to be specified
in any irrigated scheme plan. In the case of large State-financed schemes, operation and
maintenance of schemes and equipment will be transferred gradually over the next three years to
May 25,1999



-122 -                              ANNEX I I
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY FOR IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE
users, who will assume responsibility for these new tasks in the context of regulations concerning
users' associations.
(v) the Government will formulate a strategy for the management of water resources for irrigation
and will implement cost recovery measures.
3.     Financing irrigated agriculture
(i) Matching grants for investment in irrigated agriculture. In order to encourage the application
of standards to schemes to be rehabilitated or newly created, the Government will establish in
1999 a matching grant mechanism at a Ievel compatible with its means. Matching grants,
intended first and foremost to alleviate poverty, will be intended for producer cooperatives (in
which each member has less than 2 ha on average), and for individuals with more than 40 ha
(counting all schemes).
(ii) Agricultural credit. The Government will continue to assist UNCACEM in diversifying and
expanding its activities. It will cease its financial support to UNCACEM if this agency has
failed, by the end of FY 200 1, to establish an interest rate and funds management policy that
ensure its financial self-sufficiency. The Government will also lend no financial support to
lJNCACEM without having defined repayment terms, which must not be in contradiction with
UNCACEM's quest for financial self-sutfficiency. In addition, during Phase I of the IDPIAM-
IDA, the Government will study the conditions required to create an economic environment
conducive to the provision of agricultural credit by commercial banks.
(iii) Agricultural credit guarantees . In order to facilitate this trend and provide guarantees for
agricultural credit, the government will study, in the context of judicial reforms, the development
of substitute guarantees, e.g., mortgage r egulations, collateral, and administration of capital
assets. Measures will be developed and implemented over the next two years.
4.     Liberalization and promotion of product marketing
(i). Liberalization of domestic rice marketing. The domestic rice marketing system, dominated
by the pool, has revealed its limitations: it benefited mainly large-scale individual producers,
since collectives only used it to a limited, extent; it did not foster a supply of high-quality rice to
consumers; it sapped public finances because of the State subsidies it consumed; and it generated
unsustainable losses, even for some menmbers of the pool. The domestic rice marketing system
will be adjusted and liberalized to provide incentives for producing high-quality domestic rice
and to encourage diversification. This liberalization is consistent with the State's disengagement
from marketing and from directly production-related activities. Starting with the 1999-2000
cropping season, the Government will:
(a) eliminate the subsidy on rice marketing credit, as well as direct State subsidization of rice
production;
(b) eliminate the pool system, which links rice imports to paddy purchases;
(c) eliminate the practice whereby the State determines paddy prices.
May 25, 1999



-123 -                              ANNEX 11
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY FOR IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE
(ii) Measures accompanying the liberalization of domestic rice marketing . In keeping with its
role of supporting the private sector, the Government will pursue the accompanying measures,
begun during the 1998-99 cropping season, intended to further liberalize domestic rice marketing.
Thus, for the upcoming 1999-2000 season, the Government will implement measures to:
(a) Ensure the availability of high quality seed in adequate quantities by: (i) assessing
the supply of, and demand for, certified seed of new varieties; (ii) seeking external
sources of supply if necessary (Government/UNCACEM financing); (iii) ensuring that
CNRADA has access to pre-base seed for off-season and rainy season multiplication; (iv)
organizing, with seed propagators, the production of seed for new varieties.
(b) Allow UNCACEM, through the line of credit dispensed by the Government under
the IDPIAM, to finance paddy marketing by producer groups and others involved in that
production system on the basis of UNCACEM's realistic budget forecasts.
(c) Obtain specialized technical expertise in rice milling in order to: (i) determine, in
collaboration with those in the profession, a rice quality standard suited to the country's
needs; (ii) train operators in the use of this grid; (iii) establish a program for providing
quality testing equipment; (iv) provide technical support to rice millers wishing to
improve their units; (v) develop, in collaboration with those in the profession, standard
purchase and milling contracts; (vi) assist UNCACEM in defining criteria for evaluating
credit requests for equipment and processing.
(d) Provide the seed monitoring and certification service with laboratory equipment to
ensure that quality testing services are available during the marketing process at the
request of producers and subsector participants .
(e) Establish a system of information on prices and markets for paddy, rice, and
agricultural inputs.
(d) Inventory decentralized public and private storage capacities, and draw up a
utilization plan in collaboration with the public and private sectors.
(iii) Road transport. To help reduce marketing costs and promote the products of diversification
efforts, the Government will, in addition to the preceding measures, enforce the applicable
legislation relative to Decree 98/48 and Bylaw R075 concerning liberalization of the transport
sector.
(iv) Compliance with patents on botanical materials. Crop diversification, especially for high-
value vegetable crops, often relies on the use of patented plant material. In order to facilitate
access to botanical products protected by patents, and to safeguard the patent rights on any new
varieties that might be developed in Mauritania, Mauritania intends to become a member in 1999
of the Plant Patent Protection Union (Union pour la protection de I 'obtention vegetale - UPOV) .
(v) Regulation and monitoring of plant disease prevention. In connection with the promotion of
crop diversification for export, Mauritania will create a plant disease prevention system and will
May 25, 1999



-124-                               ANNEX 11
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY FOR IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE
establish, under Phase I of the IDPIAM, a mechanism for monitoring crop residues and a set of
disease-prevention regulations consistent with international agreements.
5.     Security of land tenure
(i). Land tenure security. The Govermnent will continue to enforce land laws stipulating - as
conditions for obtaining land use permits, temporary concession or permanent concession - the
proper development and exploitation of irrigated schemes.
(ii) Equitable distribution . The Government will take steps to ensure the equitable distribution of
land.
(ii) Land-use plan . Starting immediately, the Government will require that any future study of a
structuring land investment include a land-use plan intended to rationalize land utilization.
6.     Capacity building
(i) Strengthening socio-professional organizations . The Government will revise the legislation
applicable to cooperatives, and expand the legal scope and applicability of texts to all types of
association: GIE (groupements d'intret economique), water users' associations, large scheme
users' associations, etc. These measures will be take under Phase I of the IDPIAM.
(ii) Performance contract for SONADER. The Government will revise and adopt SONADER's
performance contract so that SONADER can make effective interventions under the IDPIAM.
The new performance contract meeting these conditions will be adopted by July 1, 1999.
(iii) MDRE. The Government will improve the capacities of the Ministry of Rural Development
and Environment in the areas of programming, monitoring and evaluation, statistics and rural
data-gathering.
7.     Basic rural infrastructures
(i) Rural roads and tracks. A program of construction and rehabilitation of rural roads and tracks
is planned under Phase II of the IDPIAM. Prior to its implementation, the Government will
develop and enforce, under Phase I of the IDPIAM, a policy concerning the management and
maintenance of these infrastructures with the participation of affected communities.
8.     Environmental impact mitigation
Regarding public investment in collective irrigation infrastructures (dikes, canals, tributaries,
drainage channels, etc.), the Government will carry out an environmental impact study and will
ensure that the means are available to mirigate the impact of these investments prior to their
implementation.
May 25, 1999



- 125 -                             ANNEX 12
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND MANAGEMENT PLAN
Mauritania: Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture
1.    The final report for the EA (Environmental Assessment) for this Category A project was
completed in August 1998, after comments of the Mauritanian Government were incorporated. The EA is
more a Sectoral EA, because the location of most investment projects is not yet known. New investment
projects will be all subject to EA. Environmental management capacity to screen, evaluate and implement
Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) will be built in phase one. There are no project alternatives in
phase one, because most of the PDIAIM in this phase consists of rehabilitation of existing irrigation
schemes.
2.     The EA consists of four volumes all in French: (1) Executive Summary; (2) Main Text; (3)
Annexes; and (4) Public Consultation. The EA provides an extensive discussion on impacts in the
Senegal River Valley which have already happened after the closure of the Manantali and Diama Dams
and impacts related to irrigation development in Mauritania in the last 30 years. The EA also describes in
detail the legal and institutional aspects related to environmental management in Mauritania.
3.     The EA report describes the environmental context of the PDIAIM program, which will have a
duration of 11 years: (1) Physical Environment and all the environmental problems related to this, such
hydrological conditions, soil salinization and alkalinity, the proposed water management of the Manantali
dam which would include an annual release of an artificial flood to reduce the environmental and social
impacts caused by the closure of the dam and the suppression of the natural annual flood; (2) Biological
Environment in the Senegal River Valley, which indicates that most of the original fauna and flora is
already gone. It describes also the new pests, such as the Typha domingensis invasion caused by
maintaining the water level at the same height, and the granivorous birds, which are eating a large part of
the rice crop, caused by rice monoculture. It describes also the ongoing desertification in and at the edge
of the valley. Health issues, such as malaria, intestinal bilharzia and others health issues, related to
changes in hydrological regime, irrigation development and elimination of the salt wedge in the Senegal
River are explored in detail. The socio-cultural environment is described in detail. Issues related to the
change in land tenure from traditional land tenure to private ownership and the problems related to this
are described.
4.     The Environmental Impacts are presented in a matrix, indicating a positive or negative impact,
importance of the impacts, duration and reversibility and possible mitigation of the impacts. Impacts are
analyzed for investment projects on water and soil, biology and ecology, socio-economic impacts, health
impacts. Similar types of impacts are analyzed for rehabilitation of irrigation systems. A preliminary
analysis is made of future investment projects.
5.     The Public Consultation process in the project area with local stakeholders has been described in
volume 4 of the final EA report. There will be no resettlement or land acquisition. The project will only
support landowners with a land title. The EA report has been available in the World Bank Resident
Mission in Nouakchott since November 1998. A Social Assessment is being finalized as part of the EA
process.
6.    In Mauritania there are extremely few reliable data available. An Environmental Economic
Analysis was attempted, but was not feasible, because of lack of even the simplest data. One of the
proposed actions in the EMP is the set-up of a network of existing institutions, which would collect data,
use them for their own purpose, but also make them available over the network to other users.



-126-                              ANNEX 12
7. The EMP (Environmental Management Plan) consists of 8 different components summarized in table
1 (page 137).
8. Monitoring and Evaluation, including M&E of the implementation of the EMP will be done for the
entire PDIAIM by the PDIAIM Coordination unit. The Mauritanian environmental and irrigation
authorities will be entirely involved in this activity.



-127 -                                       ANNEX 12
Table 1: Components of the EMP of the PDIAIM-IDA
EMP of the PDIAIM-IDA                                     Year 1        Year 2         Year 3
Environmental Management Capacity Building                Training of
25 experts
from
government
agencies,
private
consultants,
universities
and NGOs
Environmental Information System
Environmental Databases and a GIS network                Priority data  TOR for      Establish
collection    Database       databases and
development/  TOR and
installation of  Feasibility
databases     study for GIS
Modeling of water consumption on irrigation system level                             Prepare TOR
/ Implement
study
Water Supply for local groups. Construction to be executed  Wells no: 15  Wells no: 25  Wells no: 35
through NGOs                                                                           Boreholes
No: 3
Participatory Land Use Plans (POSs)                       Feasibility    Execution of  Execution of
Study for a   Land Use       Land Use
Pilot         Plan           Plan, M&E
Elaboration Environmental Norms and Manuals               Establish      Apply         Apply
TORs,         Manuals        Manuals
prepare new
manuals and
apply them in
sub-projects
Environmental Fund for Micro-projects to mitigate existing  Establish a  Identification  Identification
impacts from former irrigation development and mitigate impacts  Management  of Micro-  of Micro-
from new projects                                         Unit for the   projects on a  projects on a
fund and       demand        demand
elaborate a   driven basis.  driven basis.
Manual of     Preparation of  Preparation of
Procedures    Micro-         Micro-
projects in a  projects in a
participatory  participatory
manner        manner
Public Health mitigation plan to mitigate health impacts from  Identification  Execution of  Execution of
changes in hydrology and irrigation development, which will be  of Public  public health  public health
financed through the existing IDA financed health sector project  Health  activities to  activities to
activities    avoid and      avoid and
together with  mitigate the  mitigate the
the Ministry  impacts of     impacts of
of Health     water bome     water borne
diseases      diseases






MAP SECTION






IBRD 30312
". ALGERIA
l    - ;  .   ' ;  .   1  l l  #,^   ,   .   L  MALI
,- ~ ;y        Wn                   ,,,,:  ,.,, ,:              :,  .           EN   G/.I                    GIDM
A TLA NTICI             6
,1  /li  *¶   .                                                                      __                          /  ern.
m   - tjP iT ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i,ji ~~ ~ -I
OCEAN  *eJ½.n~.j  .         INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM           _
I' I  /             ~~~~FOR IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE (PDIAIM)                                  -ML
I '.s                       _  _.1,i,,:,, ;, ,, ., .,,,,,, ,-,,, ' .,,,W,-S               100
JUNE 7 






'0          0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
L  C                 j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 2~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 % '  ~~~~~~~~~~~r7 C
-  C                                                     I~~~~~~~~~~C
.;lts       I~~z         rC   ~         ~         fl
St, ~         ..0                  0    AOt       ~                       l
C'  1Z.1* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-



