Report No. PID3833
Project Name                     Mauritania-Integrated Development (@#) ...
Project for Irrigated Agriculture (APL)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Rural Development
Project ID                       MRPE44711
Borrower                         The Government of the Islamic
Republic of Mauritania
Implementing Agencies            MDRE
Contact : Mr. Dendou Ould Tajeddine
Directeur de l'Unite de coordination du PDIAIM
B.P. 366
Nouakchott, Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Mauritanie
Telephone/fax : 222 - 25 12 66
SONADER
Contact : Mr. Sidi Mohamed Ould Mo§ne
Directeur General
Address: B.P. 321
Nouakchott, Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Telephone: 222 - 25 21 61 & 25 18 00
UNCACEM
Contact: Mr. Bouh Ould Sid'Ahmed
Directeur General
AddresB. P 5635
Nouakchott, s: Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Telephone: 222 - 25 76 12 & 25 76 14
Date this PID Prepared           May 17, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         February 21 - March 14, 1999
Projected Board date             July 6, 1999
Country and Sector Background
Over half (51 percent) of the 2.3 million Mauritanians (1995) live in rural
areas, which remain underprivileged in comparison to the cities. In the
rural areas, only 50 percent of children go to primary school (nearly 100
percent in urban areas); one out of five women can read and write (one out of
three in urban areas); and one out three children under the age of five is
malnourished. Nearly half of the rural population resides in the Senegal
River Valley of which over half is living below the poverty threshold.
Traditional economic activities in the Valley generate low incomes and
include livestock, rainfed and flood recession agriculture, and fishing in
the Senegal River and its tributaries.
Over the last twenty years, a modern irrigated agriculture has emerged along
the Senegal river valley and expanded with the construction of two dams on
the river: the Manantali dam in the upper valley and the Diama dam at the



river mouth. The objective of the Government and its development partners
has been to: (a) improve the living conditions of poor and destitute
population particularly those living in the Valley; and (b) promote the
emergence of a modern, competitive agricultural sector by encouraging private
initiative and investment. This has resulted in the creation and equipment,
by: (a) public services, of village or community irrigated schemes in which
each family is granted a plot of about 0.5 ha parcel; and (b) private sector,
of individual schemes varying in size from a few hectares to several hundred
hectares. Because the Valley continues to attract destitute population from
drought-stricken areas, poverty alleviation in the Valley will remain one of
the Government's top priorities. In different ways, these two types of
farming help reduce poverty.
Program Development Objectives
The development objective of the overall Integrated Development Program for
Irrigated Agriculture in Mauritania (IDPIAM) is to increase agriculture
value-added, income and employment population living in the Senegal River
Valley. This will be accomplished through the judicious use of the most
precious natural assets in this country, which is 90 percent desert: the
Valley's water and arable land. The overall program aims for the
rehabilitation of nearly 20,000 ha and is expected to be supported by several
donors.
The part to be financed by IDA (the IDPIAM-IDA or Program) will be the
central component of this overall program and will, over a period of eleven
years, contribute to the rehabilitation or extension of 11,000 ha of existing
irrigation schemes and the development of 2,000 ha of new irrigated schemes,
the latter intended for diversification crops. Other donors are expected to
help for the rehabilitation of an additional area of 10,000 ha during the
same period.
The Program will also have an impact beyond the Valley itself: (a) by
generating employment and income upstream and downstream of production (input
supply, creation and maintenance of infrastructures, equipment repair and
maintenance, processing, transportation and marketing of produce and
exports); (b) by providing consumers with new agricultural products (fruits,
vegetables, oil seeds, etc.) from the Valley to replace costly imported
products; and (c) by improving the balance of trade through a reduction in
agricultural imports and the development of exports. In addition, through
the creation of rural employment and incomes, the IDPIAM will reduce rural
migration toward urban centers and eliminate the unemployment and social
problems it causes. This program will thus help to alleviate poverty.
The Program's total duration will be eleven years. IDA plans to support it
through a three-phase Adaptable Program Lending (APL): a first phase of
three years followed by two phases of four years each.
Program Description
During its eleven years of implementation, the proposed Program (IDPIAM-IDA)
will allow the Government to: (a) establish appropriate economic, legal and
institutional policies; (b) provide basic public infrastructures; and (c)
supply the support services necessary for the development of a flourishing
private sector-driven agriculture sector in the Senegal River Valley. The
-2 -



Program will also help farmers obtain the necessary financial resources to
fund investments designed on sound economic grounds. It will address, at the
same time, the environmental issues created by irrigation infrastructure and
other works. Its impact will therefore go beyond the objective of
rehabilitation/extension/creation of 13,000 ha irrigated schemes, in that it
will also help strengthen the economic, legal and institutional framework
indispensable for the Program's socio-economic, and financial sustainability.
The Program will include public funds for (a) public goods and services
(important infrastructures, agricultural extension, market development,
social services, and environmental impact mitigation); (b) the establishment
of lines of credit (loans for equipment, production and marketing); and (c)
subsidies (matching grants) to support private investment in irrigated land
improvement, crop production and marketing.
Program and Project Financing
The total program cost is estimated at US $136.0 million of which IDA would
contribute US$ 102.0 million.
Program Financing Data (US$ m)
Sources of Financing
Total Cost       Beneficiaries    Government       Cofinanciers IDA
Phase I:
2000  -  2002    46.0             3.7              3.7             0.5            38.1
(3 years)
Phase II:
2003  -  2006    45               5.0              5.0               -            35.0
(4 years)
Phase III:
2007  -  2010    45               5.0              5.0             6.1            28.9
(4 years)
Entire Program
(11 years)       136             13.7             13.7             6.6            102.0
Phase 1 Financing Plan (US$M):
Source                            Local            Foreign         Total
Contribution of the
Mauritanian Government            3.7              -                3.7
Contribution of Mauritanian
Beneficiaries                     3.7              -               3.7
Cofinanciers                      0.5              -               0.5
IDA                               15.2            22.9             38.1
Total                             23.1             22.9            46.0
-3-



Borrower: Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania (GIRM)
Guarantor:
Responsible agencies: MDRE (UC-IDPIAM), SONADER, UNCACEM
Phase I (Project) Objectives
The objective of the first phase (the Project) of the IDPIAM-IDA is to lay
the foundations for a sustainable development of irrigated agriculture in
technical, financial, environmental and socio-economic terms.
Phase I (Project) Description
The first phase (the Project) will consist of the following components: (i)
creation of an enabling policy, legal, and institutional framework; (ii)
development of basic public and private infrastructure; (iii) improvement of
farmers and farmer associations' management and organization skills; (iv)
strengthening of the traditional irrigated agriculture subsector; (v)
promotion of agricultural diversification; (vi) implementation of measures to
mitigate project adverse environmental impacts; and (vii) Project management
and monitoring & evaluation.
Phase I (the Project) is expected to provide the necessary incentives for the
rehabilitation and extension of existing irrigated schemes over an area of
about 3,000 ha and for the development of new schemes over an area of about
100 ha. Some of the Project's components (support to farm organization and
management; support to traditional crops; support to diversification;
environmental mitigation) will have a positive impact on an area well beyond
the 3,100 ha targeted in this first phase, since they will also be beneficial
to schemes that will be rehabilitated by other donors, in addition to the
IDPIAM-IDA. This aspect is important when attempting to estimate the cost of
the Project per hectare as the Project total costs cannot be attributed to
the only 3,100 hectares targeted for rehabilitation, extension or creation.
Project Implementation
Overall responsibility for Project implementation will rest with the Ministry
of Rural Development and Environment (MDRE). This responsibility will take
into account the reform policy initiated by the Mauritanian Government, which
recommends that ministries disengage themselves from certain implementation
functions, leaving them to private operators, and that public service
activities be reoriented towards policy, strategic planning, public
investment planning and monitoring/evaluation. The following set-up is
therefore envisaged:
policy coordination of the IDPIAM will be handled by an Interministerial
Coordinating Committee;
guidance of the IDPIAM will be handled by a Steering Committee;
a Project Coordinating Unit (CU-IDPIAM, already created) will be responsible
for overall Project management and coordination, financial management and
monitoring and evaluation;
oversight of studies and public infrastructure works and assistance to
producers in the areas of investment management and production techniques
will be handled by SONADER;
credit will be handled by UNCACEM; this function will be opened to other
financial institutions under Phases II and III of the Program;
- 4 -



support monitoring and control functions will be handled by various services
within MDRE, namely: the Directorate for Planning and Monitoring/Evaluation
(DPSE); the Directorate for Environment and Rural Equipment (DEAR), the
Directorate for Research, Training and Extension (DRFV); and the Directorate
for Agro-Pastoral Resources (DRAP);
specialized support functions will be provided by services other than MDRE,
namely: the National Statistics Office (ONS), NGOs, OSPs and GIEs.
Project Sustainability
All irrigation investments, to be selected for funding, will have to
demonstrate their economic and financial profitability. Long-term
profitability can be affected by the success (or failure) of the
establishment of water and maintenance fees, and the recovery of a reasonable
and acceptable proportion of those fees. Clear procedures for setting,
collecting and managing the use of those fees will be developed and enforced.
Adverse world market fluctuations would pose risks for local agricultural
production with increased integration into world markets. Providing better
market information to market participants and by promoting diversified
agricultural production and processing activities would mitigate this.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector:
The Program and the Project design draws from: (i) IDA's and other donors'
assistance to Mauritania; (ii) Mauritania's own experience in irrigated
agriculture (over 20 years); (iii) experience in other countries in the
region; and (iv) the Bank's worldwide experience in irrigation development.
Several valuable lessons have been derived from this experience and from
IDA's involvement in irrigation - particularly the Agricultural Adjustment
and Investment Project (Cr. 2093-MR) and the Small-Scale Irrigation Project
(Cr. 1571-MR):
rice produced in large-scale irrigation projects requiring an extensive and
sophisticated irrigation and drainage network and heavy pumping equipment and
involving mechanization and/or salaried labor is generally not economically
viable because production costs are too high to compete against imported
rice. Conversely, rice production on small irrigated schemes, especially
when family labor is used, can be economically sustainable;
to be fully sustainable, irrigated agriculture must produce more than one
crop per year, promote diversification, and integrate other rural activities
such as livestock raising, silviculture and river fishing;
poor drainage is one of the main causes of such environmental problems as
water logging and salinity;
operation and maintenance (O&M) of collective hydraulic infrastructures can
only be sustainable if beneficiaries are made directly responsible for it.
However, public services must provide them with training to organize
themselves;
the management of large collective schemes, currently in the hands of a
government agency (SONADER) must be transferred to cooperatives in a gradual
fashion after the appropriate preparation and training of beneficiaries. Any
unplanned transfer that is not accompanied by assistance is doomed to
failure; and
credit is indispensable for irrigated agriculture, not only for crop
production and marketing (short-term), but also, and especially, for the
equipment of schemes (medium- and long-term.). Complete subsidization, even
for the poorest populations, has a very detrimental effect;
- 5 -



Other lessons were learned from previous experiences:    (i) the practice of
rice monoculture and the emphasis on food self-sufficiency have not fostered
the emergence of a modern and competitive agriculture, nor has it reduced
rural poverty; (ii) the heavy dependency of this monoculture on public
financing has not allowed a self-sustaining irrigated agriculture to develop;
and (iii) the fragmented and uncoordinated donor assistance has made it
difficult for the Government to set priorities and manage human, material and
financial resources properly.
Program Objective Categories: Poverty alleviation
Contact Points:
Abdelkrim Oka
Task Manager
(202) 473-4749
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 25, 1999.
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
- 6 -



