Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3272-MAU
Project Agreement
(Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETÉ NATIONALE DE DÉVELOPPEMENT RURAL (SONADER)
Dated August 5, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3272-MAU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 5, 1999 between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the SOCIÉTÉ NATIONALE DE DÉVELOPPEMENT RURAL 
(SONADER).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Islamic Republic of Mauritania (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty 
eight million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 28,200,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that SONADER agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as 
are set forth in this Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
SONADER part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to SONADER on terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS SONADER in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the 
term “Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of SONADER, beginning on January 1 and ending 
on December 31 of each Gregorian calendar year. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project and other Covenants
Section 2.01. (a) SONADER declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this 
end, shall carry out Parts A.(2) (b); B.(1), B.(2) and B.(3); C.; and D.(1) of the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency pursuant to the provisions set forth in the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for Parts A.(2) (b); B.(1), B.(2) and B.(3); C 
and D.(1) of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SONADER shall carry out Parts 
A.(2) (b); B.(1), B.(2) and B.(3); C and D.(1) of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions set forth in the Implementation Plan set forth in Schedule 4 to the 
Development Credit Agreement and the Contrat programme  between the Borrower and 
SONADER in force at any time and exercise due diligence and care in furthering the 
accomplishment of the objective of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services, required for Parts A.(2) (b); B.(1), B.(2) 
and B.(3); C. and D (1) of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. SONADER shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the SONADER Project 
Agreement and Parts A.(2) (b); B.(1), B.(2) and B.(3); C and D.(1) of the Project.
Section 2.04. SONADER shall duly perform all its obligations under the SONADER 
Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SONADER shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the SONADER Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. SONADER shall:
(a)
by July 31, 2000, or such later date as the Association shall agree, have 
initiated its reorganization in accordance with terms of reference and an action plan 
acceptable to the Association; and
(b)
by the time of the Midterm Review, or such later date as the Association 
shall agree, have subcontracted at least half of the monetary volume of services 
rendered, works executed, training delivered and supervision performed in the course 
of carrying out Parts A.(2) (b); B.(1), (2) and (3); C and D.(1) of the Project.
Section 2.06. SONADER shall:
(a)
at the request of the Association, exchange views with the Association 
with regard to the progress of Parts A.(2) (b); B.(1), B.(2) and B.(3); C and D.(1) of 
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
SONADER Subsidiary Grant Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Credit or the accomplishment of the objective of the Project;
(b)
promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit and the objectives of the Project, or the performance by 
Page  3
SONADER of its obligations under this Agreement and under the SONADER Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement;
(c)
no later than November 30 of each year during the execution of the 
Project, prepare a report on its services rendered in the Project Area in the course 
of implementing the Project during the previous calendar year including 
recommendations for any improvements to be made;
(d)
no later than December 31 of each year during the execution of the 
Project, discuss said reports with the Borrower and the Association; and
(e)
promptly thereafter take all measures agreed upon by SONADER, the 
Borrower and the Association to improve SONADER's performance in accomplishing the 
objective of the Project.
Section 2.07. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement, SONADER shall participate in the Annual Reviews and the Midterm Review 
referred to in paragraph (3) of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of SONADER
Section 3.01. SONADER shall carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and technical practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SONADER shall at all times operate and maintain its facility, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative 
and technical practices.
Section 3.03. SONADER shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such 
risks, other than the risk of default under credit provided by SONADER, and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, SONADER shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association no later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and SONADER, a 
plan for the future evolution of its services to irrigated agriculture in the Project 
Area, and 
(b)
afford the Association reasonable opportunity to exchange views on said 
plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SONADER shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition.
(b)
SONADER shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each Fiscal Year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case 
Page  4
not later 
than four months after the end of each Fiscal Year, 
the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested;
(iii)
furnish to the Association no later than three months after the 
Effective 
Date, or such other time as the Association shall 
agree: (A) its suppliers and 
client’s accounts as per June 30, 1999, 
in form and substance acceptable to 
the Association, and (B) 
reconciliation statements between funds received from 
its donors 
and those recorded in its accounts as per June 30, 1999, indicating 
discrepancies and their budgetary correction, if any, in form and substance 
acceptable to the Association; and
(iv)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination, 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
SONADER thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
the date fifteen (15) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify SONADER 
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, DC
 64145 (MCI)
Page  5
For SONADER:
Société Nationale de Développement Rural
B.P. 321
NOUAKCHOTT
République Islamique de Mauritanie
Telefax:
(222-2) 53286
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SONADER or by 
SONADER on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken 
or executed by its Director General, or by such other person or persons as SONADER 
shall designate in writing, and SONADER shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Praful C. Patel
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SOCIÉTÉ NATIONALE DE DÉVELOPPEMENT RURAL
By /s/ Ahmed Khlifa Ould Jiddou 
Authorized Representative
