                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 34787

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-32720 PPFI-Q0280)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR28.2 MILLION (US$38.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF

                                             MAURITANIA

                                                FOR THE

          INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT FOR IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE

                              IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE

          INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM FOR IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE




                                           December 28 , 2005




Rural Development 4
Country Department 15
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective December 2005)

                               Currency Unit = Mauritanian Ouguiyas
                                      UM 280 = US$ 1.00
                                    US$ 0.36 = UM 100

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1     December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGETA     Association Générale des Groupements d'Exploitants et Eleveurs pour l'Etude et l'Emploi
          des Techniques Améliorées Agricoles et Animales- Association of Livestock Farmers and
          Growers for the Use of Improved Agricultural and Animal Technology
AGSECAL   Agricultural Sector Ajustment Loan
APL       Adaptable Program Lending
BAF       Bureau des Affaires Foncières -Land Tenure Bureau
CIMOS     Comité Interministériel d'Orientation et de Suivi- Interministerial Committee on
          Orientation and Evaluation
CNPM      Confédération Nationale du Patronat de Mauritanie - National Confederation of
          Patronage in Mauritania
CNRADA    Centre National de Recherche Agronomique pour le Développement Agricole -
          National Center for Agronomy Research for the Development of Agriculture
CP        Comité de Pilotage- Steering Committee
DE        Direction de l'Elevage- Livestock Directorate
DEAR      Direction de l'Environnement et de l'Aménagement Rural - Environment and Rural
          Equipment Directorate
DPSE      Direction des politiques et du suivi-évaluation - Policy and Monitoring/Evaluation
          Directorate
DRAP      Direction des ressources agro-pastorales - Directorate for Agro-pastoral Resources
DRFV      Direction de la recherche, de la formation et de la vulgarisation - Research,
          Training and Extension Directorate
EMEA      Enquête Ménage et Exploitants Agricoles - Households and farmers study
FAEM      Fédération des Agriculteurs et Eleveurs de Mauritanie - National Federation of
          Agriculuralists and Livestock Farmers of Mauritania
GDM       Société des Grands Domaines de Mauritanie
GIE       Groupe d'Intérêt Economique - Economic Interest Group
MDRE      Ministère du développement rural et de l'environnement - Ministry of Rural Development
          and Environment
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
OMC       Organisation Mondiale du Commerce - World Trade Organization
SONADER   Société nationale pour le développement rural - National Agency for Rural
          Development
UC-PDIAIM Project Coordination Unit - Unité de Coordination du PDIAIM
UGS       Unité de Gestion de Semences - Unit for seeds management

UNCACEM  Union nationale des coopératives agricoles de crédit et d'épargne de Mauritanie - Union
         of agricultural savings and loan cooperatives
UCAF    Union des Coopératives Agricoles de Foum-Gleita - Union of Agricultural
        Cooperatives of Foum-Gleita
WARDA    Africa Rice Center



                              Vice President:    Gobind T. Nankani
                   Acting Country Director:      Darietou Gaye
                            Sector Manager:      Mary Barton-Dock
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Ismael S. Ouedraogo

                                        MAURITANIA
  INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT FOR IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 33
Annex Mid-Term Review Aide-Memoire                                               47
Annex IBRD Maps No. 30312 R1 and 30313 R2                                        61

Project ID: P044711                                                  Project Name: MR-Iirrigated Agr Integr Dev APL
                                                                     (FY00)
Team Leader: Ismael Ouedraogo                                        TL Unit: AFTS4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 28, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: MR-Iirrigated Agr Integr Dev APL (FY00)                  L/C/TF Number: IDA-32720; PPFI-Q0280
   Country/Department: MAURITANIA                                                         Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General public administration sector (44%); Crops (26%); Irrigation and drainage (20%);
                            Agricultural extension and research (6%); Roads and highways (4%)
                  Theme: Export development and competitiveness (P); Infrastructure services for private sector
                            development (P); Rural markets (P); Water resource management (P); Land administration
                            and management (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/14/1998                                     Effective: 12/19/1999                12/16/1999
     Appraisal: 03/16/1999                                         MTR: 06/30/2001                  02/19/2002
      Approval: 07/08/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MRDE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Darietou Gaye (Acting)                         Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager:                 Mary A. Barton-Dock                            Jean-Paul Chausse
Team Leader at ICR:             Ismael Ouedraogo                               Abdelkrim Oka
ICR Primary Author:             Lucie H.G. Tran


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The development objective of the Adaptable Program Lending (APL) - the Integrated Development
Program for Irrigation Agriculture in Mauritania (IDPIAM) - is to increase agriculture value-added,
income and employment for the population living in the Senegal River Valley, through the judicious use of
the country's most precious natural assets, which is 90 percent desert: the Valley's water and arable land.

The objective of the APL's Phase 1 (the Project) is to lay the foundations for a sustainable development of
irrigated agriculture in technical, financial, environmental and socio-economic terms through the following
components: (i) creation of an enabling policy, legal, and institutional framework: (ii) development of basic
infrastructure; (iii) improvement of farmers' and farmer associations' management and organization skills;
(iv) strengthening of the traditional irrigated agriculture subsector; (v) promotion of agricultural
diversification; (vi) implementation of measures to mitigate project adverse environmental impacts; and
(vii) project management and monitoring and evaluation.

The project was responsive to the Borrower development priorities. However, it was complex and risky to
implement because adopting a holistic approach to integrated rural development, combined with
controversial policy and regulatory reforms, was ambitious and innovative. The project attempted to solve
a large variety of problems in the irrigation subsector: provision of inputs, rehabilitation of irrigation
schemes, improvement of rice production, agricultural diversification, agricultural service delivery, public
infrastructure, socio-economic aspects, safeguards, and the coordination and monitoring of such activities.
The project was demanding to implement for the project coordination unit because of the complexity of the
integrated approach, the scope of activities, and the geographical area covered, as well as the number of
components (objectives) which required skillful monitoring, collaboration, and coordination across multiple
agencies (14 in total). In addition, the project was required institutional reforms or restructuring of some of
its own implementing agencies, to be carried out under the larger umbrella of national policy reforms (rice
liberalization).

The project design was appropriate for laying the foundation for achieving the long-term development
objectives of the Adjustable Program Loan (APL), which were agreed upon with the Government of
Mauritania for development of the Senegal River Valley. The project design incorporated the lessons on
suitable methods and viable options for developing collective irrigated schemes versus large-scale irrigation
projects, the profitability and competitive advantages of producing rice locally, options for providing access
to credit, sustainable operation and maintenance of collective infrastructure, and the effects of dependency
on monoculture. It also tried to address the degradation of individual and village schemes which were built
10-20 years earliler. Although constructed properly, these suffered from lack of medium and long-term
credit for important maintenance and repairs and for rehabilitation. Poor farmers' organization and lack of
formal recognition of such organizations also contributed to the degradation. The Line of Credit (LOC)
was designed to address this gap (see end of Section 4.2).

The APL was designed in three phases. Phase 1 was to be implemented in three years, and the subsequent
phases in five years each, with flexibility built into each phase for adjustments to changing capacity,
results, and conditions.     Progress from one phase to the next was monitored with policy requirements,
triggers and linkages to the overall program objective. The first phase used existing sectoral reforms and
policies already initiated by the Government to strengthen further the institutional and legal framework
while addressing sectoral weaknesses (sources of growth, supporting infrastructure, environmental issues,
lack of credit). This was carried out within an integrated, holistic framework, which avoided a piecemeal
approach to development under individual projects. However, the Phase 1 implementation period of only



                                                      - 2 -

three years was unrealistic and too short to carry out the range of project activities which required a longer
time frame to show results (e.g., land registration, irrigation infrastructure, policy reforms). Consequently,
the project was extended by two and a half years from the original closing date of December 31, 2002 to
June 30, 2005. The design of the rehabilitation/public infrastructure component was overly optimistic on
the pace of implementation and it underestimated the time it would take to establish the groundworks before
rehabilitation could take place. The key performance indicators for the first phase were numerous and
complex, generic, and lacking in quantitative outputs, making it difficult for the Bank and Borrower to
monitor. They were modified following the mid-term review.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
As stated in the Project Appraisal Document, the components were:

Component A. Development of a Sound Policy, Legal and Institutional Framework (US$3.74 million).
Component B: Development of Basic Infrastructure (US$13.16 million).
Component C: Support to Farm Management and Organization (US$1.11 million).
Component D: Support for Traditional Crops Subsector (US$11.70 million).
Component E: Diversification Promotion (US$8.07 million).
Component F: Environmental Impact Mitigation Measures (US$3.14 million).
Component G: Project Management, Supervision, Monitoring & Evaluation (US$3.85 million).

3.4 Revised Components:
N.A.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated satisfactory. A Quality Assessment Group interview was carried out on May 20,
1999. Questions were raised on the economics of rice production and scope for productivity improvement,
the causes of declining performance and scope for rehabilitation, monitoring and evaluation,
conditionalities, and the high cost unit costs of rehabilitation. The project team responded satisfactorily to
the questions (memorandum dated May 21, 1999 available in institutional files) and suggestions were taken
into account in the PAD. The program's objectives were consistent with the CAS and was important for
the Government's objective of reducing poverty through accelerated private sector-led growth.               The
program builds on the positive results achieved under the SAL (1987) and the AGSECAL (1990)
(liberalization of pricing and marketing of cereals, privatization of rice mills, creation of better rural credit
systems, restructuring of the Ministry of Rural Development and SONADER, implementation of land
reforms in the pilot area in Trarza, devaluation of rice to make domestic rice more competitive). The rural
sector was seen as playing a crucial role in generating employment and growth, and the development of
irrigated agriculture, through to the year 2010 and was seen as a focal point in the Government's Rural
Development Strategy adopted in March 1998, and in the Letter of Development Policy for Irrigation
Agriculture. Adequate attention was given to fidicuary aspects and provisions were made for complying
with Bank safeguard policies which included pest management (collaboration with health projects),
preparation of an Environmental Assessment and Management Plan for a Category A project, and capacity
building and training in the area of environmental monitoring for agencies concerned.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The objectives of Phase 1, as measured by the triggers for moving into Phase 2, have been met,



                                                      - 3 -

specifically:

(a)    Liberalization measures for agricultural markets negotiated in 1999 remain in place, i.e., no increase
       in import tariff on rice is set at 45 percent, no import quota, no administrative pricing, no interest
       subsidies on rice marketing.
(b)    The credit agency, UNCACEM, has achieved operational and financial self-sufficiency, i.e., financial
       self-sufficiency in 2002 (one year later than expected due to loan rescheduling for the 1999-2000
       flood victims).
(c)    Credit and investment subsidies are granted in accordance with procedures agreed with IDA (as
       confirmed in audits);
(d)    Awards of land use concessions are in conformity with land tenure regulations. New changes were
       introduced in 2002 to shorten land distribution process from three to two stages (provisional and
       permanent concessions).      The amended law also recognized land rights for cooperatives that
       developed land before the tenure law came into effect.
(e)    Transparent and accessible land registries are established permitting confirmation of land tenure.
(f)    Procedures are established for collecting of water fees, and operation and management fees for public
       infrastructure works. A charter for the operation and maintenance of public schemes was signed
       between SONADER and the rice producers cooperatives.
(g)    Economic return of Government-supported irrigation infrastructures demonstrated satisfactorily -
       through feasibility studies (access to investment credit and matching grant for irrigation development
       is dependent on satisfactory financial and economic rates of return).
(h)    The performance of SONADER is satisfactory using criteria established in performance contract
       under the project (establishment of a suitable financial management system, reduction of
       administrative costs, and staff costs).

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A. Developing a Sound Policy, Legal and Institutional Framework (US$3.74 million).

The objectives of this component to develop a sound policy, legal and institutional framework and adoption
of liberalization measures for agricultural markets and transport services have been met and capacity
building of the key implementing institutions has been successful; as such, this component is rated
satisfactory.

This component funded: (i) studies to prepare laws and regulations for taxes and tariffs for agricultural
produce and trade, transport, rural land tenure, transfer and registration, and rural property taxation,
regulation of agricultural organizations, and export promotion for rural products through technical advisory
services and training programs; and (ii) strengthened the institutional framework and capacity of the
Ministry of Rural Development and Environment (Ministère du développement rural et de l'environnement -
MDRE), the National Agency for Rural Development (Société nationale pour le développement rural -
SONADER), and the Union of Agricultural Savings and Loan Cooperatives (Union nationale des
coopératives agricoles de crédit et d'éparge de Mauritanie - UNCACEM).

Liberalization of Rice Marketing was successfully implemented by the Government of Mauritania, i.e.,
(i) maintaining the taxes on imported rice at the same level; (ii) no intervention in the import of rice; and
(iii) no intervention at the national level in rice marketing (price fixing, purchase quotas, and interest rate
subsidies on loans for producers and sellers). This contributed to improving rice quality and paddy yields,
pushing up the price of both paddy and local rice. Such improvements motivated rice producers and mill
owners to improve the quality of local rice and products through better seed selection and use of improved
processing techniques. By the end of only two cropping seasons, Mauritanian rice had improved to a level



                                                      - 4 -

where it became difficult for the consumer to differentiate between local and imported rice. Producers who
were producing rice of a poorer quality and selling it at inflated prices were pushed out of production.
More successful producers increased their investments and began to seek financing for improvements, such
as storage facilities and processing equipment, through loans provided by UNCACEM. Major studies on
agricultural tariffs, constraints to legislation and formation of socio-professional organizations, review of
transport sector policies and risks, marketing policies on the movement of goods and agricultural
production across the country, were carried out. As a result, the country adopted regulations to liberalize
public transport fees. Four studies related to land tax and land rights were not completed pending the
completion of a preliminary study on land use planning.

Land Tenure. Implementation of the 1990 land tenure law moved slowly because the Bureau des Affaires
Foncières (BAF), which was responsible for processing land registration applications had insufficient funds
for its operations when support under European Union ended in January 2001. An urgent, 12-month
backlog of some 659 applications from associations as well as individuals for land registration were
delayed until the project agreed to fund the BAF. With the Government's issuance of a decree on the
transfer of property rights, land registration was completed for about 768 applications by the end of the
project. In terms of surface area, this represented about 36,704 ha out of the available 45,000 ha of land
suitable for rice production, and one third of the 36,704 ha are collective schemes. Through the project,
inhabitants of the Valley were assisted with land registration, systems for planning, implementing, and
monitoring land use were put in place, as well as surveillance mechanisms to monitor transparency and
potential sources of conflict.

Norms for the design and implementation of irrigation schemes including technical specifications,
established at appraisal proved to be too demanding and therefore too costly for farmers and cooperatives
to comply with causing delays in their applications for credit financing which were dependent on meeting
these norms. These were later revised.

Capacity Building of Institutions:
(a)      MDRE.        The MDRE was reorganized to redefine the roles of its agencies and improve
communication, and information flow: the Directorate for Policy and Monitoring (DPSE) was reorganized
into the Direction des Politiques, de la Coopération et du Suivi-Evaluation (DPCSE); the DEAR was
divided into two divisions - the Direction de l'Environnement (DENV) and the Direction de l'Aménagement
Rural (DAR); and the DEA was reorganized into the Direction de l'Elevage (DE) and the Direction de
l'Agriculture (DA). In terms of building capacity in data collection under the project, the DPCSE and its
regional offices were supported with office equipment, transport, and various training including M&E tools
and techniques, team management, GIS, agricultural statistics, and information technology to strengthen
capacity in data collection and monitoring. DPSE provides reliable agro-pastoral data with SIAP (Système
d'information agro-pastorales) established to capture agricultural statistics, provides regular surveys
(EMEA), and data collection which have been carried out since 2000 as part of M&E. Results are
disseminated and endorsed in stakeholder workshops.

(b)      SONADER had a key role in project implementation but began its involvement with a sluggish
performance. The organization had undergone three changes of directors until late in 2002 when a new
Directeur Général was appointed and implementation accelerated. SONADER was restructured into a
leaner institution with the voluntary departure of 113 employees, reducing personnel and operating costs 20
percent and 12 percent respectively to meet the requirements of the performance contract. Staff were
redeployed to improve service delivery, and linkages between project activities and staff competencies.
SONADER has updated its financial management system, produces acceptable financial management
reports to the Bank, and established a financial and budgetary management unit. Under this component, an


                                                      - 5 -

intranet system which has been set up at the Nouakchott headquarters now links the regional offices and
facilitates information access for staff in the field, and a human resources development plan was
imlemented providing training to staff (12 professionals and 29 agents) in such areas as participatory
approaches, use of rural communication tools, and updated techniques for, e.g., weed control.

(c)      UNCACEM. Analysis of UNCACEM's performance at the end of the project confirmed that the
agency has reached financial and operational self-sufficiency by 2001; this was a trigger for moving from
Phase 1 to Phase 2.       Under the component, full-time technical assistance was provided to assist
UNCACEM in improving its performance in executing its credit line, and in providing quality financial,
management and marketing advice to clients such as the cooperatives (Groupement d'Intérêts Economiques
- GIEs) and the unions of cooperatives of large irrigation schemes. Other outputs include: an information
system in place to improve monitoring and evaluation, a study on banking guarantees and regulations
completed, and training in banking techniques and credit management carried for four higher level staff.
An organizational audit was also carried out, but UNCACEM did not need to be reorganized since it had
formulated a human resources development plan for its staff and demonstrated a strong performance in
reaching project targets.

Component B: Development of Basic Infrastructure (US$13.12 million).

This component is rated unsatisfactory. The objectives of the component was to prepare the foundation
for future investments in sustainable irrigation. Although many of the activities such as the completion of
preparatory studies for basic infrastructure, establishment of the framework for rehabilitation of schemes,
and research and development tests were carried out, the results in rehabilitation fell short of the physical
targets set at appraisal. Activities which were not completed will have to be carried over to the subsequent
phases and the pace of implementation accelerated to meet the physical targets in the next phase. It was
implemented by UC-PDIAIM. Financing was provided through loans by UNCACEM and grants through
the project.

Public Infrastructure.     The priority studies for preparing investments in Phase 2 were completed,
including: (i) the master plan for management of the Gorgol Valley which was also discussed with
stakeholders during workshops; (ii) a master plan for irrigation and drainage works, and land occupation
for the Koundi 1-5 area; and (iii) check-up of the Foum-Gleita dam and studies on sand accumulation.
Also completed were rural tracks to facilitate access to irrigated perimeters in Gani to Dar el Barka.
Studies which were delayed or cancelled due to lack of funds or low priority include: water use and
management and the participation of the Gouere users' association which is expected to start in Phase 2;
facilitation of access to water in the Gorgol, Guidimarkha, Brakna, Trarza areas; rehabilitation of large,
collective, irrigated schemes (partially completed due to lack of funds); and integrated development
program and options in the Garak-Sokam area, including an environmental impact and feasibility study
(lack of funds); these are expected to be completed in Phase 2. Crossings and small bridges were planned
but were not constructed because the Government decided that these were the responsibility of the
Transport Department and should not be funded under the project; the construction of hydraulic
infrastructure works in selected areas; and the construction of an inverted drain to siphon excess sand and
clear obstructions at the Foum-Gleita dam was delayed because SONADER cancelled the contract with a
poorly performing contractor.

Rehabilitation, expansion and creation of irrigated schemes. This sub-component experienced serious
delays in project implementation mainly because activities required for rehabilitation/expansion/creation to
take place also met with delays and problems. These included: the lack of land titles and delays in
securing them for farmers; delays in obtaining legal status for farmer organizations; unmet eligibility


                                                     - 6 -

criteria from applicants seeking credit assistance; rehabilitation norms which were too demanding and,
therefore, too costly for farmers to comply with; the poor performance of contractors who won bids for
studies and civil works but were poorly prepared for the work combined with the initially poor supervision
by SONADER; an unattractive funding scheme (individual farmers complained that the ratio of credit to
matching grant was too high); and the 50-80 percent increase in the cost of rehabilitation by mid project; all
contributed to delays in start-up of the component well into 2001, hampering efforts to rehabilitate the
schemes.

Farmers from collective schemes of 20 ha or more were the most interested in the credit/subsidy program,
while individual farmers with larger farms were not interested in using credit for rehabilitation (the
matching grant portion was considered too low) and did not want to comply with the specified modes of
implementation. The project received requests for rehabilitation for only five cooperative schemes (210 ha)
by 2000, whereas it had expected individual farmers to contribute to half of the targeted 3,100 ha. Studies
related to the schemes were submitted late (end 2001) and had to be revised by SONADER further delaying
the process. By 2004, the cost of rehabilitating a hectare of land had increased substantially from an
estimated UM 300,000/ha in 2000 to UM 800,000/ha. The technical norms and eligibility criteria were
subsequently revised, and new studies carried out for additional schemes which began rehabilitation in
2003. The criteria for credit and subsidies were revised for collective farmers (70 percent subsidy rate
versus the initial 50 percent, 20 percent of credit, and 10 percent personal contribution) to attract collective
scheme farmers, and measures were taken at mid-term review to remove constraints allowing more than
700 cases of land registration to be processed. These measures did succeed in increasing the pace of
rehabilitation for collective farmers so that, by the end of Phase 1, about 1,000 ha of the 1,500 ha targeted
for collective schemes had been rehabilitated. However, these had not yet gone into production by project
closing.

Research and Development was subcontracted by SONADER to CNRADA which successfully carried
out drip and sprinkler irrigation tests in the Trarza and Gorgol. Tests and demonstrations on drip irrigation
were used to identify major constraints to its adoption in terms of conditions and soil types. Results from
drainage and soil salinity tests are available for assessing the effects on water and soil degradation under
irrigation. Drainage systems testing were carried out and asian and european pumps (13), tested and
installed in various locations to improve irrigation operations.

Component C: Support to Farm Management and Organization (US$1.11 million).

This component is rated satisfactory. The objective of this component was to provide support to farmers
and farmers' organizations/federations in administration, financial management, and maintenance of
irrigation schemes and equipment; and strengthen capacity for selected farmers in operational and financial
management and maintenance of these assets.            SONADER executed this component satisfactorily,
particularly in the areas of training, and the transfer of technical knowledge and management capacity to
producer organizations.       Some important studies on improvement of advisory services and the
communication strategy were not carried out which could have helped to improve service delivery and
should be addressed in Phase 2. However, important achievements were made in empowering producers
and producers' organizations, and in assisting associations to obtain land registration, legal status, and
access to credit provided by UNCACEM. Women's associations were also able to gain access to credit,
which they did not have prior to the project.

Although execution of this component moved slowly during the first two years of project implementation,
being afflicted by similar constraints to Component B, recommendations were made at the Mid-term
Review and measures taken which accelerated the pace of implementation:                (i) development of a


                                                      - 7 -

communication strategy, (ii) establishment of contracts with service providers with a clear program of
services which are demand driven; (iii) development of a financial base for producers to access services,
(iv) encouraging transparency in the award of contracts; (v) establishment of an inventory of private sector
service providers; (vi) creation and animation of regional fora to allow producers to discuss their needs and
to provide a base for information dissemination; (vii) incorporation of gender sensitivity in planning
advisory services; (viii) improvement and monitoring of SONADER's response to needs of producers; and
(ix) the merging of Component C with D1 (Technical Support to the Traditional Crops Sector) to enable
SONADER to provide services more effectively by production group and theme. The changes in personnel
also contributed to improvements in SONADER's performance.

Support to Collective Farm Management and Organization. SONADER created the regular forum and
facilitated the gathering where farmers and providers of services came together to agree on and engage in
contracts for services. SONADER also formed multi-disciplinary teams to improve service delivery and
added a gender specialist to implement the gender strategy in its work program. However, the creation of a
regional development committee to manage regional funds for procurement of technical assistance and
training services was planned but did not materialize. Extension services, various seminars and training
sessions(functional literacy, financial management, basic bookeeping, farm management, etc.), study tours,
and assistance to women's cooperatives (including literacy, food processing, marketing) have been carried
out. About 343 producers' organizations now have legal status and are officially recognized, including 199
cooperatives which have managed to maintain their eligibility for credit and matching grants. Training and
technical assistance were offered in functional literacy (1,150 farmers); management (448 members of
OSPs); technical/maintenance for workers of cooperatives (189) and individual farms (92); 160
cooperatives were assisted for the preparation of their production campaign; extension sessions about legal
texts to 52 cooperatives; and farm diagnostic for 132 cooperatives and 25 individuals. Consultation
services requested by associations included: establishing the financial accounts of the UCAF, formulating
a common legal statute for the union of cooperatives and the GIEs to negotiate for the large schemes, and
analysis of the financial viability of two women's association in in Foum-Gleita and in Lexeiba.

By 2003, there was an overall improvement in the design and implementation of extension services by
SONADER. Participative methods and diagnostic tools were systematically employed to engage producers
in formulating and endorsing work programs, preparing bidding documents for service contracts, and for
local committees to monitor the quality of services provided by contractors. A commmunication strategy
was also put in place to disseminate information on rural issues and extension services through local radio
stations and national television.

Support to Federating Organizations. The APL was initially met with strong opposition from the
Fédération des Agriculteurs et Eleveurs de Mauritanie (FAEM), a national umbrella organization of
individual farmers which was instrumental in negotiating a credit envelope for individual farmers with the
Bank at the time of appraisal. After the project yielded positive results in the development of the local rice
market, prices for local rice rose, the FAEM offered its support to the program. Under funding from Phase
1, the national federation received technical assistance in improving management and structure, establishing
regional branches in the High Valley and staffing to represent the region effectively, office equipment and
supplies, publication of a bulletin, training and study tours, and assistance with subscription fees to the
Confédération Nationale du Patronat de Mauritanie (CNPM).

Support to Institutions and their Financing.          The AGETA (Association générale des groupements
d'exploitants et éleveurs pour l'étude et l'emploi des techniques améliorées agricoles et animales), was an
organization established by French donors to provide advice and technical assistance to individual farmers.
SONADER's mandate at the time was to provide such services to cooperatives. When AGETA later faded


                                                     - 8 -

due to poor management and insufficient funding, SONADER filled the service gap by subcontracting the
private sector to provide the services. Subsequently, about 30 private sector operators are now employed
as advisory service providers to cooperatives and individual farmers.

Transfer of State-managed Schemes to Farmer Groups. Before the project, the maintenance of large
collective schemes was created with public funds and donor funding and co-managed by SONADER. The
system was unsustainable. Water usage fees paid to SONADER were insufficient to cover operating costs
and the farmers claimed not to be able to afford the fees. However, during the project, SONADER
successfully carried out a participative process with the union of cooperatives and producer organizations
to negotiate a solution to the problem. The cooperatives and producer organizations subsequently signed a
charter to establish procedures for collecting water fees which provided the necessary mechanisms for
transfering responsibility for managing public schemes to producers and users in the future; this was a
trigger for Phase 1 to move into Phase 2.

Component D: Support for Traditional Crops Subsector (US$11.70 million).

The objectives of supporting the development of the traditional rice sector under this component have
largely been met and the component is rated satisfactory.

This component was implemented by SONADER and supported the training of trainers and agricultural
producers in improving the quality of rice production and productivity in flood recession agriculture,
production and extension of traditional farm products, adapted technology and mechanization of
agricultural activities, definition and establishment of quality standards for rice, and dissemination of
market information. It also funded participatory identification, appraisal, design, implementation and
supervision of activities initiated by communities and individual farmers, and access to credit through loans
provided by UNCACEM, and grants for agricultural inputs, rice processing equipment, marketing
initiatives, and contruction of storage facilities for crops.

The component provided support to the Centre de Contrôle de la Qualité des Semences et Plantes
(CCQSP), and to the Unité de Gestion des Semences (UGS) to develop, distribute and control the quality of
improved rice seed though training, equipment and technical assistance. The Interprofessionnelle des
Semences et Plants de Mauritanie (ISPM) was supported through training. Several workshops were also
held to raise the awareness of producers, combined with training on multiplication techniques for
multipliers. A technical manual has also been produced. Contracts with WARDA, the Africa Rice Center,
to establish production techniques and irrigation drainage have been successfully carried out.

The quality of paddy rice has increased considerably with the use of certified seed under the project.
Controls in place to ensure seed quality at all stages of production for certified seeds has improved its
reputation and demand from producers, production or local rice and yield has increased. Eight seed
processing centers have now been established, out of which six are operational with the right qualification
and sorting equipment. The capacity of the institutions involved in the propagation of seeds has been
strengthened (UGS, ISP, CCQSP), and a catalog of national seed varieties (Catalogue National des
Espèces de Variétés) has been developed.

Under the new liberalized policy environment, rice marketing operations saw an increase in the price of
local rice on the domestic market. Prices were maintained despite that fact that not all of the targeted
rehabilitation was not completed, which meant that the solid framework put in place through the project
was a success. The new policy environment also saw the emergence of new small actors, the GIEs which
were made up of small private traders and rice millers, and formed with the assistance of UNCACEM for


                                                       - 9 -

producers in Borghé and Kaédi. Despite the compounded effects of policy changes, collapse in the world
price of rice, and natural disasters such as floods, the level of stakeholder commitment remained strong
weathering the transition successfully. The table below illustrates the corresponding production and prices
of local rice on the domestic market:

Cropping Season            2000/2001          2001/2002          2002/2003            2003/2004
Surface Area (ha)          17,938             13,586             19,362               16,879
Production (tons)         76,200              62,496             85,272               75,993
Yield (tons/ha)           4.24                4.60               4.40                 4.50
Avg. Price (UM/kg)         n.a.               104                109                  120
Sources: Enquête ménagers et exploitants agricoles (EMEA), PDIAIM (SIM/Riz) Mauritanie.

SONADER provided support to GIEs for the marketing and selling of local rice. This included technical
assistance in sampling, monitoring of test results, building capacity through training in sampling
techniques, training in quality assessments, and training in identification of varieties. However, there was
often a shortage of sorting and processing equipment. Financial support was provided through grants and
through UNCACEM's line of credit consisting of short-term loans for agricultural inputs and marketing,
medium-term credit for processing equipment, and long-term loans for grain storage facilities for producer
organizations and individual farmers.

Financing provided by UNCACEM for seed and rice marketing totalled UM253 million in 1999 for about
5,000 tons of paddy rice, and increased to UM389 million for about 10,000 tons in 2003/2004. Seasonal
credit for agricultural campaigns, provided on a short-term to medium-term basis for the purchase of
agricultural equipment, increased from UM294 million (US$1.05 million) in 2001 to UM510 million
(US$1.82 million) in 2004.

Component E: Diversification Promotion (US$8.07 million).

This component is rated highly satisfactory because it has met the objectives of promoting and developing
diversification and exceeded most of the targets set at appraisal.

This component was implemented by UC-PDIAIM, and funded the development of agricultural
diversification in the project area (studies to identify commercial opportunities and production options for
the extension of diversified, non-traditional crops; financing for pilot activities to test the recommendations
of such studies; establishment of a data base in the Project Coordination Unit/Unité de coordination of
PDIAIM (UC-PDIAIM) on agricultural production, crop diversification, technical and marketing
information; and equipment and training for project unit staff. Financing was provided by UNCACEM.

The diversification component began with tests in a small 2.5 ha plot in Rosso to grow melon, tomatoes
and bell peppers using new technologies, including drip irrigation and plastic straw.              Melons were
particularly successful yielding 42T/ha by the end of 2001, and results on test plots were positive enough to
attract a private sector partner, the Société des Grands Domaines de Mauritanie (GDM), a subsidiary of
Compagnie Fruitière, an international producer and exporter of fruits and vegetables. GDM entered into a
contract with IDPIAM and established an initial pilot operation of 20 ha to test 18 different products for
export. With the entrance of GDM, production accelerated. By the end of the project, the test plots have
been expanded to 60 ha. GDM also applied for credit from UNCACEM under the project. For the first
time in the country's history, Mauritania is exporting fruits and vegetables to Europe and melons Senegal.
The targets for preparing plots for diversification have been exceeded, counter-season vegetables were



                                                     - 10 -

being produced, and a total of 1,800 tons of fruits and vegetables have been exported since 2001 (see table
below):

Year                   2000/2001         2001/2002         2002/2003         2003/2004       Total
Quantity (tons)        100               225               675               800             1,800

Diversification has encouraged farmers to be more innovative in planting profitable agricultural products as
well as venturing outside of traditional periods to plant crops and increase their incomes. Diversified crops
include melon, gombo, hot peppers, bell peppers, tomatoes, eggplant, squash, turnips, fodder crops, green
beans, and cherry tomatoes, destined for local markets in Noukchott, Rosso, Boghé and Kaédi, with export
of melons to Senegal (beginning with 15 tons in 2004) and additional products to the European markets of
France, England, and The Netherlands (about 800 tons by end of 2004, and 1,800 tons cumulatively from
2000-2004). The total area that has been developed for new products is at 150 ha, exceeding the target of
100 ha estimated at appraisal. Market information is available in the form of weekly bulletins on prices for
fruits and vegetables in Nouakchott, Rosso and Kaedi markets, as well as a website.

Private Sector Participation. Mauritanian brand names for the agricultural produce have been created by
two GIE groups, "Carmelita" and "Caravan" which have set up an export committee with GDM's support
to oversee air and sea logistics and ensure synergy in the processing and marketing. The products will be
shipped by sea through Dakar. Other contracts with private sector institutions include: SITAG-Fourrage
for a system of irrigation adapted to cereals for fodder crops (11 ha), SICAP for supply of 10 ha for
fuelwood, and seedlings for fruit trees (for 10,000 plants/yr), SOMAGIR for arboculture (12 ha), and
GDM for sweet potatoes.

Infrastructure.     Implementation was hampered somewhat by bureaucractic obstruction caused by the
National Procurement Agency when the airport hangar and the pilot center at Rosso came under national
competitive bidding, and delays from contractors experiencing financial difficulties. However, a temporary
collective processing center was set up in Rosso and a cold storage truck purchased to offset the delays.
Construction of a second center by GDM has also been initiated and will be funded under the second phase.

Financing. In terms of demand for credit, more than 200 requests have been made to UNCACEM for
credit assistance, out of which 91 have been approved for diversification totalling 508 ha (additional to the
150 ha already developed for new products). This is estimated at about UM660 million (about US$2.4
million at current exchange rates).          Credit was also provided to two companies, GDM and
Horti-Mauritanie, totalling UM340 million (US$1.2 million) from 2001-2003, of which UM212 million
(US$0.76 million) was for short-term financing, and UM127 million for long-term.

Component F: Environmental Impact Mitigation Measures (US$3.14 million).

Although some progress has been made, not enough has been accomplished under the activities of the
component for the objectives to be met.        Since capacity building of environmental institutions and
environmental monitoring is usually a long-term investment, more time will be needed in later phases to
ensure success under this component. As such, it is rated unsatisfactory.

Progress under this component was slow throughout the project's life. DEAR (now DENV), viewed as one
of the weaker agencies of the MDRE, was given support through office equipment, transportation,
technical assistance and training under an allocated envelope of $3.5 million. By 2004, little had been
accomplished on the ground (some studies were initiated, one assessment flight had taken place and 11 sites



                                                    - 11 -

replanted for aforestation). The amount budgeted in 2004 for this component was US$700,000. The
committee put in place by DEAR to manage the component was not visibly active, and in general the
quantity and quality of activities undertaken by the DEAR could not be clearly determined, e.g., the surface
area covered by the assessment flight was not available, a disconnect or lack of integration of
environmental actions into project activities. In addition, there was a strong dependence on internal and
external consultants, to the detriment of transfer of knowledge to DEAR staff. Communication and
information flow could have been improved between different execution teams to ensure better synergy
between departmental activities under the project. Feasibility and environmental assessment studies were
also delayed due to the large number of studies involved, the lengthy procurement procedures and the
limited experience of project staff in procurement.

However, DEAR did accomplish the following: (i) training in environmental assessment for DEAR staff
along with staff from other implementing agencies and a training plan formulated; (ii) conducting public
workshops on forestry and hunting laws; (iii) certain mitigating measures have been taken including the
establishment of firebreaks, fixation of sand dunes, identification of drinking wells; and (iv) studies on land
use, health monitoring (malaria), and reports for establishing environmental norms. Activities to be
completed include: the implementation of recommendations contained in the completed studies including
the formulation of a land use plan, the establishment of environmental norms, and the establishment of the
environmental data base and monitoring system. Construction of the 15 wells for drinking water, of which
10 have been completed, was delayed because DEAR spent valuable time involving a public agency which
was eventually stripped of its mandate, and difficulties with the National Procurement Agency for
finalizing works contracts under national competitive bidding.

Component G: Project Management, Supervision, Monitoring & Evaluation (US$3.85 million).

The objective of this component which was to build capacity in the implementing agencies to manage and
coordinate a complex project has been successfully reached and targets have been met. As such, it is rated
satisfactory.

The project unit is staffed with a dynamic team based in Nouakchott (headquarters) and in two regional
centers, Rosso and Kaédi (diversification). Coordination under the PDIAIM involving collaboration with a
dozen agencies within the MDRE, and UNCACEM and SONADER spread across nine components, was
successfully carried out for the most part. Coordination between different agencies responsible for the
implementation of project experienced some problems (information exchange, consolidation of project
information at the project unit level, bi-weekly meetings with representatives of all agencies, monthly
meetings of the steering comittee) but were progressively resolved as experience with managing project
activities increased and systems were put in place to assist with coordination and monitoring.             The
Interministerial Policy Committee (Comité Interministériel d'Orientation et de Suivi (CIMOS) ) and the
Steering Committee (Comité de Pilotage (CP)) were meeting regularly. The coordination unit also acted as
the interlocutor of the Government with the Bank and its various partners for project activities.
SONADER and UNCACEM, independent of the MDRE and managing their own Special Acounts, held
advantages for the project by using its structure without creating parallels in execution. However, this
presented a challenge in terms of management and coordination.

Financial management reports were generated on time and were found to be of good quality by the Bank's
financial management specialist. Accounting systems were sound. The performance of the financial and
accounting staff of the three implementing agencies remained constant with no turnover. Training was
given to the staff in accounting and financial management, and the financial management software in place
was used regularly for quality reporting. Capacity in procurement has been developed and by the end of


                                                    - 12 -

Phase 1, Bank assessment of procurement performance was equally positive.

The data base, initially set up as a condition of effectiveness for the purpose of monitoring and evaluation,
faced the constraints of not being user friendly and could not handle a large volume of requests for data. It
was being upgraded.        Regular agricultural surveys are carried out through the Enquête Ménage et
Exploitants Agricoles (EMEA) and monitoring reports are generated on a trimester basis. The Geographic
Information System (GIS) was not established in Phase 1, but TORs were drafted jointly by the DPCSE,
SONADER, SAFC and the cartography services of the Ministry of Equipment and Transport. It is
expected to materialize in Phase 2. A social and economic impact analysis was completed and used to
develop a methodology to assess impact in project areas and a gender study used to develop a strategy
within project activities. To improve communication and disseminate information, UC-PDIAM established
a website (www.pdiaim.mr) to provide project information and links (including updated information on
local rice prices, etc.) to be used as a monitoring system and to link up the center at Nouakchott with all
agencies collaborating under the project.



SPECIAL TOPIC: Line of Credit

The line of credit (LOC) was established under the project to provide financial assistance to producers for
developing irrigated schemes and production and post-harvest activities.          The LOC was a financing
mechanism implemented by UNCACEM under Components B, C, D and E of the project. It was treated
as a separate chapter in the PAD and the ICR follows this format for ease of review. The Government
onlent to UNCACEM in local currency at a rate of six percent to cover IDA's credit costs. Subsidies were
also provided within certain constraints (land registration, legal status obtained) to cooperatives and
individual farmers for rehabilitation and diversification activities. The results achieved are reassuring.
Targets set at appraisal have been met fulfilling the requirements for the triggers into Phase 2, i.e.,
UNCACEM must obtain operational and financial self-sufficiency by 2001. If achievements towards the
objectives under the line of credit were to be rated, it would be highly satisfactory.

UNCACEM, a rural credit agency owned by a union of cooperatives was created in 1992, initially
concentrated on short-term lending for rice cultivation. Through the project, it has diversified its portfolio
and decreased risk by moving into longer term lending. It currently provides short and medium term loans
for diversification (GDM) and loans for storage infrastructure and processing equipment; rehabilitation of
schemes and management of plots for diversification.

UNCACEM's operating self-sufficiency, which measures viability, was negative in 1999, turned positive in
2002, and increased through to 2004. The negative trend was due to floods in 1999 which affected the
repayments of loans to UNCACEM the following year, forcing the agency to reschedule its debts.
Financial self-sufficiency, which measures sustainability, was negative during the first three years from
1999-2001, slightly deteriorated from 97 percent in 2000 to 91 percent in 2001, was attained in 2002 and
maintained through the end of 2003. During 1999-2003, UNCACEM's average annual increase in net
income reached 26 percent; staff operating costs were maintained at 11 percent, and total operating costs at
nine percent per year. Overall, from a significant net operating loss position in 1999, net profits have been
positive yearly from the end of 2000 through the end of 2003. UNCACEM finances about 80 percent of
the rice schemes and fills a financing gap, not only for the rural sector, but for medium- to long-term loans
in Mauritania as a whole. Sustainability is likely provided a second line of credit can be made available to
balance out the source of funds and repayments to be made on its line of credit from the Government.
UNCACEM will also need to explore possibilities for diversifying its products outside of the rice sector in
the medium to long term.


                                                      - 13 -

For the project, agricultural credit in the past was restricted to lending for planting for rice only (short
term), and to a few loans for harvesting equipment (medium term). Women who had some irrigated
vegetable gardens and farmers who wished to diversify could not access credit since it did not exist. This
was changed with the project when credit for cropping was made available to any farmer who could present
a financially viable case for funding to UNCACEM. It has now been expanded to cover marketing credit
(short term), equipment (medium term) for processing, storage and marketing, and rehabilitation
(long-term), for the rehabilitation and extension of existing schemes.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A Cost Benefit Analysis was not carried out for Phase 1 because the target of 3,000 ha of land to be
rehabilitated was not met, and the 1,000 ha of land which was rehabilitated did not go into production.
However, updated information gathered during implementation such as input costs, production costs, yields
and prices of local rice, various crops and vegetables, were used to update the Phase 1 analysis and revise
the hypothesis and applied to Phase 2. The Phase 2 analysis (see details in Annex 3) updated the
investment models and assumptions, and results of the economic and financial analyses are summarized
below.

The analysis considers three investment models (rice sole cropping, rice and diversified crops, and
diversification in vegetables, fruits and forage production) undertaken by cooperatives and private
individual farmers operating in the Trarza and Haut-Fleuve. The economic analysis indicated that private
investment in irrigation was economically profitable, particularly for poor, collective farms involved in rice
production, followed by horticulture. For individual farmers in the Trarza willing to substitute rice for
other diversified crop production, results were even higher, supporting the rationale for providing incentives
to farmers to invest in new production systems, an activity which is perceived to be risky. The ERR and
NPV for the various models and assumptions used are as follows:


                       Economic and Financial Analysis (NPV in US$)
                                                Economic                Financial
                  Models                   ERR (%)        NPV      IRR (%)      NPV
Rice Only
Individuals with > 40 ha in Trazrza           14          907        17          989
Individuals with > 40 ha in Haut-Fleuve       15         1,222       15          693
Individuals with < 40 ha in Trazrza           14          907        27         1,507
Individuals with < 40 ha in Trazrza           15         1,222       22         1,259
Cooperative in Trarza                         14          763        72         2,804
Cooperative in Haut-Fleuve                    17         1,622       74         3,044


Rice + Diversification
Cooperative in Trarza                         22         2,607       122        4,537
Cooperative in Haut-Fleuve                    22         2,711       101        4,056


Diversification Only
Individual in Trarza: horticulture            62        13,181       88         6,244
Individual in Trarza: orchard                 23        22,678       21        19,070
Individual in Trarza: forage                  44         8,011       44         2,978



4.4 Financial rate of return:




                                                     - 14 -

A financial analysis (see above, and Annex 3) was conducted of collective farms which showed that the
financial rate of return was better than the economic rate of return because of the incentives provided under
the project. Without the one-time matching grant, poor farmers would not be able to generate adequate cash
flow to pay their debts. The financial gains for individual farmers were greater in horticultural production,
remained the same or less for fruit production due to the intensive nature of the investment and production
systems assumed in the models.


4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project made important contributions to the Government's efforts in fighting poverty. It encouraged
and supported the Government's efforts in sectoral and policy reforms, yielding positive results for the rural
sector, and for the country as a whole. Management and oversight of project activities strengthened
ministerial staff working under the project in terms of management and coordination skills, as well as
technical skills. The project also made important contributions to establishing and strengthening national
institutions and groups involved in the network of rural development, as well as to the social aspects and
financial benefits of producers and their organizations.      Diversification was launched successfully in
Mauritania in that it has provided agricultural export products in a country which had few export prospects
at the time. Private sector partnerships with a large European company for exporting fruits and vegetables
to Europe has been built, ensuring some transfer of knowledge and technology to Mauritania. Valuable
information on the country's local rice production sector has been generated and disseminated, establishing
the groundworks for developing a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system using GIS technology
for the subsequent phases.

Specifically, the implementing agencies, UC-PDIAIM, SONADER and UNCACEM have become stronger
institutions capable of skillfully managing a complex set of project activities and collaboration with
multiple layers of clients and donor agencies. Their performance, weak at the beginning of the project due
to lack of experience of new teams, has been strengthened to the point of being major contributors to the
design of Phase 2. Computerized financial management and reporting systems are in place and as
experience built with procurement procedures, these skills have also improved.             UC-PDIAIM has
established a data base on national and international market prices for rice (SIM/Riz) for the use of
stakeholders, and updated information is disseminated in the PDIAIM's website along with an information
bulletin which has been distributed regularly since January 2003. SONADER's sluggish performance has
accelerated in the latter half of project implementation and with the use performance contracts. It will
remain a key player in Phase 2's implementation. UNCACEM's performance, also weak at the beginning
of the project, picked up momentum following the MTR and remains a strong performer, as measured by
the operating and financial self-sufficiency indicators, and now holds a market presence in the Mauritanian
financial sector. Producers and their organizations have been empowered and the mentality of producer
organizations has changed as awareness increased and capacity developed (e.g., the Union des
Coopératives Agricoles de Foum-Gleita (UCAF) pursued debtors under the Mauritanian judicial system).
Fora are established to give voice to producers and attention to gender under the project has encouraged the
participation of women's associations in gaining access to credit where previously such access was not
available.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
These included the floods of 1999, periodic drought, the drop in world purchases of rice, and the
uncontrolled import of Senegalese rice all along the Valley which threatened the progress of the project in
2000. Most affected was UNCACEM's portfolio: clients affected by the 1999 floods had difficulty



                                                     - 15 -

repaying the loans and UNCACEM was obliged to reschedule debts maturing in the year 2000 over the
next several years, adjusting the levels of repayment for those most affected to be commensurate with their
level of loss. Despite this, however, the activities in the portfolio remained stable and some borrowing by
cooperatives even increased.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Although Government counterpart funds were received each year the amounts varied substantially from one
year to the next which affected implementation until it peaked in 2003. In the area of procurement, the
central National Procurement Agency's cumbersome administrative requirements and procedures caused
frequent delays in project implementation when it came to contracts which had to be launched and finalized
under national competitive bidding. The Government could also have accelerated the pace of land titling
and the day-do-day functioniong of the environment department could have been overseen with more rigour.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The high turnover of directors at SONADER contributed to the sluggishness of the implementing agency's
performance in the earlier part of the project, combined with the large scope of activities for which the
extension workers were responsible, covering the large project area, with unclear direction and roles all
contributed to delays in start-up for the activities under the auspices of SONADER.             The lack of
experience with coordinating the activities required for Component B (rehablitation/extension) including
procurement and supervision of contractors by the implementing agencies also delayed start-up of this
component.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project closed at an estimated total project cost of US$43.09 million (excluding contributions from
beneficiaries). As of December 13, 2005, the project has almost fully disbursed at SDR28.16 million
(US$40.17 million) the original approved amount of SDR28.2 million (US$38.10 million). Government
counterpart funds amounted to about US$2.92 million; latest estimates for beneficiary contributions,
estimated at appraisal US$3.7 million, were not available. The difference between total project cost
estimates at appraisal and at completion can be explained by exchange rate fluctuations and by the
difference in beneficiary contributions estimates missing. The rate of implementation, as indicated by the
rate of disbursements, lagged the appraisal estimates and was bunched during the later years of the project.
The extension of the closing date allowed the project funds to be fully disbursed.

Bank resources used to prepare the project was higher than for other APLs (averaging $380,000) because a
lengthier preparation time was necessary to build the base and obtain agreement from the Government for
implementing the controversial sectoral and institutional reforms.       Preparation also included difficult
negotiations with strong national lobbies and interest groups who were opposed to the project, and building
consensus among different stakeholders and disseminating information to farmer organizations.             The
project team also had to accommodate changes in project design based on changes to the Bank's strategic
priorities and new lending instruments. The integrated approach also added project complexity and scope
to the activities which led to delays in implementation. As a result, the project was extended by two and a
half years, adding to the costs of supervision.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated likely.        Although some of the physical targets under the component on
rehabilitation/extension were not fully met, these are largely offset by the targets for financial results and
institutional development which were met and even exceeded.              With the experience gained from



                                                     - 16 -

implementing Phase 1, the executing agencies will likely be able to carry out irrigation activities faster and
more efficiently to meet the objectives of Phase 2. The problems and issues causing the delays have been
identified and measures taken in the design of Phase 2 to avoid a recurrence. These include measures to
bring together engineering firms and contractors to determine the best ways to complete irrigation
infrastructure on time and at a reasonable cost; arrangements to ensure better accountability and
coordination of core agencies involved in irrigation development, and administrative improvements for
ensuring the timely availability of       investment matching grants and timely land registration for
beneficiaries.

Sustainability can then be seen in light of policy and institutional reforms have been maintained for five
years and has taken root in the national system and structure, making it unlikely that this will reverse. The
agricultural sector has now been liberalized, economic reforms undertaken giving rise to improved quality
and production levels of local rice. Rice production has now become attractive economically for farmers,
from small farms to larger cooperatives. The development of agricultural credit was a principal feature of
the reforms. Formerly it was reserved for rice production but has now been made available for other
activities such as trials and investments in agricultural diversification. Diversification of agricultural
products (crops, fruits, vegetables) has taken hold in the Valley and has managed to attract private sector
partnership with the large French exporter of fruits and vegetables - Compagnie Fruitière - in developing
products for export to the European market. In a country like Mauritania where exportable products are
still quite limited, this presents a promising prospect for developing the economy.         Community and
producer organizations' active participation in strategic planning and implementation of project activities
has taken hold through the fora established under the project and has witnessed ownership and a change in
perspective in most areas where they have been established.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project is transitioning to the second phase of the three-phase APL, which was declared effective on
July 13, 2005, and was approved for an estimated SDR25.7 million (US$39.0 million). Project activities
funded under the first phase will be carried through to the second phase which will be implemented over
five years to 2010. A third, five-year phase is planned if triggers are met for Phase 2.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Project identification and preparation was satisfactory based on the amount of effort placed on obtaining
agreement from the Borrower to undertake difficult sectoral and institutional reforms. Project appraisal
was carried out successfully with an adequate attention to safeguards, linkages with other sectors such as
health, and other projects (Agricultural Services), appropriate skills mix and experience. The project was
highly relevant to Government priorities at the time and consistent with the objectives of the CAS.
However, project preparation took longer than normal due because the project underwent several changes
in design and content to align with changes in the Bank's program priorities and lending instruments in
order to transition from an individual project to an integrated APL.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision is rated satisfactory. For the most part, it was carried out regularly and with an adequate
skills mix, except during the latter part of the project which did not include an environmental specialist.
Problems were identified and remedial measures taken were effective in turning around the performance of
most of the implementing agencies; indicators were adjusted and activities regrouped when required in
order to improve implementation. However, the capacity building of the environmental management
agencies was less successful although capacity building requires a long-term commitment.



                                                     - 17 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank's performance is rated as satisfactory; project activities contained a difficult blend of
legal, policy and institutional reforms, investments to support new market development in the country,
combined with investments in physical infrastructure, capacity building for agricultural services, and
establishing a mechanism for providing access to credit. Partnership with the Government counterpart was
strong which enabled to project to carry out the more difficult reforms. Risks were clearly identified,
particularly as they related to irrigation investments and the delays due to implementation of land
tenure/registration laws.     However, it did not adequately identify risks related to extreme weather
conditions which could affect project investments, nor the risks of inadequate infrastructure (i.e., rural
roads, airport, sea port) which could impact agricultural market development and export.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's performance at preparation is rated as satisfactory since there was a high level of
ownership on the part of the Government of Mauritania and its agencies in executing the difficult legal,
policy, and institutional reforms, and Government made available resources for the project teams from
various agencies to participate actively in designing and preparing the project throughout the long
preparation period.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated as marginally satisfactory. It could have done
more to correct the shortcomings of the environment department's performance, and the land tenure/land
titling activities would have slowed down without Bank persistence. However, it did remained committed
to the project's objectives, providing the necessary support to the program's activities and priorities,
implementing the necessary legal and policy reforms, maintaining the course of liberalization, and was
resourceful in taking measures to deal with situations as they arose, e.g., following the low rainfalls of
2002, the Government incited irrigated rice farmers to produce forage rice which is more resistant to pests
and less costly to produce, to mitigate the risks of drought. The Government made available the resources
needed in terms of counterpart funds contribution to Government implementing units, although less than
requested by the implementing units.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Overall, the implementing agencies' performances are rated satisfactory. The MDRE's performance is
rated as satisfactory. It is staffed with a dynamic project coordination unit with a minimal turnover of staff
which is advantageous for continuity, established a comprehensive M&E system to track project activities
and progress, the impact of rice liberalization, and developments in market development and diversification.
It has provided coordination support to a difficult and complex project which requires experienced staff
with various skills in technical as well as managerial areas. UNCACEM's performance as a credit
institution is also rated as satisfactory having significantly improved over the course of project
implementation, once its portfolio was diversified. It was able to to reach a high reimbursement rate 93-94
percent despite delayed payments during certain periods, and is staffed with a skilled manager and qualified
personnel. SONADER's performance improved during the project. It provided valuable support and
contributed to the success of the farmers and farmers' organizations activities of the project, although the
record is spotty from one region to the next.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall rating is satisfactory. It demonstrated a high level of commitment to the project's
objectives by staying the course on liberalization of rice and transport as well as a high level of ownership.




                                                     - 18 -

Legal covenants. Compliance with legal covenants were satisfactory.
Audits. Audit Reports were furnished on time and all project accounts, including special accounts, were
without reserve.
Procurement. Contractor performances involving national companies caused implementation delays in
several cases, specifically: (i) construction of the cold storage facility; (ii) construction of wells for potable
water; and (iii) establishment of the geographical information system. The responsible implementing
agency, SONADER, terminated contracts with the companies responsible for the canal works at Borghé
and Foum Gleita and for the construction of the "Dalot 900". Although the performance of SONADER
and that of the producers improved over the project period, they waited longer than necessary to take care
of the deterioration in the secondary canal along the Borghé irrigation scheme and made the situation
worse.




8. Lessons Learned

   l The APL's key features of long-term commitment and flexibility in execution facilitated the
        initiation and maintenance of liberalization policies for the Government of Mauritania;

   l Sustainability of rehabilitated schemes depend on the quality of work and sufficient amount of
        funding provided for operation and maintenance. To ensure such quality and funding availability,
        farmer organizations should be involved early in the consultation and design process, and their
        involvement maintained during implementation and monitoring. An analysis should be made on
        farmers' ability to pay based on means and sources of income.

   l Land registration, critical to the access of investment credit and subsidies for developing irrigation
        schemes, needs to focus more on cooperative farmers who are the ones most interested in and most
        need rehabilitation and extension.

   l Flood control infrastructure needs to be supported, partly or entirely, by public funds in the
        absence of crop insurance and risk of flooding.

   l Civil works enterprises based outside Mauritania, which are regularly invited to bid but are given
        little incentive because of payment in local currency, should be encouraged to effectively
        participate and partner with Mauritanians to help increase the capacities of the latter, and exert
        downward pressure on the cost of building irrigation schemes;

   l Capacity building of public and private providers, combined with effective accountability in the
        form of results-based contracts, is necessary to ensure good quality and better service delivery.

   l Agricultural diversification in Mauritania is a viable growth and employment strategy and should
        be strongly promoted.

   l A large participatory approach that empowers producers and their organizations in the design and
        implementation of development operations is needed for sustainability.

   l Within large and complex operations, an effective communication strategy is needed to ensure
        coordination between and within implementing agencies and disseminate the project objectives to



                                                     - 19 -

        the public, particularly in structures which also require a participative diagnostic approach from
        communities. Communication which stops at the consultative process at the grassroots level and
        does not receive feedback from the decision-making centers will risk dismantling the participative
        process.

    l An efficient M&E system should be designed early in the project's life and should be easy to use
        for project management and implementing agencies to provide timely and reliable data.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Studies Completed:


1. Actualisation de la stratégie du développement rural ''horizon 2015''

2. Stratégie agro-alimentaire de la Mauritanie

3. Audit organisationnel et fonctionnel du MDRE

4. Impact de la réforme tarifaire (tarifs agricoles)

5. Organisations rurales

6. Cadre de dépense à moyen terme du MDRE (CDMT 2002-2005)

7. Systèmes d'informations des marchés du Riz (SIM/Riz)

8. Schéma d'aménagement de la Vallée du Gorgol

9. Désenclavement Gani-Dar El Barka

10. Impact environnemental du PDIAIM

11. Plan d'occupation des sols et schéma directeur d'aménagement Koundi 1 à 5

12. Schéma directeur d'aménagement Koundi 6 à 10 (Brakna Ouest)

13. Développement intégré de la zone de Garak-Sokam

14. Problèmes sanitaires

15. Réhabilitation de petits périmètres hydro-agricoles

16. Transfert des grands aménagements

17. Transfert juridique des grands aménagements

18. Diagnostic des exploitations agricoles



                                                    - 20 -

19. Diagnostic du périmètre de Foum-Gleita

20. Stratégie de la filière semencière en Mauritanie

21. Elaboration d'une méthodologie d'études des impacts socio-économiques du PDIAIM

22. Elaboration d'une stratégie genre du PDIAIM

23. Elaboration des Comptes d'Exploitations des Exploitations Agricoles en Zônes Irriguées.

24. Environnement économique de l'irriguée, mécanismes de financement, et analyse économique et
financière (PHASE II)

25. Plan de Gestion Environnementale et Sociale du PDIAIM

26. Plan de Gestion de Pestes et Pesticides

27. Plan de Relocalisation




                                                   - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                                                Status of agreed outcomes indicators

           PDO Indicator                             Baseline Value                         End-of-Project Target Value
                                              Number or text            Date                Number or text               Date
1. Continued absence of rice sector Rice imports tied to quotas of    12/16/1999 Rice sector distortions are absent.   06/30/2005
distortions, as a result of measures paddy purchases; administered
introduced in 1999                   paddy prices; subsidies for
                                     paddy purchases; rice milling
                                     publicly managed; millers paid
2. Implementation of regulations     Regulations adopted but not yet  12/16/1999 Additional measures are identified    06/30/2005
associated with Decree 98/48 and     implemented                                 in proposed transport project
Bylaw R075 on transport sector
3. Satisfactory rate of repayment    Poor repayment rates (as low as  12/16/1999 Repayment rate is 92% in total        06/30/2005
(at least 95%) of loans granted by   75%)                                        portfolio (including rescheduled
UNCACEM                                                                          loans)
4. Operational and financial self-   UNCACEM is not self-sufficient 12/16/1999 UNCACEM has achieved                    06/30/2005
sufficiency achieved by                                                          operational and financial self-
UNCACEM by the end of 2001                                                       sufficiency
5. Credit for non-rice crops         Credit not accessible            12/16/1999 Credit accessible to farmers          06/30/2005
accessible to producers fulfilling                                               fulfilling credit conditions
6. Improved efficiency (volume of Volume: UM 640 million              12/16/1999 UNCACEM provides timely res-          06/30/2005
credit and response time) of                                                     ponse to all requests and provides
UNCACEM in pro-viding credit to                                                  timely credit to those eligible;
indivi-duals and cooperatives                                                    Volume: UM1,266 m for
7. Improved performance of           SONADER's performance was        12/16/1999 Improved technical supervision        06/30/2005
SONADER in accordance to             poor                                        (timetable) of irrigation
criteria set out in its Performance                                              development
8. Awards of land use permits and Laws not always stricktly           12/16/1999 Amended land tenure (Decret no.       06/30/2005
temporary or permanent               applied                                     089-2000) properly applied
concessions are in accordance with
applicable land tenure laws (tran
9. Satisfactory access to            Poor access to agricultural      12/16/1999 Special survey completed found        06/30/2005
agricultural services by poor        services by poor farmers.                   access satisfactory.
10. Economic return of               Degraded schemes, poor rice      12/16/1999 Available data indicate satisfactory  06/30/2005
investments made on irrigated        quality, and distortions                    financial and economic returns
schemes under IDA credit are         contribute to negative economic
11. Improved cost-benefit ratio for Economic and financial analysis   12/16/1999 Cost-benefit ratios are sufficient to 06/30/2005
rice and new diversification crops for Phase 1 indicated positive                incite farmers to make new
on the basis of initial available    results                                     investments. Economic and
results                                                                          financial analysis conductedf for
                                                                                 Phase 2 indicate positive returns for
12. Completion of feasibility        No feasibility                   12/16/1999 Priority feasibility studies for      06/30/2005
studies for off-farm (public)                                                    available investment under Phase 2
investments                                                                      have been completed




                                                                 - 22 -

                                           Intermediate outcome indicator(s)

1. Legal and regulatory texts re     Measures not available or          12/16/1999 Policy measures adopted and           06/30/2005
import tariffs, transportation, land without implementation                        implemented
tenure, producer organizations, and
water mgt are satisfacotry and
2. Institutional capacities at       Weak capacities in all 3           12/16/1999 Improved capacities at UNCACEM, 06/30/2005
UNCACEM (credit), MDRE               institutions                                  MDRE, and SONADER
(central coordination) and
SONADER (producers)
3. Feasibility studies available and No adequate feasibility studies    12/16/1999 Feasibility studies are available for 06/30/2005
adequate for public infra structures available                                     eventual investment under Phase II
to be carried out under Phase 2
4. Irrigated schemes rehabilitated, No rehab. and creation of           12/16/1999 Total 1,000 ha rehabilitated or       06/30/2005
expanded and newly created           technically and environmentally               newly created
5. Results of R&D on pumping         No results of R&D on pumping       12/16/1999 Information on material on R&D        06/30/2005
systems, irrigation and drainage     systems, irrigation and drainage              activities finalized for diffusion
techniques                           techniques available to
6. Skills strengthened in the areas  Producers lack capacity in the     12/16/1999 Cooperatives maintain credit          06/30/2005
of literacy, management,             areas mentioned                               eligibility
organization, supply, marketing,
credit, partnerships, irrigated
scheme and equipment
7. Skills improved for producers     Producers have low technical       12/16/1999 Technical training materials are      06/30/2005
and extensions agents in the areas skills                                          compiled and distributed
of productions, storage, processing,
conservation techniques and
intermediate mechanization
8. Availability of high quality seed Little use of certified improved   12/16/1999 At least 42% use of certified seed    06/30/2005
9. Functional rice market            Rice quality under distorted
                                     seed                               12/16/1999 Initiate process for weekly, instead  06/30/2005
information system (SIMRiz)          policy regime is known to be                  of monthly, publication
                                     poor, but no rice market
10. Diversification products tested No tests for exports                12/16/1999 800 tons exported                     06/30/2005
and proved promising
11. Professionalization of           No exporters of fruits and         12/16/1999 Maintained core number of             06/30/2005
diversification subsectors           vegetables                                    exporters
12. Operational pest control         No available pest control service 12/16/1999 Improved services available at         06/30/2005
services at ports and airports       at airport                                    airport
13. Operational logistical and       No operational, logistical, and    12/16/1999 Airfreightt terminal and packouse     06/30/2005
refrigeration infrastructures        refrigeration infrastructures                 under construction for completion
14. Existence of a database on       No available database              12/16/1999 Market information system on fruits 06/30/2005
market data and comparator for                                                     and veg-tables continues to be
products developed                                                                 provided
15. Environmental observatory        No environmental observatory       12/16/1999 Reports finalized                     06/30/2005
operation (database of
16. Land use plan                    No land use plan                   12/16/1999 Report finalized                      06/30/2005
17. Environmental norms adopted No environmental norms                  12/16/1999 Environmental norms adopted for       06/30/2005
and followed                         adopted                                       implementation during Phase 2
18. Mitigation measures carried      No mitigation measures carried     12/16/1999 10 wells completed during             06/30/2005
19. Project Management
out                                  N.A. (Project management not
                                     out                                12/16/1999 Satisfactory financial management
                                                                                   extension phase                       06/30/2005
                                     created)                                      and reporting




                                                                    - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


                                     Appraisal Estimates      Actual Estimates     Percentage of
    Disbursement Accounts               (US$ millions)          (US$ millions)      Appraisal
Civil Works                                 3.70                      1.34             36%
Goods                                       5.68                      4.72             83%
Consultant Services, Training               14.82                    14.00             94%
Line of Credit/Subsidies                    17.14                    15.42             90%
Operating Costs                             3.38                      6.31             187%
PPF                                         1.30                      1.30             100%
   Total                                    46.02                    43.09             94%



N.B.: Actual estimated Project Costs by Components are not available.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                              Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB            NCB                  2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                           0.00           0.28             1.92        0.00          2.20
                                  (0.00)         (0.23)           (1.60)      (0.00)        (1.83)
2. Goods                           5.66           0.21             0.83        0.00          6.70
                                  (4.23)         (0.17)           (0.66)      (0.00)        (5.06)
3. Services                        0.00           0.00            13.85        0.53         14.38
and Training                      (0.00)         (0.00)          (13.27)      (0.00)        (13.27)
4. Line of Credit, Subsidies       0.00           0.00            14.04        3.71         17.75
                                  (0.00)         (0.00)          (14.04)      (0.00)        (14.04)
5. PPF Refund                      0.00           0.00             1.30        0.32          1.62
                                  (0.00)         (0.00)           (1.30)      (0.00)        (1.30)
6. Operating Costs                 0.00           0.00             3.38        0.00          3.38
                                  (0.00)         (0.00)           (2.64)      (0.00)        (2.64)
   Total                           5.66           0.49            35.32        4.56         46.03
                                  (4.23)         (0.40)          (33.51)      (0.00)        (38.14)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                              Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB            NCB                  2      N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                           0.28           0.80            0.26        0.00          1.34
                                  (0.26)         (0.70)          (0.24)       (0.00)       (1.20)
2. Goods                           2.80           1.02            0.90        0.00          4.72
                                  (2.35)         (0.83)          (0.77)       (0.00)       (3.95)
3. Services                        0.00           0.00           14.00        0.00         14.00
and Training                      (0.00)         (0.00)          (13.41)      (0.00)       (13.41)
4. Line of Credit, Subsidies       0.00           0.00           15.42        0.00         15.42



                                              - 24 -

                                         (0.00)            (0.00)          (15.42)            (0.00)           (15.42)
5. PPF Refund                            0.00               0.00             1.30              0.00             1.30
                                         (0.00)            (0.00)           (1.30)            (0.00)           (1.30)
6. Operating Costs                       0.00               0.00             6.31              0.00             6.31
                                         (0.00)            (0.00)           (4.88)            (0.00)           (4.88)
    Total                                3.08               1.82            38.19              0.00            43.09
                                         (2.61)            (1.53)          (36.02)            (0.00)           (40.16)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Disbursement Accounts
(US$ M)


                                    Appraisal Estimates                             Actual Estimates
                                   Govt of                                        Govt of
                         IDA      Mauritania Beneficiaries   Total     IDA      Mauritania Beneficiaries   Total

Civil Works                 2.29         0.48         0.93       3.7       1.2         0.14     n.a.           1.34
Goods                       4.28         1.4                    5.68      3.95         0.77     n.a.           4.72
Consultant Services, Training13.59       0.69         0.54     14.82     13.41         0.59     n.a.             14
Line of Credit/Subsidies   14.04         0.32         2.78     17.14     15.42             0    n.a.          15.42
Operating Costs             2.64         0.74                   3.38      4.88         1.43     n.a.           6.31
PPF                           1.3                                1.3       1.3             0    n.a.            1.3
   Total                   38.14         3.63         4.25     46.02      53.9         2.93     n.a.          43.09


N.B.: Actual estimates of Project Costs by Components are not available.

Appraisal Estimate: Beneficiary contribution for Component 2: $1.92 million; Component 4: $0.86
million; Component 5: $0.93 million.
Actual/Latest Estimate: Beneficiary contribution amounts not available.




                                                         - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

A Cost Benefit Analysis (CBA) was not carried out for Phase 1 because the target of 3,000 ha of land to be
rehabilitated was not met, and the 1,000 ha of land which was rehabilitated did not go into production.
Consequently, an illustrative Cost Benefit Analysis was carried out for Phase 2 which revised the
hypotheses and updated the economic and financial analysis for Phase 1. The Phase 2 analysis (see below)
updated the information applicable to Phase 1 using recent information on costs of inputs, production, data
on yields and recent prices of rice, different crops, and vegetables. The investment models, assumptions
used, and results of the economic and financial analyses are as follows:

                       Economic and Financial Analysis (NPV in US$)
                                                 Economic                Financial
                  Models                    ERR (%)       NPV       IRR (%)     NPV
Rice Only
Individuals with > 40 ha in Trazrza            14          907        17         989
Individuals with > 40 ha in Haut-Fleuve        15         1,222       15         693
Individuals with < 40 ha in Trazrza            14          907        27        1,507
Individuals with < 40 ha in Trazrza            15         1,222       22        1,259
Cooperative in Trarza                          14          763        72        2,804
Cooperative in Haut-Fleuve                     17         1,622       74        3,044


Rice + Diversification
Cooperative in Trarza                          22         2,607       122       4,537
Cooperative in Haut-Fleuve                     22         2,711       101       4,056


Diversification Only
Individual in Trarza: horticulture             62        13,181       88        6,244
Individual in Trarza: orchard                  23        22,678       21        19,070
Individual in Trarza: forage                   44         8,011       44        2,978




Investment Models

The analysis considers three investment models (rice sole cropping, rice and diversified crops, and
diversification in vegetables, fruits and forage production) undertaken by cooperatives and private
individual farmers operating in the Trarza and Haut-Fleuve. However, it is more likely to have only
collective farmers engage in horticultural production after a rice crop and individual farmers engaged in
horticultural mono cropping. All models include windbreaks, which are promoted by the project to protect
crops, increase revenues from wood products and reduce environmental degradation (protection against
wind and sand erosion).

Assumptions

The rice model assumes an increase in yield from 4 tons/ha to 6 tons/ha, and an increase in cultural
intensity of 1.2 to 1.5, from the without- to with-project situation. These remain very conservative
assumptions given the strengthening of capacities provided by the project. The assumptions are also
conservative in accounting only for the increase in revenue (sale of wood products) from the windbreaks
and not for their likely impact on yields of protected crops for lack of information. Prices of local paddy
and horticultural products (melon, pepper, mango, and okra) are those observed in local markets at the



                                                      - 26 -

wholesale level. Local prices for horticultural products are higher in Mauritania than those observed in
neighboring countries, but they are a reflection of the strong demand from Mauritanian consumers that are
increasing added fresh vegetables to their diets. The cost of capital is assessed at 12 percent.

Economic Analysis

The results are indicative of economic profitability of private investment in irrigation development. The
results are particularly strong for poor collective farms in the Trarza and the Haut-Fleuve that engaged in
rice production, followed by horticultural production. The results, however, are strongest for individual
farmers in the Trarza that would substitute rice for other diversified crop production. These results
provided the reason and rationale for providing incentives to farmers to invest in new production systems,
which are perceived to be risky.

Financial Analysis

The financial results for collective farmers are markedly better than the economic results because of the
incentives provided under the project. Without the one-time matching grant, poor farmers would not be able
to generate enough cash flow to pay back their debts. The financial gains for individual farmers are greater
in horticultural production. but remained unchanged or lower for fruit production because of the intensive
nature of the investment and production systems assumed in those models.          In addition, fruit production
required a longer gestation period and periodic reinvestment without matching grants.

                                     Sensitivity Analysis: Switching values
                    Models                                Economic                            Financial
                                               Product   Investment    Product     Product   Investment   Product
                                                price       cost         yield       price      cost        yield
Rice only
  Individuals with > 40 ha in Trarza            -23%        38%          -11%        -20%       34%        -10%
  Individuals with > 40 ha in Haut-Fleuve       -26%        47%          -13%        0.14       21%         -7%
  Individuals with < 40 ha in Trarza            -23%        38%          -11%        -30%       62%          -15
  Individuals with < 40 ha in Haut-Fleuve       -26%        47%          -13%        -25%       47%        -13%
  Cooperative in Trarza                         -19%        32%          -10%        -56%       324%       -28%
  Cooperative in Haut Fleuve                    -31%        62%          -17%        -53%       320%       -29%
Diversification only
  Individual in Trarza: horticulture            -29%       160%          -31%        -11%       54%        -12%
  Individual in Trarza: orchard                 -45%       384%          -45%        -35%       273%       -35%
Individual in Trarza: forage                    -27%        79%          -27%        -4%        12%         -4%




The results are somewhat sensitive to a decrease in product yield, but less to a drop in product price
(except for forage crops) and insensitive to a one-time investment increase in investment cost. The
assumptions, however, are conservative on the down side. Targeted extension services are provided to
producers to help them realize high product yields, and the project has provision to combat attacks of
granivorous birds that could ravage rice crops, particularly in the off-season. Also, Mauritania is one of
several Sahelian countries that are implementing a 5-year Locust project, which emphasizes preventive
measures and timely treatments of swarms.




                                                     - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/19/1996                8    SR NRM/TTL (1); AGRIC.           S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1); SR ENV
                                             ASSESSMENT SPEC.(1) ; M&E
                                             SPECIALIST(1);
                                             AGRONOMIST (1); RURAL
                                             CREDIT SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CREDIT SPEC/ECONOMIST
                                             (1); IRRIG ENGINEER( 1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/21/1998              15     SR NRM/TTL (1);
                                             TECHNICAL MANAGER
                                             (1); AGRIC. ECONOMISTS
                                             (1); AGRIC. STATISTICS
                                             (1); IRRIG ENGINEER (1);
                                             AGRONOMIST(1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); CROP
                                             CONSULTANT(1) ;
                                             OPERATIONS
                                             ANALYST(1);
                                             M&E SPECIALIST(1);
                                             AGRICULTURALIST (1);
                                             PROC SPECIALIST (1);
                                             LAWYER (1);
                                             SOCIOLOGIST (1); PIM
                                             CONSULTANT(1)


 Supervision

              10/10/2000                2    NRM, TTL (1); FMS (1)            S               S
              04/01/2001                2    SR. NATUR. RESOURCE MG           S               S
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1)
              02/19/2002 (MTR)         14    TTL, MISSION LEADER (1);         S               S
                                             AGR. SERVICES (2);
                                             FIN/ECON/TARIFFS/MKTG
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENT (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1); GIS (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (2); SOCIAL/GENDER ISSUES
                                             (1);
                                             CREDITS/GRANTMGT;ECON.
                                             (1); MONITORING/
                                             EVALUATION (1);
                                             DIVERSIFICATION (1);



                                              - 28 -

                                           DISBURSEMENT (1)
               11/26/2002              6   TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    S
                                           AGRICULTURALSPECIALIST
                                           (1); SENIOR AGR.
                                           ECONOMIST (1); IRRIGATION
                                           SPECIALIST (1); RURAL
                                           FINANCING CREDIT (1);
                                           DIVERSIFICATION (1)
               07/11/2003              1   TTL (1)                            S    S
               01/06/2004              7   TEAM LEADER (1);
                                           AGRICULTURAL SPECIALIST
                                           (1); INFORMATION SYST. (1);
                                           IRRIGATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                           AGRIC.RESEARCH (1);
                                           FIN.MGT(1); PROCUREMENT
                                           (1)

 ICR
               09/18/2004;            2     1 SR. AGRIC
                                            ECONOMIST; 1
                                            INFRASTRUCTURE
                                            CONS. ; 1 RURAL
                                            FINANCE/CREDIT
                                            SPECIALIST; 1
                                            SOCIOLOGIST; 1 OPER.
                                            ANALYST



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation         321.80                         1,044.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                19.80                           37.7
  Supervision                        204.71                          655.98
  ICR                                   7.94                          25.87
  Total                              554.25                        1,763.55




                                            - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        farmers'/producers'
organizations
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                            Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                        Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU
Implementation performance for SONADER was unsatisfactory up until mid-term review following which
it would be rated partially satisfactory. Performance of the DENV would be unsatisfactory. However,
since overall project implementation was carried out principally by the coordination unit and UNCACEM
in addition, whose performance were highly satisfactory, this balanced out the overall rating for
implementing agencies.




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Mission Aide Memoire, Mission de revue à mi-parcours, 20 janvier - 6 février 2002 (attached, see Annex
9).

Lettre de Politique de Développement de l'Agriculture Irriguée, Horizon 2010. Ministère du
Développement Rural et de l'Environnement, 25 mai 1999.

Rapport Bilan du 134 janvier 200 au 31 août 2004, Unité de Coordination du PDIAIM, Ministère du
Développement Rural et de l'Environnement, Septembre 2004.




                                                  - 32 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Report




                                    Mauritanie

        Projet de Développement Intégré de l'Agriculture Irriguée en Mauritanie

                                     PDIAIM

                      Rapport d'Achèvement de la Phase I




                                      Juin 2005




                                        - 33 -

A. Données de synthèse
Date du rapport : juin 2005

Dates clé :
                                        Prévu                                    Révisé
Mise en vigueur du prêt                                            01 sept 1999                          16 déc 1999
Révision à Mi-Parcours                                             01 sept 2002                          06 fév 2002
Fermeture                                                          31 déc 2002                           30 juin 2005


Agence(s) d'exécution : MDRE (UC-PDIAIM), SONADER, UNCACEM

Financement du projet (US$ m) : IDA :                                                        38,1
                                         Co-financement :                                     0,5
                                         Gouvernement :                                       3,7
                                         Bénéficiaires :                                      3,7
                                         Coût total :                                        46,0

Crédit (IDA seulement) :                 Période de sursis :                               10 ans
                                         Période de repaiement :                           40 ans
                                         Intérêt :                                         0,50%
                                         Frais de service                                  0,75%

Plan de paiement (US$ m) :
Origine                                                                      Local       Etranger          Total
Contribution du gouvernement mauritanien                                            3,7                 -         3,7
Contribution des bénéficiaires mauritaniens                                         3,7                 -         3,7
Cofinanciers                                                                        0,5                 -         0,5
IDA                                                                                15,2              22,9        38,1
Total                                                                              23,1              22,9        46,0


Emprunteur : Gouvernement de la République Islamique de Mauritanie

Déboursements IDA prévus (US$ m) :
                                                         Période
            juil 1999 ­ juin 2000   juil 2000 ­ juin 2001     juil 2001 ­ juin 2002   juil 2002 ­ juin 2003
Annuel                10                           12                          14
           2.1
Cumulatif             10                           22                          36
           38.1
B.       Evaluateurs de Performance Principaux

Résultat global : S
Durabilité : HP
Performance de la Banque Mondiale : S
Performance de l'Emprunteur : S
Qualité du Projet au Démarrage : S
Projet à Risque à un moment donné : Non

HS = Hautement Satisfaisant, S = Satisfaisant, I = Insatisfaisant, HI = Hautement Insatisfaisant
HP = Hautement Probable, P = Probable, I = Improbable, HI = Hautement Improbable




                                                        - 34 -

C.        Evaluation des Objectifs, Conception du Projet et Qualité au Démarrage

C.1 Objectif(s) du Projet au Démarrage
(adapté du document d'évaluation du projet et de l'Accord de Crédit)

Stratégie du Gouvernement
La stratégie globale du gouvernement est d'atteindre un développement économique et social rapide mené par le
secteur privé, avec comme rôle pour l'Etat de créer les conditions nécessaires pour promouvoir la croissance et
contribuer à la réduction de la pauvreté.

Le Programme de Développement Intégré de l'Agriculture Irriguée en Mauritanie ­ PDIAIM
Le PDIAIM s'inscrit dans la stratégie du gouvernement et comprend l'amélioration du niveau de vie et une
réduction du nombre de personnes habitant en dessous du seuil de la pauvreté. Ce Programme, qui a une durée de
11 ans (prorogé de deux ans), a pour objectif de faire de la Vallée du Fleuve Sénégal une des sources principales de
développement et de croissance économique pour la Mauritanie. A moyen terme, le Programme prévoit surtout la
réhabilitation des périmètres irrigués couramment sous exploitation et leur mise en valeur en production intensive
de riz et de légumes.

Le Projet
Dans le cas du présent rapport, « Le Projet » se réfère à la période 1999 à 2002 (prorogé à juin 2005), qui
représente la première phase du Programme. Les objectifs du Projet défini comme tel sont (a) d'augmenter la
productivité agricole, l'emploi et le niveau de revenu par l'utilisation rationnelle de l'eau et des terres arables ; et
(b) d'établir le fondement d'un développement durable de l'agriculture irriguée d'un point de vue technique,
financier, environnemental et socio-économique.

Le Projet a prévu de fournir les incitations nécessaires à la réhabilitation et l'extension de 3.000 ha de périmètres
irrigués partiellement dégradés et au développement de 100 ha de nouveaux périmètres. Certaines composantes du
Projet (amélioration des modes de gestion et d'organisation des fermiers, appui au secteur rizicole, promotion de la
diversification agricole, atténuation environnementale) auront un impact positif sur une étendue largement
supérieure aux 3.100 ha ciblés, étant donné qu'ils seront bénéfiques également aux périmètres réhabilités par
d'autres bailleurs.

C.2 Objectif(s) du Projet à la clôture (si révisé)
Les objectifs du Projet n'ont pas été révisés.

C.3 Composantes à l'Origine
Le Projet est constitué des composantes suivantes selon l'accord de crédit :

Composante A       créer un cadre politique, légal et institutionnel favorable et incitatif ; ceci comprend :
(1) des études pour la préparation de lois et arrêtés sur les taxes, tarifs, le transport, le secteur foncier, les
       organisations agricoles et la promotion des produits pour l'exportation, y compris de la formation ;
(2) le renforcement du cadre institutionnel et des capacités des : (a) Ministère du Développement Rural et de
       l'Environnement (MDRE) ; assistance technique et formation au personnel de la Direction des Politiques et
       du Suivi-Evaluation (DPSE) dans la collecte des données, les logistiques, l'évaluation statistique, la
       coordination, le suivi, la communication et la passation des marchés ; (b) de la Société Nationale pour le
       Développement Rural (SONADER) ; études et mise en oeuvre les recommandations sur la structure du
       personnel dans le but de réduire et former celui-ci ; (c) de l'Union Nationale des Coopératives Agricoles
       (UNCACEM) ; études et mise en oeuvre les recommandations sur les besoins en formation, amélioration de
       la gestion et le potentiel de diversification

Composante B       développer une infrastructure de base publique et privée ;
(1) études sur la réhabilitation des structures hydrauliques, drainage et routes et la préparation des termes de
       référence pour la mise à jour du Plan Directeur de la Rive Droite.



                                                          - 35 -

(2) la construction d'infrastructure hydraulique et routes ;
(3) la recherche et la mise en oeuvre d'études pour l'amélioration des ouvrages agricoles ; et
(4) l'identification, évaluation, conception et mise en oeuvre d'activités à base communautaire, et l'octroi de dons et
       prêts pour la réhabilitation, extension et création de réseaux d'irrigation.

Composante C       améliorer les compétences de gestion et d'organisation des fermiers et des organisations de
       producteurs ;
(1) renforcer les Organisations de Producteurs (OP), y compris des études sur les organisations existantes et un
       programme de formation pour certains membres des OP dans la gestion financière et l'entretien des
       équipements d'irrigation.
(2) exécuter un programme de formation pour les producteurs dans la gestion financière et opérationnelle et
       l'entretien des équipements d'irrigation.

Composante D       renforcer le secteur agricole irrigué traditionnel (rizicole) ;
(1) exécuter un programme de formation pour les communautés agricoles, les fermiers et les formateurs agricoles
       dans les domaines de : (a) l'amélioration de la qualité du riz ; (b) l'augmentation de la productivité dans la
       culture de décrue ; (c) l'augmentation de la production des produits traditionnels p.ex. le fourrage, les
       oléagineuses, le bois de chauffe et la conservation des produits ; (d) les technologies adaptées et la
       mécanisation des activités agricoles ; (e) la définition et la mise en place des standards de qualité pour le riz
       ; et         (f) la dissémination nationale, régionale et internationale de l'information des marchés.
(2) l'identification, évaluation, conception, mise en oeuvre et supervision des initiatives communautaires et celles
       demandées par les fermiers individuels, et l'octroi de dons et prêts pour : (a) intrants agricoles pour les
       cultures traditionnelles ; (b) l'équipement de transformation du riz ; (c) des initiatives de marketing ; et (d)
       la construction de moyens d'entreposage.

Composante E       promouvoir la diversification agricole ;
(1) études pour identifier les opportunités commerciales et les options de production pour l'extension des cultures
       diversifiées et non-traditionnelles par des services d'aide technique.
(2) l'approbation, la conception, la mise en oeuvre, la supervision et l'octroi de dons pour le financement d'activités
       pilotes pour évaluer les recommandations des études entreprises sous le paragraphe ci-dessus.
(3) la mise en place d'une base de données à l'Unité de Coordination (UC) du PDIAIM sur la production agricole,
       la diversification, et l'information technique et des marchés.
(4) programme de formation pour le personnel de l'UC-PDIAIM, et acquisition d'équipement.

Composante F       mettre en place des mesures d'atténuation pour les impacts indésirables du Projet
(1) mise en place à la Direction de l'Environnement et de l'Aménagement Rural (DEAR) de : (a) une banque de
       données qui collecte l'information sur les données sensibles d'un point de vue environnemental ; (b) un
       système de gestion environnementale qui facilite : (i) l'évaluation des impacts des activités agricoles sur
       l'environnement ; et (ii) le développement de stratégies d'atténuation ; par la provision de services
       techniques et l'exécution d'un programme de formation à la DEAR et l'obtention d'équipement.
(2) un programme de formation pour la DEAR, UC-PDIAIM, MDRE et SONADER dans les sujets suivants : (a) la
       gestion environnementale, (b) Etudes d'Impact Environnemental (EIE), (c) conception de stratégies
       environnementales, et (d) suivi des impacts environnementaux.
(3) études et recherche et préparation des règlements et normes techniques pour l'utilisation optimale des sols et les
       activités agricoles les moins négatives.
(4) mesures d'atténuation pour réduire les effets néfastes du Projet, par l'octroi de services conseils techniques, de
       travaux et d'acquisition d'équipement.

Composante G       Gestion, supervision, suivi et évaluation du Projet.
Administration, coordination, supervision et évaluation de la mise en oeuvre du projet par la formation du
       personnel dans l'UC-PDIAIM, DPSE, DEAR, Direction de la Recherche, Formation et de la Vulgarisation
       (DRFV) et la Direction des Ressources Agro-Pastorales (DRAP). Acquisition d'équipement et provision de
       services techniques.




                                                          - 36 -

Ces composantes ne sont pas obligatoirement les mêmes que celles inscrites dans le Project Appraisal Document
(PAD).

C.4 Composantes Révisées
Les composantes du Projet ont été en partie révisées au niveau des sous-composantes. Certaines adaptations ont été
faites pour mieux répondre à l'attente des différents centres de responsabilité :
·         La sous-composante B4 (réhabilitation des périmètres) a été combinée à la sous-composante B2
(construction d'infrastructures hydrauliques et routes)
·         Une nouvelle sous-composante B4 a été créée : Révision foncière, auparavant sous financement de l'Union
Européenne.
·         La composante C (renforcement des capacités des producteurs) a été combinée avec la sous-composante
D1 (renforcement des capacités pour les communautés agricoles).
·         Deux nouvelles sous-composantes sur les semences du riz (D2 Contrôle de la qualité et D3 Amélioration
de la filière semence) sont venues s'ajouter à la composante D (secteur irrigué traditionnel)

C.5 Qualité au Démarrage
La qualité du projet au démarrage est « Satisfaisante » ; le Projet est conforme avec la stratégie du gouvernement,
qui est la réduction de la pauvreté par le développement économique. Le Projet a comme but d'établir le fondement
de ce développement dans la Vallée du Fleuve Sénégal.

Problèmes Environnementaux Existants
Le projet est en accord avec les politiques environnementales nationales et avec les politiques environnementales et
sociales de la Banque Mondiale (les « Sauvegardes »). La sixième composante du Projet a comme but de mettre en
place les mesures d'atténuation d'impacts du Projet, ainsi que d'entretenir une gestion environnementale de la
Vallée.

Cependant, en ce qui concerne les problèmes environnementaux existants, le projet n'a pas prévu de mesures
préventives liées aux grandes infrastructures existantes (les barrages de Manantali et Diama), qui ont été construits
avec comme but principal la gestion de l'eau pour l'agriculture. Cependant, l'ensemble de ces problèmes est pris
en charge par des projets sous-régionaux (OMVS et Programme Biodiversité).

Problèmes Sociaux Existants
Au démarrage du Projet, les pêcheurs, éleveurs, et agriculteurs de décrue n'avaient pas accès à l'irrigation. Le
projet compte développer le marché foncier sans démunir ces classes défavorisées et vulnérables.

En ce qui concerne les impacts sociaux liés aux grandes infrastructures existantes (augmentation des maladies
hydriques, difficulté de navigation à travers les plantes envahissantes, baisse de la qualité de l'eau) le Projet a prévu
de coordonner ses efforts avec le Deuxième Projet de Santé, également sur financement IDA, pour combattre les
maladies hydriques. En plus, le Projet a prévu de financer des enquêtes annuelles sur les effets des nouvelles
infrastructures sur l'incidence des maladies infectieuses et proposera des mesures d'atténuation, à être financées
sous le Deuxième Projet de Santé.

Problèmes environnementaux et sociaux résultant du Projet
Il n'y a pas de travaux d'infrastructure majeurs prévus pendant la durée du Projet (1999 ­ 2002, prorogé à juin
2005), période durant laquelle des études de faisabilité, des plans d'aménagement, des procédures de gestion et des
travaux de réhabilitation seront élaborés. Cependant, pour toute activité entreprise sur les casiers irrigués, le Projet
à prévu que des EIE soient exécutées, et a prévu des fonds pour financer les mesures d'atténuation y afférentes. Le
Projet a également prévu qu'un système de suivi environnemental pour la Vallée sera développé.

Indicateurs de Performance
Le Projet est trop complexe en ce qui concerne les indicateurs de performance clés utilisés dans le cadre logique :
ceux-ci sont trop nombreux (75 au total), et difficiles à quantifier, mesurer et suivre. Pendant l'exécution de la
première phase, l'UC-PDIAIM n'a pas pu mesurer certains indicateurs, a du en modifier certains, et a du en ajouter



                                                         - 37 -

d'autres. Deuxièmement, le PAD n'a qu'un objectif (« établir le fondement technique, financier, environnemental
et socio-économique pour le développement durable de l'agriculture irriguée »), alors que l'Accord de Crédit en a
un de plus : (« augmenter la productivité agricole, l'emploi et le niveau de revenu dans la zone du Projet par
l'utilisation rationnelle de l'eau et des terres arables »). Ces objectifs sont soutenus par 12 indicateurs, qui
deviennent 16 indicateurs dans le cadre logique.         Troisièmement, les sept composantes du Projet ne sont pas
résumées dans le texte principal du PAD, mais uniquement dans les annexes.
Conception
La conception du Projet est de bonne qualité : étant la première phase d'un programme de 11 ans, le Projet a
surtout comme résultats attendus des mesures institutionnelles et légales ; il ne prévoit pas de travaux
d'infrastructure majeurs, mais prévoit par contre des petits travaux de réhabilitation. Il est raisonnable de croire
que les produits du Projet trouveront bonne réception auprès des populations cibles : un nouveau cadre politique,
légal et institutionnel est indispensable pour ouvrir le secteur aux producteurs, qui ont été, avant le projet, restreints
par un manque de transparence, des contraintes fiscales et légales, et des restrictions dans le domaine du transport
et du foncier qui causaient un handicap majeur. L'infrastructure actuelle étant fort dégradée, la population pourra
relancer l'agriculture avec une meilleure productivité quand l'infrastructure sera réhabilitée. Les appuis divers
offerts par le Projet (appui à la gestion et organisation agricole, à la filière riz, à la filière fruits / légumes) et grand
nombre de renforcement de capacités serviront à augmenter l'efficacité du secteur. Les mesures d'atténuation
environnementales et sociales seront reçues avec enthousiasme par la population, qui cherche accès aux soins
médicaux et à un environnement sain.

Suppositions
Le Projet, qui espère rendre le marché du riz plus compétitif, et qui espère concurrencer les produits jusqu'alors
importés, a supposé que la libéralisation du marché du riz (paddy) résulte en une augmentation du prix de l'achat
auprès des producteurs et une augmentation de la qualité ; ces suppositions sont raisonnables du fait que le système
antérieur était inefficace, produisait un riz de mauvaise qualité, mal entreposé et mal traité. Le Projet a aussi
supposé avec précision sur la stabilité du gouvernement, sur le soutient que porte le gouvernement au projet, et sur
les besoins importants en renforcement de capacités pour le développement de l'infrastructure et la gestion.
Cependant, ayant vu les catastrophes naturelles (inondations en 2001, criquets en 2004) et l'endémisme de certains
fléaux (pestes aviaires), le Projet aurait pu prévoir les retards que ces problèmes portent à l'atteinte des objectifs du
projet, en particulier le non-repaiement des crédits par les paysans. Le Projet aurait pu prévoir des mesures (p.ex.
un système d'assurance ou de prise en charge des calamités) pour stabiliser le revenu des paysans.

D.         Réalisation des Objectifs et Produits du Projet
D.1 Réalisation des Objectifs
Le Projet équivaut à la première phase d'un Crédit de Programme Adaptable (Adaptable Program Loan ­ APL).
Un APL est exécuté en phases, et les conditions essentielles pour progresser d'une phase à la suivante sont les «
déclencheurs ». D'après les documents du PDIAIM, les déclencheurs du Projet ont tous été atteints ; la condition
essentielle pour passer à la Phase II est donc satisfaite.

Les réalisations du Projet sont globalement Satisfaisantes. Le fondement pour le développement d'une agriculture
stable est établi, dans lequel les producteurs, quelle que soit l'échelle de leurs opérations, peuvent évoluer librement
et avec un taux de rentabilité acceptable. Ceci est particulièrement évident dans le secteur rizicole, secteur qui,
avant le Projet, était handicapé par des distorsions au niveau de la commercialisation et du transport. Le résultat
du Projet est une amélioration spectaculaire de la qualité du riz, un prix plus élevé au producteur, et une meilleure
information sur les prix.

D.2 Réalisation par Composante
Composante A : La composante Création d'un Cadre Favorable a permis la libéralisation des secteurs du riz, du
transport et du foncier par l'acceptation de plusieurs décrets et arrêtés. Dans le cadre du riz, la Direction des
Politiques, de la Coopération et du Suivi-Evaluation (DPCSE) a mis en place un système d'information sur les prix
du riz (SIM Riz). Dans le domaine du renforcement des statistiques agricoles, le Projet a promu l'Enquête
Ménages et Exploitants Agricoles (EMEA), effectuée annuellement, validée et publiée. Finalement, il a promu le
renforcement des capacités, la restructuration du MDRE et de la SONADER (comprenant le départ volontaire de



                                                           - 38 -

113 agents).     Plusieurs ateliers et voyages d'études ont contribué à l'augmentation de l'efficacité de ces
organisations. L'UNCACEM a connu un appui, dans l'obtention d'assistance technique, de renforcement des
capacités, informatique et de matériel. Globalement, les résultats atteints font que cette composante est jugée «
Hautement Satisfaisante ».

Composante B : La composante « Infrastructure de Base », qui comportait des études sur la réhabilitation des
casiers, a été réorganisée après le démarrage du projet, et est présentée par centre d'exécution, plutôt que par
thème. Les quatre centres d'exécution retenus ont obtenu les résultats suivants : (1) la SONADER a exécuté des
études sur la réhabilitation des infrastructures publiques : le schéma directeur Vallée du Gorgol, expertise
d'auscultation du barrage du Foum-Gleïta, le désenclavement Gani-DarElBarka, et autres ouvrages de
désenclavement. (2) en matière de réhabilitation, 762 ha sont déjà réhabilités et pour les dossiers de plus de 500
ha, les études sont achevées. La sous-composante de réhabilitation des routes d'accès a été transférée au Ministère
de l'Equipement et du Transport, comme celui-ci est plus apte à leur réhabilitation. (3) La SONADER et le Centre
National de Recherche Agronomique et de Développement Agricole (CNRADA) avec un certain retard, ont
vulgarisé la technique du goutte-à-goutte (formation de 50 coopératives maraîchères, installation de trois kits
d'irrigation, journées de démonstration pour 50 coopératives), ont obtenu l'installation d'un lot de matériel
d'irrigation par aspersion, et ont mis en place une base de données sur les systèmes de pompage de la Vallée. Le
Projet a fait une démonstration sur le fonctionnement d'électropompes pour 20 coopératives, a installé six
motopompes, a entrepris des analyses eau et sol, a fait l'entretien de 60 piézomètres, a entrepris des travaux
d'horticulture et a introduit des techniques de drainage. (4) La Révision Foncière au Ministère de l'Intérieur, des
Postes et Télécommunications (RF/MIPT), la DPCSE et le Service des Affaires Foncières et de la Cartographie
(SAFC) ont obtenu la régularisation foncière de 771 dossiers, ont développé un Système d'Information
Géographique (SIG) foncier, ont exécuté des campagnes d'information et de sensibilisation, et ont sensibilisé les
producteurs sur la valeur des espaces protégés. Cette composante est jugée « Satisfaisante », pour avoir atteint ses
objectifs, malgré le fait de n'avoir intégralement réhabilité que peu d'hectares.

Composantes C et D1 : Les composantes C Appui en Gestion des Exploitations et D1 Appui aux Filières
Traditionnelles ont été jugées suffisamment proches à l'issue de l'évaluation à mi-parcours du Projet pour être
combinées, étant donné leur dénominateur commun : le périmètre. Ceci met au centre les producteurs ruraux dans
la prise de décision pour toute action à mener. Le PDIAIM a entrepris la formation en gestion de 1.235 personnes
et 54 coopératives, la formation en aigadier, pompiste, manipulateur de vanne ou opérateurs de station de 304
personnes, a appuyé la reconnaissance juridique de 200 coopératives et groupements, et la régularisation foncière
de 171 entités. Il a contribué à l'alphabétisation de membres de 22 coopératives et 1.115 individus, et a introduit
de nouvelles cultures et méthodes : cultures fourragères, arachide, tournesol, eucalyptus, tomate hivernale, arbres
fruitiers et culture attelée. Il a en plus, parmi d'autres acquis, appuyé plus de 664 personnes et 210 cooperatives
pour : des voyages d'étude, un appui aux coopératives féminines, la formation en transformation de produits
agricoles, d'extraction d'huile végétale, de promotion d'utilisation d'engrais, de lutte contre les mauvaises herbes et
contre les sésamies. Une formation sur les techniques d'utilisation des pesticides a été dispensée au profit de 12
AVB, qui vont à leur tour vont former les producteurs. Les réalisations sont multiples, et la composante est jugée «
Satisfaisante ».

Composante D2 - D4 : La composante Qualité des Semences / Appui Financier, a été ré-organisée par centre
d'exécution, qui sont : (D2) Le Centre de Contrôle de la Qualité des Semences et Plants (CCQSP), qui a engendré
un programme de contrôle aux champs, pour s'assurer que les normes techniques de production de semences
seraient respectées (1.700 ha contrôlés sur quatre ans), et a aussi soutenu des centres de certification, qui
s'occuppent du triage et du conditionnement des semences (2.360 t contrôlées sur quatre ans). La SONADER a
appuyé les Groupements d'Intérêt Economique (GIE) spécialisés dans la commercialisation du paddy aux activités
d'amélioration de sa qualité. Le CCQSP a bénéficié d'un renforcement de capacités en équipement de laboratoire,
en personnel, et en stage de formation du PDIAIM. (D3) L'Unité de Gestion des Semences (UGS) de la DRFV du
MDRE a financé une étude approfondie de la filière « semence riz », tenu des ateliers, a proposé des arrêtés sur la
filière et a financé le renforcement des capacités de la filière. (D4) L'UNCACEM a financé la commercialisation
du paddy par les usiniers et les GIE, pour un montant total de US$ 4,8 millions sur la période du projet. Ceci
permet entre autres la fixation d'un prix plancher, et la production d'un riz de qualité supérieure. Des GIE se sont
équipés de matériel, et certains d'entre eux ont bénéficié de prêts pour l'acquisition de mini-rizerie. L'UNCACEM


                                                         - 39 -

a aussi financé la diversification de campagnes (US$ 1.3 m), le matériel d'irrigation et travaux (US$ 3,2 m) et les
crédits de campagne (US$ 11,2 m). Globalement, la composante est jugée « Satisfaisante » pour avoir atteint ses
objectifs.

Composante E : La composante Développement de la Diversification a réalisé un appui constant à la culture
maraîchère et fourragère, et a approuvé 91 dossiers pour un montant de US$ 2,5 m et une couverture de 527 ha. La
mise en place de systèmes d'irrigation (110 ha d'aspersion et goutte-à-goutte), le conditionnement, la conservation,
et l'exportation de produits maraîchers constitue une importante réussite de la composante. D'autre part, le Projet a
organisé des conventions de partenariat avec de gros opérateurs, a lancé un programme pilote d'export
encourageant, pour un total de 2.500 tonnes, a organisé plusieurs voyages d'étude de ses associés, a établi une
infrastructure de chambre froide dans la vallée, et un système d'information sur les marchés. Le Projet a aussi
lancé les travaux d'aménagement de la zone fret de l'aéroport de Nouakchott, ainsi que le centre de
conditionnement de fruits et légumes à Rosso. L'achèvement de ces travaux est prévu avant la fin 2004.
Globalement, cette composante est jugée « Satisfaisante ».

Composante F : La composante des Mesures Environnementales a été assurée par la Direction de l'Environnement
(DENV), qui a entrepris des études relatives à la formation en suivi, évaluation et gestion environnementale
(formation de 25 personnes). Un progrès considérable a été fait en ce qui concerne la mise en place d'un
observatoire de l'environnement : le marché pour la base de données pour le suivi environnemental est achevé et
une formation a été effectuée en Mauritanie et à l'étranger. Un plan d'occupation des sols existe et le rapport de
l'étude sur les normes environnementales est disponible. Une étude des mesures d'atténuation des impacts
environnementaux et sociaux a été conduite, qui propose la mise en place d'un système de suivi et évaluation des
maladies sanitaires ; ce document est achevé et disponible. Le Projet a préparé un plan de gestion intégrée des
pesticides. Finalement, la DENV a soutenu des ONG à la production de plants et la réhabilitation d'espaces
forestiers, a tenu un atelier national sur la filière bois et charbon, a entrepris du reboisement sur les dunes (13 ha),
et a réalisé 1.650 km de pare-feu. Il est à signaler aussi que 10 puits ont été construits au niveau du Trarza pour
permettre l'approvisionnement en eau potable des populations locales. Cette composante est jugée « Satisfaisante »
du fait d'avoir accompli ses taches.

Composante G : Les acquis de la Gestion du Projet sont une Unité de Coordination dynamique qui maîtrise bien le
projet, qui a mis en place un système de suivi-évaluation pratique et opérationnel, et qui assure la communication et
l'information sur le PDIAIM par un site web (www.pdiaim.mr). Des missions régulières de supervision de la
Banque Mondiale, des réunions du comité de pilotage, des réunions du Comité de l'Aide Incitatrice (CADI) pour
l'approbation de dossiers de réhabilitation et de diversification, la mise à niveau du logiciel financier et des audits
financiers annuels renforcent cette situation. Le PDIAIM a fait l'objet de renforcement de capacités, sur base de
formations sur les domaines de la gestion de projet, la passation des marchés, la comptabilité analytique, la
planification budgétaire, plusieurs voyages d'études, échanges d'expérience et la tenue d'ateliers de concertation et
d'information. Dans le domaine du suivi-évaluation, le Projet a conçu une base de données informatisée de suivi et
de gestion du PDIAIM, suivi des indicateurs et suivi des déclencheurs. Dans le cadre du renforcement des
capacités du personnel du de l'UC-PDIAIM, un plan de formation annuel a été élaboré. Le PDIAIM a aussi réalisé
deux études importantes relatives à une stratégie en matière Genre et une stratégie de communication. En matière
de passation des marchés, les activités du projet sont jugées satisfaisantes. Globalement, cette composante est jugée
« Satisfaisante ».

Les déclencheurs du Projet ont été identifiés parmi les 16 indicateurs clés du Projet. Leur état d'avancement est le
suivant :
Déclencheur                          Etat d'avancement
D1) Maintient de la libéralisation   Secteur riz
des marchés des produits agricoles   ·          Amélioration spectaculaire de la qualité du riz local, maintenant équivalent au riz
et des services de transport, comme  importé
convenu par le Gouvernement et       ·          Import du riz indépendant de l'achat du riz local.
l'IDA dans le PFP 1999 ­ 2002        ·          Libre marché du riz local et importé.
                                     ·          Annulation de la subvention du taux d'intérêt sur les prêts à la commercialisation
                                     du riz local.



                                                           - 40 -

                                        ·          Système Information sur les Marchés (SIM) filière riz réalisée et mise en place.
                                        ·          Un niveau satisfaisant de prix aux producteurs : UM 45 / kg au lieu de UM 30 /
                                        kg (US$ 0.17 / kg au lieu de US$ 0.12 / kg).
                                        ·          Harmonisation des taux de taxation entre la Mauritanie et la sous-région
                                        ·          Taux de taxation global du riz importé inférieur à 45% (45,14%)
                                        ·          Taux maximal des droits de douane inférieur à 20% (23%)
                                        ·          Impôt Minimum Forfaitaire (IMF) et Taxe de Valeur Ajoutée (TVA) sur le riz
                                        entre 4 et 14% (4% et 0%).
                                        Transport :
                                        -          étude sur la restructuration des transports réalisée
                                        -          suppression du contrôle des prix
                                        -          deux fédérations de transports créées

                                        Conclusion : déclencheur atteint
D2) Autosuffisance opérationnelle       Autosuffisance opérationnelle : assurée depuis 2000. Le ratio a atteint 172% en 2003.
et financière de l'UNCACEM              Autosuffisance financière : assurée en 2002. Le ratio s'établit à 106% au cours de
assurée à partir de 2001                l'exercice 2003.

                                        Conclusion : déclencheur atteint
5) Niveau satisfaisant d'offre de       Crédits octroyés conformément aux procédures de l'UNCACEM convenues avec l'IDA et
crédit (au moins 75% des valeurs        attesté par audits à 100% des demandeurs.
cibles pour la réhabilitation)
D3) Crédits et subventions à            Subventions à la promotion de la diversification agricole et à la réhabilitation réalisées
l'investissement accordés               conformément aux procédures convenues avec l'IDA avec leur approbation par le CADI.
conformément aux procédures
convenues avec l'IDA                  Conclusion : déclencheur atteint
D8) Performance de la SONADER          · Mise en place d'un système de gestion financière adapté aux projets gérés par la
jugée satisfaisante selon les critères SONADER.
du Contrat-programme                   · Finalisation du logiciel « TOMPRO » pour le suivi de la comptabilité budgétaire et
                                       analytique et la production des états financiers dans les délais requis.
                                       · Mise en place d'une base de données pour la gestion du personnel.
                                       · Mise en place d'un système intranet.
                                       · Gestion financière :
                                       - coefficient brut d'exploitation : 98%
                                       - ratio de rentabilité : 32%
                                       - réduction des charges de fonctionnement : 94%
                                       - importance de la maîtrise d'oeuvre : 12%
                                       · Gestion des ressources humaines :
                                       - diminution de la charge du personnel
                                       - poids de la charge du personnel : 20% de baisse de la masse salariale

                                       Conclusion : déclencheur atteint
D4) Attribution d'autorisation          Régularisation réalisée conformément au décret N° 2000/89 du 17 juillet 2000 qui abroge et
d'exploiter, de concessions             remplace le décret N° 90/020 du 31 janvier 1990. A ce jour :
provisoires et de concessions         · au Trarza : 642 périmètres dont 423 individuels et 219 collectifs
définitives, effectuées conformément  · au Brakna : 54 en concession définitive et 5 en concession provisoire.
aux textes d'application de la loi    · au Gorgol : 55 périmètres collectifs
foncière                              · au Guidimagha : 15 périmètres collectifs en concession définitive.

                                      Conclusion : déclencheur atteint
D5) Mise en place de registres          Registres fonciers transparents et accessibles mis en place à tous les centres importants (1.
fonciers, transparents et accessibles,  Keur Macène, 2. Rosso, 3. R'Kiz, 4. Boghé, 5. Bababé, 6. M'Bagne, 7. Kaédi, 8.
permettant la vérification des actes    Maghama, 9. Sélibaby)
d'autorisation d'exploiter, de
concessions provisoires ou de
concessions définitives               Conclusion : déclencheur atteint
D7) Rentabilité économique des          Des études économiques et financières faites sur les périmètres à réhabiliter montrent que
aménagements hydro-agricoles            les taux de Rentabilité Internes (TRI) initiales sont de :



                                                                - 41 -

soutenus par l'état, démontrée de     TRI financier : 38,5%
manière satisfaisante sur la base des TRI économique : 40,5%
premiers résultats disponibles.
                                      Conclusion : déclencheur atteint
D6) Procédures instaurées pour la     Cahier de charges adopté et effectif
mise en oeuvre d'un système de
collecte des charges d'eau, et de
gestion et entretien des ouvrages
collectifs                            Conclusion : déclencheur atteint


Durant la période du Projet, l'UC-PDIAIM a légèrement modifié certains déclencheurs pour mieux les préciser,
pour améliorer leur qualité ou pour mieux intégrer la dimension sociale de la lutte contre la pauvreté. L'atteinte
des déclencheurs établit le fondement pour un développement durable de l'agriculture irriguée, qui entend que
l'objectif du Projet a été atteint. La réalisation de la première phase permet au Programme de progresser.

Taux de Rentabilité Interne
L'analyse économique faite avant le projet montre un taux de rentabilité interne (TRI) financier de 28.5% et un
TRI économique de 28.4%.            Une analyse économique globale est en cours de réalisation, mais des études
préliminaires de réhabilitation des casiers montrent que les TRI pour les périmètres à être réhabilités sont de :
TRI financier : 38,5%
TRI économique : 40,5%
Ces résultats indiquent que les réhabilitations de périmètres sont rentables.

E.        Facteurs Principaux Influant l'Exécution et le Résultat
E.1 Facteurs hors du contrôle du gouvernement
Parmi les facteurs principaux influant l'exécution du projet peuvent être cités les catastrophes naturelles :
·         des inondations en 2001, qui ont causé des dégâts considérables aux périmètres en cours de production,
aux cultures des paysans soutenus par le Projet, et qui peuvent fortement endommager les infrastructures
·         les oiseaux granivores, qui peuvent détruire une culture de riz à 100%,
·         les criquets grégaires (2004), qui risquent d'endommager fortement les rizières.

E.2 Facteurs Sujets au Gouvernement
Le Projet était complexe, avait trois comptes spéciaux (un par agence d'exécution ­ MDRE, SONADER,
UNCACEM) et a mis un certain temps à se roder dans les procédures de la Banque Mondiale. Ceci explique la
prorogation de deux ans de la première phase. La complexité du projet peut être attribuée aussi bien à la Banque
Mondiale qu'au Gouvernement.

L'appui continu du gouvernement et sa volonté d'entreprendre des réformes majeures a contribué aux acquis du
Projet. Un fort dévouement de la part du gouvernement à permis au Projet de revitaliser un des secteurs les plus
importants de l'économie mauritanienne.

E.3 Facteurs Sujets à l'Agence d'Exécution
L'UC-PDIAIM a reçu des formations sur la gestion du projet, la gestion financière et le suivi-évaluation. Le
comité de pilotage du Projet se réunit régulièrement, et l'UC a coordonné les activités entre les différentes agences
d'exécution avec grand succès. Ces facteurs ont contribué au bon déroulement du Projet.


F.        Durabilité
Le présent rapport couvre la Phase I (3 ans) du Programme de 11 ans. L'auteur de ce rapport est d'avis que la
Phase I a été exécutée de façon satisfaisante, et que les déclencheurs pour passer à la Phase II ont été satisfaits. Le
programme entrera donc dans sa deuxième phase en 2005. De ce fait, la durabilité du programme est « Hautement
Probable ».




                                                            - 42 -

G.        Performance de la Banque Mondiale et de l'Emprunteur
La performance de la Banque Mondiale est jugée « Satisfaisante » ; La Banque a entrepris des missions de
supervision régulières et a fait un suivi complet du projet. Malgré le fait que le projet soit complexe, et que certains
retards aient été observés au niveau de réceptions de non-objections, le Projet n'a pas eu à subir de gros problèmes
et les relations entre l'Emprunteur et la Banque ont toujours été des meilleures. Le remplacement du chef d'équipe
(Task Team Leader ­ TTL) de la Banque s'est fait sans ralentissement du projet, dû au fait que le nouveau TTL
avait participé à toutes les missions antérieures et maîtrisait bien le Projet.

L'emprunteur, a, pour sa part, aussi mis en place une équipe dynamique de gestion de projet, un système de
suivi-évaluation performant, et a obtenu des résultats importants sur le terrain (voir aussi Section D, Composante
G).

H.        Leçons apprises
Les leçons principales qui peuvent être tirées du Projet sont que :
1)        les réformes prennent du temps ;
2)        qu'il faut prévoir plus de temps pour les imprévus telles les calamités naturelles, qui retardent
l'avancement du projet ;
3)        qu'il faut prévoir plus de temps pour mettre en oeuvre la gestion complexe d'un projet de dimension ;
4)        qu'un projet multi-sectoriel comme le PDIAIM demande du renforcement des capacités à tous les niveaux
et dans beaucoup de domaines.

I.        Annexe 1 ­ Indicateurs Clés
Les indicateurs clés présentés ci-dessous sont ceux qui n'ont pas servi de déclencheurs au Programme :

Indicateur clé                       Taux d'achèvement
3) Taux de repaiement               93% dont 94% pour les collectifs et 92 % pour les individuels
satisfaisant (au moins 95%) des
prêts d'UNCACEM
6) Crédit pour les producteurs       UNCACEM a diversifié ses crédits, et a servi les producteurs dans le domaine
non-riz octroyé aux producteurs      de la diversification.
réalisant les conditions de crédit
7) Amélioration de l'efficacité de Volume augmentant : à 1.266 millions UM (US$ 4,220,000)
l'UNCACEM (volume et temps
de réponse) à fournir du crédit
aux individuels et coopératives.
11) Transparence, équité et          Transparence, équité et sécurisation foncière assurées d'après enquêtes
sécurisation foncière assurée,       participatives et par les registres fonciers disponibles et ouverts aux
d'après enquêtes participatives      exploitants.
12) accès des familles pauvres      Enquête pas effectuée mais tous les périmètres collectifs sont jugés être des
aux services agricoles, d'après     familles pauvres. Le projet entier cible les services agricoles pour les pauvres.
enquête participatives
14) Amélioration de la              Les premiers résultats devaient être faits sur les périmètres réhabilités ; ceux-ci
rentabilité du riz et des nouvelles étant dans leur première campagne de production, les données ne sont pas
cultures d'après les premiers       disponibles.
résultats disponibles.
16) Etudes de faisabilité           a) Schéma directeur Vallée du Gorgol : étude restituée et Avant-Projet Détaillé
achevées, y compris les EIE pour (APD) en cours.
l'infrastructure hors exploitation b) Désenclavement de la zone de Gani Dar El Barka : étude achevée.
(indispensables pour les            c) Schéma directeur Zone Gani Dar El Barka ( Koundi 1 a 5) : pris en charge par
investissements à prévoir en        UC-PDIAIM. En cours, rapport provisoire achevé.
Phase II)                           d) Etudes des normes environnementales
                                    e) Etude sanitaire (maladies, surtout hydriques).



                                                           - 43 -

J.       Annexe 2
Financement : l'état d'exécution financière par catégorie de dépense est présentée comme suit :

Catégorie de dépenses                Budget prévu         Budget exécuté au          Taux d'exécution
                                     Phase I (US $)       31/08/2004 (US $)               (%)
Travaux de génie civil                      1 776 427,30              659 588,22            37
Véhicules                                   1 202 220,05            1 222 576,95           102
Matériels                                   2 857 670,25            1 407 739,51            49
Services consultants et études              8 145 814,78            7 262 578,28            89
Formation                                   3 252 320,73            2 664 361,59            82
Prêts au titre de sous projet             11 535 291,00             9 078 283,67            79
Don au titre de sous projet                 3 742 554,86            1 946 104,19            52
Charges de fonctionnement                   4 858 392,86            3 506 693,14            72
additionnelles
Total                                      37.370.691,60          27.747.925,55             74
Plus d'information sur les dépenses peuvent être obtenues du Rapport Bilan.




                                                       - 44 -

Additional Annex 9. Mid-Term Review Aide-Memoire

                                          BANQUE MONDIALE

   Projet de Développement Intégré de l'Agriculture Irriguée en Mauritanie
                                                  (PDIAIM)
                                     Mission de revue à mi-parcours
                                        20 janvier ­ 6 février 2002
                                                Aide-mémoire
                                                 =========

1.       Une mission de la Banque mondiale a réalisé, entre le 20 janvier et le 16 février 2002, une revue à
mi-parcours du Projet de Développement Intégré de l'Agriculture Irriguée en Mauritanie (PDIAIM) pour
lequel un crédit IDA a été mis en vigueur le 16 décembre 1999.

                                   Objet et composition de la mission

2.       L'objet de la mission était de (i) faire un constat de l'état d'avancement du projet (objectifs,
composantes, approche, procédures de mise en oeuvre, réalisations, premiers impacts, gestion
administrative, financière et comptable, etc.) ; (ii) identifier les mesures à prendre pour apporter les
ajustements éventuels ; et (iii) étudier le programme de travail et budget pour l'année calendaire 2002 et
pour le reste de la durée de vie du projet.

3.       La mission était dirigée par M. Abdelkrim Oka, responsable du secteur rural pour la Mauritanie
auprès de la Banque mondiale et était composée des Messieurs Ismael Ouedraogo (agro-économiste),
Amadou Oumar Ba (agronome); Robert Robelus (spécialiste de l'environnement); Daniel Moreau
(agronome); Ahmedou Ould Hamed (spécialiste en passation de marchés); El Hadj Adama Touré
(spécialiste des services agricoles); Amadou Soumaila (spécialiste en irrigation, FAO/CP); Samba Diom
Ba (spécialiste en gestion financière, consultant) ; et Catherine Cormont-Touré, (sociologue/genre,
consultante). Il avait de plus été convenu que le PDIAIM mette à la disposition de la mission quatre
experts consultants pour couvrir les aspects génie rural, crédit-aide incitatrice-aspects économiques,
diversification et suivi-évaluation. Il s'agissait respectivement de Pierre Ponsy, Nicolas Gergely,
Jean-Michel Voisard et Annick Lachance. La mission a aussi bénéficié de l'assistance de M. Siaka
Bakayoko, Spécialiste en gestion financière (Banque mondiale, Washington) et de M. Yahya Ould Aly
Jean, Assistant en décaissements, Banque mondiale, Nouakchott.

Déroulement de la mission et personnes rencontrées

4.       La mission a participé à des présentations générales sur les réalisations du projet (20-21 janvier),
des visites de terrain dans la vallée (22-27 janvier) ; des travaux de groupes (28-30 janvier) ; la restitution
des groupes de travail (31 janvier) ; une visite à Rosso avec le Directeur de la Banque mondiale pour la
Mauritanie (2-3 février). La rédaction de l'aide-mémoire et des notes techniques s'est déroulé du 2 au 4
février et les réunions de synthèse les 5 et 6 février.

5.       Au cours de son séjour, la mission a rencontré le Ministre du Développement Rural et de
l'Environnement et le Ministre des Affaires Economiques et du Développement avec lesquels elle a fait le
point sur les questions liées au PDIAIM ainsi que sur des sujets connexes. La mission a tenu des séances
de travail avec les cadres des différentes institutions impliquées dans la mise en oeuvre du PDIAIM



                                                       - 45 -

(UC/PDIAIM, DRFV, DPSE, DEAR,, DEA, CNRADA, Bureau des Affaires Foncières, SONADER,
Réviseur Foncier (Ministère de l'intérieur) ; UNCACEM. Enfin la mission a rencontré les représentants
d'agence de coopération (Coopération française, AFD, GTZ, KfW, OMS, et UE).

Résultats de la mission : Résumé

6.        D'une manière générale, le constat de la mission est mitigé. Il y a eu, d'une part de très grands
progrès au niveau de la filière riz en matière de libéralisation, amélioration de la qualité du riz,
commercialisation et crédit agricole. Il y a eu aussi une percée impressionnante dans le domaine de la
diversification. Malheureusement des composantes importantes du projet ont très peu évolué. Il s'agit
principalement des composantes Réhabilitations et Infrastructures Publiques. Il s'agit aussi, et ce dans une
moindre mesure, des aspects concernant l'appui aux producteurs (composantes C et D) et l'environnement
(composante F). La mission reconnaît que la taille et la complexité de ce projet, de ses nombreux aspects
novateurs, des contraintes auxquelles il est confronté et de l'expérience limitée d'une part de son personnel
sont en partie responsables de la limite des résultats obtenus. La mission demeure cependant convaincue
qu'un redressement au niveau de la SONADER (ou le transfert de certaines de ses activités à d'autres
opérateurs) et une coordination mieux structurée, plus présente, vigilante et ferme sont indispensables si
l'on souhaite atteindre les objectifs ciblés pour cette première phase du PDIAIM et satisfaire aux conditions
convenues pour le déclenchement d'une seconde phase. La mission attire l'attention sur le fait que la
première phase du PDIAIM arrive à terme le 31 décembre 2002 et, qu'à cette date, il n'y a aucune chance
pour que ces conditions soient réunies. Même avec une extension de douze à dix huit mois, ces objectifs ne
pourront pas être atteints si des mesures importantes ne sont pas prises pour lever les contraintes
rencontrées. Etant donné que certaines de ces contraintes Routes, hydraulique, électrification, commerce,
tarification, transports, foncier, santé, etc. relèvent d'autres départements ministériels que le MDRE, la
mission recommande que le Comité interministériel d'orientation et de suivi (CIMOS) et le Comité de
pilotage du PDIAIM soient pleinement impliqués.

Filière riz et mise en oeuvre de politiques d'accompagnement

7.        Au niveau de la filière riz, le Gouvernement a continué à mettre en oeuvre la politique de
libéralisation pour laquelle il s'était engagé au moment des négociations à savoir (i) maintien des taxes à
l'importation du riz à un taux conforme aux accords passés ; (ii) non-intervention au niveau des volumes
importés ; et (iii) non-intervention dans la commercialisation de la production nationale ((plus de fixation
du prix d'achat, pas de garantie d'achat et pas de subvention des taux d'intérêt des prêts aux producteurs et
commerçants). La mission recommande le maintien de cette politique qui a porté ses fruits.

8.        Comme résultat, le prix d'achat a commencé à varier en fonction de la qualité, ce qui a amené les
producteurs à améliorer la qualité de leur paddy (sélection de meilleures variétés) et les riziers à procéder à
un meilleur usinage du riz (qualité et rendement). Au bout de deux ans du projet (deux campagnes
agricoles), le riz mauritanien s'est tellement amélioré qu'il est devenu difficile de le distinguer du riz
importé et sa valeur commerciale s'est nettement accrue. Les producteurs ont été incités à améliorer leurs
rendements et les résultats se sont déjà faits sentir. Ceux habitués à compter sur la subvention et la
protection de l'Etat pour produire un paddy de qualité médiocre et à un coût élevé et qui n'ont pas
recherché l'amélioration de cette qualité ont momentanément cessé leur production. Dans un soucis
d'améliorer leurs revenus, les riziers ont commencé à investir dans la construction de hangars pour un
meilleur entreposage du paddy et du riz et dans l'acquisition d'équipement d'usinage plus performants en
faisant appel aux prêts disponibles au niveau de l'UNCACEM grâce au financement PDIAIM.




                                                       - 46 -

9.       La leçon tirée par les producteurs, usiniers et commerçants est que ceux qui sont disposés à faire
de l'agriculture une vraie profession sont capables, grâce à l'aide du PDIAIM, de s'en sortir et d'avoir une
activité économique viable et profitable, l'Etat étant là pour les aider dans cette voie, que ce soit sous forme
de financement d'investissements (crédits aux taux du marché, aide incitatrice) ou d'assistance technique et
conseil, cette aide étant ouverte à toute activité agricole prouvée viable (investissements structurants,
aménagement, production, transformation ou commercialisation). C'est donc à un assainissement de la
filière que nous assistons.

Crédit agricole

10.      Grâce au PDIAIM, le crédit agricole, restreint par le passé au prêt de campagne de production
(court terme) et à quelques prêts d'équipements liés à la production et la récolte (moyen terme), a été élargi
aux prêts de commercialisation (court terme), d'équipement (moyen terme) pour la transformation, le
stockage et la commercialisation, et d'aménagement (long terme) pour la réhabilitation et l'extension de
périmètres. Les conditions de prêts ont été revues pour tenir compte de la rentabilité financière de
l'investissement proposé et exiger une garantie foncière ou caution bancaire.

11.      Grâce à cette nouvelle politique, le volume des demandes et d'octroi des prêts a augmenté de
manière significative entre 1999 et 2001. Il a cependant été affecté par les inondations de fin 1999 qui ont
détruit une partie des récoltes, endommagé les périmètres, ralenti le taux de remboursement des créditeurs
et réduit la capacité d'emprunt des producteurs en 2000 et 2001. La baisse du taux de recouvrement des
prêts par l'UNCACEM empêchera cette dernière d'atteindre son autosuffisance financière en fin 2001 tel
que prévu. Le ré-échelonnement de certaines dettes de la campagne 1999-2000 a permis de soulager les
producteurs mais les nouvelles échéances de paiement doivent impérativement être honorées si
l'UNCACEM veut atteindre son autosuffisance financière en fin 2002. La mission recommande donc que
l'UNCACEM prenne toutes les dispositions (juridiques et autres) prévues dans le cadre des contrats de
prêts et consignées dans son manuel de procédures pour recouvrer ces échéances, particulièrement celles de
ré-échelonnements non liés aux inondations. L'UNCACEM devra aussi accompagner tout ré-échelonnement
par des actions concrètes de redressement des exploitations en difficulté.

Réhabilitations

12.      Des améliorations significatives et durables au niveau de la qualité et du rendement du paddy ne
sont possibles que si les périmètres irrigués actuellement en production sont réhabilités. Or c'est la
sous-composante Réhabilitation des Périmètres (B2) qui a le plus souffert de retards dans la mise en oeuvre.
Ces retards sont dus à (i) une absence de régularisation du statut foncier des exploitations ; (ii) une absence
de régularisation du statut juridique des coopératives (périmètres collectifs) ; (iii) des normes
d'aménagement jugées trop exigeantes et coûteuses ; et (iv) des études trop exigeantes et trop longues pour
les réhabilitations. Ceci a eu pour conséquence qu'après deux ans de mise en oeuvre du projet, aucun
périmètre n'a entamé de réhabilitation. Au cours de la mission de supervision précédente, des mesures
avaient été prises pour débloquer la situation au niveau du foncier et des coopératives. Ceci a permis de
régulariser en huit mois 516 dossiers fonciers et de nombreux dossiers de coopératives. Cependant, les sept
études foncières prévues n'ont pas été réalisées. La mission considère que les contraintes responsables de
ces retards auraient pu être levées plus rapidement si la SONADER et l'UC-PDIAIM avaient été plus
vigilantes et alerté à temps les autorités concernées.

13.      Pour pallier aux problèmes rencontrés au niveau de la Composante Réhabilitations, la mission
recommande les mesures suivantes: (i) révision des normes d'aménagement ; (ii) poursuite des opérations
de régularisations foncières et des coopératives ; (iii) mise en place d'une unité de coordination du PDIAIM


                                                      - 47 -

pour le Moyen et Haut Fleuve pour accélérer le processus de réhabilitation des périmètres ; (iv), révision
des TdR des études de réhabilitation des périmètres pour les rendre moins complexes, moins exigeantes et
moins onéreuses ; (v) renforcement du rôle de l'ingénieur conseil (Sonader) jugé peu performante ; (vi)
adaptation des règles de procédures de crédit et de l'aide incitatrice ; et (vii) intégration des grands
périmètres collectifs dans le processus de réhabilitation. Le détail de ces recommandations est présenté dans
les annexes du présent aide-mémoire.

14.     Si ces recommandations sont prises en compte, il sera possible, d'ici la fin 2003, de compléter les
études de réhabilitation pour 1610 ha de petits périmètres irrigués (PPI) collectifs, 500 ha de PPI privés et
6000 ha grands périmètres (GPI) collectifs et de procéder à la réhabilitation de 910 ha de PPI collectifs
200 ha de PPI privés. Ceci impliquerait cependant une extension de la date de clôture du projet.

Infrastructures publiques

15.     Des retards importants ont été accusés au niveau de cette dernière auxquels il faudra remédier de
toute urgence. Tout comme pour les réhabilitation, les lourdeurs de la SONADER ont contribué en partie à
ces retards. La mission recommande que la Sonader assume pleinement ses responsabilités, veille à une
meilleure gestion de ses dossiers et à un suivi plus rigoureux et plus rapproché de ses activités. La mission
recommande aussi que l'Unité de Coordination du projet (UC-PDIAIM) veille étroitement au respect du
calendrier convenu avec la Sonader. Les actions suivantes sont urgentes :

·       restitution aux populations concernées des conclusions de l'étude des schémas directeurs de la
vallée du Gorgol et le passage sans délai à la préparation des études d'avant-projet détaillés et des dossiers
de consultation des entreprises.
·       réorientation des études générales prévues vers la définition de règles de gestion des axes
hydraulique et émissaires de drainage impliquant fortement les associations d'usagers;
·       financement additionnel des études APD/DCE des ouvrages hydrauliques et de désenclavement de
la zone de Garak - Sokam, faisant suite aux conclusions de l'étude de faisabilité pour un programme de
développement intégré de cette zone financée par l'AFD pour un montant estimé à 30 millions UM;
·       financement des études techniques et économiques de travaux confortant à réaliser sur les ouvrages
et équipements communs des grands périmètres collectifs dans la perspective du transfert de leur gestion
aux organisations professionnelles;
·       financement d'études et de travaux confortants stratégiques à caractère urgent sur GPC (diagnostic
complet et restauration du dispositif d'auscultation du barrage de Foum Gleita, réalisation d'un siphon
inversé pour le franchissement d'un talweg par la tête morte du périmètre de Foum Gleita).

9.      L'attention de la mission a été attirée par le problème du désenclavement de plusieurs périmètres
mettant en péril l'évacuation de leur production. S'agissant d'infrastructures publiques relevant du domaine
du PDIAIM, il a été convenu que la réparation de certains axes stratégiques et prioritaires pouvait être
prise en charge par le PDIAIM. Des propositions devront être faites dans ce sens à l'IDA.

Transfert des grands périmètres collectifs

10.     Le contrat-programme Etat-SONADER prévoit l'étude et la mise en oeuvre du transfert de ces
périmètres (six) aux organisations socioprofessionnelles. Ces aménagements représentent au total 5.800 ha.
L'étude a proposé une démarche pour ce transfert et ses conditions de succès dont la régularisation foncière
et juridique, le renforcement institutionnel des organisations socioprofessionnelles, l'apurement de leur
passif vis-à-vis de l'UNCACEM, un programme de travaux de réhabilitation et l'amélioration de



                                                     - 48 -

l'environnement des exploitations agricoles. Bien que la réhabilitation des grands périmètres collectifs ne
figure pas explicitement dans le programme initial de la phase I du PDIAIM, la mission recommande que
certains d'entre eux pourraient être pris en considération, d'autant plus que le volume total de
réhabilitations prévu en Phase-I (3.000 ha) ne pourra pas être réalisé au cours de cette phase même si une
extension de 12 à 18 mois était considérée.

Recherche-développement

11.      La sous-composante Recherche-développement visait l'amélioration des systèmes et techniques de
pompage, irrigation et drainage et de lutte contre la salinité et l'alcalinité des sols. Les réalisations ont porté
sur l'organisation de missions de consultants qui ont permis d'identifier les programmes de
recherche-développement; la sensibilisation des producteurs sur les thèmes de recherche et sur leur
participation aux essais, l'élaboration de programmes de formation et la conduite de démonstrations sur des
systèmes de goutte à goutte. La mission a fait un constat de retards importants dans la mise en oeuvre des 3
programmes. En vue de re-dynamiser cette sous-composante, la mission recommande que l'ensemble des
activités de recherche soient confiées au CNRADA à travers des conventions telles que celle déjà envisagée
pour le volet drainage et lutte contre la salinité. La mission a aussi recommandé de réviser à la baisse les
objectifs quantitatifs de la sous-composante étant donné le temps limité restant.

Appui aux producteurs en techniques et en gestion

12.      L'amélioration des rendements passe aussi par une meilleure gestion des périmètres au niveau des
infrastructures, de la production et de l'organisation de la production. Cette gestion exige l'acquisition d'un
savoir-faire technique et organisationnel de la part des producteurs que la Sonader avait mandat d'appuyer
(Composantes C et D1). La mission a pris note des volumes réalisés communiqués par la Sonader mais n'a
pas été en mesure d'en apprécier la qualité ni les effets. En effet les informations mises à la disposition de
la mission ne donne pas de précisions sur la liste des personnes ayant bénéficié d'appui en matière de
formation-vulgarisation ou sur leur localisation. La Sonader ne dispose pas d'un système pour évaluer
l'impact de l'assistance qu'elle apporte. Enfin, en termes financiers, le niveau d'exécution financière de la
composante C s'élève à 77.64% par rapport au montant alloué pour la durée de la première phase. Une
analyse plus approfondie est donc nécessaire. La mission a rappelé à la Sonader qu'une partie importante
de ses interventions en matière d'appui doivent être délégué à des ONG et des institutions privées, tel que
prévu dans les documents de projet. La mission recommande les actions suivantes :

       ·    développer une stratégie de communication vers le monde rural en utilisant les media disponibles
            (visuels et audio) pour à la fois, donner la parole aux producteurs et les informer;
       ·    Établir des relations contractuelles entre prestataires publics et/ou privés spécialisés et
            producteurs demandeurs de services d'appui. Les groupements en particulier devraient établir,
            avec les services d'appui, un programme d'intervention annuel précis et répondant à leurs
            demandes;
       ·    développer un mécanisme de financement « à la base » pour permettre progressivement aux
            producteurs individuels ou collectifs d'avoir accès sous forme contractuelle à des services
            d'appui spécialisés de leur choix;
       ·    encourager la contractualisation de prestataires privés spécialisés par un système public et
            transparent d'information et de communication sur les procédures visant prestataires potentiels
            et demandeurs de services;
       ·    dresser mettre à jour régulièrement un inventaire des prestataires spécialisés et agréés en appui
            CGF au niveau régional et national, en fonction de la qualité de leurs prestations;



                                                      - 49 -

       ·    prendre systématiquement en compte l'aspect genre dans toutes les activités d'appui pour bien
            identifier les besoins et contraintes spécifiques aux femmes et permettant ainsi de mieux
            répondre à leurs demandes; et
       ·    créer des espaces de concertation pour permettre aux producteurs d'être informés et d'exprimer
            leurs demandes.

Diversification

13.      Au niveau de la diversification, une avancée remarquable a été faite. La Mauritanie, qui n'avait il y
a deux ans à peine pratiquement aucune tradition de maraîchage, sauf à très petite échelle dans les oasis,
exporte aujourd'hui à destination de l'Europe melons, gombos, haricots verts, tomates cerise, piment
antillais entièrement produits et commercialisés par le secteur privé. Une aide incitatrice a été fournie aux
agriculteurs souhaitant tester la diversification (actions pilotes). En tout 19 dossiers ont été approuvés pour
une aide de 50 millions d'ouguiyas, couvrant divers opérations pilote (maraîchères de contre-saison chaude
et d'hivernage, fourrages et papaye. Sauf pour la tomate, les productions ont été un succès, dégageant des
marges appréciables pour les producteurs. On note en particulier des résultats encourageants pour le melon,
avec une production locale estimée à plus de 500 tonnes en 2001 et une valeur au détail d'environ 75
millions d'ouguiya.

14.      Des conventions de partenariats ont aussi été signées avec des agro-industriels ayant déjà une
expertise en diversification et désireux de promouvoir les exportations mauritaniennes. Le cas le plus
important est celui de la convention de partenariat avec GDM qui a installé un dispositif de 20 hectares
d'essais et qui a pu tester (production et commercialisation) une gamme de 14 produits d'exportation.

15.      Le programme export en cours de réalisation porte sur 45 hectares avec une commercialisation
prévue de 230 tonnes de différents produits, par voie maritime via Dakar et par avion via Nouakchott.
L'opération pilote est basée sur une installation de conditionnement sommaire à Rosso en attendant la
construction du centre pilote qui permettra de traiter plus de 1000 tonnes par an. Une telle capacité
permettra d'amorcer un flux viable à l'exportation et pourra servir de plate forme de service aux
exportateurs émergeants qui pourront ensuite développer leur propre infrastructure. L'UC/PDIAIM a
achevé la conception technique de la gare de fret de l'aéroport de Nouakchott et du centre pilote de
conditionnement de Rosso, dont la procédure d'appel d'offres est actuellement en cours. Ce premier
programme mérite d'être applaudi compte tenu de l'absence d'infrastructure et de circuits de
commercialisations bien rodés. Il faut souligner ici le dynamisme et la forte mobilisation des producteurs
organisés en GIE qui augurent bien pour la suite du programme. Ceci n'aurait pu réussir sans l'équipe de
la cellule de diversification du PDIAIM à Rosso, elle aussi, animée du même dynamisme et engagement.

16.      Au cours de la mission, de réelles potentialités de développement ont été identifiées au niveau de la
Moyenne et de la Haute Vallée. Une intervention du PDIAIM en matière de diversification trouverait donc,
dans cette partie de la vallée, des conditions très favorables, tout en contribuant au développement
économique et social d'une zone où le taux de population en-dessous du seuil de pauvreté est élevé.

17.      Suite aux discussions, la mission recommande (i) une meilleure collecte et dissémination des
informations et du savoir, une meilleure communication et concertation entre les partenaires ; (ii) la
poursuite de la mobilisation pour le développement des infrastructures de base (Gare de fret de l'aéroport
de Nouakchott, Centre pilote de conditionnement de Rosso, service d'agréage phytosanitaire,
désenclavement de points stratégiques sur l'axe routier Rosso-Boghé); (iii) l'élargissement de la couverture
du PDIAIM en termes de produits et de zone d'intervention (Moyenne et Haute Vallée) ; et (iv) le



                                                      - 50 -

développement d'un système de collecte des données techniques sur la diversification.

Mesures environnementales

18.     les principaux problèmes environnementaux dans la Vallée du Fleuve Sénégal sont nombreux:
paludisme, bilharziose et maladies intestinales liées au manque d'eau potable, obstruction des canaux par
des plantes aquatiques envahissantes, salinité, alcalinité ou engorgement des sols, mauvaises herbes et
oiseaux granivores.

19.     Malgré les contraintes substantielles, on peut considérer que la performance en matière de
degré d'atteinte des résultats est satisfaisante. Les facteurs de blocage de la composantes ont été : (i) la
lenteur de la mise en oeuvre des volets formation, élaboration des manuels, établissements du POS dans la
zone pilote ; (ii) la lenteur dans les procédures de la passation des marchés DAO ; (iii) la lenteur dans les
procédures de l'obtention de la non-objection ; et (iv) le manque de suivi rapproché de la mise en oeuvre de
la composante.

20.     La mission recommande: (i) un appui dans le domaine de la passation de marchés ; (ii) un suivi
rapproché de l'expert de la Banque mondiale chargé du projet à travers l'établissement d'un calendrier de
missions régulières auprès de la DEAR ; (iii) une augmentation des activités liées à la sensibilisation, la
formation et l'implication de la population dans le programme de l'environnement du PDIAIM. la DEAR,
en collaboration avec la mission et les autres partenaires au développement, a élaboré un plan d'action
budgétisé pour l'année 2002 et 2003 (voir partie de l'Annexe concernant la Composante F).

Gestion financière et comptable

21.     La mission a examiné le suivi budgétaire, apprécié le niveau actuel de décaissement, évalué le
système de gestion financière (tenue de la comptabilité du Projet, procédures de contrôle interne), examiné
les relevés de dépenses des exercices 2000 et 2001. En terme d'exécution financière, sur un montant total
de crédit IDA de 38,07 millions de dollars, il a été décaissé 11,39 millions soit 29,92%. Un tableau détaillé
des décaissements des fonds de l'IDA par catégorie se trouve en annexe au présent aide mémoire. Pour ce
qui est de la contribution du Gouvernement, les versements ont été de 687.390 de dollars sur un total prévu
dans l'Accord de crédit de 3,7 millions soit 18,58%. A l'échéance du 1er février 2002, le total des
versements cumulés devait atteindre 3,3 millions. Etant donné le niveau général des décaissements, il n'est
pas surprenant que le montant des 3.3 millions n'ait pas été atteint. La mission recommande qu'un état
soit communiqué à l'IDA indiquant le montant total des dépenses qui auraient dû être financées sur les
fonds de contrepartie à la date du 1er février 2002.

        UC-PDIAIM

22.     La mission a noté avec satisfaction la mise en place d'un système de gestion financière et
comptable fiable au niveau de l'UC-PDIAIM. Le système permet d'obtenir beaucoup d'informations en la
matière. La comptabilité analytique mise en place exige cependant des ajustements pour mieux refléter la
mise en oeuvre des opérations et permettre l'utilisation de cet outil par les différents centres de
responsabilité. La mission recommande de soumettre un cahier des charges reprenant les améliorations
détaillées en annexe au concepteur du logiciel de comptabilité (TOMPRO) afin qu'il en étudie la faisabilité
(voir détails en annexe).

23.     La revue du système de contrôle interne et l'examen des demandes de paiement des exercices 2000



                                                    - 51 -

à 2001 a démontré une bonne capacité de gestion du service financier. Le rapprochement entre le budget et
les réalisations mérite cependant d'être amélioré. La mission a aussi noté que la plupart des avances faites
dans le cadre des ateliers et séminaires ne font pas l'objet de bilan permettant de comparer le budget et son
exécution, bien qu'il existe des dossiers contenant des justificatifs. Pour ce qui de la gestion des biens
meubles et immeubles, la mission recommande que soient tenus à jour (1) les inventaires de tous les biens
meubles et immeubles affectés au Projet ainsi que de leur lieu d'affectation (service, personne,
localisation)et (2) le carnet de bord de chaque véhicule avec fiche individuelle de suivi des consommations
de carburant et lubrifiants et d'entretien et réparations.

24.      Il avait été convenu lors de la précédente mission de supervision que les états financiers consolidés
(UC-PDIAIM, SONADER et UNCACEM) au 31 décembre 2000 devront inclure un bilan consolidé, un
compte de résultat consolidé, un état des ressources et des dépenses, les états de justification des comptes
spéciaux, les états des relevés de dépense et des notes explicatives. Cet état n'a pu être communiqué à la
mission mais celle-ci a été informée que ces états sont en possession de l'Auditeur de l'UC-PDIAM et a
obtenu l'assurance qu'ils lui seront transmis sous quinzaine.

25.      Audits. La mission a noté également avec satisfaction que les audits du projet ont été effectués
pour l'exercice 2000 et jugés sans réserve.

26.      Compte spécial. La mission a pris note du souhait du besoin de procéder à une augmentation du
plafond actuel du Compte spécial pour mieux répondre à l'augmentation du rythme de décaissement. La
mission a attiré l'attention de l'UC-PDIAIM que l'avance initiale déposée au Compte spécial de
l'UC-PDIAIM était de 700.000 DTS mais que le plafond de l'avance (montant autorisé) avait été fixé à
1.400.000 de DTS dans l'Accord de crédit qui (annexe 5, paragraphe 1c) que ce montant initial pouvait
être augmenté jusqu'à concurrence du plafond quand certaines conditions étaient réunies Quand le montant
global des retraits du Compte de Crédit alloués aux Catégories 1 (a), 2 (a), 3 (a), 4 (a), 5 (a) et 8 (a) figurant au
tableau du paragraphe 1 de l'Annexe 1 au présent Accord, plus l'encours total de tous les engagements spéciaux
pris par l'Association conformément à la Section 5.02 des Conditions Générales pour les Parties A (1) et (2) (a), B
(4), D (2), E, F et G du Projet, atteignait ou dépassait la contre-valeur de 2.000.000 de DTS. Or ce montant a déjà
été atteint.. Etant donné que ces conditions sont aujourd'hui réunies, la mission recommande que le
Gouvernement fasse une demande formelle d'augmentation du plafond de l'avance.

         UNCACEM

27.      Gestion financière et comptable. La comptabilité générale du projet est tenue séparément de celle
de l'UNCACEM sur SAARI-Sage.L'interface entre le logiciel de gestion SCAN de l'UNCACEM et
SAARI n'est pas encore réalisé pour permettre la sortie des états LACI. La mission a effectué une revue du
système de contrôle interne et examiné les demandes de paiement des exercices 2000 et 2001. La mission
an noté une bonne capacité de gestion du service financier dans l'élaboration des SOE et de la tenue des
dossiers relatifs au projet.

28.      Audits. La mission a noté également avec satisfaction que les audits du projet ont été effectués
pour l'exercice 2000 sans réserve.

         SONADER

29.      La comptabilité de la SONADER est actuellement tenue sur le logiciel TOMPRO. Cependant le
module budgétaire n'est pas encore opérationnel et la comptabilité analytique n'est pas encore mise en
place et ce malgré la signature d'un contrat avec un bureau spécialisé.



                                                         - 52 -

30.      La mission a effectué une revue du système de contrôle interne et examiné les demandes de
paiement des exercices 2000 à 2001. Elle a relevé des insuffisances en matière de gestion et a fait le constat
suivant :

§        les avances faites pour les ateliers et séminaires ne font pas l'objet de justifications systématiques ;
§        plusieurs dépenses n'ont pas fait l'objet des demandes de non-objections requises par l'IDA;
§        les valeurs d'achat de certains biens paraissent excessives (voir annexe);
§        les justificatifs de dépense ne donnent pas de précision sur la qualité du bien, ni de sa destination;
§        les primes incitatrices versées en 2001 au personnel sont plus du double du budget prévu ;
§        des primes ont été aussi été versées à du personnel non prévu et
§        l'état de réalisation du budget 2001 a été préparé de manière extra comptable alors que le projet a
bénéficié de la mise en place d'un logiciel de gestion sophistiqué et de formation à ce logiciel.

31.      Sur la base des résultats de la revue, la mission recommande de:

§        fournir une justification systématique par des pièces probantes de l'utilisation des fonds reçus par
les responsables en ce qui concerne les ateliers et séminaires. Par ailleurs un bilan doit être établi avec
rapprochement du budget initial et des dépenses réelles et explication des écarts;
§        procéder au remboursement de toutes les dépenses inéligibles au niveau des primes incitatrices en
excluant les employés non visés par ces indemnités et tout dépassement de la ligne budgétaire. Aucune
prime ne devra être accordée en 2002 tant qu'une formule n'a pas été soumise à l'IDA et acceptée par
celle-ci. Les primes doivent viser à inciter certains agents (AVB et techniciens) faisant de fréquents
déplacements sur le terrain dans des conditions difficiles bien définies ;
§        utiliser les compétences identifiées au niveau des services financiers (notamment à l'UC) pour
assurer la formation ou assister leurs homologues ;
§        demander la non-objection préalable pour certaines dépenses (notamment les contrats d'études et
de consultations) ;
§        tenir une liste mensuellement mise à jour des véhicules financés sur fonds IDA et affectés au Projet
et leur lieu d'affectation (service, personne) ainsi qu'un carnet de bord pour chaque véhicule avec fiche
individuelle de suivi des consommations; et
§        finaliser le paramétrage du logiciel de gestion existant afin que le suivi budgétaire par tâche soit
intégré au système en s'inspirant du système de comptabilité analytique déjà opérationnel à l'UC-PDIAIM.

32.      Étant donné le constat établi ci-dessus, la mission recommande une revue des SOE afin de
déterminer le montant exact des dépenses non éligibles.

33.      Audits. Les audits du projet ont été effectués pour l'exercice 2000 sans réserve.

Passation des marchés

34.      La mission a procédé à: (i) l'évaluation de l'application des procédures de passation de marchés;
(ii) la revue de la performance du personnel chargé de la passation de marchés; (iii) l'assistance aux
éventuels amendements du manuel de procédure ; (iv) l'évaluation de l'état d'exécution des marchés ainsi
que les prévisions ; et (v) l'examen du plan de passation de marchés pour la seconde moitié du projet.

35.      UC-PDIAIM. L'Unité de Coordination a préparé pour la mission toute la documentation requise
pour la revue (rapport, plan de passation de marchés, liste des marchés par catégorie etc.). La mission a



                                                      - 53 -

félicité le responsable de la passation des marché pour l'excellente gestion de ses dossiers. Elle a toutefois
fait les remarques suivantes :

·         le responsable de passation de marchés (APM) traite tout ce qui relève des Commissions de
marchés (> 1 million d'ouguiyas) et l'agent comptable pour les achats inférieurs à ce seuil et qui sont
approuvés directement par le Directeur. Ceci constitue une défaillance dans l'organisation car personne ne
peut s'assurer que les procédures sont respectées particulièrement en ce qui concerne le regroupement des
marchés et le respect des seuils de cumul alors que ces missions font partie des termes de référence de
l'APM;
·         les moyens de rangement des dossiers commencent à faire défaut;
·         les correspondances à la Commission Centrale des Marchés (CCM) passent par le MDRE pour
transmission et accuse des délais à cette étape.

36.       La revue à posteriori des marchés a permis de constater que la Commission Départementale des
Marchés n'ouvre pas les plis à la date indiquée dans le DAO faute de quorum. Les marchés appelés « par
bon de commande » parce qu'ils n'atteignent pas un million d'ouguiyas sont préparés par l'agent
comptable et approuvés par le Directeur. Les achats de biens qui ont été examinés l'ont été suite à la
consultation d'au moins 3 fournisseurs. Ce sont cependant rarement des fournisseurs connus sur la place
pour les équipements en question. Les spécifications techniques sont parfois sommaires et il n'y a pas de
demande de proposition dans le dossier. Le regroupement exigé par l'accord de crédit n'est pas fait et on
assiste donc à la multiplicité de petits marchés de même nature. Le cumul des marchés passés par cette
méthode (environ 800.000$) a dépassé le montant autorisé par l'accord de crédit (400 000 $). L'agent de
passation des marchés ne peut vérifier cette condition car il n'est pas informé des commandes passées au
niveau de la comptabilité. Il est à noter que le plafond des 400.000$ réfère à la somme des marchés passés
par les trois institutions (UCPDIAIM, SONADER et UNCACEM et pas seulement l'UC-PDIAIM.

37.       La revue de l'état d'exécution des marchés et plans de passation des marchés (PPM) a montré que
ce sont principalement des marchés de fournitures et des marchés de consultants qui ont été exécutés. Les
marchés de travaux n'ont pas démarré. Le traitement des marchés importants de consultants ont été lents à
traiter. Les lenteurs au niveau des procédures de passation des marchés proviennent tant du côté de
l'Administration que de l'IDA. Les délais de signature des contrats n'ont pu être expliqués. La mission a
néanmoins constaté la mise à jour régulière du PPM qui a été réactualisé lors de la mission.

38.       SONADER.. Le manque d'organisation a été constaté à tous les niveaux. Le chef du service des
marchés ne disposait pas de toutes les informations sollicitées par la mission. Il est chargé de la préparation
des dossiers mais n'assiste pas aux réunions des commissions de marchés et ne détient pas les fonds de
dossier. Ceux-ci sont détenus par le Secrétaire de la Commissions des marchés qui se trouve être aussi le
Conseiller juridique de la SONADER. Pour les marchés inférieurs à 5 millions d'ouguiyas, c'est l'agent
comptable et non le chef du service des marchés qui prépare les dossiers qui sont directement soumis à la
signature du Directeur.      Le conseiller juridique, qui assure par ailleurs le secrétariat du Conseil
d'Administration et du Comité de gestion se dit surchargé et ne dispose pas d'assistant. Le chef de service
des marchés ne dispose pas de fiche de description de poste. Les moyens de rangement font cruellement
défaut et l'organisation des dossiers laisse donc à désirer. La Commission des marchés est très difficile à
réunir car elle est composée de haut responsables de divers ministères souvent absents ou occupés.

39.       La revue à posteriori des marchés a indiqué que des marchés de faibles montants se répètent pour
des biens de même nature et aucun effort de regroupement n'est fait. Ils sont préparés par la Direction
Administrative et Financière et sont approuvés directement par le Directeur Général. L'échantillon revu



                                                     - 54 -

montre qu'il est fait appel à trois devis chaque fois mais auprès de fournisseurs qui sont rarement reconnus
sur la place comme fournisseurs attitrés pour ces équipements. Les mêmes noms reviennent souvent. Les
spécifications techniques sont souvent sommaires et il n'y a pas de demande de proposition dans le dossier.
Le cumul des marchés ainsi passés par la méthode « consultation de fournisseurs » est de 87 451 496
ouguiyas. Ce qui fait porte le cumul général (UC et SONADER) à 308.509.003 ouguiyas (environ
1.200.000 $) alors que le cumul autorisé est de 400.000 $. Les consultants individuels sont tous recrutés
par entente directe. La mission n'a pas pu voir les non-objections de la Banque pour ces consultants. Enfin
la Commission des Marchés ne respecte pas la date d'ouverture des plis annoncée dans le DAO. Le report
de la date d'ouverture des plis est souvent annoncé le jour de l'ouverture prévu dans le DAO, faute de
quorum de la Commission.

40.       Sur la base des résultats de la revue et en vue d'assainir la situation, la mission recommande les
actions suivantes.

·         Le service des marchés dans chaque entité doit planifier les acquisitions de biens, de services et
travaux quelque soit le montant, préparer et mettre à jour un plan de passation de marchés quelque soit
l'unité qui aura à les passer, rechercher tous les regroupements possibles, s'assurer du respect des
procédures et coordonner avec les services de marchés des autres entités qui participent à la gestion du
crédit.
·         L'UC-PDIAIM doit assurer la coordination des actions de suivi des marchés depuis l'élaboration
du plan de passation de marché par composante et faire un PPM consolidé en recherchant à faire tous les
regroupements possibles, jusqu'au suivi de l'exécution des marchés en veillant au respect des procédures
prévues dans l'accord de crédit.
          ·        L'entente directe est une méthode exceptionnelle et ne doit être utilisée que dans les
                   conditions prévues par les Directives.
          ·        Les dates d'ouverture publique des offres doivent être respectées et les commissions doivent
                   s'organiser (désigner une commission restreinte d'ouverture, se faire représenter etc.) pour
                   que l'absence de membres ne puisse handicaper cette opération.
          ·        La non objection ne doit être demandée que si l'avis préalable de la Banque est requis
                   (conformément à accord de crédit ou à la demande explicite du chargé de projet).
          ·        les demandes de propositions doivent être utilisées systématiquement dans le cadre de la
                   «Consultation des Fournisseurs », faire appel aux fournisseurs attitrés les plus connus sur la
                   place et doivent porter description des fournitures demandées.
          ·        Les clauses du contrat (y compris les spécifications techniques) ne peuvent être différentes de
                   celles qui résultent du processus d'évaluation.
          ·        L'exécution des marchés doit être suivie avec rigueur et les sanctions prévues dans le contrat
                   doivent être appliquées.
          ·        Les délais de passation de marchés doivent être réduits en particulier le délai de signature des
                   contrats et le délai de non objection. Les circuits de transmission du courrier entre les unités
                   et la CCM doivent être simplifiés.
          ·        La SONADER doit revoir l'organisation de sa cellule de marchés en précisant les rôles de
                   chaque intervenant et en renforçant ses moyens.

Fonction de Coordination du projet

41.       La coordination du PDIAIM implique plusieurs institutions DPSE, SONADER, UNCACEM, BAF, Bureau du
Réviseur foncier, Centre de contrôle de qualité des semences et plants (CCQSP), Unité de gestion des semences (UGS), CNRADA, DRFV, DEAR,
FAEM, etc. dont aucune ne relève administrativement de l'Unité de coordination du projet (UC-PDIAIM). Ces




                                                                      - 55 -

institutions ont une gestion financière indépendante et les fonds du projet sont gérés soit d'une façon
autonome (cas de la SONADER et de l'UNCACEM qui disposent chacune d'un compte spécial propre)
soit semi-autonome (paiement des factures par l'UC-PDIAIM). Cette formule a l'avantage d'utiliser les
structures existantes sans en créer une parallèle pour l'exécution du projet mais représente un défi en
matière de coordination et de gestion. L'UC-PDIAIM agit aussi comme l'interlocuteur du Gouvernement
vis-à-vis de la Banque mondiale et des différents partenaires et ce pour l'ensemble des actions du projet

42.      La responsabilité en matière de coordination consiste à faire preuve (i) d'une vigilance constante et
sans complaisance pour assurer le respect des engagements et l'atteinte des résultats et (ii)d'une capacité de
répondre rapidement aux problèmes rencontrés et aux faiblesses constatées en tirant la sonnette d'alarme et
en portant rapidement les informations et propositions de solutions au niveau de décision approprié pour
action. Etant donné que l'échec d'une seule composante ou activité peut entraîner l'échec de tout le projet,
la fonction de coordination de l'UC-PDIAIM est très importante et il donc est indispensable de disposer
d'une unité de coordination efficace, dynamique et proactive qui assume la pleine responsabilité pour tout
succès ou échec du projet.

43.      Le constat de la mission est que cette coordination doit être plus effective et mieux s'affirmer. Le
PDIAIM fonctionne parfois comme plusieurs projets parallèles (constitués autour de composantes ou
sous-composantes) avec des liens plutôt lâches entre eux, surtout lorsque différentes composantes sont
exécutées par différentes institutions.    Des problèmes apparaissent lorsque plusieurs institutions sont
appelées à mener des actions parallèles mais concomitantes en vue de l'atteinte d'un objectif commun. Ce
fut le cas des réhabilitations où la régularisation des dossiers fonciers et des dossiers de coopératives n'a
pas été menée de pair avec la réalisation des études techniques de faisabilité. Le manque de coordination se
remarque aussi à l'élaboration des rapports d'étapes (annuels et autres) où des inconsistances apparaissent.



44.      Pour parer à ces faiblesses, la mission recommande :

         ·   des réunions de concertation formelles, fréquentes et régulières, associant tous les intervenants
             du PDIAIM pour une programmation et un suivi collégial des activités et budgets et assurer la
             synergie entre intervenants. Les réunions du CIMOS doivent être plus fréquentes et faire
             l'objet de minutes détaillées qui seront largement distribuées;
         ·   des suivis et contrôles internes et externes réguliers et rigoureux pour apprécier la performance
             de chaque composante du projet;
         ·   un guichet d'information PDIAIM permettant aux intervenants, mais aussi et surtout aux
             producteurs d'accéder à toute information sur le PDIAIM Ceci exige un système d'information
             défini au préalable avec les tous intervenants et dont chacun veille à faciliter le bon
             fonctionnement et la diffusion. Ce guichet doit se trouver au niveau de l'UC-PDIAIM à
             Nouakchott, au niveau de l'Antenne diversification à Rosso, et de l'antenne PDIAIM qui sera
             ouverte dans le Haut Fleuve;
         ·   une mission d'information auprès des décideurs par l'UC-PDIAIM qui doit les informer
             régulièrement sur l'état d'avancement du projet, les sources de blocage et leurs causes et
             intervenir au niveau des centres de responsabilité et de décision pour les résoudre.

Suivi-Evaluation et système d'information géographique

45.      Suivi-Evaluation au niveau Intrants-Processus-Résultats. L'UC-PDIAIM a travaillé en étroite
collaboration avec tous les responsables des composantes pour harmoniser les outils de programmation et



                                                     - 56 -

de suivi des action du projet et assurer leur adoption par l'ensemble des acteurs du Projet. Les programmes,
budgets et rapports d'avancement reprennent généralement la structure du Projet par composante, ce qui
facilite le suivi et la prise de décision, cependant la structure des rapports varie d'une mission à l'autre et
d'une institution à l'autre. La mission recommande une plus grande précision des tableaux et leur
cohérence avec l'analyse qui en est faite; l'utilisation des indicateurs prévus dans les documents de
référence du PAD ; une meilleure circulation des informations sur le suivi budgétaire et des réalisations
physiques et le lien entre les deux et une meilleure qualité des analyses pour mettre en lumière les facteurs
de succès et contraintes

46.      Les indicateurs de résultats spécifiques à chacune des composantes ont été clarifiés avec les
intervenants concernés à partir des indicateurs identifiés au cadre logique et de l'expérience des deux
premières années du PDIAIM . Un consensus sur des indicateurs pertinents et à leur portée a été atteint au
cours de cette mission. Ces indicateurs spécifiques seront désormais utilisés dans le dispositif de pilotage
du Projet, pour justifier les programmes d'activités demandés et rendre compte des résultats atteints dans
les rapports d'avancement.

47.      Suivi-Evaluation au niveau des impacts. Le dispositif de suivi et évaluation des impacts du projet
est conduit en étroite collaboration avec la DPSE, notamment la Division des Statistiques Agricoles et
Pastorales (qui conduit chaque année des enquêtes routinières et des enquêtes ponctuelles sur certaines
variables du cadre de référence pour l'évaluation d'impact) et la Division S&E des projets et programmes
(qui assure le suivi des projets par le logiciel AGROPRO lequel permet de suivre les réalisations physiques
et financières). Dans le souci de développer le suivi d'impact, la DPSE a mis sur pied un Comité technique
S&E (MDRE, MAED, CDHLPI et autres acteurs au niveau du secteur rural) qui a pour objet de faire le
point sur les systèmes de S&E en usage et d'en harmoniser les outils en vue de bâtir un système
d'information rurale dynamique et pérenne.

48.      Système d'information géographique (SIG). La masse d'information à consolider par l'Unité de
coordination du PDIAIM dépassera les capacités de traitement et de restitution du dispositif de S&E du
PDIAIM si sa gestion n'est pas organisée. L'élaboration d'un manuel de gestion des bases de données et la
mise en place d'un système d'information géographique intégrant l'ensemble des données du projet et
autres données externes -mais utiles- permettraient aux décideurs mauritaniens de disposer d'un puissant
outil de gestion et de programmation. Ce travail est réalisable d'ici la fin de la présente phase du projet.
Pour cela l'UC-PDIAIM devra recourir à un spécialiste en bases de données et SIG. Les termes de
référence pour une telle assistance sont esquissés en annexe au présent aide-mémoire.

49.      La mission recommande que des ajustements soient effectués en vue de (i) réviser le cadre de
référence d'évaluation d'impact pour mieux l'inscrire dans la logique de la stratégie nationale de lutte
contre la pauvreté; (ii) adopter une nomenclature commune pour tous les projets pour permettre la
consolidation des informations et du suivi des investissements publics dans le secteur; (iii) compléter la
collecte des données relatives à certains indicateurs en 2002 et 2003; (iv) arrêter les modalités
d'actualisation de la base de données de 1998 sur les périmètres irrigués : (v) revoir la typologie des
périmètres; développer une capacité d'enquête qualitative en Mauritanie; et (vi) mettre sur pied un système
d'information géographique (SIG) intégrant une grande partie des informations produites dans les différents
projets (pour plus de détails, voir la note sur l'utilisation d'un SIG en annexe).

Perspectives d'extension de la date de clôture de la première phase du PDIAIM

50.      Le PDIAIM a été conçu comme un APL de trois phases de 3, 4 et 4 ans respectivement. La raison
pour une courte première phase était pour permettre de lancer, au cours de cette phase, les études pour


                                                       - 57 -

d'importants et urgents travaux d'infrastructures publiques, puis passer le plus rapidement, en seconde
phase, à l'exécution de ces travaux. Malheureusement, une série d'évènements imprévisibles est venue
retarder le processus de mise en oeuvre de cette première phase.

         ·   La production de la campagne agricole (1999-2000) a été gravement affectée par des
             inondations qui ont eu lieu en décembre 1999, au moment même où le crédit IDA était mis en
             vigueur et qui ont détruit une partie des récoltes, endommagé les périmètres, ralenti le taux de
             remboursement des producteurs créditeurs et réduit leur capacité d'emprunt pour les
             campagnes 2000-2001 et 2001-2002. La baisse du taux de recouvrement des prêts par
             l'UNCACEM a empêché cette dernière d'atteindre son autosuffisance financière en fin 2001
             tel que prévu. Or cette autosuffisance constitue un des indicateurs de déclenchement de la
             seconde phase. La campagne agricole 2001-2002 a été partiellement affectée par une violente
             chute de grêle parvenue au moment de la récolte et qui a causé des dégâts importants.
         ·   La régularisation foncière et le règlement du statut des coopératives (qui ne relevaient pas de la
             responsabilité du projet) a dramatiquement réduit le nombre de périmètres éligibles pour un
             financement pour leur réhabilitation. La situation a été corrigée en prenant en charge, dans le
             cadre du projet, le financement et l'organisation de ces activités mais un temps précieux a été
             perdu et les objectifs de réhabilitation prévus ne seront pas atteints à la date de clôture du
             crédit IDA. Les autres causes de non atteinte de cet objectif ont été les exigences, le coût et la
             durée (trop longue) des études techniques préalables aux réhabilitations et le type de travaux
             coûteux proposés pour ces réhabilitations. Au cours de la revue à mi-parcours, la mission a
             convenu de mesures à prendre mais les retards enregistrés ne pourront pas être rattrapés avant
             la date de clôture.
         ·   Le projet constitue une vraie révolution en matière de projets et/ou programmes d'irrigation en
             Mauritanie et dans la région. Ce changement radicale dans la stratégie, les politiques, le mode
             d'intervention et de financement ne se sont pas faits sans un certain temps d'adaptation de la
             part de tous les acteurs impliqués dans cette opération. Aussi, une confiance devait être
             établie entre gouvernement, producteurs, riziers, commerçants, et agence de crédit. Cette même
             confiance devait aussi être établie entre ces derniers et la Banque mondiale.

51.      En conséquence, certains objectifs importants du projet et indicateurs de déclenchement de la
seconde phase ne pourront être atteints sans une extension de la date de clôture du crédit IDA. La mission a
pris note du souhait du Gouvernement pour une extension et a invité ce dernier à en faire la demande
officielle.




                                                     - 58 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 30312R1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              18°             16°           14°                12°             10°         8°             6°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REGION CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CAPITALE REGIONALES                                                             ALGERIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                   BRAKNA REGION                                                                                                                                       CAPITALE NATIONALE                                                                         26°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REGION BOUNDARIES
     NOUAKCHOTT                                             Boutilmit                                                                                                                                                                  LIMITES DE REGIONS

                              TRARZA                                             SCHEME            SCHEME                                                                                                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES                             TIRIS
                              REGION                                             Koundi 5          Boghé 3                                                                                                                   24°                                                           ZEMMOUR                                24°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A t l a n t i c
                             SCHEME                                              Koundi 5 bis      Boghé 4                                                                                                                                            Former
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               O c e a n              Spanish
                             Garak 1                                             Koundi 6,7,8      Boghé 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sahara               Fdérik
                             Garak 2                                             Koundi 9          Boghé 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             22°                                                                                                  22°
                             Koundi 1                                            Koundi 10         M'bagne 1

                             Koundi 2                                            Boghé 1           M'bagne 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                MALI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Nouâdhibou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ADRAR
                             Koundi 3                                            Boghé 2           M'bagne 3                                                                                                                         DAKHLET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NOUADHIBOU                              Atâr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INCHIRI
                             Koundi 4                                                                                                                                                                                        20°                                                                                                  20°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Akjoujt
                                                                                     KO9     KO10                                                                                     Gorgol Noir
                             Lake R'Kiz                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TAGANT
                                                            BRAKNA     KO5 BISKO6,7,8               C.PB                                                 Lekseiba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TRARZA                           Tidjikja            HODH ECH
                                                                                                    Boghe                                        Qualo de                                                                       NOUAKCHOTT                                                                CHARGUI                 18°
                             DELTA ZONE                TRARZA     KO5
                                                                                                                MB1  MB2       BRAKNA GORGOLK1 Kaedi
                                                                                                                                                   Gorgol                                                                     AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OF                            BRAKNA
                             M'Pourié                                                                                     MB3                                                                                                                                                                HODH
                                                                                                                                                         K2                                                                    MAP            Rosso            Aleg          ASSABA           EL  Ayoûn el         Néma
                             Geo`ere                                                    River                                                                                                                                                                   Kaédi          Kiffa
                                                                                                BO2                                                          K3                                                                                                                            GHARBI Atroûs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             16°                                   GORGOL                                                         16°
                             Dioup           R'Kiz                                                                                                                                                                                                 SENEGAL
                                                                               Senegal               BO3                                                                                                                                                          Senegal


                             N'Diader        Lake      KO4                                              BO4     BO6                                             K4                                                                                                          GUIDIMAKA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R.     Sélibabi                     MALI
                             N'Callax                                                                       BO5                  M'Bagne                                                                                                                                                                 0    100      200    300



                                                  KO2                Podor                                                                                                                                                    18°             16°           14°              12°               10°         8°  KILOMETERS 6°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  14°


                                                                                                                                               Existing                  Koundel Reo
                                                                                                                                                                                         Maghama
                                                                                                                                               Casier                             G1Dao                                                                    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                               MD1                                                         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                              M'Pourié GA2                     KO3                                                                              Pilot
                                                                                                                                                                                                MD2                        Selibabi                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                      Dioup                          KO1                                     MAURITANIA                                                                                                GORGOL
                                                                                                                                                                                                  MD4          MD6
            N'Diadier     Gouére      GA1
                                                                                             MAURITANIE                                                                                                   GUIDIMAKA
ATLANTIC                                Rosso                      INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                                               GORGOL                MD3

OCEAN         Keur                                                                                                                                              REGION                         MD5                         Diogountourou                                           Senegal        R iver

              Massne                                                FOR IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE (PDIAIM)                                                        SCHEME                                         Bakel                                                          Ambidedi
                                                                     PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT INTEGRE                                                          Kaédi 1

                                            Guiers                                                                                                            Kaédi 2

                                             Lake                    DE L'AGRICULTURE IRRIGUEE (PDIAIM)                                                       Kaédi 3                                                                                                              M A L I
                                                                                                                                                              Kaédi 4
                                                                                                                                                              Garli 1
       N.Colax                                                                                                                                                Dao 1                                                                                                               GUIDIMAKHA
                                                                                            REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                                S E N E G A L                                                                             REGION
                                                                                           LIMITES DE REGION                                                  Maghama 1

                      Diama                                                                 NATURAL EQUIPMENT UNITS                                           Maghama 2                                                                                                             SCHEME
                                                                                           UNITES NATURELLES D'EQUIPEMENT(UNE)                                Maghama 3                                                                                                             Maghama
                                                                                            TOWNS                                                             Maghama 4
                                                                                           VILLES                                                                                                                                                                                   Other
                                                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                  Maghama 5                                                                                                             (Not shown)
                                                                                           CAPITALE NATIONALE
                                                                                            ROADS                                                              GORGOL VALLEY
                                                                                           ROUTES                                                             Casier Pilote Kaedi
                                                                                            TRACKS
                                                                                           PISTES                                                             Oualo de Gorgol
                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                          Gorgol Noir
                                                                                           FRONTIERE INTERNATIONALES                                                                            0     25          50       75                 100

                                                                                                                                                                                                             KILOMETERS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DECEMBER 2005

                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 30313R2

                                         16°                                                            12°                                                                          MOROCCO
                  MAURITANIA
                   MAURITANIE                                                                                                                                                FORMER                          ALGERIA
 AGRO-ECOLOGICAL ZONES                                                                                                                                                     SPANISH
                                                                                                                                                                          SAHARA
ZONES AGRO-ECOLOGIQUES
           AGRO-ECOLOGOCAL ZONES:                                                                                                                                            M A U R I TA N I A
           ZONES AGRO-ECOLOGIQUES                           NATIONALS PARKS                                                                                   Nouakchott
           SENEGAL RIVER AREA
           ZONE DU FLEUVE SENEGAL                           PARCS NATIONAUX                                                                                                                             MALI
           RAINFED AGRICULTURE                                                                                                                                   THE      SENEGAL
           CULTURE PLUVIALE                                                                                                                                    GAMBIA                                                   NIGER
           FLOOD RECESSION AGRICULTURE                                                                                                                                                                     BURKINA
                                                                                                                                                                  GUINEA-                                    FASO
        1  CULTURE DE DECRUE                                                                                                                                                    GUINEA                                   BENIN
           OASIS AGRICULTURE                                                                                                                                        BISSAU

           CULTURE OASIENNE                                                                                       M O R O C C O                                                                                     TOGO
                                                                                                                                                                             SIERRA               CÔTE
                                                                                                                                                                            LEONE
 200       ISOHYETS (1949-1974) IN MM                                                                                                                        AT L A N T I C                      D'IVOIRE
                                                                                                                                                  28°         O C E A N           LIBERIA                  GHANA

 200       ISOHYETS (1968-1974) IN MM

           PAVED ROADS
           ROUTES PAVEES                                                                                                                                            8°
           PAVED ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
           ROUTES PAVEES EN CONSTRUCTION
           LATERITE/EARTH ROADS
           EN TERRE OU EN LATERITE                                                                                                                                                   A L G E R I A
           TRAILS
           PISTES
           RAILROADS
           CHEMINS DE FER
           INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
           AEROPORTS INTERNATIONAUX
           PORTS                                                                     To               Bir-Moghrein
           PORTS                                                                  Aaiun
           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
           FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES
                                                           F O R M E R

                                                         S P A N I S H
24°                                                                                                                                                                                                                     24°
                                                       S A H A R A
 0   50  100    150   200    250


         KILOMETERS


                                                                     F. Derik          Zouérate




                                                                                                                                                                                                       M A L I
                                                                            Choum
      Nouadhibou
       La Guerra                                                                                   Ouadane
                                                                                     G

                                                                 Atar           e100%

                                                                                      Chinguetti
     BANC D'ARGUIN                                             Oued
20°                                                                                                                                                                                                                     20°
                                                              Seguelil

                                                                                e100
                                                   Akjoujt
                                                                             G
                                                                          0%

   ATLANTIC

    OCEAN                                                                                Tidjikja                                    Tichitt
                                                                                                        e1


                                                                                                     G
                          100
                                                                                                e100%
               NOUAKCHOTT                                             Moudjéria
                                                                                             G                                100

                                                               Cangarâfa                e100%           e
                                               Boutilimit
                                                                                     G               G                                                                                                  100
                                                                                                                                                                             Oualata
                                                                                e100%           e100%                                                                                                     100
                      200                                                                                           Tamchakett
                                                                             G               G               G               G

                                                                        e100%           e100%           e100%           e100%
                   200              Mederdra               Aleg                                                                      Aioun el Atrouss
                                                                                     G               G               G                                                                                    200
          300                                         Boghé                                                                                                                                                200
                                                                                e100%           e100%           e100%                        e1
                                                                                                      Kiffa                                                                 Néma
           DIAWLING               Rosso          Se                          G               G               G                            G
                                                              Kaedi                                                                   100%                Timbedra                                          300
           300                                     ne                                                                                e
                                           400
16°                                                   g a l                 M´Bout                                                                                                                                      16°
                                                            R.                                   El Moundéré
                                             For detail, see                                                                                                                                              400
                                             IBRD 30312R1                                                                     400                                            300

                                                                400                                                                  Nioro du Sahel
                                                                                                                                 500
                                                                  500Dakar
                                                                      To              Selibaby
                                                                                  Gourai                                                                 M A L I
                                                                                                                                                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
                            S E N E G A L                                                                                                       on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
                                                                                                                                                judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                acceptance of such boundaries.


                           16°                                                        12°                                                                 8°

                                                                                                                                                                                                         DECEMBER 2005

