Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3272-MAU
Development Credit Agreement
(Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 5, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3272-MAU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 5, 1999, between the ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
MAURITANIA (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower two letters: 
(i) a first letter, dated May 9, 1999, describing its policy of rice-marketing; 
and (ii) a second letter, dated May, 16, 1999, describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to strengthen irrigated agriculture in the 
Senegal River Valley within the Borrower’s territory (Lettre de politique pour 
le dévelopement de l’agriculture irriguée and the document portant sur les 
Politiques et Stratégies Générales pour le développement du secteur rural 
(Horizon 2010), (both letters hereafter referred to as “the Program”) and 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
(B)
the Borrower has requested that the Association support the 
execution of the Program through a series of credits over a period of eleven 
Page  2
years, the proceeds of such credits to be utilized by the Borrower in the 
implementation of the Program;
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the first phase of the Program, hereafter called the Project, as 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
(D)
 part of the Project will be carried out by Union Nationale des 
Coopératives Agricoles de Crédit et d’Épargne  de Mauritanie (UNCACEM) and part 
of the Project will be carried out by Société Nationale de Développement Rural 
(SONADER), with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to UNCACEM and SONADER, respectively, part of the 
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower, in support of the Project, upon 
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, the UNCACEM Project 
Agreement and the SONADER Project Agreement, respectively, of even date herewith 
between the Association and UNCACEM and SONADER, respectively;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through 
December 2, 1997) with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth 
below, and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are 
accordingly renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
(a) ‘Participating Country’ means any country that the 
Association determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of 
Resolution No. 183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted 
on June 26, 1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all 
such countries.”; and
(b)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for 
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, 
is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have 
the following meanings:
(a)
"CADI Procedural Manual” or CPM” means le Manuel de procédures pour 
l’octroi des aides incitatrices, the guidelines stipulating the conditions for 
the distribution of Grants, as referred to in paragraphs (8) and (9) of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement, to be established pursuant to paragraph 6.01 (i) of this 
Page  3
Agreement;
(b)
"CADI" means Comité d’octroi de l’aide incitatrice”, the Borrower’s 
committee in charge of selecting eligible Grant applications under Subproject 
proposals, to be established pursuant to paragraph 6(a)(iii) of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement;
(c)
"CCD” means Comité consultatif de diversification, the Borrower’s 
advisory committee on crop diversification, to be  established pursuant to 
paragraph 6(a)(vi) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(d)
"CIMOS" means Comité interministériel d’orientation, et de suivi du 
PDIAIM, the Borrower’s inter-ministerial advisory committee in charge of guiding 
agricultural policy application under the Project;
(e)
"Client" means the recipient to which UNCACEM (as hereafter 
defined) proposes to make or has made a loan pursuant to the conditions set 
forth in paragraph (7) of Annex 4 to this Agreement and the Schedule to the 
UNCACEM Project Agreement;
(f)
"Contrat Programme” means the agreement between the Borrower and 
SONADER (as hereafter defined) setting forth SONADER’s work program, scope of 
activities, duties and obligations and the Borrower’s commitment towards 
SONADER, extending from January 1, 2000 through December 31, 2002, pursuant to 
paragraph 5(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(g)
"CP” means Comité de pilotage, the Borrower’s steering committee in 
charge of approving PDIAIM’s strategy, budget and implementation;
(h)
"DEAR” means Direction de l’environnement et de l’aménagement 
rural, the Directorate in charge of the protection of the environment in MDRE 
(as hereafter defined);
(i)
"DPSE” means Direction de politique et du suivi-évaluation, the 
Directorate in charge of planning, monitoring and evaluation of agricultural 
activities in MDRE (as hereafter defined);
(j)
"DRAP” means Direction de développement et des ressources 
agro-pastorales, the Directorate in charge of agricultural and natural resources 
in MDRE (as hereafter defined);
(k)
"DRFV” means Direction de la recherche, de la formation et de la 
vulgarisation, the Directorate in charge of research, extension and vocational 
training in MDRE (as hereafter defined);
(l)
"Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Borrower 
to a Grantee for the implementation of a Subproject pursuant to the conditions 
set forth in paragraphs (8) and (9) of Annex 4 to this Agreement;
(m)
"Grantee" means the recipient of a Grant for a Subproject (as 
hereafter defined) under Parts B.(4), D.(2) and E.(2), respectively, of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(n)
"IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Service Office of the 
United Nations Development Program;
(o)
"Loan Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between 
UNCACEM and a Client for the purposes of providing financing for a Subproject;
(p)
"Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by UNCACEM to a 
Client for the implementation of a Subproject out of the proceeds of the Credit 
relent by the Borrower to UNCACEM under the UNCACEM Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(q)
"Mauritanian Ouguiya" and "UM" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(r)
"MDRE" means Ministère du Développement Rural et de 
l'Environnement, the Borrower’s ministry for agriculture and the environment;
Page  4
(s)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.05 (a) 
of this Agreement;
(t)
"Project Area” means the Senegal River Valley within the territory 
of the Borrower;
(u)
"Project Implementation Manual" or “PIM” means the Manuel de 
procédures du projet, referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement 
containing, inter alia, work-plans, training plans, detailed monitoring and 
performance indicators, and procedures to be used for the purpose of 
implementing the Project, as the same  may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes any schedules to the Project Implementation Manual;
(v)
"Project Management Report" means each project management report 
prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(w)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the Project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters, 
dated March 7, 1997 and April 13, 1997, between the Borrower and the 
Association;
(x)
"SONADER Project Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Association and SONADER of even date herewith, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the SONADER Project Agreement;
(y)
"SONADER Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and SONADER pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) (iv) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules to the SONADER Subsidiary Agreement;
(z)
"Special Account" means any one of the accounts referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement, and “Special Accounts” means all such 
accounts collectively;
(aa)
"Subproject Grant Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and a Grantee for the purposes of providing financing for a 
Subproject (as hereafter defined);
(bb)
"Subproject" means a development project under Parts B.(4), D.(2) 
and E. (2) of the Project;
(cc)
"Subsidiary Loan” means the part of the proceeds of the Credit 
relent to UNCACEM by the Borrower pursuant to the conditions of a Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement;
(dd)
"UC-PDIAIM” means Unité de coordination du projet de développement 
intégré de l’agriculture irriguée en Mauritanie, the Project coordination unit 
in MDRE;
(ee)
"UNCACEM Procedural Manuel” or “MPU” means the Manuel des 
procédures pour l’octroi et l’utilisation des crédits of May 16, 1999, 
stipulating UNCACEM’s lending guidelines, consistent with the UNCACEM 
development plan, incorporating the agricultural credit policy adopted and 
approved by the Board of Directors of UNCACEM on May 16, 1999, and such term 
includes all schedules, tables and amendments to such manual;
(ff)
"UNCACEM Project Agreement" means the agreement between the 
Association and UNCACEM of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental 
to the UNCACEM Project Agreement;
(gg)
"UNCACEM Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and UNCACEM pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) (iii) 
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules to the UNCACEM Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
Page  5
(hh)
"UNCACEM” means Union Nationale des Coopératives Agricoles de 
Crédit et d’Épargne de Mauritanie, established by Arrêté No. R-011, dated 
November 26, 1992, as amended through April 30, 1999; and
(ii)
"UNIPAC” means the United Nations Children Fund Procurement and 
Assembly Center.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty eight million two hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 28,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for: (i) expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works or services, required for the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (other than Parts B.(4); D.(2) 
and E.(2) of the Project) and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; 
(ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by 
UNCACEM on account of withdrawals made for the benefit of a Client under a Loan 
to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works or services required for a 
Subproject to be financed under Parts B.(4) and D.(2) of the Project, and in 
respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (iii) 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the 
Borrower on account of withdrawals made for the benefit of a Grantee to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods, works or services required for a Subproject to be 
financed under Parts B.(4), D.(2) and E.(2) of the Project, and in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars three separate special deposit accounts (the MDRE Special 
Account for Parts A.(1), (2)(a); B.(4); D.(2); E; F and G of the Project, the 
UNCACEM Special Account for Parts A.(2)(c); B.(4); D.(2) of the Project, and the 
SONADER Special Account for Parts A.(2) (b); B.(1), (2) and (3); C; and D.(1) of 
the Project) in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of the 
Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount 
required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance 
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation 
Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such later 
date as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to 
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on 
which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or 
canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter 
Page  6
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall 
be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind 
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency 
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge 
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each May 1 and November 1, commencing November 1, 2009 
and ending May 1, 2039.  Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on May 1, 2019 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and 
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) 
above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) 
have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest 
at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element 
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph 
(b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the 
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of 
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The Director General of UNCACEM is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions in respect of Categories 3 (c); 4 (c); (5) 
(c); and (6), set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
(b)
the Director General of SONADER is designated as representatives of 
Page  7
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be 
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of 
the General Conditions in respect of Categories (1) (b); (2) (b); 3 (b); 4 (b); 
(5) (b); and (8) (b), set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end :
(i)
shall carry out Parts A.(1), (2)(a); B.(4); D.(2); E, F and 
G of the Project, through UC-PDIAIM, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, environmental and technical 
practices, and in accordance with the implementation program 
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for said Parts of the Project; 
(ii)
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall 
cause UNCACEM to perform in accordance with the provisions 
of the UNCACEM Project Agreement all the obligations of 
UNCACEM therein set forth, and shall cause SONADER to 
perform, in accordance with the provisions of the SONADER 
Project Agreement, all the obligations of SONADER therein 
set forth, and shall take and cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable UNCACEM 
and SONADER, respectively, to perform such obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance;
(iii)
relend the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to 
time to Categories 3 (c), 4 (c); (5) (c); and (6) of the 
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement to UNCACEM as agreed under the UNCACEM Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement, under terms and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Association, and which shall include, 
inter alia, the condition that UNCACEM shall pay six per 
cent (6%) interest on the principal outstanding, repayable 
in annual installments together with the principal; and
(iv)
make the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time 
to Categories (1) (b); (2) (b); (3) (b); (4) (b); (5) (b); 
and (8) (b) available to SONADER, as agreed under the 
SONADER Subsidiary Agreement, under terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Association.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the UNCACEM Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement and the SONADER Subsidiary Agreement, respectively, in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the objectives of the Project, and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
UNCACEM Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the SONADER Subsidiary Agreement, or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  8
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association no later than two (2) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Association, a plan for the continuation of the Program; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the 
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) 
shall be carried out by UNCACEM and  by SONADER, respectively, in respect to the 
Parts of the Project carried out by UNCACEM and SONADER, respectively, pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of the UNCACEM and SONADER Project Agreements, respectively.
Section 3.05. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open and maintain an account (the Project Account) until the 
completion of the execution of the Project in Mauritanian Ouguiya in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
promptly thereafter, make an initial deposit into such account, in 
an amount equivalent to $100,000 to finance the Borrower's contribution to the 
expenditures required under the Project;
(c)
deposit into the Project Account the amount of $400,000 on February 
1, 2000; June 1, 2000 and October 1, 2000; the amount of $500,000 on February 1, 
2001, June 1, 2001 and October 1, 2001, and on February 1, 2002 and June 1, 
2002, as shall be required to timely meet expenditures required for the 
execution of the Project during the period following such dates; and
(d)
ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Account in 
accordance with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section shall be used exclusively 
to finance expenditures required under the Project other than those financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project 
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the 
Project or any Part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section 
including those for the Special Accounts 
for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later 
than four months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Page  9
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records;
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals; and
(v)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association designed to: (i) strengthen its financial 
management system for the Project; and (ii) develop, no later than twenty-four 
months following the Effective Date, or such later date as the Association shall 
agree, a system acceptable to the Association for the preparation of three 
separate Project Management Reports at each quarter as follows:
(i)
the financial management report setting forth actual sources 
and applications 
of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, 
and projected sources and applications of funds (work program and 
budget) for the Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
the physical Project implementation report describing 
physical progress in 
Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
the Project procurement report setting forth the status of 
procurement under 
the Project and expenditures under contracts 
financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the development of the project management reporting system, 
the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Bank no later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
Page  10
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that 
the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out;
(b)
UNCACEM shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the UNCACEM Project Agreement;
(c)
SONADER shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the SONADER Project Agreement; and
(d)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that UNCACEM or SONADER, as the case may be, will be 
able to perform its obligations under the UNCACEM Project Agreement or the 
SONADER Project Agreement, as the case may be.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events 
specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions 
to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
1.
the Borrower has:
(a)
established the Project Account and deposited therein the initial 
deposit referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
appointed the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association and in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(c)
appointed a financial specialist/accountant in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and established a 
computerized accounting and financial information management system in 
UC-PDIAIM, acceptable to the Association;
(d)
appointed  a procurement specialist in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and established a 
procurement management system in UC-PDIAIM, acceptable to the Association;
(e)
appointed a monitoring and evaluation specialist, in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and 
established a computerized monitoring and evaluation system in UC-PDIAIM, 
acceptable to the Association; and
(f)
approved the Project Implementation Manual, and the CADI Procedural 
Manual, each  in form and substance acceptable to the Association; and
2.
the UNCACEM Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the SONADER Subsidiary Agreement 
have each been executed on behalf of the Borrower and UNCACEM and SONADER, 
respectively.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within 
the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in 
the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the UNCACEM Project Agreement and the SONADER  Project 
Agreement have each been duly authorized and executed by UNCACEM and SONADER, 
Page  11
respectively, and are legally binding upon UNCACEM and SONADER in accordance 
with their respective terms; and
(b)
that the UNCACEM Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the SONADER 
Subsidiary Agreement have each been duly authorized, ratified and executed by 
the Borrower and UNCACEM and SONADER, respectively, and are legally binding upon 
the Borrower, UNCACEM and SONADER, respectively, in accordance with their 
respective terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement 
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV, and the 
provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall 
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate or on the date fifteen (15) years after the date of this Agreement, 
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for 
economic affairs is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre des Affaires Economiques et du Développement
Ministère des Affaires Economiques et du Développement
B.P. 238
Nouakchott
République Islamique de Mauritanie
Cable address: 
Telex:
MP Nouakchott
840MTN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, DC
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
Page  12
By /s/ Ahmed Khlifa Ould Jiddou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Praful C. Patel
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
100% of 
foreign
expenditures 
and
(a) MDRE
   1,300,000
90% of local
(b) SONADER
     150,000
expenditures
(2)
Vehicles
100% of 
foreign
expenditures 
and
(a) MDRE
     500,000
75% of local
(b) SONADER
     450,000
expenditures
(3)
Equipment
100% of 
foreign
expenditures 
and
(a) MDRE
   1,200,000
80% of local
(b) SONADER
     500,000
expenditures
(c) UNCACEM
      70,000
(4)
Consultant services
100%
and studies
(a) MDRE
   4,150,000
(b) SONADER
   3,100,000
(c) UNCACEM
     250,000
(5)
Training
100%
Page  13
(a) MDRE
     750,000
(b) SONADER
     750,000
(c) UNCACEM
     120,000
(6)
Loans for
   6,900,000
100% of 
amounts
Subprojecta
disbursed
(7)
Grants for
   1,800,000
100% of 
amounts
Subprojects
disbursed
(8)
Incremental operating
80%
costs
(a) MDRE
   1,300,000
(b) SONADER
     450,000
(9)
Refunding of Project
   1,000,000
Amount 
due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 
2.02 (c) of
this Agreement
(10)
Unallocated
   3,460,000
  __________
TOTAL
  28,200,000
  ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency 
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental 
expenses incurred on account of Project implementation, management and 
monitoring, including office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision 
costs and audits, but excluding salaries of officials and public servants of the 
Borrower's civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of payments:
(a)
made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)
made for expenditures in respect of Category (6) of the table set 
forth under paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless and until:
(i)
UNCACEM has:
(A)
furnished to the Association a non-qualified audit 
report for its 
fiscal year 1998, undertaken by 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(B)
appointed an independent auditor, acceptable to the 
Association, under 
terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, for the purpose of 
auditing its accounts until 
the completion of the execution of the 
Project;
(C)
entered into an agreement with a consultant firm 
acceptable to the 
Association, for consultant 
Page  14
services under the Project, in form and 
substance acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
the Subproject to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit has been 
approved by UNCACEM pursuant to the 
procedures set forth in the UNCACEM 
Project Agreement; 
the MPU and the eligibility criteria set forth or referred 
to in 
paragraph (8) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(iii)
a Subproject Agreement has been entered into between UNCACEM 
and the Client 
pursuant to the provisions of the Schedule to 
the UNCACEM Project Agreement; 
and
(c)
made for expenditures in respect of Category (7) of the table set 
forth under paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless and until:
(i)
the Subproject to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit has been 
approved by CADI pursuant to the 
procedures set forth in the PIM, the CPM and 
the eligibility 
criteria set forth or referred to in paragraph (8) of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement, and
(ii)
a Grant Agreement has been entered into between the Borrower 
and the Grantee 
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (9) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures made for: (a) goods 
and civil works under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each, (b) 
services rendered by consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $50,000 
equivalent each, and (c) services rendered by individual consultants under 
contracts not exceeding $20,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase agricultural 
productivity, employment and income in the Project Area through a rational use 
of the Borrower’s water and arable land resources; and (b) establish the 
foundation for sustained development of irrigated agriculture in the Project 
Area in social, economic, technical and environmental terms.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Establishment of an Enabling Regulatory and Institutional Framework 
for Agricultural Operations within the Project Area
1.
Development of an enabling regulatory framework for agricultural 
operations, including the carrying out of studies into the preparation of laws 
and administrative regulations relating to: (a) taxes and tariffs for 
agricultural produce and trade; (b) transport; (c) rural land tenure, transfer 
and registration, and rural property taxation; (d) regulation of agricultural 
organizations; and (e) export promotion for rural products, through the 
provision of technical advisory services and the carrying out of a training 
program.
2.
Strengthening of the institutional framework and capacity building of 
MDRE, SONADER and UNCACEM, including:
(a)
for MDRE: the provision of technical advisory services and training 
to selected staff of DPSE in the areas of: (i) data gathering and management; 
(ii) logistics; (iii) statistical evaluation; (iv) multi-unit coordination; (v) 
Page  15
operational follow-up; (vi) communication; and the acquisition of equipment.
(b)
for SONADER: (i) the carrying out of a study to: (A) strengthen its 
administrative and technical capacities and identify redundancies in its staff, 
and (B) identify training needs for selected staff; and (ii) the implementation 
of recommendations of the study referred to under (i) (A) of this subparagraph, 
through the provision of technical advisory services, carrying out of a training 
program for selected staff and the acquisition of equipment.
(c)
for UNCACEM: (i) the carrying out of a study to determine actions 
which will identify: (A) training needs for selected staff of UNCACEM and 
selected members of UNCACEM; (B) improvements in the operational management 
system of UNCACEM, including financial reporting and on-site controls; and (C) 
diversification possibilities for UNCACEM's lending instruments, and 
corresponding operational guidelines, rules and administrative forms; and (ii) 
the implementation of the recommendations of the study referred to under (i) (A) 
of this subparagraph, through the provision of technical advisory services, 
carrying out of a training program to selected staff and the acquisition of 
equipment.
Part B:
Strengthening of Agricultural Infrastructure in the Project Area
1.
(a)
The carrying out of studies into the rehabilitation of public rural 
infrastructure works, including hydraulic works for access and drainage of water 
to irrigation schemes and feeder roads, and 
(b)
the preparation of the terms of reference for an update of the Plan 
directeur de la rive droite  du fleuve Sénégal.
2.
Construction of hydraulic infrastructure works and feeder roads in 
selected areas within the Project Area.
3.
The carrying out of adaptive research and studies for the improved design, 
planning and technical implementation of public and private agricultural 
infrastructure works, including irrigation and drainage systems, through the 
provision of technical advisory services and the carrying out of a public 
training program.
4.
The identification, appraisal, design, implementation and supervision of 
community initiated activities, and activities initiated by individual farmers, 
and the provision of Loans and Grants for the financing thereof, for the 
rehabilitation, extension and creation of irrigation schemes.
Part C:
Improving Operational Management of Community Organizations and 
Farmers in charge of Irrigation Schemes in the Project Area
1.
Strengthening of community farmers’ organizations, including:
(a)
the carrying out of a base-line study on existing organizations; 
and
(b)
carrying out of a training program for selected members of 
community farm organizations and farmer federations in areas such as: (i) 
administrative and financial management, and (ii) maintenance of irrigation 
schemes and equipment.
2.
Carrying out of a training program for selected farmers in areas such as 
operational and financial management and maintenance of irrigation schemes and 
equipment.
Part D:
Strengthening the Sector of Traditional Irrigation Agriculture
1.
Carrying out of a training program for selected agricultural communities, 
farmers and agricultural trainers in areas such as: (a) quality improvement of 
rice production; (b) productivity improvement in flood recession agriculture; 
(c) extension of the production of traditional farm products such as fodder, oil 
seeds, fuelwood; and produce conservation; (d) adapted technology and 
Page  16
mechanization of agricultural activities; (e) definition and establishment of 
quality standards for rice; and (f) national, regional and international market 
information dissemination.
2.
The identification, appraisal, design, implementation and supervision of 
community initiated activities, and activities initiated by individual farmers, 
and the provision of Loans and Grants for the financing thereof, for (a)  
agricultural inputs for traditional agricultural activities customarily 
undertaken in the Project Area, (b) rice processing equipment, (c) marketing 
initiatives intended to promote Project Area grown crops, and (d) construction 
of storage facilities for said crops.
Part E:
Development of Agricultural Diversification in the Project Area
1.
The carrying out of studies to identify commercial opportunities and 
production options for the extension of diversified, non traditional crops 
through the provision of technical advisory services.
2.
Appraisal, design, implementation and supervision, and the provision of 
Grants for the financing thereof, of pilot activities to test the 
recommendations of any studies carried out under paragraph 1 of this Part E of 
the Project.
3.
Establishment of a data base in UC-PDIAIM on agricultural production, crop 
diversification, technical and marketing information.
4.
Carrying out of a training program for selected staff in UC-PDIAIM, and 
the acquisition of equipment.
Part F:
Strengthening of Environmental Protection in the Project Area
1.
Establishment in DEAR of: (a) a data bank collecting information on 
environmentally-sensitive data, and (b) an environmental management system 
facilitating: (i) the assessment and evaluation of the impact of agricultural 
activities on the environment; and (ii) the development of mitigating 
strategies; through the provision of technical advisory services and carrying 
out of a training program to selected staff in DEAR and the acquisition of 
equipment.
2.
The carrying out of a training program for selected staff in DEAR, 
UC-PDIAIM, MDRE and SONADER in such areas as: (a) environmental management, (b) 
environmental assessment studies, (c) design of environmental strategies, and 
(d) monitoring of environmental impacts.
3.
Carrying out studies and research and preparing regulations and technical 
norms for optimal soil use and environmentally least negative agricultural 
activities in the Project Area.
4.
Carrying out of mitigation measures to reduce environmentally adverse 
effects of the Project, through the provision of technical advisory services, 
carrying out of works and acquisition of equipment.
Part G:
Project Management, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
Administration, coordination, supervision and evaluation of Project 
implementation through the carrying out of training programs for selected staff 
in UC-PDIAIM, DPSE, DEAR, DRFV, and DRAP, the acquisition of equipment and 
provision of technical advisory services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  17
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995, revised in January and August 
1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions 
of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank 
member countries” and "member country” shall be deemed to be references, 
respectively, to “Participating Countries” and "Participating Country.”
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part 
B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $ 100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 
2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 
3.4 of the Guidelines; and
(b)
works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $280,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 
3.4 of the Guidelines;
2.
National Shopping
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $410,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; and
(b)
works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,950,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
US$300,000 equivalent may be procured from IAPSO or UNIPAC, as the case 
may be, in accordance with the provisions of urgent equipment costing less than 
US$100,000 dollars per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Page  18
4.
Commercial Practice
Goods and works procured for Subprojects under Parts B (4); D (2); and E 
(2) of the Project, estimated to cost:
(a)
less than $400,000 per contract, shall be carried out through 
competitive bidding pursuant to procedures satisfactory to the Association, and
(b)
less than $100,000 per contract, shall be carried out in accordance 
with the procedures set forth in paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to 
bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all 
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract under: (a) Part C.1 (b) of this Section I 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and (b) under Part C 4. 
(a) of this Section I, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in 
January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant 
Guidelines); and (b) the provision of the following Parts of this Section II.
2. 
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank 
member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, 
respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 
thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Page  19
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for regular supervision missions estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services for training and health and environment technical advisory 
services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection.
Services for farmer training and supervision of studies and works 
undertaken by SONADER which are estimated to cost less than $600,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000, may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants.
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 
of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate equivalent amount not to exceed 
$5,000,000, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall carry out Parts A.(1), (2) (a); B.(4); D.(2); E; F and 
Page  20
G of the Project through UC-PDIAIM in accordance with the procedures, 
guidelines, timetables and criteria set forth in the Project Implementation 
Manual and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not amend, abrogate or waive any provision thereof if, in the opinion of the 
Association, such amendment, abrogation or waiver may materially and adversely 
affect the implementation of the Project.
A:
Overall Project Implementation
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain, until the completion of the execution of the Project, 
policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an 
ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement,
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association, semiannually until the completion of the 
Project, for the first time by April 30,2000, or such other date as the 
Association shall agree, until the time the Association shall receive the 
Project Management Reports referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, 
for its review and comments: (i) a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project; and (ii) a 
draft work program and related budget for the following six month period, and
(c)
review with the Association, one month after having furnished to 
the Association the report referred to under subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, 
or such later date as the Association shall agree, said report and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
3.
(a)
By December 31 of each year, commencing December 31, 2000 or such 
later date as the Association may agree, the Borrower shall carry out jointly 
with the Association an annual review of the Project (Annual Review). The 
Borrower shall take all actions it considers necessary to ensure the 
participation of UNCACEM and SONADER in such Annual Review. Such Annual Review 
shall cover the progress achieved in the execution of the Project including, 
inter alia, the proposed work programs and related budgets to be carried out 
during the following year.
(b)
Promptly following said Annual Review, the Borrower shall carry 
out, through UC-PDIAIM and CADI, or cause UNCACEM and SONADER, as the case may 
be, to carry out said work programs in accordance with the modalities and 
procedures approved by the Association and in accordance with the PIM, the CPM 
and the MPU, respectively.
(c)
By June 30, 2001 or such other date as the Association shall agree 
upon, the Borrower shall carry out jointly with the Association, a mid-term 
review (hereafter referred to as the Midterm Review). The Borrower shall take 
all actions it considers necessary to ensure the participation of UNCACEM and 
SONADER in such Midterm Review. Such Midterm Review shall cover the progress 
achieved in the implementation of the Project.
(d)
No later than one month prior to the Midterm Review, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, a report, in such 
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the implementation of the 
Project.
(e)
Following such Midterm Review, the Borrower shall act promptly and 
diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary by the 
Association to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the 
Project, or to implement such other measures as may have been agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Association in furtherance of the objectives of the 
Page  21
Project.
4.
The Borrower shall, until the completion of the execution of the Project:
(a)
maintain, in the following positions in UC-PDIAIM, staff with 
adequate qualifications and experience, satisfactory to the Association: the 
director, the specialists in charge of finances/accounting, procurement, 
monitoring and evaluation, and agricultural diversification; and
(b)
ensure that the following positions at SONADER  are staffed by 
suitably qualified and experienced personnel, satisfactory to the Association: 
the director general, and the specialist in charge of finances/accounting.
5.
The Borrower shall, six months after the Effective Date, or at such later 
time as the Association shall determine:
(a)
carry out the study referred to under Part A (2) (b) (A) of the 
Project and furnish to the Association, for its review and approval said study 
and implement the recommendations of said study taking the views of the 
Association into consideration; and
(b)
have entered into the Contrat Programme with SONADER, in form and 
substance acceptable to the Association.
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
by December 31, 1999, or at such later time as the Association 
shall determine :
(i)
appoint, in UC-PDIAIM, the following experts in charge of 
supervising 
activities under Part E (3) of the Project: (A) 
a diversification coordinator, 
(B) a marketing expert, (C) a 
research and development expert, and (D) an 
agricultural 
expert, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(ii)
appoint a monitoring and evaluation expert in each of MDRE’s 
regional centers 
in Boghe, Kaedi and Rosso to assist UC-PDIAIM 
in the collection of data, their 
dissemination and the coordination 
among entities involved in the agricultural 
sector in the 
Project Area;
(iii)
establish CADI and nominate its members;
(iv)
establish CIMOS and nominate its members;
(v)
establish CP and nominate its members;
(vi)
establish CCD under the chairmanship of UC-PDIAIM and 
nominate its members; 
and
(b)
by July 31, 2000, prepare and adopt regulation for the application 
of Décret No 98/48 du 18 juin 1998 portant libéralisation de l’exercice de 
l’activité du transport public.
B.
Implementation of Subprojects
7.
Eligibility Criteria of Subprojects qualifying for Loans
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no Subproject 
shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless 
UC-PDIAIM has determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance 
with the guidelines set forth in the PIM, that the Subproject satisfies the 
eligibility criteria specified in said PIM, including the following:
(a)
Criteria applicable to community based infrastructure works
Page  22
(i)
the community meets the eligibility criteria of a Grantee; 
and
(ii)
the Subproject consists in the rehabilitation or extension 
of irrigation rice 
schemes, or the creation of an irrigation 
scheme for crops other than rice.
(b)
Criteria applicable to private farmers exploiting less than 40 ha 
of irrigation schemes
(i)
the farmer meets the eligibility criteria of a Grantee; and
(ii)
the Subprojects consists in the rehabilitation of irrigation 
rice schemes or 
the creation of an irrigation scheme for crops 
other than rice.
(c)
Criteria applicable to private farmers
The Subprojects consists in the rehabilitation of irrigation rice schemes 
or the creation of an irrigation scheme for crops other than rice.
(d)
Criteria applicable to Subprojects sponsored by Clients other than 
those qualifying under the categories (a) through (c) above
(i)
the Subproject relates to agricultural activities based in 
the Project Area 
and is envisaged under the regional and central 
development plans;
(ii)
the Subproject meets the economic and financial criteria 
stipulated in the MPU 
and the PIM; and
(iii)
the Subproject consists of one of the following activities : 
(A) equipment for 
irrigated rice schemes; (B) crop-storage,  
processing facilities, and 
marketing campaigns.
8.
Eligibility Criteria of Subprojects qualifying for Grants.
No Subproject shall be eligible for Grant financing out of the proceeds of 
the Credit unless CADI has determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in 
accordance with the guidelines set forth in the CPM, that the Subproject 
satisfies the eligibility criteria set forth in said CPM, which shall comprise 
the following:
(1)
Conditions applicable to collective farmers
(a)
the applicant is a community based cooperative, established in 
accordance with the laws of the Borrower, possessing valid rights to its land 
and whose members have rights to less than 2 ha each only; and
(b)
the application for the Grant is limited to Subprojects the  total 
costs of which do not exceed the amount of  ten million UM.
(2)
Conditions applicable to individual farmers
(a)
the applicant possesses valid rights to its land;
(i)
the applicant has valid rights to  less than 40 ha of 
irrigation schemes only 
in the case of an application for 
rehabilitation of irrigation rice schemes; 
or
(ii)
the applicant has valid rights to to  an irrigation scheme 
of less than 5 ha 
of other crops than rice only in the case of an 
application for the 
construction of  said 
scheme; and
(b)
the Grant application is limited to Subprojects the total costs of 
Page  23
which do not exceed the amount of five million UM.
(3)
Conditions applicable for the construction of warehouses for crop-storage
The applicant is a community cooperative, or a union of such cooperatives, 
duly registered under the laws of the Borrower.
(4)
Conditions applicable for pilot diversification and irrigation activities
The applicant is a community cooperative duly registered in accordance 
with the laws of the Borrower, or an individual farmer and intends to undertake 
activities promoting the diversification of crops or the introduction of new 
technologies in irrigation agriculture.
9.
Terms and Conditions for Subproject Grant Agreements
A Subproject financed by a Grant shall be carried out pursuant to a 
Subproject Grant Agreement, to be concluded between MDRE and the Grantee, 
following the approval of the Subproject by CADI, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, as set forth in the CPM, providing for, inter 
alia, the following:
(a)
the respective financing percentage of the Subproject provided for 
out of the proceeds of the Credit on the  basis of a Grant, a reimbursable 
UNCACEM Loan, as the case may be, and  the Grantee’s contribution, together 
covering hundred per cent of the estimated Subproject cost;
(b)
the obligation to carry out and maintain the Subproject in 
accordance with the PIM and the CPM, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate technical, environmental, financial and commercial 
practices and to maintain adequate records in such form and detail as the 
Association may reasonably request;
(c)
the obligation that: (i) goods and works to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit for a Subproject shall be procured according to the 
provisions of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) contracts for 
consultants’ services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for a 
Subproject shall be procured according to the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and that such goods, works and consultants’ 
services shall be used exclusively for the carrying out of the Subproject;
(d)
the right to inspect, by the Borrower or the Association, or 
jointly with qualified representatives of the Association, or the Borrower, if 
the Association, or the Borrower, shall so request, the works, plans, studies 
and construction sites relevant to the Subproject, and any relevant documents;
(e)
the right to appropriate remedies, acceptable to the Association, 
should the carrying out or the maintenance of the Subproject, as the case may 
be, not conform to the regulations set forth in the PIM, the CPM and the 
Subproject Grant Agreement; and
(f)
the right to obtain all such information as the Association, or the 
Borrower shall reasonably request, relating to the administration and financial 
condition of the Subproject.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means, in the case of the MDRE 
Special Account Categories (1) (a); (2) (a); (3) (a); (4) (a); (5) (a) and (8) 
(a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; in 
the case of the SONADER Special Account Categories (1) (b); (2) (b); (3) (b); 
(4) (b); (5) (b); and (8) (b) set forth in the said table; and in the case of 
the UNCACEM Special Account Categories (3) (c); (4) (c); (5) (c), (6) and (7) 
Page  24
set forth in the said table;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be withdrawn 
from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, equivalent, in the case of the MDRE Special 
Account,. to $1,400,000; in the case of the SONADER Special Account, to 
$800,000;and in the case of the UNCACEM Special Account, to $1,000,000, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation for:
(i)
the MDRE Special Account shall be limited to an amount of 
$700,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account allocated to 
Categories (1) (a); (2) (a); (3) 
(a); (4) (a); (5) (a), and (8) (a) set forth 
in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts A.(1), 
(2) (a); 
B.(4); D. (2); E; F and G of the Project shall be 
equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 2,000,000;
(ii)
the SONADER Special Account shall be limited to an amount of 
$400,000 until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account allocated to 
Categories (1) (b); (2) 
(b); (3) (b); (4) (b); (5) (b); and (8) (b) set forth 
in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for 
Parts A. (2) (b); B. 
(1), (2) and (3); C and D (1) of the 
Project shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of 
SDR1,000,000; and
(iii)
the UNCACEM Special Account shall be limited to an amount of 
$500,000 until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account allocated to 
Categories (3)(c); (4) (c); 
(5) (c) (6) and (7) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts A.(2) (c); B.(4); 
D.(2) of 
the Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of SDR1,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively 
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account 
and deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for 
deposits into the respective Special Account at such 
Page  25
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
respective Special Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the 
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special 
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing 
that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to 
said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Parts of the 
Project related to that Special Account, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation for that Special Account.  Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for that Special Account shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an 
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence 
as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special 
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the 
Page  26
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case 
may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of 
this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Project Performance and Evaluation Indicators
(1)
Liberalization measures for agricultural markets and  transport services, 
as agreed between the Borrower and the Association in the policy framework paper 
dated May 29 1999, remain in place and agricultural credit is made available to 
all applicants under  customary credit practices.
(2)
Rural land tenure law is implemented to improve security of tenure and 
equity in access to land with irrigation potential, and title registers are 
established in the Project Area, efficiently maintained an accessible to the 
public.
(3)
Irrigated cropping systems in the Project Area have a satisfactory 
economic rate of return as agreed upon with the Association.
(4)
Establishment of procedures for the collection of water charges in the 
Project Area.
(5)
Establishment of procedures for the operation and maintenance of public 
infrastructure works in the Project Area and their effective application.
(6)
Investment in irrigated schemes carried out under the Project reach 
minimum of 75% of eligible demands and completion of feasibility and 
environmental assessment studies for new investments carried out under the 
Project reach a rate of 75%.
(7)
UNCACEM has furnished to the Association a budget proposal for its fiscal 
year 2001 indicating operational and financial self-sufficiency for said fiscal 
year and the following years.
