Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 3272-MAU
Project Agreement
(Integrated Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
UNION NATIONALE DES COOPÉRATIVES AGRICOLES DE CRÉDIT 
ET D’ÉPARGNE DE MAURITANIE (UNCACEM)
Dated August 5, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3272-MAU 
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 5, 1999 between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the UNION NATIONALE DES COOPÉRATIVES AGRICOLES DE 
CRÉDIT ET D’ÉPARGNE DE MAURITANIE (UNCACEM).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Islamic Republic of Mauritania (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty 
eight million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 28,200,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that UNCACEM agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as 
are set forth in this Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
UNCACEM part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to UNCACEM on terms and conditions set forth in said 
UNCACEM Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS UNCACEM in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the 
following terms have the following meaning:
(a)
the term “Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of UNCACEM, beginning on 
January 1 and ending on December 31 of each Gregorian calendar year; and
(b)
the term “UNCACEM Mid-Term Development Plan” means le Plan de 
Développement à moyen terme de l’UNCACEM (1999-2000) approved by it’s Board of 
Director’s on May 16, 1999.
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project and other Covenants
Section 2.01. (a) UNCACEM declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this 
end, shall carry out Parts A(2) (c); B(4) and D(2) of the Project with due diligence 
and efficiency pursuant to the provisions set forth in the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for Parts A.(2) (c); B.(4) and D.(2) of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
UNCACEM shall:
(i)
provide loans on the basis of the criteria and principal terms and 
conditions 
set forth or referred to in the Schedule to this Agreement 
and the UNCACEM 
Procedural Manual; 
(ii)
exercise its rights in relation to each loan so provided in such a 
manner as 
to protect the interests of the Association and of UNCACEM 
and comply with its 
obligations under this Agreement and the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
(iii)
not amend, abrogate, or waive any provision of the UNCACEM 
Procedural Manual 
if, in the opinion of the Association, such 
amendment, abrogation or waiver 
may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of its obligations 
under this Agreement and 
the UNCACEM Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services, required for Parts A.(2) (c); B.(4) and 
D.(2) of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. UNCACEM shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the UNCACEM Project 
Agreement and Parts A.(2) (c); B. (4) and D.(2) of the Project. \0c
Section 2.04. UNCACEM shall duly perform all its obligations under the UNCACEM 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, UNCACEM 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the UNCACEM Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 2.05. UNCACEM shall:
(a)
at the request of the Association, exchange views with the Association 
with regard to the progress of Parts A.(2) (c); B.(4) and D.(2) of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the UNCACEM Subsidiary 
Page  3
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit or the 
accomplishment of the objectives of the Project;
(b)
promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit and the objectives of the Project, or the performance by 
UNCACEM of its obligations under this Agreement and under the UNCACEM Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement;
(c)
no later than November 30 of each year during which Parts A.(2) (c); 
B.(4) and D.(2) of the Project are carried out, prepare a report on its agricultural 
lending operations during the previous calendar year including recommendations for any 
improvements to be made;
(d)
no later than December 31 of each year during which Parts A.(2) (c); 
B.(4) and D.(2) of the Project are carried out, discuss said reports with the Borrower 
and the Association; and
(e)
promptly thereafter take all measures agreed upon by the Borrower and the 
Association to improve UNCACEM's agricultural lending operations.
Section 2.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.05 of this 
Agreement, UNCACEM shall participate in the Annual Reviews and the Midterm Review 
referred to in paragraph (3) of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of UNCACEM
Section 3.01.  (a) UNCACEM shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound administrative, financial and banking practices and the 
UNCACEM Mid-Term Development Plan, under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and
(b)
without limitation upon the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this 
Section, UNCACEM shall, at all times until the completion of the execution of the 
Project, maintain qualified and experienced staff, acceptable to the Association, in 
the positions of director general and expert in charge of finances/accounting. 
Section 3.02. UNCACEM shall at all times operate and maintain its facility, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative 
and banking practices.
Section 3.03. UNCACEM shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such 
risks, other than the risk of default under credit provided by UNCACEM, and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. UNCACEM shall take appropriate security or maintain provisions for 
bad debts at such levels as shall be necessary to protect itself fully against risk of 
default under credit provided by UNCACEM.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association and UNCACEM shall otherwise agree, 
UNCACEM shall utilize all amounts received in repayment of agricultural credit 
provided under the Project to finance further agricultural projects undertaken by 
private and/or cooperative community customers in the Project Area.
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, UNCACEM shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association no later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and UNCACEM, a 
plan for the future extension of its lending operations; and 
(b)
afford the Association reasonable opportunity to exchange views on said 
Page  4
plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) UNCACEM shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
conditions.
(b)
UNCACEM shall: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each Fiscal Year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case 
no later than 
four months after the end of each Fiscal Year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
UNCACEM thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
the date fifteen (15) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify UNCACEM 
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
Page  5
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, DC
 64145 (MCI)
For UNCACEM:
Union Nationale des Coopératives Agricoles de
Crédit et d’Épargne de Mauritanie
B.P. 5635
NOUAKCHOTT
République Islamique de Mauritanie
Telex:
(222-2) 57946
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of UNCACEM or by 
UNCACEM on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken 
or executed by its Director General, or by such other person or persons as UNCACEM 
shall designate in writing, and UNCACEM shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Praful C. Patel
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
UNION NATIONALE DES COOPÉRATIVES AGRICOLES DE CRÉDIT 
   ET D’ÉPARGNE DE MAURITANIE
By /s/ Ahmed Khlifa Ould Jiddou 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Terms and Conditions for Loan Agreements
Expenditures for goods, works and services required for the carrying out of a 
Subproject shall not be eligible for financing through a  Subloan unless a Subloan 
Agreement has been concluded between UNCACEM and the Client, under terms and 
conditions set forth in the UNCACEM Procedural Manual, providing for, inter alia, the 
following:
Page  6
(1)
the respective financing percentage of the Subproject, provided for out of the 
proceeds of the Credit in the form of a reimbursable UNCACEM Subloan and the 
Beneficiary’s contribution;
(2)
the obligation to carry out and maintain the Subproject in accordance with 
stipulations set forth in the PIM and the UNCACEM Procedural Manual, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate managerial, technical, 
environmental, financial and commercial practices and to maintain adequate records on 
the expenditures incurred in the carrying out of said Subproject, and its operation, 
in such form and detail as the Association may reasonably request;
(3)
the obligation that: (i) works and goods to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit for a Subproject shall be procured in accordance with the provisions set 
forth in paragraph (4) of Section I of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement, 
and (ii) contracts for consultants’ services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit for a Subproject shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement; and that such goods, works and 
consultants’ services shall be used exclusively for the carrying out of the 
Subproject;
(4)
the right to inspect, by UNCACEM, the Borrower or the Association, or jointly 
with qualified representatives of the Association, or the Borrower, if the 
Association, or the Borrower, shall so request, the works, plans, studies and 
construction sites relevant to the Subproject, the operation thereof, and any relevant 
documents pertaining to said subproject;
(5)
the right to appropriate remedies, acceptable to the Association, should the 
carrying out or the maintenance of the Subproject, as the case may be, not conform to 
the regulations set forth in the PIM, the UNCACEM Procedural Manual and the Subloan 
Agreement; and
(6)
the right to obtain all such information as the Association, or the Borrower 
shall reasonably request, relating to the administration and financial condition of 
the Subproject.
