                                                  61996 v1
                         Document of
                      The World Bank


                                                        Report No:




              DRAFT RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                            ON A

           PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                          OF
STRENGTHENING INDIA’S RURAL CREDIT COOPERATIVES PROJECT

          LOAN NO. 4862-IN AND CREDIT NO. 4338-IN

                (Board approved: June 26, 2007)


                TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA



                        May 18, 2011




                              1
                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB    Asian Development Bank
CCB    Credit Cooperative Bank (including State Cooperative Banks, SCBs, District
       Central Cooperative Banks, DCCBs, and Primary Agriculture Cooperative
       Society, PACS)
CCS    Credit Cooperative System
DCCBs  District Central Cooperative Banks
DFS    Department of Financial Services
DLICs  District-level Implementation Committees
DO     Development Outcome
FRS    Financial Restructuring Support
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
GoI    Government of India
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA    International Development Agency
IT     Information Technology
KfW    German Development Bank
MTR    Mid-Term Review
NABARD National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
NIMC   National Implementation and Monitoring Committee
PACS   Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies
PDO    Project Development Outcome
PS     Participating States
RBI    Reserve Bank of India
ROA    Return on Assets
SCBs   State Cooperative Banks
SLICs  State-level Implementation Committees
TA     Technical Assistance




              Regional Vice President:        Isabel Guerrero
                     Country Director:        N. Roberto Zagha
             Sector Manager / Director:       Ivan Rossignol
                   Task Team Leaders:         Niraj Verma (TTL)/Gabi Afram (co-TTL)
                                          2
                               INDIA
         STRENGTHENING INDIA’S RURAL CREDIT COOPERATIVES:
                      RESTRUCTURING PAPER
                              P102768
                            CONTENTS

                                                                                                                       Page
A.   SUMMARY................................................................................................................ 4
B.   PROJECT STATUS.................................................................................................. 4
C.   PROPOSED CHANGES .......................................................................................... 7

ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING .................................. 10
ANNEX 2: REALLOCATION OF PROCEEDS ......................................................... 11




                                                             3
  STRENGTHENING INDIA’S RURAL CREDIT COOPERATIVES PROJECT

                             RESTRUCTURING PAPER



SUMMARY
The Government of India (GoI), Department of Financial Services (DFS) and the
National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) have recently
requested to reallocate part of the loan and credit proceeds from the Information
Technology (IT) component to the Financial Restructuring Support (FRS) component.
Further, during the Mid-Term Review (MTR) held in January 2010 and a subsequent
implementation support mission held in October/November 2010, NABARD and GoI
raised the issue of adjusting the target level for the PDO indicator on Profitability to a
more realistic level. This paper proposes to proceed with the reallocation of proceeds and
change in the target level of one performance indicator.


PROJECT STATUS
Background. The Project entails Bank funding of US$600 million equivalent to GoI to
support an ambitious program to reform the rural credit cooperative sector in India. The
basic design of the program entails strong legal and regulatory reform followed by
capacity building, upgrading information technology and recapitalization support to
cooperative credit banks (CCBs, which comprise State Cooperative Banks, SCBs,
District Central Cooperative Banks, DCCBs, and Primary Agriculture Cooperative
Societies, PACS). The Project was approved on June 26, 2007, and became effective on
December 31, 2007. The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
(NABARD) is the implementing agency for the project. There are four Bank financed
components: (a) Capacity Building Technical Assistance (TA, US$20 million); (b) IT,
US$80 million, this is sought to be reallocated now); (c) Financial Restructuring Support
(FRS, US$495 million); and (d) Implementation (US$5 million). Total disbursements till
March 2011 have been around US$381 million (around US$325 million in FRS; US$1
million in IT; US$6 million in implementation and TA and US$49 million as advance).

The ADB and KfW also support the GoI Program through policy loans, though the
coverage of their support is in states other than the Bank funded states. The Bank-funded
project supports the program in states identified by GoI. These initially included,
Haryana, Gujarat, Orissa, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. In the project design, the
choice of states was a prerogative left to GoI and GoI has, on account of lack of legal
reform in Uttarakhand, proposed a substitution of the state with West Bengal, which the
Bank has agreed to recently.

Progress. Disbursements have totaled US$381 million so far and Implementation
Progress rating is Satisfactory (see Table 1 for details), while the Development Outcome

                                            4
(DO) rating is Marginally Satisfactory. While there are some variations between states,
performance on the DO indicators on governance (elected boards), credit to small and
marginal farmers (relative to baseline 43% increase from 3.7 to 5.4 million such farmers
in the Bank funded states) and growth of credit (relative to baseline 120% increase from
US$1.9 billion to US$4.3 billion) has been positive. Performance on recovery rate is
mixed (with an improving trend) and may have been better, but for the impact of
exogenous factors, in particular a debt waiver and weak monsoons in 2008. Performance
on the last DO indicator on profitability is weak, again partly on account of the waiver
and weak monsoons. This is expected to improve with a lag effect once recovery rates
improve further and institutional development efforts start having a stronger operational
effect.

Table 1: Theme/Component wise progress
Theme/        Progress                                                                               Assessmen
Component                                                                                                t

Legal and           •    Far reaching amendments - operational autonomy of the                             S
governance               CCBs and reducing the role of the government in any
reforms                  operational matters1 - made to the state cooperative acts

                    •    Elections held in all three tiers of the CCBs – in the past
                         many boards had been superseded and elections had not
                         been held for long periods of time

                    •    Fit and proper criteria has been formulated by the Reserve
                         Bank of India (RBI, the central bank) and introduced for
                         the Board of Directors of the DCCBs and SCBs

                    •    Fit and proper criteria formulated by the RBI introduced
                         for the chief executives of the DCCBs and SCBs

                    •    State government equity is being reduced in CCBs

                    •    Empanelled Chartered Accountants used for conducting
                         audits of DCCBs and SCBs in the four Bank states

Component 1:        •    Innovative ‘cascading model’ developed for capacity                               S
Capacity                 building entailing: (i) centralized content development
building                 (with field inputs); (ii) training of master trainers, sub-
technical
                         training of trainers at state, district and sub-district levels;
assistance
                         (iii) quality control and feedback mechanisms; and (iv)

1
  One of the risks foreseen during project preparation was the risk of these reforms not taking place or
being reversed. Experience thus far, has been that this has not happened.
2
  There are eight training modules so far: (i) for PACS secretaries, how to do existing business better; (ii)
for PACS board members on governance and management; (iii) for PACS secretaries on CAS and MIS;
(iv) for auditors and supervisors on CAS and MIS; (v) for elected board members of DCCBs and SCBs on
                                                      5
                       (iii) quality control and feedback mechanisms; and (iv)
                       contextually relevant tools for training including use of
                       audio-visuals, case studies, etc.

                   •   Countrywide participation in the different training modules
                       is over 240,000 (over 60,000 in Bank funded states); staff
                       and board of CCBs trained in topics ranging from
                       governance to accounting and business planning2

                   •   Member education initiative has been piloted and is
                       proposed to be rolled out on a larger scale

                   •   Roll out of CAS and MIS in Bank funded states started in
                       April 2009 helping to improve the quality of information

Component 2:       •   Initially roll out was held back since the approach was to                   MS
Information            first manually roll out the CAS and MIS, to impart
technology             knowledge of the new systems, before computerization.
                       Progress has been slow thus far but is expected to pick up
                       this year as the software identification has been done and
                       hardware roll out plan has been firmed up

                   •   Based on implementation so far, a lower cost than
                       originally anticipated is projected; reallocation of proceeds
                       to Component 3 has been requested (see Section 3)

Component 3:       •   FRS has followed the legal reforms in accordance with the                     S
Financial              design of the program and has been based on the ‘special
restructuring          audits’ to assess the level of recapitalization to be funded
support (FRS)
                   •   Funds flow, as assessed through implementation missions/
                       audit reports, has been in line with NABARD procedures

                   •   Since funds flow movement for FRS is totally through the
                       banking system, it has been efficient and easy to track

Component 4: •         Loss assessment exercise (‘special audits’) to assess                         S
Implementatio          recapitalization needs carried out with significant checks
n support              and balances

                   •   Capacity of NABARD’s department enhanced steadily


governance in the post reform scenario; (vi) for CEOs of DCCBs and SCBs on business opportunities; (vii)
for PACS secretaries on business development plans; and (viii) for branch managers and senior managers
of DCCBs and SCBs on business development and diversification.
                                                   6
                        based on the growing needs of implementing the project




        Overall                                                                                          S
S=Satisfactory; MS=Marginally Satisfactory; HS=Highly Satisfactory; MU=Marginally Unsatisfactory

Key reforms – in particular amendment of state level cooperative acts reducing the role of
the government in the functioning of cooperatives, incorporation of fit and proper criteria
and conduct of elections – have proceeded on track and have not been reversed in the
four Bank funded states.3 Downstream reform actions are in various stages of completion
and are proceeding, albeit somewhat slowly. Recapitalization flows have been efficiently
transferred following completion of benchmark reform activities. Institutional
development efforts have entailed large scale training activities and are on-going.
Broadly implementation has proceeded on track, although the roll out of the IT
component was held back consciously. This was part of a strategy to first impart
knowledge of common accounting (CAS) and management information systems (MIS) to
the functionaries of rural cooperatives, before computerizing the accounting functions.
Since this has now been done, it is important to urgently roll out the IT, which is being
prioritized. See also Table 1 below for a summary of progress by theme/component.

Based on the MTR and the last implementation supervision mission conducted in
October/November 2010, the team confirms that: (i) the objectives of the Project
continue to be achievable; and (ii) the Project continues to be implemented satisfactorily.
In terms of fiduciary and safeguards aspects, there are no significant concerns.


PROPOSED CHANGES
Results/indicators

The project development objective of this Project remains unchanged, namely, to assist in
providing members of the credit cooperative banks (CCBs), including small and marginal
farmers, with significantly enhanced access to formal finance (credit, savings, etc.), by
ensuring that the potentially viable CCBs in the Participating States are transformed into
efficient and commercially sustainable institutions. The project has five key performance
indicators (see also Annex 1): (a) Growth in ground-level financing extended to farmers
through CCBs; (b) Growth in the number of small and marginal farmers who receive
credit; (c) improvements in recovery rates; (d) Profitability of CCBs; and (e) Participating
CCBs hold elections on a regular basis.




3
 A detailed review of the recently added fifth state of West Bengal (in place of Uttarakhand) is proposed to
be undertaken in May 2011. However, based on information provided by NABARD, progress in the state
has been good in terms of the reform actions.
                                                     7
A change in the target level of the indicator on (d) Profitability of CCBs is proposed. The
reason for the proposed change is on account of the inherent lower profitability levels in
agriculture financing which result from lower margins available in agriculture, higher
covariant risks and political economy factors. For this reason, the target level for this
indicator needs to be made more conservative for end-term with return on assets pegged
at 0.5% for DCCBs and 0.8% for SCBs, instead of the 1% target for both DCCBs and
SCBs that was set originally. The new levels proposed, while lower than before, if
achieved would represent significant improvement in relative terms over the current
position (and the baseline) and also in absolute terms reflect a reasonable profitability
level for agriculture banks. With the new targeted level of profitability, the CCBs’ long
term sustainability can be ensured. The reforms undertaken and the capacity building
provided so far, provide the foundation needed for improving sustainability. Further,
NABARD currently undertakes supervision of DCCBs and SCBs and will continue to
monitor key financial performance indicators, including profitability, just as the Bank
team would. For these reasons, as also as the other four PDO indicators remain
unchanged and represent significant improvements over the baseline positions for each
indicator, the economic benefit of the project is not affected materially and remains
significantly positive. Annex 1 presents the PDO indicators (though not the intermediate
indicators which remain the same as before) included the proposed change in the
profitability indicator’s end-term target.

Reallocation of proceeds

NABARD and GoI have requested for a lower allocation for the IT Component (US$80
million to US$20 million equivalent) with the proceeds reallocated to the FRS
Component (Table 1).

             Table 1: Project Component Allocations: Proposed Change
                                Project Costs (US$ million equivalent)
        Components/Activities           Current allocation   Proposed new allocation
                                          (US$ million)           (US$ million)
Capacity Building Technical                     20                      20
Assistance (TA)4
IT                                              80                      20
FRS                                            495                     555
Implementation                                   5                       5
Total                                          600                     600

With regard to the IT Component reallocation, there are three main reasons for the
proposed lower cost allocation: (i) relative to the IT cost estimates during project
preparation, based on implementation experience in the states where IT roll out has
progressed, the revised cost estimate for IT is much lower. This reflects lowering of
prices of IT between the time of project preparation and now; (ii) relative to original
projections of over 17,000 primary agriculture cooperative societies (PACS) being

4
 While TA component disbursements, relative to allocation are behind, NABARD and DFS expect higher
disbursements in the coming year to support further TA activities including possibly the roll out of a
member education initiative, and hence no reallocation request for this component has been made for now.
                                                   8
computerized, it is now expected that the actual number will be around 10,000 PACS.
This is lower than the original estimate based on a more precise examination of the
number of eligible PACS focused on an assessment of areas where computerization is
feasible and where it is not; and (iii) savings on software application costs as during
implementation many states chose to have a national-software which has now been tested
and identified. NABARD is proposing to roll out the software developed in the state of
Tamil Nadu to the other states. Since the software has already been developed for the
state of Tamil Nadu which has agreed to share this at no extra cost with other states that
are desirous of using the same software, the overall cost estimate is now lower.

The lower IT cost allocation will not affect the outcomes sought to be achieved through
this component; they merely reflect savings on account of the reasons mentioned above.
The reallocation to the FRS Component reflects the higher expected capitalization needs
which are based on the loss assessment exercise that was undertaken through a three tier
checking process under NABARD’s supervision. Recapitalization needs of the upper
tiers, which have been assessed recently, have contributed to an increase in the total
amount needed for this component.

For the reallocation, it is recommended to reallocate IDA and IBRD proportionately.
Thus, US$30 million of IDA credit and US$30 million of IBRD proceeds will be
reallocated from the IT Component to the FRS Component. Further the split of the
reallocated proceeds between FRS Category A and FRS Category B will remain in the
same ratio as in the original FRS Component allocation, namely, 75:25. Annex 2
provides an updated table reflecting the allocation of the Loan and Credit under the
project.




                                            9
                                      ANNEX 1: REVISED ARRANGEMENTS FOR RESULTS MONITORING5
                                                                                        Data Collection and Reporting
Project Outcome Indicators                   Baseline (end of         MTR                    ICR                      Frequency             Data Collection            Responsibility
                                             march 2005)                                                              and Reports           Instruments and            for Data
                                                                                                                                            Sources                    Collection
1. Annual percent increase in                CCB recovery             5-10% per year9        5-10% per year10         Annual project        Reports from RBI,          NABARD as
     recovery rates of CCBs in PS            rates 6                                                                  reporting             NABARD,                    implementing
                                                                                                                                            technical and              and monitoring
2. Annual percent increase in                US$ 31 billion           35% above              70% Above                                      social audit teams         agency
     ground-level financing (credit)                                  baseline               baseline                                       (prior to MTR and
     extended by CCS                                                                                                                        ICR), Bank
                                                                                                                                            implementation
3. Rapid upward trend in number              14,808,000               Evidence of            50% increase in                                support visits, and
     of small and marginal farmers           borrowers7               upward trend           no. of s/m                                     NIMC, SLICs,
     that receive credit from CCBs                                                           farmers                                        DLICs, progress
                                                                                                                                            reports
4. Increase in the profitability             DCCB’s -0.01%            0.3%                   0.5%
     (ROA) of at least 2/3 of
     participating CCBs in the PS by         SCB’s 0.7%8              0.5%                   0.8%
     the end of the project period

5. Elections held in participating           Mostly no                50% of CCBs            100 % of CCBs
     CCBs on regular basis                   elections
     (whenever due).

 5
   This table presents the key PDO indicators. The only change relative to before is with respect to target for the indicator on profitability. All other indicators and other intermediate
 indicators remain as originally agreed.
 6
   64 percent recovery rate for PACS, 71.2 percent for DCCBs and 83.5 percent for SCB’s as of end of March 2005 (Source: RBI, Report on Trend and Progress of Banking in India
 2005-06 and data from NABARD).
 7
   Small farmers and rural artisans according to “Performance of PACS 04-05” report by National Federation of State Coop Banks 2005.
 8
   These ROA ratios are as of end of March 2005 weighted average for four states: Orissa, UP, Haryana and Gujarat. (source: RBI, Report on Trend and Progress of Banking in India
 2005-06 and data from NABARD).
 9
   10 percent a year for CCBs with recovery rate less than 50 percent and 5 percent a year for CCBs with recovery rates between 50 percent and 80 percent
 10
    10 percent a year for CCBs with recovery rate less than 50 percent and 5 percent a year for CCBs with recovery rates between 50 percent and 80 percent



                                                                                            10
           ANNEX 2: REALLOCATION OF PROCEEDS

1.      For the reasons mentioned in Section C above, proceeds for India, Strengthening
India’s Rural Credit Cooperatives Project, [Loan No. 4862 and Credit No. 4336],
P102768 will be reallocated as follows:

        Category              Amount of the        Amount of the Loan         Percentage of
                             Credit Allocated      Allocated (Expressed      Expenditures to
                            (Expressed in SDR)          in Dollars)            be Financed
(1) Goods, works,
services (other than
consultants’ services),
consultants’ services,
Training and Operating
Costs under Components
1 and 4 of the Project                8,200,000                11,750,000          80%

(2) Goods, works,
services (other than
consultants’ services),
and consultants’ services
under Component 2 of
the Project                           6,562,500                10,000,000          80%

(3) Recapitalization
Funding under
Component 3 of the
Project:

(a) First Disbursement              136,365,625               207,875,000          80%

(b) Second Disbursement              45,671,875                69,625,000          80%

(4) Front –end fee                                                750,000 Amount payable
                                                                          pursuant to
                                                                          Section 2.03 of
                                                                          the Loan
                                                                          Agreement in
                                                                          accordance with
                                                                          Section 2.07 (b)
                                                                          of the General
                                                                          Conditions

     Total Amount                   196,800,000               300,000,000


                                           11
