Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9055
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
HAUTS-BASSINS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1285-BUR)
OCTOBER 15, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distuboton mnd may be used by redplents only In the perfonmauce of
their officXl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wihot World Bak outbhaon.



CURREN
French African Community Franc (CFAF)
Per US$
Appraisal Year:      300
Intervening Years:  350
Completion Year:    300
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
CCCE     Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CNCA     National Agricultural Credit Bank
CRPA     Regional Farming and Livestock Promotion Center
FAC      Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
GV       Village Group
IFAD     International Fund for Agricultural Development
IRAT     Tropical Agriculture Research Institute
ORD      Regional Development Agency
PAPEM    Pre-Extension and Multi-site Experimentation Support Post
SOFITEX  Cotton Comopany
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ofcr. no Dweckw.C.EwaI
Opq.tm lvaluatui
October 15, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Burkina Faso
Hauts-Bassins Agricultural Development Project (Credit 1285-BUR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Burkina Faso - Hauts-Bassins Agricultural Development
Project  (Credit 1285-BUR)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office.   No
audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their otffcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
PRO =  COWLZsIc REPORT
RUEUNAL PASO
EBTS-BASSINS M3XlUL!U3*L DVIVLOIHEN? PROJIc?
(CREDIT 1285-BUR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ..............................................................   i
BASIC DATA SHEET ...................--------........ ilt
SUMMARY .......                                                            v
I - THE PROJECT .......                                                   1
1.1.   Project Identification and  reparation.                     1
1.2. Description of the Project.                                   2
II - TECHNICAL EXECUTION OF THE PROECT.                                   3
2.1.   Signing and Entry into Effect of Various Agreements  . 3
2.2. Project Start-up.                                             3
2.3. Extension Component          .          .                     4
2.4. Adaptive Research Component.                                  6
2.5.  Agriculture-Livestock Integration Component. .               7
2.6.  Village Groups and Functional Literacy Component.            9
2.7. Supply and Credit Component                 .        .          10
2.8.   Seed Production Component       ..             ............ 12
2.9.   Project Management, Staff Training and Monitoring .        12
2.9.1.   Monitoring ..................... 12
2.9.2. Staff Training .13
2.9.3. Administration .14
2.10.  Regional Training Center Component .14
2.11.  Training of Newly-Settled Pastoralists Component .15
2.12.  Studies and Subprojects to be Approved Component ...... .. 15
2.13. Production    ... 16
2.13.1.  Size of Spontaneous Migrations ...                17
2.13.2. Cotton ...                                        18
2.13.3. Sorghum .... 22
2.13.4. Maize ...                                         24
2.13.5. Mlllet ...                                        25
2.13.6. Other Crops ...                                   26
2.14.  Expansion of Production Systems ...        .               27
III   FINANCIAL EXECUTION OF THE PROJECT ............................... 31
3.1. Project Costs ...                                           31
3.2. Remarks ...                                                 31
3.3.   Procurement and Cofinancing ...                           35
3.4.   Sumary of Costs: Financing and Disbursements ...          35
IV - ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ...                                               37
4.1. Farm Budgets ...                                            37
4.2.   Overall Analysis and Justification   .       .. 38
4.2.1. Benefits ...                                      38
4.2.2. Costs ...                                         38
4.2.3.   Economic Rate of Return ...                      39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cout'd)
Page No.
V  - BANK'S PE          R    F    O     RMUNCE ......................  39
VI - RECOMNENDATIONS                                                       .40
VII- CONCLUSIONS    ..42
APPENDIX 1:  Monitoring and Evaluation Component                        43
ANNEXES                                                                 45
Map: IBRD 15915



(i)
PIOJECT COMPLETION PEPORT
URIKINA PASO
HAUTS-BASSINS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMEFT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1285-BUR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Hauts-Bassins
Agricultural Development Project in Burkina Faso, for which Credit 1285-UV
in the amount of US$ 4.7 million (SDR 4.2 million) was approved on July 27,
1982. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1988 on schedule. The Credit was
not fully disbursed, and SDR 2.589 million (US$ 3.4 million) were cancelled
as of January 12, 1990.
The PCR was prepared principally by the Hauts-Bassins Project Staff,
with the assistance of Mr. C6lestin Bado of the Bank's Resident Mission in
Burkina Faso.   The preparation of the preface,  staff inputs and final
formatting was done by Ms. JoAnne Nickerson of the Africa Regional Office.
Preparation of this PCR was begun during the Bank's last supervision
in June 1988, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the
aide-memoires of the supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank
and the Borrower; and the Project's technical documentation.



(iii)
BASIC DATA SHEET
Key Project Data                                               Actual or
*  Original Ela"  Current Estimate
Project Cost (US$m)                          20.8                 11.4
Credit Amount (US$m)                          4.7                  4.7
Disbursed                                  -                  1.9
Cancelled                                                     3.4
Repaid
Outstanding                                -                  1.9
Cofinancing:
IFAD                                     3.1                  1.9
Beneficiaries                            0.5                  0.3
Commercial Banks                         3.2                  3.7
France                                   9.3                  2.7
Government                               0.0                  0.9
Date for Completion Physical Components      6/30/87             6/30/88
Proportion Completed by Target Date (%)       100                  60
Economic Rate of Return (%)                    33                  20
Institutional Performance                        -               Moderate
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY8
Appraisal Estimate (US$m)      0.2    1.1    2.3    3.4    4.7       -
Actual (US$m)                  0.0    0.5    0.8    0.9    1.1    1.6    1.9
Actual as % Estimate             0     45      35     26     23     34      40
Staff Inputs
FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  TOTAL
Appraisal     14.0                                                      14.0
Negotiations   3.1   0.9                                                4.0
Supervision          4.9   7.9  10.6   6.9   3.0  15.8   2.7   0.4   52.3
Completion                                           1.0   1.9   0.5    3.4
TOTAL         17.1   5.8   7.9  10.6   6.9   3.1  16.8   4.6   0.9   73.7



(iv)
Other Proiect Data
Item                          OriQ inal Elan        Revisions        Actual
First Mention in Bank Files            10/79              -            10/79
Negotiations                            9/81            1/82            4/82
Board Approval                          3/82              -             7/82
Effectiveness                           9/82           12/82            6/83
Closing Date                         6/30/88                         6/30/88
Borrower                       Republic of Burkina Faso
Executing Agency               Hauts Bassins Regional Development Authority
FY of Borrower                 Calendar Year
Follow-up Project              Agricultural Support Services Project
(Credit 1979 - Bur)
Mission Data
Item             Month/    No. of  No. of   Staff    Discipline       Date of
Year   Weeks   Persons    Week                     Report
Preparation _/                                                          7/81
Appraisal h/      10/81        2        7      14     FA,EC,AGRO    6/28/82
Supervision _/1    1/83       1         2       2        AGRO        3/08/83
2   11/83       1        2       2         AGRO       3/06/84
3    6/84       1        2       2        AGRO       11/26/84
4   11/84       1        2        2        AGRO       3/06/85
5    6/85       1        2       2        AGRO        9/11/85
6   12/85       1        2       2         AGRO       1/22/86
7    5/86       1        2       2         AGRO       6/25/86
8    1/87       1        2       2         AGRO       2/20/87
9    6/87       2        2       4      SOCIOL,AGRO   7/25/87
10    4/88       1        2       2       AG-ECON      6/24/88
./ Done by a consultant team financed by FAC/CCCE; detailed mission data
not readily available.
b/ Appraised in conjunction with the Volta Noire Agricultural Development
Project (Credit 1284-UV); one-half of mission time allocated to each project.
Four of the seven appraisal mission members were from cofinanciers FAC, CCCE
and IFAD; their time is not included in the staff inputs table above.
S/ All supervision missions were conducted jointly with CCCE (whose time
is not included in the staff inputs table above).   Additional, partial
supervisions of the livestock component of the project were carried out in
conjunction with supervisions of the concurrent Livestock Project; these
partial supervisions did not generate separate full supervision reports for
the Hauts Bassins project.



(v)
PROJCT COhPLUOII UPORT
BUDXIM PASO
HAUTS-ASSINS ARXCCTURAL D OPHS PROJCT
(CREDIT 1285-EUK)
EVALUATION SUM4RY
Project Obie1tives
The Hauts-Bassins Agricultural Development Project supported the
activities of the Hauts-Bassins ORD for a period of five cropping seasons as
was originally planned, albeit with a year's delay. This project, which took
over from two preceding projects executed in the region with the financial
support of IDA, was to consolidate the benefits of the two preceding
operations and reinforce the role of the previously established village
associations. One-fourth of the region's farmers had already benefitted from
the aid of the two first projects, and the possibility of extending extension
activities to a larger number of farmers still existed. To accomplish this,
the project was to help improve agricultural techniques of farmers whom the
extension  system had not  reached;  and  to promote  the  integration of
agriculture and livestock with a view to increase the use of manure which
would thwart the reduction of soil fertility.
Project Execution
Project execution was somewhat disrupted by factors beyond its
control such as: (i) the Government's phasing-out of the ORDs in May 1987,
which put the executing agency in an uncertain legal situation, preventing
it from assuring certain services (credit, supply of inputs, etc...), (ii)
unduly frequent movements of senior project staff, (iii) the complexity of
the financial set-up which further burdened the already long and complicated
procurement procedures.
Proiect Results
At the end of project execution, the number of farmers reached by
extension had risen from 10,500 at appraisal to 38,000.   Conforming to
project expectations, the number of village associations did not increase
very much during the life of the project. The accent was placed rather on
making existing village associations - already established through a literacy
program to support management - more dynamic with new leadership structures,
and the creation of specialized committees (training, credit, marketing,
environmental protection, etc...) which fostered the development of self-
managed markets which presently handle a large portion of seed cotton (75%
of marketing for the 1987-88 cropping season).
The most spectacular reTsults lay in the increases in the production
of cereals as well as cotton, which surpassed appraisal estimates by 15% and
110% respectively. Economic prices were lower than had been foreseen at
appraisal, however, so that the ex-nost economic rate of return of 20% is
lower than the 33% return estimated at appraisal.
Sustainability of Project Results
In spite of very good project results in terms of incremental
production, one major concern is the possible degradation of natural
resources due to the extensification of cultivation practices and the lack



(vi)
of integration of agriculture and livestock, and, therefore, of the
insufficient organic matter in the soil.
Lessons and Conclusions
In terms of agricultural output as expressed in the economic rate
of return, this project was clearly successful.   It was implemented by a
government line agency that was subject to all the normal problems of such
agencies. Despite these problems, the project was well executed and higher-
than-expected results were obtained.
Further improvements can nonetheless be obtained, and one set of
lessons bears on institution-building.   First,  the management of human
resources should be strengthened, in particular senior staff turnover should
be limited. Second, if technical assistance is needed, it should be targeted
to specific needs, and the terms of reference clearly defined to ensure
national staff training and the implementation of viable procedures. Third,
the rel c'on between the CRPA and other national institutions, such as the
Livestock Department, has to be clarified so that effective collaboration can
be achieved in the field.
The second set of lessons bears on the adequacy and sustainability
of the technical approaches.  In the process of strengthening the linkage
between agricultural research and extension, programs should be designed to
resolve producers' constraints on their production systems.   Furthermore,
priority should be given to maintain and improve the management of natural
resources to halt the degradation caused by extensification and unsustainable
crop and livestock husbandry practices. Part of the solution will be to find
ways of improving the management of individual assets, but it will also have
to include the more difficult task of improving the management of common
assets.



PUJ    CQOMMU        OS2
313RU3 PASO
uAwaS-'.Aaszs ASCUQ=DTO PROJECT
(0a3WT 1285-sea)
I. THE POXEWI I1/
1.1.  Project Identification and Prenaration
1.1.1.  The project was identifled by IDA in 1979 following a Government
request that a follow up project 'e envisaged to cover part of the larger
area included in the West-Volta projects:
the West-Volta Cotton Project, carried out from 1971-1972 to 1976-
1977;
- the West-Volta Agricultural Development Project, carried out from 1977-
1978 to 1982-1983;
- the West-Volta Livestock Project, carried out from 1975 to 1983.
The follow-up project was prepared on behalf of the Government in 1980 by
cons;;ltaiLcs whose se.-vices were funded by the FAC and the CCCE and who
presented their report in July 1981. A joint IDA/CCCE/FAC mission was sent
to appraise the report in May 1981, and the appraisal was undertaken in
October 1981. 2/
1.1.2. This project, covering a period of five years, was to build upon
the success of the preceding projects in expanding production and giving
greater responsibility to the village groups. The technical package in use
upon completien of the West Volta project, which focused on manual
cult!vation and input use, was at the time successfully adopted by some
10,500 farmers (of the 40,000 farmers in the region) and presented further
possibilities to increase production, while attracting the remaining
traditional farmers, who had become more receptive, while also continuing to
improve the techniques of those farmers already reached. The main objectives
of the project were: (a) to encourage improved manual cultural techniques
amongst traditional farmers; (b) to promote the integration of livestock and
agriculture, with the aim of fostering the use of organic fertilizer to
counter decreasing soil fertility and the use of animal traction to remove
labor bottlenecks for weeding and transport of output and inputs; (c) to
promote as far as possible and closely monitor any measures which may lead
to substitution of present chemical fertilizers in favor of less costly
methods (including the use of organic fertilizers, rock phosphates, crop
rotation) and research aimed at finding cheaper valid fertilizer
formulations; (d) to encourage the use of inputs, particularly improved
seeds, in order to allow further production increases by more advanced
farmers; and (e) to foster further village groups on the lines of those
already created and to test a small literacy program for some of these
groups.
1.1.3. In defining project content particular attention was given to the
need, in view of the Government's difficult financial position, to design
agricultural development projects capable of recovering their ongoing costs,
in order to ease the demands on Government budgetary support at the end of
I/ Adapted from World Bank Staff Appraisal Report No. 3811-UV of 6/28/82.
2/ The mission was comprised of Mr. Notley and Mr. Serejski (IDA); Mr.
Delacroix and Mr. Teysseyre (CCCE); Mr. Laurent (FAC); Ms. Johnson (IFAD);
and Mr. Floirat (consultant).



- 2 -
the project implementation period. We note that the separation of the input
distribution system from extension activities, as well as the establishment
of a cost recovery margin on inputs, are gmong the important innovations
introduced by this project.    Also  important have been the  increased
involvement of farmers or farmers' groups in the distribution system at
village level.
1.2. Descri2tIOn gfthe Eroject
aunarv Descrition
The project comprises the following elements:
Farming and Livestock Extension
(i)   full extension services to 22,000 new farmers and continuing,
on a reduced basis, extension services for the 18,000 farmers
already reached in order to further increase fooderop and
cotton production;
(ii)    a program of adaptivc research;
(iii)    integratio, of livestock messages into the general extension
messages;
Village Group Develogment
(iv)    an increase in the number of village groups from 106 to 300,
in order to continue developing farmers' responsibility for
their own affairs;
SuLr2lies and Credit
(v)   continuation of input supply and credit services, with village
level administration being undertaken by village groups;
(vi)    production of improved seeds for sorghum, maize, groundnuts
and rice at a seed farm to be established and through contract
farmers;
Lroiect Management. Staff Training and Monitoring
(vii)    providing vehicles and a house for the management unit;
technical assistance; training for Voltaic Staff; ar-d
establishing a monitoring capability;
Regional Training and Support
(viii)    continuing the regional training center at Bobo-Dioulasso,
particularly in its training role for project staff;



- 3 -
Extension for Newly-Settled Pastoralists
(ix)    continuing for three years the extension activities for newly-
settled pastoralists in the Samorogouan area;
Studies and Elements to be Approved
(x)   undertaking  studies  and  establishing  a  mechanism  for
appraising and implementing small subprojects to be identified
and approved during the course of project execution.
II.      TECHNICAL EXECUTION OF THE PROJECT
2.1. Signing and Entry into Effect of Various Agreements
The IDA credit agreement (1285-Bur) was signed on August 26, 1982, providing
for retroactive financing of expenses after June 30, 1982.   It should be
noted that the difficulty of pre-financing of expenses by the Government of
Burkina Faso was not really settled, since the initial deposit that was
supposed to solve the problem was not received until July 1983, because of
the delayed entry into effect of the credit.
The IFAD credit agreement (no. 102 BUR) was signed on February 2, 1983.
The agreement for the opening of credit no. 58 24 00 82 080 with the CCCE
was signed on March 16, 1983.  This agreement grants CFAF 424,700,000 for
expenditures for the first three years of the CRPA of Hauts-Bassins. Since
this amount was still not fully used as of the end of 1988, no supplementary
financing has been granted, despite the cost overruns for certain entries,
which the CCCE refused to finance using the balances remaining under other
entries.
FAC financing was obtained in the form of agreement 314/C/DPL/82/VOL of
December 6, 1982, followed by agreement 239/C/DPL/84/VOL of August 4, 1985.
(This financing was in the amount of CFAF 200 million and CFAF 100 million,
respectively, but each agreement provided funds for actions to be carried out
by the CRPA of both Hauts-Bassins and Boucle du Mouhoun. i/
2.2. Proiect Start-Up
Modeled on the existing organization of the CRPA, the project's organization
was immediately able to make use of the staff that was already in place and
who were in all ways highly important.   The project organization also
benefitted from the existing infrastructure and available facilities.
The fact that the Director of the CRPA was at the same time the Project
Director doubtlessly facilitated start-up of the project, particularly
because the technical assistants provided under the agreements were very
quickly assigned to their positions.
2/ Formerly Volta Noire



- 4 -
This technical assistance mechanism remained relatively stable over the
period of the project, and as a result it was able to fully perform the
function assigned to it.
2.3. Extension Component
Having been introduced under the PDA-OV, the 'Training and Visit" extension
system was modified several times during the PDA-HB.
During the 1982-1983 growing season, each extension agent provided
instruction, within his cultivation zone, to 144 farmArs organized into 18
groups, each comprising 8 farmers (1 contact farmer and 7 student farmers).
The agent's schedule was based on a fortnightly rotation. Of the ten working
days each fortnight, eight were devoted to extension activities, one to the
agent's own training, and one to other activities.
At the end of this season, it was found that the fortnightly rotation was
too short and it was changed to three weeks. The system operated in this
manner over the course of the three following seasons up to 1985-1986 (see
tables 1 and 2, Annex 2).
The 1986-1987 growing season was marked by introduction of the Agricultural
Extension Reinforcement Pilot Operation.
The goal of this operation was to improve agricultural extension services
through:
-     improving or reorganizing the training network;
-     establishing a multi-disciplinary team of specialized technicians
within the training organizations;
-     reinforcing and formalizing contacts with agronomic research;
-     intensifying staff training; and
-     improving contacts between extension agents and farmers.
Reorganization of the training network has consisted of dividing up the
agricultural sectors into Departmental Agricultural Offices, which in turn
are divided into Agricultural Training Units (see table 3, Annex 2).
The latter agent's schedule covers the entire year (dry season and rainy
season) and is divided into fortnightly group activities and the activities
of monitoring and visiting individual farms. The fortnight comprises eight
days in the field, one day of training, and one day of office work. Each
agent works with eight groups of 50 to 60 farmers.  Each group sets up a
training field of 0.75 hectares, with three crops (vegetables, cereals,
cotton). The demonstrations of methods and results are carried out using the
training field during the fortnightly activities (see table 4, Annex 2),
followed by micro-plots at the individual farms.
All the simple technical messages (seeding in lines, tillage, etc., see table
7, Annex 2) are now familiar to the majority of farmers because they have
been included in the package of extension messages for many years.   Some
messages, nonetheless, have a low acceptance rate (see table 7, Annex 2),



- 5 -
either due to a lack of material means to apply them, or due to lack of
interest in them.
The ATGs on the training fields are still not followed up by the farmers
themselves. This lack of continuity in the participants' attendance poses
the question of the value of the messages being disseminated.   Increasing
awareness and dialogue should allow the real problems actually experienced
on the farms to be brought out and understanding of the reasons behind this
or that farming practice. It remains clear that extension activities will
attain optimal efficiency only by addressing the real concerns of the farmer.
The micro-lots as they are currently designed are not intirely satisfactory.
Rather than using these parcels to teach a message or part of a message, it
would be preferable to apply on them the entire package of technical messages
concerning a given crop:  each message should be considered as part of a
whole. This would justify a greater number of micro-lots.
Even if demonstration days perhaps do not sufficiently reflect the farming
operation in its entirety -- whereas the training organization intervenes in
all the farm's areas of activity -- the demonstration days organized at the
farms remain an important agricultural extension tool (see table 6, Annex 2).
By the end of the project, 76 percent of the farms had been reached by the
extension system.
As expected, the number of trainers has been progressively reduced from 125
to 100 (and even to just 96 today).   IDA had given its approval for 15
village group organizers to be included in the project instead of five, on
the condition that the number of trainers be reduced.
With regard to the subsector chiefs, far from being reduced from 25 to 10,
their number grew first to 26 (which is the number of administrative
departments of the two provinces of the CRPA) and finally to 30, four of
these departments being divided into two SDAs each.
The rate of acceptance of a message (see table 7, Annex 2) is defined as
(AD + ND) divided E x 100
where AD is the total number of former users of the practice;
ND "           n        n new users of the practice; and
E n"       n     n     "  farms.
The messages that suffer the highest rates of loss of interest are those
which the farmers do not have the means of putting into practice or do not
perceive a real need for (end-of-season plowing, improved seeds, crop
rotation, crop patterns, construction of manure sheds, construction of
wintering manure pens, care, nutrition and maintenance of draft oxen, etc.).
Participation of farmstead heads is decreasing. They are being replaced by
workers who have no decision-making power on the farm.



- 6 -
To address this situation, an extension system needs to be organized that
would allow instruction to differ depending on the expertise of the attendees
and the needs actually perceived by farmers.
2.4. Adaptive Research Component
This component effectively got under way during the 1984-1985 growing season.
The activities involve adaptive research carried out either at the PAPEM or
on the farm.
The PAPEM, which was created in 1983, was established in Kourouma (N'Dorola
sector) and covers an area of 30 hectares.
Soil analysis showed that PAPEM soils were very poor in organic matter, total
nitrogen and total phosphorus, and the pH varies from 5.8 to 6.1.  These
soils are very heavy in the first 30 centimeters and have a sandy-silty
texture, which becomes silty-clayey at deeper levels.
The staff working at the PAPEM comprises the officer in charge of the
Adaptive Research component, the PAPEM officer, and six temporary workers,
including a guard-herdsman in addition to a laborer who is hired whenever
needed.
Research partners, of course, participated in setting out the procedures and
in setting up certain tests.  èX  The PAPEM has set up (see table 1, Annex
3) tests, various experiments and a long-season system, which should, when
fully developed, furnish technical reference material, to be disseminated to
farmers, to aid particularly in maintenance of soil fertility.
The fact that the Kourouma PAPEM is the only one for such a vast area of land
as the Hauts-Bassins does not allow the more distant farmers to benefit from
the visits intended to aid them.  More PAPEMs, together with appropriate
geographical distribution, would solve this problem.
Tests, demonstration projects, and experiments have been set up each year in
the countryside: various research institutes and commercial enterprises have
participated in them (see table 2, Annex 3).
The number of farmers who have visited the PAPEM is still small
(approximately 100 in 1987-1988).
Even if profitability is not the goal of the PAPEM, the establishment of an
operating account, which has not been done so far, would be of interest.
Following the experiments carried out at the PAPEM, messages on the following
topics were developed for the purposes of extension services:
-     seeding on farms using draft animals;
i/ Nevertheless, we cannot say that the PAPEM has been managed by the CRPA
"in cooperation with the IRAT", as envisaged at the time of project
appraisal.



- 7-
-     nutrition for draft oxen;
-     wintering manure pens;
-     use of SR-22 maize; and
-     practice of maize-cowpeas rotation.
2.5.  Agriculture-Livestock Integration Conronent
Execution of this component did not effectively start up until January 1983,
with the arrival of the technical assistant, and the first actions did not
occur until April of that year, when a senior livestock specialist and a mid-
level agriculture specialist were appointed at the CRPA of the Hauts-
Bassins.
The training furnished by the Livestock Office in the Hauts-Bassins remained
very weak, with only eight livestock posts (five in the province of Houet,
three in the province of Kenedougou). Since this situation did not allow
effective training of producers, a letter of understanding was signed on
April 25, 1985, between the CRPA and the provincial livestock service. Under
this agreement (see Annex 4):
-     the  livestock  service  agreed  to make  available  to  the CRPA
immunization  personnel  paid  by  this  component,  especially
responsible for the health of draft oxen;
-     the livestock service agreed to achieve the general objectives of
the project, by reinforcing the training organization staff and
opening new livestock posts, which were, moreover, funded by the
project (three new posts actually opened, two of which began
operation in August 1985); and
=     the CRPA agreed to equip or complete the equipping of the sectors
and the livestock posts with refrigeration equipment or mopeds to
the extent of limits on available credits, and to maintain the
equipment in operating condition.
In April 1987, an amendment to this letter of understanding entrusted to the
Chief of the Foh Livestock Post the technical execution of all agriculture-
livestock integration actions in that department.
This component of the project was carried out within this working framework,
with difficulties such as:
-     inability to ensure follow-up with farmers who had received animal
husbandry training;
-     only three livestock posts (two in Houet, one in Kenedougou) quite
satisfactorily performed a portion of the required actions: this
may be explained by the large operating area of the livestock posts;
and
-     one of the limitations in the design of the component was that it
involved only cattle.   The project was re-oriented in the third
year, and it then took into account all livestock, concerning itself
with semi-nomadic herdsmen, organized into groups, and with
agroforestry.



- 8 -
The evolution of cattle stock, the number of which had been clearly under-
estimated in the staff appraisal report, is shown in table 1 of Annex 4.
Training for health care of draft oxen was the action that had the best
results (see table 2, Annex 4). The mortality rate, which was 15 percent in
1982, fell below 2 percent in 1987.
Breeding cattle health care (see table 1, Annex 4) was performed entirely by
the livestock service. Support of the component in this area consisted of
logistical supplies needed for execution of the immunization campaigns to
combat cattle plague and contagious peripneumonia that were organized between
October and March.   This action did not have the support of the project
during the first year, but beginning from the second year it experienced a
significant expansion (coverage rate was 100 percent beginning from the fifth
year).
Insufficient supplies of agroindustrial byproducts, together with the fact
that the pastoralists' storage of fodder was in an insufficient amount for
the animals' nutrition, prevented proper execution of the "nutrition" action
of the project.
Not until 1987, when the Bobo-Dioulasso oil mill began to produce animal
feed, was the project able to make this feed available to larmers and
pastoralists.   Before 1987, the needs stated by farmers and pastoralists
could never be satisfied, because the project received from the Livestock
Directorate, which held the monopoly on distribution of agroindustrial
byproducts, only a minimal portion of the orders it received:   national
priority had been oriented toward protection of livestock in the northern
part of the country.
On the other hand, the availability of locally produced and imported salt
licks (the manufacturing shop of Kaya having stopped production) allowed a
sufficient amount of this product to be made available to livestock raisers
(see table 2, Annex 4).
Farmers and pastoralists are becoming aware, at least qualitatively, of the
need to supplement the dry season. Efforts in the quantitative aspect are
still needed, the major constraint being lack of transport equipment.
The village livestock officials, who have been trained in the techniques of
basic animal health care, providing forage for animals, harvesting and
storage of fodder, and the use of agroindustrial byproducts, have constituted
a very appreciable link between basic training and the village communities
(see table 3, Annex 4).
Village poultry raising, which was not a part of the project, represents an
expansion into the Hauts-Bassins of the Village Aviculture Development
Project, which is operating in the central region of the country.



9-
The objectives are as follows:
-     to combat infectious diseases of poultry, principally, Newcastle
disease (see table 4, Annex 4);
-     to combat external and internal parasites of the birds; and
-     improve village poultry-raising conditions.
Here we encounter the same problems as in the cattle health care action:
the training network comprised of volunteer village vaccinators is too weak
to allow proper supply of poultry products and regular monitoring of farmers
in the field.
Activities are still tentative after five years of execution, exacerbating
the effect of the still uncontrolled poultry diseases. One hundred sixty-
one farmers from 108 villages have been trained under the project.   The
number of hens and guinea-fowl is estimated to be about 1 million.
During the project, CFAF 191 million worth of veterinary products and other
inputs for animals (salt licks, etc.) have been made available to
pastoralists, which corresponds to the project's expectation in this area.
Despite the opening of a bank account reserved for establishment of a
revolving fund for veterinary products, a fund that should have included
about CFAF 60 million by the end of the project, the balance is only between
CFAF 2 and 3 million due to a lack of monitoring of this fund, the available
money having been used for other purposes.
The development of forage crops was very limited over the course of the
project, due to the unavailability of seeds in sufficient quantity.
2.6. Village Groups and Functional Literacy Comnonent
The establishment of village groups (GVs), a movement that began long before
the project continued over the entire length of the project (see table 1,
Annex 5), though at a pace that was slower than had been expected (target of
300 GVs by the end of the project). This slowing in the creation of new GVs
was voluntary. Beginning in 1984-1985, in order to reinforce the progress
of the existing GVs, an attempt was made to reinvigorate the GVs, through:
-     literacy  training  to support  management  of  the GVs  (inputs,
marketing, etc.);
-     training sessions on the main cooperatives;
-     requiring the GVs to hold yearly general meetings; and
-     establishing six committees that would concentrate on training,
extension, credit/supply, marketing, health, and protection of the
environment.
As of March 31, 1988, the CRPA of Hauts-Bassins had 265 GVs (see table 2,
Annex 5).
Along with the establishment of the new GVs, many self-managed markets were
created over the course of the project (see table 1, Annex 5). While most
of the seed cotton marketing (75 percent in 1987-1988) is carried out by



- 10 -
these organizations and constitutes their essential activity, it is also true
that they market cereals, shea-nut kernels, groundnuts, soya beans, and
sesame.
The CRPA monitored the use of the significant bonuses obtained by the GVs.
These funds allowed many activities to be carried out in the villages
(construction of schools, dispensaries, maternity clinics, pharmacies,
housing, silos, and wells, and loan repayment, etc.).
Of the 150 warehouses that should be used either for storage of inputs or as
cereal banks, 93 have already been built or should soon be completed. (See
list in Annex 5.)
None of the 2,500 maize cribs has been built.  As a matter of fact, farmers
do not wish to exhibit their output for all to see.
Collective fields (see table 4, Annex 5), which should also be used as a
meeting area for members of the GVs to put into practice the technical
messages considered to be important by extension agents and at the same time
used to produce income for the GVs, have not had the impact that had been
hoped.  Farmers prefer to work their individual plots rather than the GV's
collective field.
Collective reforestation areas (see table 4, Annex 5) did not increase due
to the lack of maintenance of planted areas and brush fires that decimated
them.
Sinee illiteracy constitutes a grave handicap in development actions, the
CRPA, concerned about the participation of producers in their own progress,
looked toward functional literacy, with the support of the "Jula." Table 5,
Annex 5, shows the evolution of various training classes offered under this
heading over the course of the project, both at the level of producers and
at the level of extension staff.
It should be noted that, contrary to projections, literacy training was not
tested on three series of 12 villages each. A study by G. Belloncle led up
to a 'literacy" project funded by the FAC, which then replaced the pilot
action that had been envisaged for the project.
Upon completion of the project, we cannot say that literacy training has had
an impact at the village group level. Nonetheless, the Continuing Technical
Training program, which was undertaker, during the 1987-1988 season,
particularly with regard to its "Management" component, should allow the GVs
to maintain their accounting system.
The CRPA requested and obtained the IDA's authorization to increase the
number of GV organizers from five (the projected figure) to 15. This number
has actually increased to between 1O and 12.
2.7. Supply and Credit Comnonent
The most highly utilized fertilizers in the area of the project are still
undoubtedly the cotton fertilizer NPK-BS (formula 14-23-14-6-1 up to 1986-



- 11 -
1987), urea 46 percent, and to some extent Burkina-phosphate. The quantities
sold and consumed (see tables 1 and 5, Annex 6), which are clearly growing
in importance, exceeded the targets set by the project.
This is also true of insecticides used in cultivation of cotton (see tables
2 and 5, Annex 6).
As for improved seed (see table 3, Annex 6), sales have been less than
expected.   However, it is possible to discern the farmers'  concepts of
utilization and sale.  Utilization is not merely limited to obtaining the
harvests of the first generation. It may be the case that farmers use these
improved seeds for several growing seasons and that they also supply them to
their fellow farmers.
Despite the progressive elimination of subsidies and price increases on
inputs (see table 6, Annex 6), the CRPA implemented a trading margin on the
order of 7 percent. This increase in the use of inputs can be seen through
the amount of short-term credits granted, which have increased from about
CFAF 350 million in 1982-1983 to over CFAF 2 billion in 1987-1988 (see table
4, Annex 6). The rate of recovery for all of these short-term loans exceeded
95 percent as of September 30, 1987.
A special effort was made under the project to develop draft-animal
cultivation (see tables 7 to 12, Annex 6).
Only CFAF 443,983,385, or 40 percent of medium-term credit, was used. These
loans permitted financing of:
-     5655 draft oxen;
-     2715 plows;
-     2380 triangular hoes;
-     2322 ridgers; and
-      753 pieces of transportation equipment.
Because credit consumption began to drop off beginning from the second year
of the project, emphasis was placed on outright purchases by producers, or
direct purchases at the CRPA, or parallel purchases at the point of
manufacture.
The average equipment owned by a farmer using draft animals comprises a pair
of oxen, a plow, a semi-ridger, a semi-weeder, and processing apparatus.
It should be noted that starting with the 1987-1988 season, the CRPA lost
its monopoly on distribution of medium-term credit for draft-animal farming
on its territory, a primary agricultural sector (Orodara) being directly
supplied by the CNCA branch recently opened at Bobo-Dioulasso.   It was
expected that each year thereafter, one more sector would be supplied by the
CNCA branch, the second sector being Hounde for 1988-1989. In reality, the
end of the ORD in May 1987 caused the cessation of all distribution of
medium-term credit through it. Since the CNCA branch was not prepared to
replace the ORD in the performance of this function so quickly over its
entire territory, the result was that large CRPA areas did not receive
medium-term credit for the 1988-1989 season.



- 12 -
Much more serious for the CRPA was the fact that the end of the ORD in 1987
led SOFITEX to directly place short-term credit for the 1988-1989 season, and
it is again preparing to do so for the 1989-1990 season.
The gross revenue that in this way escaped the CRPA for the 1988-1989 season
was CFAF 276 million, which, considering the loan losses that were avoided
in the sum of CFAF 110 million (5 percent of the credit, a figure that is not
very optimistic, considering recent experience), still represented a loss of
CFAF 150 million per year, or approximately the amount of annual funding, not
counting funds for studies and technical assistance, by the foreign donors
of the project.
2.8. Seed Production ComRonent
The project completed equipping the Seguere Seed Farm. A small herd has been
located there to maintain the land potential of this unit. The results (see
table 1, Annex 7) have been very uneven over the course of the project,
particularly due to the large variations in rainfall occurring from one year
to the next. Production costs (see table 2, Annex 7) remain high compared
to farmer-produced seeds (see table 4, Annex 7).
Not until the 1986-1987 season were certain farmers required to pay to obtain
improved seeds (see table 3, Annex 7). This situation may be explained by
the low level of demand for seeds, perhaps because farmers no longer
considered the varieties being offered to be good performing seeds.
It should be noted that construction of the buildings at the Seguere farm
was financed by CRPA equity funds and not by the FAC.
The reason for this is that construction of the buildings, which were built
under authority of the government, was spread over a large portion of the
project's duration, representing small annual expenditures, which made it
unnecessary to undergo the slow, complicated FAC approval procedures at
various stages in the process.
The fact that the selling price of the seeds produced at the Seguere farm
was generally higher than the CRPA purchasing price of the seeds produced by
farmers places in doubt the value of continuing the seed-producing activity
of this farm.
2.9. Proiect Management. Staff Training. and Monitoring
2.9.1. Monitoring
The Bureau of Evaluation, Monitoring and Programming has, over the entire
course of the project, benefitted from the staff that was projected for it
in the staff appraisal report.   These staff were able to carry to its
completion the basic project survey with some delay, being particularly
indebted to a computerized study carried out by the National Institute of
Statistics and Demographics.



- 13 -
A constant sample of approximately 150 farmers was also monitored from 1983-
1984 to 1987-1988: the review of the first three seasons has been performed,
and the review of the two following seasons is not yet completed. All data
available to the CRPA, either at the local level or at headquarters, were
compiled.  These surveys were not very useful for three reasons.   The
selection data collected was not targetted to specific analytical or
management needs; the data was not processed in a timely fashion; and there
were no further investigations to explain some of the findings, for example,
an apparent extensification of the production system.   A more detailed
evaluation of this component is included in Appendix 1.
A study on the GVs allowed the situation of this pre-cooperative movement to
be summed up.
Over the course of the 1985-1986 to 1987-1988 growing seasons, ten temporary
survey takers were hired to carry out a survey, the purpose of which was to
better define output on a quantitative basis and thus to confirm or correct
the data provided by basic extension services.
Airborne and satellite analyses were not carried out.
Other specific studies or surveys were carried out in the field, but not
always thoroughly examined.   One might have thought that the computer
equipment possessed by the CRPA could have eased the situation. In fact,
the staff's insufficient training, the lack of organization and discipline,
and the amount of data to be processed have to date prevented the computer
equipment from performing all the tasks that it has been expected to perform.
Provided that better use of the current computer equipment is made, the
availability of a second unit will perhaps allow the work to proceed.
Growing season plans, as well as the various activity reports (monthly and
quarterly reports and annual technical reports), appeared rather regularly
throughout the project.   However,  this work occupied too much resource
capability in competition with other more specific monitoring and evaluation
tasks.
The monitoring and evaluation process should constitute a coherent and
continuing cycle beginning from the point at which data are gathered and
continuing through analysis of the data and diagnostic evaluation of it
concluding  in  proposals  for  improvement.    We  must  state  that  only
quantitative estimates have actually been undertaken, and subsequent phases,
notably analysis, have not received the amount of consideration that they
truly warrant.
2.9.2. Staff Training
Almost a fifth of the funds projected for staff training were used for
training that was generally of short duration.   These training classes,
moreover, did not always have a clear relationship to the project.
It also seems to be difficult in practice to organize, at the level of a
decentralized project, training classes of several months' duration abroad



- 14
for project staff, and training whose content is in clear relation to the
project.
The extent to which some funded training classes were directly useful to the
project has not to date been measured in a reliable manner.
2.9.3. Administration
With regard to administration, which, according to the cost tables, also
includes the offices of the five agricultural sectors, it should be noted
that the CCCE's contribution to expenditures for personnel did not cover five
years as projected, but only three and one-half years (end of 1985).
In view of the non-decentralizatio- of Bobo-North and Bobo-South, the
projected construction in these two sectors was not carried out. Instead,
the IDA agreed at the end of the project to construction of ten input storage
facilities (an operation that certainly is more appropriately under the
Supplies and Credit component) for certain subsectors that do not possess
such facilities.
Likewise, at the end of the project, the CRPA's accounting system was
computerized. Even though it is quite recent, it seems that this operation
will likely be a success.
The evolution from the ORD organization to the CRPA organization did not
bring about a regulatory disruption, but the hiatus between the dissolution
of the ORDs (May 1987) and the establishment of the CRPAs (October 1988?)
seriously hampered project leadership and management. As discussed above,
the legal changes brought about by this transfer caused this organization to
lose its monopoly on medium-term credit, as well as its monopoly on
distribution of inputs.
2.10 Regional Training Center Comgonent
Over the entire length of the project, the Training and Retraining Center of
the Hauts-Bassins CRPA was essentially used for basic training and retraining
of extension agents of the CRPA of Hauts-Bassins and Boucle du Mouhoun.
All the categories of extension agents were reached by these sessions, that
is:
-     Sector Chiefs;
-     Subsector Chiefs;
-     Center Chiefs;
-     Training and Extension Coordinators;
-     Credit Coordinators;
-     Organizers; and
-     Survey Staff.
This center was also used by other CRPAs or other organizations (see table
1, Annex 8).  It is regrettable that this center no longer constituted a
meeting place for producers or representatives of producers.



- 15 -
During the project, the center housed 2,252 seminar students, of whom 62
percent were from the CRPA of Hauts-Bassins. On average, the center facility
was used 94 days per year, which is not adequate to cover its costs.
The resources acquired by this training center under the heading of services
furnished by organizations other than the CRPA were estimated to be about
CFAF 1 million per year.
2.11. Training of Newly-Settled Pastoralists CnmPonent
Prior to the project, three ranches had been set up and equipped. Only the
boundary of a fourth ranch was established during the project, and the
pastoralists located on this ranch use the infrastructure of the third ranch.
By the end of 1984, the Livestock Coordinator, who had left the country, did
not renew his contract.  The mechanic position, which had been projected
under the heading of technical assistance, was never filled.
Four agents provided extension services in the field. All of the animals in
the area, including those of the registered pastoralists and those of the
transhumant pastoralists, were regularly immunized. Pastoralists organized
into ranch committees (one per ranch) for obtaining supplies of veterinary
products generally used existing equipment. On the other hand, the practice
of rotational grazing, which must have been the original reason for setting
up these ranches, was never undertaken.
With respect to marketing, the sales of animals were always carried out on
an individual basis.   Establishment of a pastoralists'  association is
envisaged.
Animal fattening activities (reaching about 300 animals per year) stopped in
1986, after the revolving fund, which was used for other purposes, was
withdrawn.
The number of registered pastoralists (see table 1, Annex 9) has always been
far below the possible number for this zone which covers an area of 125,000
hectares, including 27 villages. The land problems arising from the conflict
between the presence of these 27 villages and a ranching policy was
doubtlessly a basic cause of this situation.
2.12. Studies and Subnrojects To Be Approved ComDonent
Village Land Management Program
The Hauts-Bassins have already been highly affected by the spontaneous
migrations that have occurred over more than a decade and this phenomenon is
still widening.
As two project supervision missions (June and December 1985) had underscored,
it was felt that, faced with the declining physical environment, a very
special effort should be made in the area of rational settlement of migrants
through organized management of rural space within the framework of the



- 16 -
projected agrarian and land reform. All of these actions were to be focused
on the village.
Under this program, a series of mapping efforts were carried out; training
was given to various categories of CRPA agents directly involved in the
program; a multi-disciplinary unit was established and made responsible for
the mapping works and a number of concrete actions were carried out (setting
land boundaries, zening, setting up management committees, organizing
collectives, individual counseling, etc.).
These actions must not in any way be carried out precipitously, since this
is an extremely sensitive subject, particularly due to its sociological
aspects. Initial experience gained in this area should be reinforced and the
lessons that were learned should be extended into larger areas. Experience
seems to indicate that attempting to limit these actions to village lands is
overly restrictive, taking account of the many interactions with neighboring
lands.
At the conclusion of the project, four villages comprised the basis for this
test.
=Jther Studies
Alongside this "subproject to be approved," a number of studies were financed
as part of this component.
In addition to the settlement studies that were included in the project at
the time it was appraised, we can cite the FAC study by G. Belloncle, leading
up to the literacy project funded by the FAC and described above.
Half the cost of the study on the cotton industry in Burkina Faso, which was
jointly funded by the IDA, IFAD, and CCCE, was charged to the project, and
the other half was charged to credit 1284-Bur (Kouhoun).
Another study that also warrants mention is the one on the transformations
attributable to animal traction and mechanization of agriculture in the
western part of Burkina.
2.13. Production
The results obtained over the course of the project's six seasons were
compared to three reference situations, namely:
-    projections of trends resulting from the preceding projects;
-     results obtained from the agricultural season preceding the project
(PYO - 1981/1982); and
-     the average of the results obtained over the course of the three
agricultural seasons preceding the project (1979/1980, 1980/1981,
and 1981/1982).
Regardless of the theory one may wish to employ, we generally observed a very
significant  increase  in the output obtained.    It  is clear  that  the
incremental output obtained over the course of the project was due only in



- 17 -
part to the effects of the project; a number of factors external to the
project and not of lesser importance contributed to obtaining these levels
of output. Here we are thinking in particular of the effect of the migratory
phenomenon that was very significant in the Hauts-Bassins region that the
World Bank staff appraisal report made no mention of.
Before attempting to measure the project's impact on the various crops, we
will first evaluate the significance these spontaneous migrations may have
had for the Hauts-Bassins over the course of the project.
2.13.1. Size of the Spontaneous Migrations
The data from the two general population censuses carried out in Burkina Faso
in 1975 and 1985 made it possible to measure the size of the spontaneous
migrations.
Due to its population growth arising particularly from the phenomenon of
urbanization, Bobo-Dioulasso, the city which constitutes the region's
economic center, was omitted from the measurement.
The rural population of the Hauts-Bassins increased from 292,172 in December
1975 to 492,663 in December 1985. This population growth represents a very
considerably larger rate than the annual 2.68 percent rate registered for
Burkina Faso as a whole for the decade from 1975 to 1985.
The first demographic series, which we refer to as series A (see tab'e 1,
Annex 10), was constructed using the 2.68 percent growth rate on the basis
of the 292,172 inhabitants present in December 1975. The figure obtained in
December 1985 (380,626 inhabitants) compared to thz figure obtained at the
time of the general census of 1985 (492,663 inhabItants) allowed us to
calculate the rate of effectivt demographic growth ovXer the decade from 1975
to 1985 in the countryside of the Hauts-Bassins, rX mely 5.36 perceat per
year.
A new demographic series, which we refer to as series B (see tables 1 and 2,
Annex 10) was constructed with this new rate of 5.36 -eicent and continued
for the duration of the project, while the migration continues to the
present.
We consider the rural population that was present in December 1981 (399,662
inhabitants) to be the population of the 1981-1982 agricultvral season (PYO).
We applied to this population the annual growth rate of 2.68 percent and
obtained a new series that we refers to as series C (see table 2, Annex 10).
The difference between the two figures for series C and B is considered to
be the migratory balance.
Over the course of the project, the rural population increased by 147,230
inhabitants, 53 percent of this increase (78,502 inhabitants) attributable
to settlement of recent immigrants.
The migratory phenomenon in the Hauts-Bassins started long before the
project. The population present in December 1981 included a percentage of



- 18 -
immigrants that was not negligible. As a result we are able to posit the
hypothesis that the behavior of immigrants who arrived during the project is
not fundamentally different from that of the population that was present
before the project began.   Everyone agrees in recognizing that the areas
cultivated, as well as the volumes of output, are proportional to the amount
of available labor and, generally, to the overall population.
Under these conditions, we can say that 53 percent of the incremental output
was the result of the migratory balance. lievertheless, we do not mean to
state that that 53 percent of incremental output is the sole result of the
migratory balance. We should consider that recent immigrants rather quickly
become integrated in their new economic environment and that they benefit
from the project like other farmers.
2.13.2. Cotton
Over the course of the project, cotton output reached 216,630 tons over five
years and 278,060 tons over six years, and it far exceeded the levels that
it was expected to reach in the staff appraisal report (137,785 tons over
five years).   These appraisal report projections were, moreover, overly
pessimistic, since they were clearly below the trend resulting from the
preceding projects.
Under the set of assumptions we have adopted, the incremental output obtained
varies between 60,224 and 123,416 tons over six seasons and between 40,310
and 87,760 tons over five agricultural seasons (see table 3, Annex 10). The
incremental output projected in the staff appraisal report was only 15,585
tons over five years.
For cotton, as for the other crops, we will always use the year PYO as the
point of reference in the following analysis.
We consider, then, that the incremental output was 123,416 tons and the
incremental area cultivated was 93,043 hectares (see table 4, Annex 10).
2.13.2.1.   Incremental output due to increases in cultivated area in
connection with population growth
In the absence of the project, we could consider that demographic growth
would naturally have caused a similar growth in cultivated area.   If we
assume cultivated area at PYO of 20,205 hectares and a growth rate t of
5.36 percent, the incremental area cultivated equals:
n-6l
I \            20,205 (1 + t)n J - 6 x 20,205 - 24,886 hectares.
J n-l
According to our calculations the yield per farmer at the lowest
technological level is 400 kilograms per hectare.



- 19 -
Under these conditions, the incremental output attri'utable to demographic
growth would be 9,954 tons and would account for 8 percent of total
incremental output.
2.13.2.2.    Incremental output due to expansion of cultivated areas
In addition to the 24,886 hectares attributable to demographic increases,
the expansion of areas under cultivation of cotton was 68,157 hectares.
Regardless of the level of technology, the incremental output (400 kilograms
per hectare) due to this expansion of cultivated area would be 27,263 tons
(22 percent of total incremental output).
2.13.2.3.   Incremental output due to use of chemical fertilizers (see
table 7, Annex 10)
The amounts of compound fertilizer and urea used in cotton cultivation (see
table 6, Annex 10) were converted into hectares on the basis of the technical
dosage amount recommended by the project, that is, 150 kilograms per hectare
for compound and 50 kilograms per hectare for urea.   We consider that a
hectare treated with 50 kilograms of urea has been previously fertilized with
150 kilograms of compound.
The differences in consumption were calculated each year by comparing them
to the reference figures for PYO (3,031 tons of compound and 260 tons of
urea).
According to the research, the effects of chemical fertilizing, as a function
of the technical level of the farmers, would be as follows:
Area      Basic      Effect of    Effect of
Technological Level          involved   Yield      150 kg of      50 kg of
of Farmers                     (%)       (Kg/ha)   NPK/ha (kg)  urea/ha (kg)
1. Elementary manual
farming                      30        400         + 300        + 200
2. Correct manual
farming                      50        600         + 400       + 300
Elementary draft
animal farming
3. Improved manual
farming                      15        800         + 500        + 400
Correct draft
animal farming
4. Improved draft
animal farming                5      1,000         + 600        + 500
Mechanized farming



- 20 -
After weighting, the average basic yield would be 595 kilograms per
hectare. In relation to this basic yield, our assumptions for calculation
were as follows:
-    the yield of each hectare treated with 150 kilograms of NPK
increased by 395 kilograms; and
-    the yield of each hectare treated with 150 kilograms of NPK and
50 kilograms of urea increased by 690 kilograms.
The incremental output of 45,721 tons would account for 37 percent of total
incremental output.
2.13.2.4. Incremental output due to plowing
The area of cotton cultivated with draft animals increased as follows:
1982/88    1988/84    1984/86    195861    1986/87    1987/88
PYl       PY2       PYn        PY4       PY6       PYG
Seasons
Area worked    17,811    16,086    14,038    17,691    14,296    s8,927
using draft
aniasas (ha)
We assumed that the area worked using draft animals in PYO was 10,421
hectares and the average basic yield was 595 kilograms per hectare.
Technically, it is widely acknowledged that plowing constitutes an
important factor in improving yields, which we can estimate at between 10
and 15 percent. Nevertheless, the positive effects that the various
technical contributions can have are not cumulative in absolute terms.
Accordingly, we believe that plowing with draft animals brings about a 6
percent increase in yield.
Under these conditions, incremental output due to plowing would be 1,812
tons (1.5 percent of the total incremental output).
The areas under cotton cultivation that were weeded increased as follows:
1982/ 8   1988/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87    1987/88
PYI       PY2       PY8        PY4       PYS       PYS
Seasons
Area weeded    20,284    20,698    27,156    27,994    46,884    49,585
(ha)
Assumptions used: Area weeded in PYO equals 16,008 hectares; average basic
yield equals 595 kilograms per hectare.
Weeding, and in a general way, crop maintenance, would contribute an
increase on the order of 20 percent of yield. We have adopted the figure



- 21 -
of 10 percent, taking account of the fact that other techniques are
practiced.
Incremental output due to weeding would be 5,712 tons (4.5 percent of the
total incremental output).
2.13.2.5.  Incrementa' output due to use of insecticides
We consider to be correctly treated those areas that have received at least
four applications of insecticide. The area under cotton cultivation that
has been treated in this way increased as follows:
1982/8I   198S/84   1964/65   1#65/66   1966/87   1967/63
PYI       PY2       PYs       PY4       PYS       PYS
Season.
Ar-a treated   20,869    20,420    24,572    20,770     84,638   82,001
four tim.
(ha)
Assumptions used: Area treated four times in PYO equals 17,003 hectares;
average basic yield equals 595 kilograms per hectare.
In the absence of any other technical intervention, it is possible that the
yield of correctly treated cotton increased 30 percent. We have assumed an
increase of 15 percent.
Under these conditions, incremental output due to the use of insecticides
was 4,573 tons (4 percent of the total incremental output).
2.13.2.6. Other incremental outputs
We lack accurate information that would explain the balance of 28,381 tons
(23 percent of the to'wri. incremental output).
It remains clear that any changes made in the assumptions we have selected,
particularly at the level of basic yields, would affect the unexplained
gap.
Certain factors may have had an appreciable effect, such as:
-    distribution of rains over the period of time rather than the
amount of precipitation. The date of sowing the cotton and its
germination is an important factor in improving yield;
-    addition of organic matter to the cotton crop exists and
doubtlessly has a positive impact; and
-    the effect of animal traction equipment for cultivation using
draft animals may likely be more significant than it would at
first appear through the increase in cultivated areas and
particularly in the areas plowed or weeded.



- 22 -
2.13.2.7.    Reason for the farmer's greference for cultivation of cotton
The farm gate price has been and undoubtedly remains the prime mover for this
expansion in cotton cultivation. More than the price itself, it would seem
that the "guarantee" aspect of the price has favored expansion. If we follow
the evolution of the gross margin on this speculation (see table 24, Annex
10), we indeed observe that over the course of the 1985-1986 season, this
margin was highest. And for this reason, production records were exceeded
during the two following seasons, even though the margin was falling sharply.
It would nonetheless be interesting to know how far producer prices can drop
while, at the same time, inputs are increasing, without risking reversal of
the current trend.
2.13.3. Sorghum
According to the assumptions we have selected, the incremental output
obtained varies between -84,663 and 50,091 tons over six seasons and between
-61,159 and 39,431 tons over five agricultural seasons (see table 8, Annex
10).  The incremental output projected in the staff appraisal report was
9,438 tons over five years.
We believe the incremental output was 27,291 tons and the incremental area
cultivated was 28,625 hectares (see table 9, Annex 10).
2.13.3.1.   Incremental output due to increases in cultivated area in
connection with RoRulation growth
If we assume area under cultivation at PYO equals 74,520 hectares and the
growth rate t equals 5.36 percent, the incremental area cultivated equals
n-6
I \            74,520 (1 + t)n I - 6 x 74,520 - 91,787 hectares.
n-l
Taking into account a basic yield of 500 kilograms per hectare (at the lowest
level of technology), the incremental output attributable to demographic
growth would be 45,894 tons (168 percent of total incremental output).
2.13.3.2.    Incremental outDut due to decrease in cultivated areas
We observed, in fact, that the area cultivated in sorghum decreased by 63,162
hectares. This removal from sorghum cultivation benefitted other crops, and
in particular, cotton.
The incremental output (500 kilograms per hectare) due to this decrease in
cultivated area would be -31,581 tons (-116 percent of total incremental
output).
This two-way development relating to areas under cultivation accounts for
52.5 percent (14,313 tons) of total incremental output.



- 23 -
2.13.3.3.   Incremental  output  due  to  secondary  effects  of  cotton
fertilizers (see table 11, Annex 10)
We have considered that 30 percent of the area cultivated in cotton that was
fertilized (see table 7, Annex 10) was sown with sorghum for the following
growing season.
Ten years of tests have demonstrated in the field that 150 kilograms of
compound fertilizer per hectare resulted in a secondary effect on sorghum,
leading to an increase in yield of 280 kilograms per hectare. After reducing
this yield by 15 percent to more accurately reflect project conditions, the
yield per hectare is 240 kilograms.
This secondary effect of cotton fertilizers would lead to incremental output
of 3,731 tons (13.5 percent of total incremental output).
2.13.3.4.   Incremental outRut due to use of chemical fertilizers (see
table 12, Annex 10)
The amounts of compound fertilizer and urea used in sorghum cultivation (see
table 6, Annex 10) were converted into hectares on the basis of 110 kilograms
per hectare for compound and 50 kilograms per hectare for urea.
As regards this crop, fertilizing with urea is not dependent upon application
of compound fertilizer.   Therefore, areas fertilized with compound were
isolated from areas where urea was applied.
The assumptions we selected are:
=     the yield of each hectare treated with 110 kilograms of compound
increased by 240 kilograms; and
=     the yield of each hectare  treated with  50 kilograms  of urea
increased by 150 kilograms.
Under these conditions, the incremental output of 6,319 tons would account
for 23 percent of total incremental output.
2.13.3.5.    Incremental outRut due to use of improved seeds
In PYO, 3,450 kilograms of improved seeds of sorghum were sold. From the
level for that year, the incremental sales made over the course of the
project increased to 19,500 kilograms (see table 3, Annex 6).
At the rate of 8 kilograms of seeds per hectare, another 2,438 hectares were
seeded in the first generation.
Assuming an increase in yield of 100 kilograms per hectare (20 percent) we
calculated that the use of these improved seeds would have resulted in an
incremental output of 244 tons (1 percent of total incremental output).



- 24 -
2.13.3.6. Other incremental outputs
2,684 tons could be due to:
-     increased rainfall; and
-     use of certain cultivation techniques.
2.13.4.     Maize
Incremental output obtained varied between 8,660 and 52,518 tons over six
seasons and between 5,773 and 38,358 tons over five seasons (see table 13,
Annex 10). The incremental output projected in the staff appraisal report
was 9,047 tons over f Ue years.
We calculated incremental output of 52,278 tons and incremental area under
cultivation of 48,136 hectares (see table 14, Annex 10).
2.13.4.1.   Incremental outiput due to increases in cultivated area in
connection with RoRulation growth
If we assume area under cultivation at PYO equals 22,210 hectares and the
growth rate t equals 5.36 percent, the incremental area cultivated equals
n-6
22,210 (1 + t)n I - 6 x 22,210 - 27,356 hectares.
J n-I
Taking into account a basic yield of 600 kilograms per hectare (at the lowest
level of technology), the incremental output attributable to demographic
growth would be 16,414 tons (31 percent of total incremental output).
2.13.4.2.    Incremental outRut due expansion of cultivated areas
Expansion of area under cultivation: 20,780 hectares.
Incremental output attributable to this expansion (600 kilograms per hectare)
is 12,468 tons (24 percent of total incremental output).
2.13.4.3.   Incremental output due to use of chemical fertilizers (see
table 16, Annex 10)
Same method of calculation as for the cotton crop.
Consumption of compound and urea fertilizers was converted into hectares on
the basis of 110 kilograms per hectare for compound and 80 kilograms per
hectare for urea. Urea is used only if compound is used.
-     The yield of each hectare treated with 110 kilograms of compound
increased by 300 kilograms; and
-     the yield of each hectare treated with 110 kilograms of compound and
80 kilograms of urea increased by 650 kilograms.



- 25 -
Under these conditions, the incremental output was 20,710 tons (39.5 percent
of total incremental output).
2.13.4.4.    Incremental output due to use of improved seeds
In PYO, 13,480 kilograms of improved seeds of maize were sold. With relation
to that year, the incremental sales made over the course of the project
increased to 19,245 kilograms (see table 3, Annex 6).
At the rate of 20 kilograms of seeds per hectare, 963 hectares were seeded
in the first generation.
The varieties used developed over time, particularly, from use of the NCB to
use of SR-22, the former providing an increase in yield on the order of 30
percent (180 kilograms), and the latter providing an increase of about 50
percent (300 kilograms) in comparison to local varieties.
To reflect this change in seeds used, we assumed that NCB seeds were used in
the first three growing seasons and SR-22 was used in the following three.
Under these assumed conditions, incremental output resulting from use of
improved seeds was 242 tons (0.5 percent of total incremental output).
2.13.4.5. Other incremental outputs
Same remarks as for sorghum, with regard to the balance of 2,444 tons (5
percent of incremental output).
2.13.5.     Millet
Incremental output obtained varied between 13,320 and 22,320 tons over six
seasons and between 6,755 and 14,255 tons over five seasons (see table 17,
Annex 10). The incremental output projected in the staff appraisal report
was negative -- a decrease of 2,069 tons over five years -- particularly as
a result of a decrease of 1,000 hectares under cultivation per year.
We have calculated incremental output of 13,320 tons for an incremental area
under cultivation of 32,259 hectares (see table 18, Annex 10).
2.13.5.1.   Incremental outnut due to increases in cultivated area in
connection with poRulation growth
If we assume area under cultivation at PYO equals 22,100 hectares and the
growth rate t equals 5.36 percent, the incremental area cultivated equals
_M 6
I \          22,100 (1 + t)n I - 6 x 22,100 - 27,223 hectares.
I  /                           I
l_ n-l
Taking into account a basic yield of 300 kilograms per hectare (at the lowest
level of technology), the incremental output attributable to demographic
growth would be 8,167 tons (61 percent of total incremental output).



- 26 -
2.13.5.2.    Incremental output due expansion of cultivated areas
Expansion of area under cultivation: 5,036 hectares.
Incremental output attributable to this expansion (300 kilograms per hectare)
is 1,511 tons (11 percent of total incremental output).
2.13.5.3.   Incremental outRut due to use of chemical fertilizers (see
table 20, Annex 10)
Same method of calculation as for sorghum.
Consumption of NPK and urea fertilizers was converted into hectares on the
basis of 100 kilograms per hectare of N?K and 50 kilograms per hectare of
urea. Urea may be used independently of NPK.
We reduced the calculation of millet output by 10 percent with relation to
sorghum as regards the response of this crop to chemical fertilizers:
-     the yield of each hectare  treated with  100 kilograms  of NPK
increased by 215 kilograms; and
-     the yield of each hectare  treated with  50 kilograms  of urea
increased by 135 kilograms.
The incremental output of 1,930 tons corresponds to 14.5 percent of total
incremental output.
2.13.5.4. Other incremental outputs
Same as for cereals, with regard to the balance of 1,712 tons (13 percent of
total incremental output).
2.13.6. Other Crops
2.13.6.1. Groundnut (see table 21, Annex 10)
The incremental output projected in the staff appraisal report was 1,367 tons
over five seasons. However, the result was, in fact, negative (-503 tons).
2.13.6.2. Rainfed rice (see table 22, Annex 10)
The incremental output envisaged over the course of the project was supposed
to be 305 tons. However, this too suffered a sharp decline (-10,303 tons).
2.13.6.3. Cowpeas and yams (see table 23, Annex 10)
For these two crops we have only partial data which are insufficient to allow
us to calculate the incremental output.



- 27 -
2.14. Expansion of Production Systems
During the project, a constant sample of 150 farmers was monitored over five
seasons (1983-1984 to 1987-1988).
Analysis of the results shows that we are witnessing a phenomenon of
expansion of production systems, with all the consequences resulting
therefrom over the long term, not the least of which is the squandering of
the potential of the land.
Abbreviations used:
E     Entire sample
CM    Subcategory of farmers using manual cultivation
CA    Subcategory of farmers using draft animals.
The 1983-1984 season (first year of monitoring the sample) is given the index
value of 100.
The area cultivated per household, not counting the areas devoted to
livestock, which we did not supervise, evolved in the following manner:
Indices for the 1987-1988 season:
E - 132 Trend (based on a linear adjustment) is + 0.22 ha/yr.
CM - 113                      n                    + 0.06 ha/yr.
CA - 180    "                                      +0.62 ha/yr.
These increases arise simultaneously from an increase in the average number
of plots/GP and an increase in the average area of the plots.
This increase in areas under cultivation is generally accompanied by
stagnation, that is, a decline in the use of inputs.
Amount of comDound fertilizer per hectare
Indices         83/84    84/85   85/86    86/87    87/88
E             100      86        80       79       85
CM            100      88        84       72       82
CA            100      65        57       62       65
If, overall, the amounts of compound fertilizer used in farming do not
increase, the decrease in the technical doses used is worse.



- 28 -
Amount of compound fertilizer (in kg) per household
Seasons                   83/84 84/85 85/86 86Z87 87Z88
E                          156   190   189   170   176
CM                         113   130   130   100   104
CA                         313   327   323   329   365
Average dose of compound per hectare of cotton that received compound
fertilizer (in kg)
Seasons                   83/84   /85 85/86 86/87 87Z88
E                          165   140   131   125   116
cm                         173   137   131   113   114
CA                         157   142   131   135   117
Average  dose of comgound Rer hectare of maize that received compound
fertilizer (in kg)
Seasons                   83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88
E                          125   118   100   109    84
c5m                        122   134    95    94    85
CA                         127   115   105   118    84
This phenomenon is less noticeable with urea, to the extent that the amounts
used at the beginning of the project were relatively small, and as a result
we could expect there to be increases in consumption of this input.
Amount of urea (in kg)/household
Seasons.                  83/84 84t85 85/86 86Z87 87188
E                            8    20    33    47    52
CM                           4    12    21    33    35
CA                          25    39    59    81    95



- 29 -
Average dose of urea per hectare of cotton that received urea (in kg)
Seasons                   83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88
E                         42    33    43    44    41
CM                          42    36    39    45    49
CA                          42    31    45    44    36
The use of Burkir.a-phosphate is insignificant and use of organic material is
insufficient to allow maintenance of the fertility of the soils for overall
farming purposes. The livestock population on farms is too small.
Even if passing herds are exploited to the maximum extent possible, it
remains questionable whether the animal potential would permit farmers to
produce enough organic material. Significant efforts remain to be made in
this area while attempting, in particular, to diversify the sources of
production of this organic matter.
Only maize cultivation is progressing with respect to use of improved seeds.
While areas under cotton cultivation are practically all treated with
pesticides there is a progressive decrease in the number of applications,
and, as a result, a decrease in the average dosage per hectare, which
technically and economically may very well be justified, there is also a
declinie in the area under cotton cultivation that receives a fourth
application; failure to make the fourth application often brings about
sizable drops in yield.
Can the increase in input prices over the course of the project (see table
6, Annex 6) explain, by itself, the relative shift away from the use of these
inputs on the part of the farmer?
On the level of input utilization, no meaningful difference is apparent
between the farmers who practice manual cultivation techniques and those who
practice cultivation using draft animals.   In many cases,  the results
observed are in favor of the farmers who use manual cultivation techniques.
Without a doubt, there is competition between work that is done right and
"the race for hectares."
Less than half the area sown by farmers using draft animals is plowed.
We note the underutilization of machinery that, moreover, has evolved very
little, and this phenomenon is increasing as we advance, with the use of
newer cultivation techniques. For example, despite tha fact that cotton is
seeded in straight lines by all farmers who use draft animals, more than two-
thirds of weeding operations are manually performed.
To date there has been no answer given for this relative shift of farmers
either in the utilization of inputs or implementation of certain cultivation



- 30 -
techniques. The monitoring and evaluation action should set up small topical
surveys to try to explain the motives leading to this behavior among farmers.
The impact on yields of the decreased use of inputs is difficult to grasp,
since we know that the volume and distribution of rain over time, which was
very uneven during the project, are appreciable factors in the increase or
decrease of yields, particularly for cereals (see Annex 10).
In fact, we note that yields grew either not at al' or very little during the
project. Only the maize crop advanced in this regard, without doubt due to
the use of improved varieties.
We noted that, generally speaking, the two categories of farmers did not
differ with regard to the levels of input use. Similarly, the densities of
seeding, which were often weak, show no very meaningful difference between
these two groups. The only explanation that can be advanced with regard to
the existing gap in yields for cotton and cereals (notably, 150 kilograms per
hectare more over sorghum and maize among draft-animal farms) is that of the
practice of plowing.
Technically, it should be noted that plowing constitutes a significant factor
in improving yields.



- 31 -
III. FINANCIAL EXECUTION OF THE PROJECT
3.1. Project Costs
Annex 11 contains a table showing, in thousands of CFAF, project expenditures
by year and by component and, under each component, by type of expenditure.
These actual expenditures are also placed side-by-side with the initial
projections for the corresponding year.
There are some blanks. In fact, we have shown as actual expenditures only
the amounts for which the values are certain in CFAF. The balance at the
level of actual project costs thus are essentially representative of the
costs financed by the FAC. Similarly, for headings 78, 90 and 98, only the
costs funded in CFAF and not the direct IDA charges are shown. For these,
the problem was that of CFAF valuation and distribution among components.
On the other hand, all the repayment requests or requests for direct payment
to the IDA, IFAD, or CCCE were carefully included in the table.
This table does not show the shares by donor, particularly in the case of
IDA-IFAD and IDA-IFAD-CCCE  cofinancing arrangements.    There are  three
detailed tables in Annex 11 providing information by donor, that is, the IDA
and IFAD combined, the CCCE and government of Burkina Faso, showing data on
expenditures by component and type (except for IDA-IFAD, where the work is
presented by category in the Credit Agreement), because the total
expenditures of the project were the subject of requests for reimbursement
or direct payment.
A comparison of the projections and achievements over the six years of the
project shows the large cost savings that were attained.
A brief commentary is given below on the differences in expenditures funded
by the IDA (alone or under a cofinancing arrangement).   The remarks are
presented by Credit Agreement category.
3.2. Remarks
The comments that we are going to make attempt to show the reasons that have
hindered or favored the use of financial resources of the IDA and the IFAD
under the framework of the project. Before proceeding with comments, we must
specify the following:
The IDA and the IFAD cofinanced the components under this project at the
uniform percentage of 40 percent for the IDA and 60 percent for the IFAD.
When there is joint financing by the IDA, IFAD, and CCCE, the shares are as
follows: CCCE: 40 percent; IDA + IFAD: 60 percent (of which the IDA was 40
percent of the 60 percent and the IFAD was 60 percent of the same 60
percent). The IDA financed by itself the expenditures under categories III-
B and IV-B.



- 32 -
3.2.1. Category I-A. Construction under State Control
These were construction projects on the site of the PAPEM. These works
were for construction of:
-    housing for PAPEM Chief;
-     temporary shelter;
-     drying yard; and
-    housing for livestock caretaker.
All the buildings for the PAPEM are now complete. The remainder of the funds
are attributable to the base costs which were higher than actual costs.
-    Village warehouses:  150 warehouses were projected.  The pace at
which these warehouses were built was slow, on account of the number
of employees in the rural construction unit. As of March 31, 1987,
56 warehouses had been built and delivered.   This figure almost
doubled by the end of 1988. However, the actual unit costs were
also lower than projected.
3.2.2. Category I.B. Construction Proiects under Contract
-    A number of classrooms were projected for each chief town of the
agricultural sector. Thus, the sectors outside of the city of Bobo
benefitted from these classrooms. The classrooms of Bobo-North and
Bobo-South were not constructed due to the fact that these sectors
were not decentralized.
-     Construction of the headquarters offices of these sectors did not
take place due to the geographical location of these sectors (one
to the north, another to the south of Bobo-Dioulasso) and due to the
fact that the usable highway routes are arranged in a star formation
originating from Bobo. A mini-decentralization, that is, moving
the headquarters of the sectors to two separate sites just outside
the city, was considered unwarranted.
Instead, ten warehouses for storage of inputs were provided in SDAs
that did not have warehouses.
3.2.3.      Category  II.A.  Vehicles  and EquiRment  (of  the Adaptive
Research, Village Groups, and Monitoring components)
All the vehicles provided under the project were supposed to be purchased in
year one and replaced in year four.
The late entry into effect of the credits (not until year two), the problems
at the level of the request for bids (which had to be done twice), and the
small number of bidders, resulted in the delivery of covered trucks in year
three and the other vehicles in year four.  Thus, the vehicles were not
replaced, except for the covered vehicles at the end of the project.
Expenditures for vehicle acquisition were made at rates of between 48 and 65
percent, depending on the component, from the first purchases to the present.



- 33 -
With regard to equipment, it should be noted that:
-     for the Village Groups component,  two-thirds of the equipment
provided was for the literacy component, for which France assumed
responsibility; and
-     on the other hand, for the Monitoring component,  supplementary
equipment was purchased: a microcomputer, compasses and measuring
chains for a monitoring survey, resulting in expenditures of about
4.5 times higher than projected.
3.2.4.      Category   II-B.   Vehicles   and   Equipment   (Extension,
Administration, and Regional Training Center components)
For vehicles, refer to the explanation given for category I-A.
The equipment of the first two components in question did not reach more than
a little over half of the available amounts. Some supplementary equipment
was purchased in year six, but it is still true that savings were achieved,
particularly due to the construction of three training centers rather than
five, and the failure to construct the buildings for Bobo-North and -South
had an impact on the expenses for furnishings (see explanation given above:
category I-B).
With regard to the Regional Training Center, as of June 30, 1988, it had not
yet renewed its equipment and furnishings, which at present are the same as
had been put in place during the preceding project.
3.2.5.      Category III-A. Salaries and Onerations (Adaptive Research,
Village Groups, Monitoring)
Salaries.   Generally speaking,  it is necessary  to know that salaries
increased in Burkina Faso by 4 to 8 percent beginning January 1988. They had
not been changed since before the project.
Allowances have been drastically reduced since January 1985, and were
subsequently virtually eliminated (February 1986). They did not reappear
until January 1988 (though at levels below those in effect before the
beginning of the project).
The ORD, which was in arrears in its tax payments, did not process
reimbursement requests until the end of the project, partially recovering in
direct payment (last two years of the project).
We note that the comments on hiring of extension agents (see below, category
III-B) are equally applicable to certain organizers (Village Groups) or
survey takers (Monitoring), who are also hired on the basis of a civil
service test.
Operations.   At the PAPEN, it is necessary above all to point out the
overestimation of the accounting entry for "other operations," where
expenditures of CFAF 77 million were projected (all donors combined), CFAF



- 34 -
56 million of which was for expenses incurred by the Research Institutes.
Actually, there were no expenditures under the heading of these Institutes,
while the other expenditures for PAPEM operations were clearly below
projections.
In the Village Groups component, expenditures for training, operations, and
literacy materials were generally funded by France; the literacy action
itself was transferred to it (see above).
3.2.6.      Category III-B.  Salaries and Operations  (Recently-Settled
Pastoralists)
This component did not last as long as expected.
3.2.7.      Category III-C. Salaries and ORerations  (Extension, Staff
Training, Administration, Regional Training Center)
Salaries. Extension service salaries accounted for only 49 percent of the
amount projected (for a savings of over CFAF 400 million over five years) for
all the reasons indicated under category III-A, to which may be added two
more: elimination of allowances also involved the allowances for mopeds that
were reintroduced, but in the form of standard operating expenses," which,
no longer appearing on pay slips, were thereafter treated as operating
expenses rather than as wages.   Also,  subsequent tests for hiring of
extension service personnel were held, which resulted in the Burkina Faso
Government's taking direct funding responsibility for a growing number of
agents.
Thus, fewer than a dozen extension staff members remained under the funding
responsibility of the ORD (and the project), to which were added, however,
15 supplementary trainers hired at the beginning of year six as temporary
employees (that is, for the remainder of the project's duration).
Onerations. While training of extension staff was carried out just about as
had been projected, the same is not true of the seminars intended for the
staff. In fact, under the project, only half as much money was spent for
these classes as for extension personnel training, whereas the budget was
three times higher.
A number of agents nevertheless benefitted from the classes outside the
framework of the project.
We also note that the operation of the Technical Assistance component quite
clearly depended on the effective presence of this Technical Assistance.
(The Training and Extension Coordinator was not replaced after he quit.)
3.2.8. Category IV-A. Consultant Services and Studies
For adaptive research, soil analysis monitoring consisted of a pedological
study, even though there was no soil survey study. Similarly, no consultants
were hired.
In the area of monitoring, aerial coverage was never carried out.



- 35 -
3.2.9. Category IV-B. Consultant Services and Studies
Essentially comprised of direct charges under the heading of Technical
Assistance, we note the large savings under this item, since, according to
the Coopers & Lybrand audit, as of March 31, 1988, the total direct charges
in SDR was SDR 435,626, or CFAF 189 million, or barely the equivalent of the
projected amount in CFAF for five man-years.
3.2.10. Categorv V. Proiects to be Approved
Only the cotton sector study was performed, the share of which that was
chargeable to IDA-IFAD cofinancing was about CFAF 6.4 million.
Under the heading of "Subprojects to be Approved,' the only one to mention
is the "Management of Village Lands" pilot project, the budget for which was
about CFAF 60 million (all donors combined), but which did not get started
until year five (March 1987).
This long-range action should be continued.
3.3. Procurement and Cofinancing
The slowness and clumsiness of procurement procedures seriously interfered
with the investment program's execution schedule.
A minimum period of one year was often necessary to complete large
procurements.   It is enough to understand that a proforma invoice has a
validity of three months for one to be able to easily imagine the
complications caused by having to reconstruct files on several occasions,
which is even worse because all the procedures are centralized at
Ouagadougou.
Certain procedures such as filings for importation of goods free of customs
duties could be decentralized.
With regard to cofinancing arrangements, particularly those that are pari
passu, they present more disadvantages than advantages, to the extent that
the rules applied by the various donors are not identical.  (For example,
vehicles of non-French manufacture are not financed by the CCCE.)
It would be preferable, in the case of a project in which several donors are
participating, for each donor to fund the entire cost of a component or a
financing line item.
3.4. Summary of Costs. Financing and Disbursements
Detailed data on actual costs compared to initial estimates are presented in
Annex 11 for the 14 categories by which project accounts were kept. As noted
in section 3.1, however, Annex 11 includes only those actual costs for which
the CFAF values are known. Total actual costs are presented in Annex 12,
Tables 11 and 12. The overall outcome is as follows:



- 36-
Appraisal       Actual Costs          AA/E S/
Estimate a/ Annex 12   Adjusted b/
- -----(CFAF million) ------)
Agriculture and Livestock    1093          650        650            59
Village Groups                 338         107        107            32
Supplies and Credit           2598         519       2107            81
Management and Monitoring      975         642        642            66
Regional Training Center       524         173        173            33
Settled Pastoralists           170         182        182           107
Studies and To Be Approved    554            -        130            23
Total                         6254        2272       3990            64
(in US$ million)              (20.8)        (6.5)     (11.4)        (55)
a./ From Staff Appraisal Report, page 10, with contingencies allocated to
components.
h/ Annex 12, Table 11 excludes incremental annual inputs.   Total annual
inputs are shown at Annex 12, Table 12, in constant prices and with no
allowance for pre-project input use. Trhe adjustment is, therefore, to add
incremental annual inputs (with pre-project input use assumed to be CFAF
200 million/year) at actual prices. A further adjustment is to include
expenditures on I"Studies and To Be Approved,"I which are specified at Annex
11 but omitted from Annex 12.
_q/ Adjusted Actuals/Estimates.
Using the adjusted actual costs to provide a basis comparable with the
appraisal estimates, the seven project components had fairly dissimilar
realization rates for the diverse reasons indicated in section 3.2 above.
Moreover, within the broad Supplies and Credit component, expenditures on
medium-term credit were only 40% of appraisal estimates, whereas expenditures
on annual inputs were 177% of appraisal estimates. Higher-than-anticipated
annual input use is a reflection of the spectacular increase in cotton
production, but lower-than-anticipated demand for medium-term credit has no
simple explanation except perhaps over-estimation at appraisal.
Detailed data on actual financing are presented in Annex 11, Table 4 (for IDA
and IFAD), Table 5 (for CCCE) and Table 6 (for Government). Detailed data
are not available for Beneficiaries, Coimmercial Banks and FAC since such
expenditures were not part of project accounts. Using best estimates for
these sources, planned and actual financing compares as follows:
Planned      iActua     A/P
--- (US$ million)-- 
Beneficiaries             0.5         0.3        60
Commercial Banks          3.2          3.7      116
France                    9.3         2.7        29
Government                0.0          0.9      N.A.
IDA                       4.7         1.9        40
IFAD                      3.1         1.9        61
Total                    2081LA                  5



- 37 -
IV.      ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
4.1. Farm Budgets
Four model farm budgets were drawn up (see tables 5 to 8, Annex 12).  It
remains clear that the viability of an agricultural operation in a territory
such as Hauts-Bassins is significant.  This would j.stify drawing up a larger
number of more detailed budgets.  The lack of foresight, or the lack of
technical references, explain this.
The data available confirm the large gap existing between the northern
cotton-growing sectors that received extension services in the past (Hounde,
Bobo-North, N'Dorola) and the southern sectors (Bobo-South and Orodara).
These theoretical budgets were prepared on the basis of results of the 1987-
1988 agricultural season and constitute resources concerning:
-    a manual cultivatiox. farm in the northern zone;
-    a farm using animal traction in the northern zone;
-    a farm using manual cultivation in the southern zone; and
-    a farm using animal traction in the southern zone.
Review of the follow-up surveys does not show the significant differences in
the level of inputs use between a farmer using animal traction and a farming
using manual cultivation techniques.   Knowing, moreover, that the vast
majority of these inputs are intended for cotton and maize cultivation, the
assumptions concerning use of inputs in these four farms are the same (see
table 1, Annex 12).
Under the entry for insecticides and pesticides the sum of CFAF 250 per
hectare was adopted for all crops, except cotton (see Gross Margin, Annex
10).
The entry for seeds and treatments incorporates the improved seeds that were
used.
The assumptions adopted for man-days per hectare were made in reference, in
large part, to the staff appraisal report for the project (see table 2, Annex
12).
For "other crops," we adopted as a standard a gross output per hectare of
CFAF 50,000, a "seeds and treatments" entry of CFAF 1000 per hectare and 90
man-days per hectare for an animal traction farm, and 100 man-days per
hectare for a manual cultivation farm.
We assumed that the farmer did not need a provision for replacement of
animals, because he could sell them after five years for a higher price than
he had paid when he purchased them.   With regard to equipment,  the
multipurpose cultivator will be paid off over a period of three years on
three hectares and the cart will be paid off in 10 years on five hectares.
Animal feed consists of 250 kilograms of cotton seed at CFAF 17 per kilogram
and five kilograms of salt licks worth CFAF 1,625 per lick; to this is added



- 38 -
the sum of CFAF 2,250 per year for vaccines. These costs are applicable to
three hectares.
Farm revenues should be between CFAF 200,000 and 670,000 depending on the
type of operation. On the basis of 50,000 farms (75 percent in the northern
zone and 25 percent in the southern zone, with 27 percent and 18 percent of
the farmers using animal traction, respectively) the value added during the
agricultural season of 1987-1988 was CFAF 15,345 billion.
4.2. Overall Analysis and Justification
The main assumptions we have made are detailed as follows and, in our
opinion, they are very conservative.
4.2.1. Benefits (see tables 9 and 10, Annex 12)
The benefits taken into account are limited to incremental crop output.
The initial assumption (see table 9, Annex 12) attributes to the project all
the incremental output observed, which is certainly very favorable.
Another assumption (see table 10, Annex 12) consists of subtracting from this
total incremental output all the output of the immigrants who were not
present at the time the project began. This assumption may slightly penalize
the project.  In effect, if the output of the first year of the project's
presence in the zone should not logically be attributed to it, we can
consider that the project is to some extent the cause of the increase in
output from these immigrants over the course of the years following their
settlement.
4.2.2. Costs (see tables 11, 12 and 13, Annex 12)
We have taken into account the real amounts requested as reimbursement or
direct payment for expenses funded by the IDA, IFAD and CCCE. For the FAC,
for which we do not dispose of pertinent information, we have used the
amounts provided in the IDA evaluation. (The same as for the other donors.)
There  is an  important  exception  to these  two principles:    Technical
Assistance (which with regard to the IDA is subject to direct charges, which
are distinct from direct payments, and which are not set in CFAF).
Both for the IDA and for the FAC, real costs of Technical Assistance are much
lower than expected. Also, for the Administration-Monitoring component, we
have taken into account the IDA projections for two employees instead of
three, and this seems to us to reflect the ratio between real costs and
initial projections.
For the Regional Training Center, we took one position of Technical Assistant
rather than two. (It is true that the IDA charges only half of the costs of
the Regional Training Center to the project, and the other half is
doubtlessly charged to the Credit 1284-Bur). We have not followed this line
of conduct, except precisely for Technical Assistance, because we consider
that the costs apart from Technical Assistance are at risk, in any event, of



- 39 -
falling upon the CRPA of Hauts-Bassins, since the CRPA,of Boucle du Mouhoun
is a no more frequent user of the center than any other CRPA or any other
agency of the country.
For component 14 (studies and subprojects to be approved), the costs have not
been included, even though the IDA had done the evaluation.
For annual inputs (component 5), we based our calculations on the incremental
amounts actually verified for the three most significant inputs (compound
fertilizer, urea, and cotton insecticides, which we have valued at CFAF
112,000 per ton for the first two and CFAF 1,500 per liter for the third).
Here as well, we assumed that these prices would not change over time, in
constant values.
Since these three inputs constitute, according to the IDA's cost tables at
the time of the evaluation, 95 percent of total turnover, the resulting
under-valuation of costs is quite weak. It is without doubt compensated by
not taking into account the standard conversion factor which was applied to
local costs at the time of the evaluation.
In the absence of better data, we have reproduced the values from the staff
appraisal report concerning incremental labor.
On the other hand, we did not project the "roads" costs because during the
project, no road works were carried out on the network in the project zone.
Finally, whenever real annual costs (requests for reimbursement and direct
payment) were used, they were brought forward in costs from the first year
at the constant rate of 8 percent per year, the average between the projected
local and international inflation rates.
4.2.3. Economic Rate of Return
Taking into account the assumptions described above, and specifically the net
of migration variant with incremental output in Years 7-20 at 80% of the
value shown at Annex 12, Table 13, the economic rate of return of the project
over a 20-year period is about 20%.
V. BANK'S PERFORMANCE
The Bank's contribution during   project execution was  invaluable,  the
achievement of most of the components being the subject of regular attention
which helped to keep the project on the right track.   Nevertheless the
monitoring and evaluation aspect was neglected. The expatriate coordinator
position was vacant for quite a while and the turnover rate of those
responible for this component was high. This did not allow for an adequate
response to the larger problem of extensification.
At the institutional level no solution was found to fix the problem of the
plethora of personnel at the CRPA's headquarters. It was not until the end
of the project, when the CRPA saw its biggest source of revenue (the sale of
fertilizer) run out, that it resigned itself to getting rid of any



- 40 -
unnecessary personnel. The Bank can at least say that it always pointed out
this situation to CRPA management and to the Ministry's authorities.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
The system of providing extension services in the field seems to be spread
too thin (about one agent for 500 farms) to allow the extension service to
perform well. Moreover, the CRPA, particularly headquarters, has always been
overstaffed.   Reassigning some of the staff into field activities would
improve the situation.
The simple technical messages seem to be accepted by farmers. On the other
hand, other messages have a low acceptance rate among farmers. Is this the
result of poor communication of the technical message by field agents --
reflecting these agents' level of competence -- or is it the lack of interest
in these messages on the part of farmers? We believe that both reasons
coexist in the field.
Better training of extension agents (teaching methods in addition to
technical knowledge) seems to be needed, while also setting up extension
services that differ depending on well-defined target groups of farmers and
on the real needs that these target groups themselves perceive.
Finally, the current system of monitoring-evaluation dies not allow us to
measure  the real  impact of extension actions.    (Necessity of taking
qualitative surveys of the motivation or lack of motivation for various
technical messages.)
For reasons of a financial nature, it does not seem conceivable to increase
the number of PAPEMs in Hauts-Bassins to allow the majority of farmers in the
region to benefit from guided tours. On the other hand, establishing a core
of farmers could very well be envisaged. This group would remain in place
over time, and these farmers would be selectively chosen (depending on
geographic location, minimum technical level, etc.), more specially trained
and monitored. These farmers could also play the role of a PAPEM. Research
partners would be invited to set out the pilot agreement to be established
for these farmers.
With regard to livestock sector activities, the principle of seeking to
involve only certain categories of animals (for example, draft oxen in this
project), particularly on the animal health level, should be dropped. One
might wonder, indeed, about the efficacy of animal health training for draft
oxen, if, on the other hand, the health of breeding cattle, of which the
number is much higher, is not protected. This aspect was adjusted in the
third year of the project.
Likewise, within the sphere of the actions relating to farming-livestock
integration (production of manure), it seemed inappropriate not to include
certain species of animals.



- 41 -
The CRPA too often substituted itself for the village groups decision-making
bodies. The latter should be able to take total responsibility. The actions
undertaken in the area of functional literacy and, in particular, in the area
of continuing technical training in management for producers should be
pursued.
Over the course of the project, the CRPA, as projected, set a profit margin
of 7 percent on the sale of inputs. The gross revenue thus made available
allows this organization to operate. When SOFITEX returns to this activity,
funding problems will, over the more or less long term, arise for the CRPA.
It would be desirable for a policy decision to be made in this area to allow
the CRPA once again to operate normally.
The results obtained on the Seed Farm were, generally speaking,
disappointing. The opposite is true of seed production among farmers, which
seems to be more promising, while also contributing supplementary income for
farmers producing seeds. This policy should be continued and the activities
on this seed farm should be redefined or diversified.
The Monitoring-Evaluation system played only a part of the role it should
have. A significant effort should be made in the area of analysis. Data
gathering is not an end in itself and is not justifiable unless it
particularly allows analysts to reject or confirm the soundness of the
actions being pursued.
In order to maintain the productive potential of soils and to reverse the
trend toward expansion of production systems, the policy of agrarian and land
reform that is currently in place, notably through the administration of
village lands, should be pursued and strengthened.
Finally, procurement procedures should be streamlined and decentralized to
allow more rapid use of funding contributed by donors who should also,
moreover, simplify their methods of distribution within the framework of
cofinancing.



- 42 -
VII. CONCLUSIONS
With an economic rate of return over 20 years of 20%, the Agricultural
Development Project of Hauts-Bassins has, overall, obtained its objectives.
Over the course of the project, technical extension for farming operations
was strengthened and pre-cooperative organizations were consolidated. The
impact seems to have been positive, even though a lot still remains to be
done in all areas, particularly in the land management area. The main
unanswered question is: are prevailing farming systems sustainable?
In fact, over the course of the project, cultivated areas increased very
significantly, due to a simultaneous increase in the average area of farms
and the very appreciable increase in the number of these farms, which
occurred for two essential reasons:  on one hand, there was a very large
number of immigrants into the area, and on the other hand, the break-up of
traditional agricultural operations.
This process cannot continue indefinitely. The Hauts-Bassins region has only
about 1 million hectares of arable land.
Any new agricultural development project in this region must mandatorily have
a priority component aimed at maintaining the productive potential of the
soil. Otherwise, land pressure will reach the saturation point over the long
term.



- 43 -                          APPENDIX 1
Monitoring and Evaluation Comoonent
As far as guidance for monitoring of agricultural services in Burkina is
concerned, this is an example of what no to do in content, format and
schedule.
Reoort for the 1983-85 Cropping Seasons
The report is a descriptive catalog of data on a number of farm activities
over several years, presented by individual activity. The reader is faced
with some 55-60 pages of tables each unrelated to the others, such as average
percentage (for the CRPA) of farmers who did a second weeding on cotton,
average quantity of NPK applied on cotton, and so on. What technical package
is actually used by the "better" farmers, how many modified their practices
in those years because of research or extension efforts? While the data are
given separately for farmers who did or did not use animal traction, there
is no farm level analysis.
Furthermore, the report does not place these activities in context at all,
either the agro-ecological context (the period covered includes both bad and
good rainfall years), nor the institutional context (what was the extension
service doing during that time, what were the key recommendations, were
farmers adopting some of them?), nor the sociological context (is there in-
migration in the area, is there population pressure on land available?), nor
the economic context of relative prices and availability of inputs and
equipment, and so on.
The brief conclusions point to an extensification of production systems,
which is not really warranted by the data provided, because it is incorrect
to draw a trend from 3-4 points with data in which high yearly variations are
expected.   Nevertheless, that conclusion may well be true, and some case
studies and qualitative surveys could have supported or disproved the
conclusion.    If the conclusion  is correct,  it would be  important  to
understand and explain why it is happening and what the consequences are
likely to be. The very last sentence of the report is correct: "la structure
de suivi-6valuation doit donc mettre en place des enquAtes simples pour
tenter d'expliquer la ddsaffection des paysans a l'dgard de certains themes
techniques." Why, then did the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit collect purely
descriptive data for five yeats before reaching that conclusion?
In conclusion, the Monitoring and Evaluation activities under the project
reflect what in the 70s had been thought appropriate, that is, trying to do
farm level studies on a sample from which extrapolation on the evolution of
farming in a region can be drawn. The Bank was instrumental in supporting
this approach.   Agronomists are unlikely to find this report useful without
having to go back to raw data and do more analysis. Even if they did this,
there is no guarantee of usable results. Certainly, no extension manager is
likely to make much use of this, if only because of the format if nothing
else. In more recent years, the limitations (statistical and managerial) of
that approach have become obvious, and the emphasis has been on monitoring
farmers' activities and reaction to extension recommendation, as a feedback
tool for management.  This means that data collection should focus on the
farmers, not only what they do but why and how, with rapid turn around time
between a farming is happening and brings their attention on any situation
-- good or bad -- which calls for action on their part. At the same time,
a limited number of case studies will provide data and explanation on the
interaction at farm level between various activities.



- 45 -
A N N V X I S
Project Completion Report
Hauts-Bassins Rural Developent Project
(Cr. 1285-UT)



ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF THE HAUTS-BASSINS CRPA
aI 0tIaI
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ M  BU=  soft,         1
0.1.3 2  ~       *j       m.     sS1 C
3.8.6.1    3.1.0   _.A  SV.C   3../    3.1.6   5. L'             
,,,.;,:I                                                 ,,,,                           --
I ElE;ElEi1      1F11i1  il aI  E# Ep S EE    , 
fi  t@S0gk21@   jw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



- 48 -
w   Ms  CAdtnistrativ Scastmr at
Nm  Rtds 0 1tivatim Ptojwt
NQma Dnf= Rtim Qltivat1m Pxoj.t
XC Rtm 01tivattn Crmtive
Pillt Fr
I      mtdqbuwv  omiAt
LLtwaL OmdinatXk X
Todmicilqec ino
=8    cm     6 -    C       hcjut dinbgs lu.ixt.   Bad-Fm,j
[-114I  r1.
-ms     lAI,      zaum, Statiasim:         l S    , r.LUm-
3=Wj, z SU 1, 2mU U, (4dUJAS.
MCI    SW, r6.dt       , nta 3oiinm, o 1i, su Wtmt1m
Z10, Z-1, anlEU.'
3-^Vht _, t-ml TOM, [Lldq. 
.R- NRs C
MM      lIMit PrO&ti, S, avpm  rwi 3itEUim ol tiwtim,
T     F.idrq.   ~       m
q lu, EsE, B.
n   Pq
aNv



CHANGES IN RAINFALL IN HAUTS-BASSINS
"St  409i  :1ft  .19"   ifw   dell
U     '~r..                 -......  ..  -   -  --       ...   -.. 
f.                           .'              .,,'' - ' 
4-L_   @;-.,'         _       .= .   ,,,-^_    --  -.- _j
A1: X     t X   t X   X      t M    Mt.;
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Table 1
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I*
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I  V  t9S 
- _ 
n    ^l S-   -            -  -  -   
*1                           __ - X1
an
II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N



t13R CF ANGI                 VMES DflH5W                (fainBg and wi  it SystBI)
19_Z_83            19384            194/            195/86
Target A    l             Act.      T       At. %        .At.  %
1. Bm  and sbmup rawva-
clearng fields                     120      219  23   105   23 22   101    31 31    96   59  61
2. Mailnten      of fazm
e*  pmnt                            a       ll73    -    24 23    -           37 37       "   24  25
3. Tfaing, feeding ard
carin  for draft om                         83  69           71n 68           41 41       a   49  51
4.  uiter meum  pers                  a         _     -   -      a     -_        _          a 14  15
S. C tuttiin of nume
stIble md pit                               63  3      a    78 74    a        50 50       "   78  81
.Cftp rotaticn                               97          a    65 62    a        13  3           1 L5  16
. ,a±mrati   with                                                                                                               b
BakrJM-1*wpt*                               D0 67       a        5      a     26 26       a   8993 
.Mwuring                              a       59 49      a    18 17    a        6968 G          74  77
*Scratch plowing                      a      log 90      a   102 97                         a 101 10  8 89
10. Use of iguvsed e
ard seed treatfent                 a      107 89      "    91 87    a        99 99            86  90
U. Sbwing in lines, seeding
denity                                    14 95        "    9B 55      a     98 97            40  42
L2. DOcr-tD-dbWr vending             a       75 63      a    35 33    a        82 al           37  39
.ertilizing with NPK                 a      10s 90      *    62 59    a        96 95           97 80
L4. Wadia                                     92 77       *    60 57    a       7179        U   62  65
Fe-tiLizing ith umea                      12 93        a    41 39             98 97      a   76  79
6 rthing up                           a      103 86            37 35    "       93 92             96100
7. insctici  treatmt
for cottcn                                  7 9B      "   105 100    *       95 94            91  95
8Establihing StceB offFer             a       26 22            88 84    0       93 92       U   78  81
L9. Ehd-o(-seemnI plowing             U       31 26      *    35 52    "        57 56       "   47  49
H RIeting and acuuevatic
Cf o  vtedrrmu                     a       98 82       a    53 50    _       55 54            3   31



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
.Table 3
t1~~~5 0X _            '1:iS  
~i                T tpi    ;  



xi   D UAs3R  awXm   m
AgrkCU1twa1 bq                    atw Of SM           N       of Aft
_____   A_______mt %   -  -   Ata l   %
1987  PS                            9,844  6,164 63       9,844  5,4213 55
1987TS PI6                          8,448  6,359 75       8,448  6,2  74
1Ubd1  I S _m-w1r                  18,292 12,523 68      18,292 U166  64
WN  2  TNe 6                                            Ku l IN  1*
~~~~~1P31SIU                                         19eva 3    1988               187                19i87^ b
iaz1tsa1                  Ptl              Pf2              F3              P14            MS                PI6
-           -           -   A-     -    -     -.          ,      .        .   .            , C
lb. of D K,.-.
t1atmk Dyp          25      14         24   16  67    13        7 54    13    7 54    6    6 1X    10   8K
i.ul,~    mm,             GM               71_               49_             511            4620            5442
of t- p1                                16_4               763             83D            520            1570
ot.   IOW10     7100  71         810  58 560            I      00 591 7  6500 5140  79 9000 70M2
-                              _~. -- - -  -    -     - -
I& 



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Table 7
Page 1 of 2
- ~    ~              . .4          I
Sl  OR   E'A               S :t 5    S           fS   ;
.4     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.4
ffi  _~0                                   1    l        
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.   .4
a        *11            Ii               II       i
'I              l              |IP 1 iiii
A     ~114 ti l          4 i    XfX    tt



______________                                    PH       W        m        AD      IND      I _          )
12. O2ltivattan cycle of se_e            112   34,234    1,666     334       560       U6      676       1
13. IAxwstinj mud amevattan
of bmrwests crc,s                  1,002   31,B75    1,715    -       7,774     3,488   11,262      23
14. Nwwtqww  of herueet reWu           1,020   34,787    1,519     -       5,280     3,470    8,750     18
15. E3dof-E-3On plowbnv                  633   31,815    1,398     351       609       457    1,066      2
16. (tr mctiai of munm id                112   13,170      -       -       1,907      696    2,603       5
17. Oxitr±utien of wmum pjn              120   15,057      -       _       6,644     2,009    8,653     17
1B. Ffrostaticm of eaca ,lkkid          996   19,675    1,524     -         310     1,009    1,319       3                 U'
IUIIL:              12,523  591*015   27,.6B   7,669
MG - Ibal mer of M= an the inoge
PH - 2Ibtal mnber of Mn     dpatJcdpting (activw faul
PP - Ibtal -uuer of wem pmtidpting (activ fanve)
M  - Otal aM£   of             sqlying the       -
MD - *btal nate of Iime   bad  alma  aocqIa  tim _g e
ID - btal  1uis r of  e  4w nAy  oog  the _p
ir 6 Ibtal  -u-o rwv hebi  ac e tim et
'a  - bte of aomqtmm of do t*emg
@0*1
*∞ &1r



ll9M/96       l9g7          l987/88
Aiatexal Se                           PF3            PY4            PiS          PY6
3toII -     experinet on rottwm            I              I             X             I
Varieta tests on: 1toPin                   I               I            I
gr Muuts                      X              XxX
I              x             I
9uise                    X              X                           X
muilt                   I
rainfed ris              X               x                         X
SM*M                         ~~~~~~~~x
a73m (t  end)                  .                                    X
nwoWzt tests:    m id-cxtt,n               x               X            X             x
.  nwuxu I|                 X                            I            X
mIllet.-giouxhts         I              I             I
rainfed rJc-ctbm         x              X             X             X
Test of dIWIiity cc
bbiuior of fraog Xgias                 I                                         X
lag-swam system                                              . I        I             I
IbIzs~q~smrotatign test                                I.
Ikaft-wdml axd merml wedig test
on rainfed rios                                                                     X
Frtilizer tests on:    NMI                                 X            I
attm                                             X             X
x~~~~ ~ x
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



lb. of tints             SIM=
_     _.  _                -     _    __--
_cr   20         0    5    4          5    6
_f=              is 315           5    2         3    2
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
CO= + RE     30         6    6    6         6    6
im + m      ~~60       12   12   12        12   12
C WRE +       60        10   10   15         10   15
1 _       0    0    1          0    0
_.c              5          1    1    1          1    1
_________   _____j    3 9          e          37 41
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E



- 59 -                           ANNEX 4
BURKINA FASO      Page 1 of 4
Bobo, April 25, 1985
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND
ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
SECRETARIAT GENERAL
ORD OF THE J.AUTS-BASSINS
BP 577, TELEP. 99-05-40, 42.
BOBO-DIOULASSO
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
Between the Regional Development Organization (ORD) and the Provincial
Livestock Services (SPE) of Houet and Kenedougou, to carry out an Agriculture-
Livestock Integration Program in the ORD's area of activity in the Hauts-
Bassins, that is, the provinces of Houet and Kenedougou.
We, the undersigneds
-    Comrade Arzouma Koussoube, Director of the ORD of the Hauts-
Bassins, as one party, and
-    Comrade S. Parfait Yoda, Chief of the Provincial Livestock
Service of Houet, and
-    Comrade Alexis Zabsonre, Chief of the Provincial Livestock
service of Kenedougou, on the other party,
MEREBY AGRZE AS FOLLOWS:
Preamble
Under Agreement No.           of               (date), the Government
of Burkina Paso, as one party, and the CCCE and FAC as the other party,
financed an Agriculture-Livestock Integration (IAN) component of the
PDA-HB-VN.  The objectives of this component, which has been assigned
to the OID for execution, are:
-    animal health protection, with the aim of ensuring good working
health and proper maintenance of the health of productive
livestockg
-    increased awareness and knowledge of farmers, concerning the
details of IAE, through dissemination to farmers of certain
technical messages, such as:
-    protection from internal and external parasites,
-    nutritiont and



- 60 -
ANNME -4
Page 2 of 4
-  ~ use of organic fertilizer and information relating to
animal healthu and
-    improvement of small traditional livestock raising, through
combatting major poultry diseases and improving animal husbandry
conditions.
This memorandum of agreement has been prepared for the purpoae
of achieving thes objectives, and in order to attain complete and effective
integration of the agricultural (ORD) and livestock (SP) services.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1:
Because veterinary trainLng in both provinces in weak, reorganization
of the livestock extension organization is indispensable.   Initially,
staff at livestock stations that have a wide range of activities will
be strengthened on a priority basis (agricultural sectors of Bobo-North,
N'oorola, and Hounde), through creation of new livestock posts in the
departments of Satiri (Bobo-NorthK, Samorogouan (N'Dorola), and later
the livestock posts in the department of Lema (Bobo-North) and Morlaba
(N'Dorola).
Full and total technical staff mobilization in the two provinces of
the OID, as well as the projects assigned to them, is necessary.
Articlo 2:
Immunization program staff made available to the ORD from time
to time by the Departmetal Livestock Service of Kauts-D asins shall
fall under the administrative jurisdiction of the ORD, which shall provide
for hiring and salary for such staff.
Article 3:
(1) At the level of these srvices (Sectors, Llvestock Stations,
I*a Office), employees will perform work to carry out the
objectives stated, in accordance with their level of training.
(2) Any employe who fails to appear for work will be disciplined.
(3)  Any dispute between eployee  in the field must be communicated
to their supervisors for appropriate measures to be taken.
Articl* 4:
This meorandum of agreemnt shall continue in effect for the duration
of the project.  it may be changed by written amendment for the purpose



- 61 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 4
of adjusting the objectives and methodologies (delivery price of drugs,
margins, provision of work resources, etc.). Amendments shall be discussed
by both the ORD and SPE during preparations for each growing season.
Article 5:
This memorandum of agreement cannot be terminated during the period
of project execution.  Nonetheless, in the event that the SPB does not
achieve the stated objectives, the ORD has the riqht to change provisions
for operation of the non-performing livestock stations.
TITLE I1: SPE OBLIGATIONS IN THE PROJECT ZONE
(1) The SPs agree, in accordance with a seasonal plan established
in coordination with the ORD-, to carry out the general objectives
of the Project. This seasonal plan will be issued two months before
the beqinning of each season.
(2) Sales of produce shalt be made on a cash basis, under the authority
of each provincial service chief.
(3) SPi staff tillegq. the delivery prices of vaccines and products
ordered by the  phanavet.'
(4) The stations that receive a supply of vaccie$rs and drugs cannot
expect the stock to be replenished until full reimbursement of
the amounts received.
(5) A system for keeping inventory at a constant level may be devised.
(6) The Sector Chiefs and the Livestock Post Chiefs will prepare a
monthly report on their activities, following a model, to allow
an accurate appraisal of their activities.   Upon issuance, this
report will be communicated to the ORD by the 25th of each month.
TITLE III: ORD OBLIGATIONS
(1)  The ORD agrees to equip (stations to be established) or complete
the equipping of the Soctors and Livestock Stations with refrigeration
equipmnt or mopeds to the extent of available credits. The ORD
will ensure the operations pursuant to iti_ (1) of title I1.
(2) The ORD will supply, if necessary, outlying Livestock Stations
(N'Dorola, Hounds) from the Agricultural Sectoras sales will be
made on a cash basis.
(3) The ORD is responsible for controlling execution of project actions
in the field.



- 62 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 4
(4) The ORD shall deliver veterinary products to pastoralists only
upon authorization by the Sectors and Livestock Stations.
TITLE IV: FINAL PROVISIONS
Any matter not provided for under this meorandum of agreement
that would tend to improve the cooperative relations betweon the ORD
and the SP shall be the subject of an exchange of correspondence.
For the Director of the ORD              For the Provincial Livestock
/a/ )rzouma Koussoube                    Service of Houet
Engineer in Agronomy                     /a/ S. Parfait Yoda
(stamp illegible)                       Doctor Veterinary Medicine
[stamp illegible)
For the Chiof of the Provincial
Livestock Service of Kene douou
/s/ Alexis fabsonre
Engineer in Animal Husbandry
(stamp illegible]



ai     us =Cm=             ni NOZu
~I~flta: 1                                   "9 Fr  1ss ; is
ikoratm 'n m                                        P Pt*3  '             4         '5                         P-i
_as   tAct.  *' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~lrg.   Act. *    lf .  pAot. *    luc_g.    Act.             Aclug. t.   *     im.    Act. 
lb.of
&sft C      13,000   -      15,200 17,840 117 17,400 19,0 114   19,600 22,0C 113  21,600 2491   1   24,000  26,760 1l2
lb. Id- 149,50   -    147,300   -    -   50,50b    -                151,000        _     1515  326,    -    MOOD 323,220 _
hii cattleI                                                                      
pqpAlatiCn 162,500 -                        _ 162500    -    -  9  -   170600            173,   3509   -  176,    350,0 



19P8/3 j9838                         "IS"196                               126..U                 18/U
Agriaulbu1              Mi               P2       I3                              Ff4               711 P5 
-ait Act. 0  Ta:g              Ac t.   *:tm.   A-t       mw9.  IAct* - 1ug                  Acio       t    * >.  Act.  0
trmin     *     60    -         70    38  -         OD      42            90    32-  1_0               52-         10D     62  -
lb. r       730  2         3 10640  69D  64  13920   839D  60    17640  7160  41  21900   12900 59   24000  16960 69
cttles
RMIAof
training (t)    5    -         10     _ -          20      --        ,3D    -    -           40       89-          50     54-
lb. imadmi   7475             15000   550   4   30300  3E300   6       30  23900   53    600   19091             _ 760    26600 14
Wi~~~A
rae of
trainiq (%)    5  -      3     0       7   -       20        2 -         30      3   -       4D        3 -         50      39 
lb. reKedh      650  -  -    1520    120   8   340D          O0  2    SS6D   199   3    Om 2          297  3   120D    5200 43
Sbit lic:
rateof                                                                                                              s             
traizbng t      5    -   -     10     56  -        20       20  -        30      5   _       40       51           50       9-
lb. reaid      650o  _   _ 1520   10   66   3490            79023    589D   350   6          7o      50605B   12000   1250 10
('1  lb_d~ as a ratio of acbal jqutatin.



: w sm vna
|  1SP/3    19MM4        3981        199/6         1U117       1987/1I11
Aiatara1        P11          P12          P13         F4            15P VM
_~~~~cn   1 m g.  IWct. *  s    AI.02g ct. *it  wag.At. I kA41 Act.   s b:. Ac*t. 0
_r         l- _                 _ -           _ _  _   _      . ~                  ~ k.
SMIU    _        -   - 135   63 47 54           141 s e 2"   27  42 15    14 0  O m 135 I
-   _   -   -   - -   el   O [   954  57  UN   _90   _              0 04   173 
f 34VUU  Pa1IA   tainz a  fm 17r vUS yW   -.
(*)  m1  Cz-tminin c3_ f( tin   VUIlap  _mLts.
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
Table 4
i-                       - -b 
I l it         i||    
I  121           10     1
.4    .4  &        6~~~~t
I            '0    '0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A



sAim a RMi Q Vnal   A  D MS   _
1az1tlwa1            1982/813         19 113         9198V             I 6           39887   1987/U1
_________________    f1n                2n               Ff3       Pfi4                  FRS     PF;
lb. of cOa   te          30                 47            13                1              10        16
lb. of G'b Carnt.)      178                225           238              239             2         265
lb. ofi mm   td          18                 24            15               29              10        14
lb. o£M     (m',.)       96                12            L35             164             174       1
15    T1a 2
~~~~                                                 1. 198
IIURDN cr go As Qr mmC 31w l9@B
FIVnm                            to. (w Oft  MD.                                                         . -  u  mc  O
lawe               HDNX               47             4,393              4,262,175
3C304Um1           61            3,838               3,651,000
1E30"BX1D          48            2,573              2,528,500
lo    IUJO         N'IDCP£L           63             2,629              2,3M,000
OmtIXl          46            2,260               2,318,OOO
D  IDinE                              265           15,692             14,880,675
b H
'UV



-68-
ANNEX 5
Table 3
-'    -     -
-    -      -    -                       iE    E i
in@.  f  |  w 3 E a 
-iL -             i - -1



LrnFC ATrn
195z'        198%           1%4M       1  9e 19's                        1wi7/s9     ;19em'us
Pni            n2    :         3   .      W4                PIS      .     PF6          Pn
rms               T:g. Act.        "        t.* . 3!  At            9.   *  ct.       *  Act.  ? u.  b:t.  ': . Act.%
nto. to
lb. ofvilag.      12    143U92    12    6 50          12  71 59  40  38  95                          34 _
lb.of atbdms    60    266  43   60   18  30    604  357  260  234   90
lb. of mc         20      18   90   10    2  20               -      8    8  100
lb. ofviflag                         12 42 350   40 38 95              224 100 173  160 92
lb. of att_w.                       296  24   43  240    283 U63  620   52  6S    550  9l..
lb.of IN-',K                          5   5  100    89100    44   44  100   21    20 95.2_
lb. of vila.                                         32 22 69                        27    27
lb. of at_s                                         OD 5     69           S0    447  B
lb. of_ _oL                                          32 22  69                       27    2700
l-               -    -    -     -    -   -   -     -    -     -     -                                 



I_Ph_ I 7    1   T3                         PY4             PYS          PY6             PY7
TA             mT    A  % T                            T   IL 16    T    A 1       T IA   z 7.
lb. of via                          32  32   OD
lb. of  ti64  49   77
lb.       _   _town                 1   1  IO                                                 -                      -
Xi*io. to
lb. of vi6la.s6
lb.of ata s                                                                      22 I                        D 342 76
lb. Of    mms                                                                                               30  301IO0
lb. of viUas                                                                     U      
lb. of atta"in                                                                       45060                     45660
lb. of(miter                                                                     242400l                    24240
m: "a 1987-199 y~         a-  aU datInpiju  b tm nm diwtcn tiun by ai   q    In ite1y activities  "=. tie mm
dtrwUm,WiI lad 1   fU y to 11 t-Jitaa  acivitie, with qaifl- taI, to tim dltr I of  _litwu  activities.
FIm In     atild  _*iauM 1cduo1  ra_ird    4whd.s tia          tso
(a)  lkwjinw t (Acaouriq ey t       Ig   to thm tb); Iwun
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i 
!a
Q
0
0



M 7 7   N. rP                                 vzm~
IotUB          21             Bdm                 Ewi.
as 1|~mw .                                  -
30         M~~~BhoWi          D*l-m n        B.M ab
-~~                          -
-MD                  izibpm
mb    .              _Tl*d
HODWOD         30             Bdh                BooBa_le
B              _~~BM
riw            ra £ b o
q ßn
~~~~I- 
lmxdiwI
tam  "DiabAkm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U



BB-OsM           14                                      .              WDU
sz.                  9bs 
M1N'DCA          8                Didrie               DuhIg            ra
N'Dotl               N'Qorlan 2.
20              Bm                    Dia_              inv
-apl                 YhldvDrum
-%mpqjQ             Oasld            WW*"
Swaying              Suwdid           SIfam
sintmo                *               s%u
SMWADA*M             ftlir



SUN*r F Fs;nM   KI n 1982-1983 X  1987-1988
1981/82       1982V83            1983/84          1914v            199j/86        199687        1987/88
PYO           PY1                P!2                Y3             PY4            Pff           PYE
_____ a ge  kcba1  I_   *g Act. %  Tag                  Act               ' c.tl .Ac.s% .At
I-C (T)            4097      4495   6467  144  4954 8276 167 Sal  908D 168 5849 709D 121 6172 8900 43                 9612
URE tN              337       606    377   62   057  468 55   05   1160 105 1346 1367 102 1522 2324 13                3164
R-PIasIECr) m         2       67      53   79  128   34  271              18  10  241   86  36  271   46 17             55
:?m1: Project dii ed u
(%:Patio of adWevts to dbjectiv) 
NB: mle poject fvmm bot mdw-sr-e   a m .i t f*t  dA to tRw lc of w4w-WxpIe, tRw ade                         ts  uy
inolved                 .
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
IM 



- 74-               AUNNEX 6
Table 2
ff3   I_
ti1I' R 
!~    1         0  f 
iE'l|  i 
I           
b   i1I  R.   ß
-l _____S_____
0@}  _            }
_rA s !i i 



SP&mC  DI              acS MD  iMMCM         1982-I98 'I 1967-198s
19.1w .gvz1-                      19"                  19SS                  19UV.6               MM            298A
PI             mv                 P!f2                  O                    PH4                 pis           P16
___TM___a_Ac__A_                            _   _                  Act. .                                                c%1
smE         S       3850    10300   1660  16  10000   3900 39  970D   996    103 19500  16365 M4  130   4600  30                      375
am~
Oa                 1349D    25000   45o0  19  2a D  22X0 91 240W   21100    87 40    16250 33  4400  22100 S1                       1325
;s )     1810       61000   3510  44   O0    2250 28  O0            230      3 1000   1460  9   140   6700 42 e
SW             260D      3DO0   2570  66  27600             13 2640      450      2  60    950  17  41400  790  19
iNS        . __ CL)                               7100           28 200       660      A35         107236    40 590    _
Mm  ftPo d4ect va*
owul t Psoj:t }civmns
(%I  aIo Of adSaU  to d CtIV)
II



UM       CMa Sn1HI  1982-1903 1 1987-199
1V                   ___W_  a_ l~                                          _ _     Wll                      M E  uA CD. Q
TlIllIm                                                  O_15         Q 913                     M A Or
1900U     5,498.55   247,434,750                        236,972.50   99,967,900    237,365  347,S39,995   34,339,84     2,20,150  99.371
1-6   7,507.25   525,507,500   307,600.0  19,1,6    29,690.0   141,446,40   6,929,2B9   69P,903,E    673,793,370    19,670.54  97.231
198s-5   8,787.3D   790P157,W0  1,087,550.O  841,M*90   23,,50.50   Ul ,=,250  47,374,S90   95,149,890   921,047,078    64,102,12  93.491
19s56   6,044.10   664,410,0O0 1,279,600.0  U,164,000   X03,02.00   191,816,W90   5,0o5,960   996.47,74D   936,623,157    49,s64,ssa  94.952
1996-7   8,665.60 1,0D070DOW00 2,227,350.0  211,S98,250   399,691.00   359,712,90  66,0n,74  1,718,C,95   ,67n,'l1s3D    43,261,075  97.291
19s7-s   9,475.25   W989M1,250    3,064.90 265,192,mW    424,236.25   763,71,250 173,S42,435 2,072,350,93  l,50172,M73    122,178,205  94.102
TOMS18   46,758.05 4,218,810,500 4,905,164.90 675,893,750 1,q4,3oL25 1,664,387,500 299,252,244 6,3,595,144  4,48N4O6,o   301,277,389  95,532
*   Ms  Its acbtwl vliui of inocw  is r. 1,040,M740.  tbmw, cmsIing the diffictdtis
of tis  -   (dam* Un te t i           -   I     to thU 195-66  _0 fr an
_xudts whs of ?. 55,738,50 (m ywrly iq1I of Nmd 195), thu rwoin
dut-ta  credit   to th Ir. 95.1409,0.
s     I stt   iIs     a of Jily 31, 1998.
I!



CHANGES IN USE OF PRODUCTION FACTORS Or COTTnN
Year             11962/63                 193/36          :        91 :                    911s/          :           /6          :       1961/6"
Designation              I   :  2         3                                                                           : I    3  1  2  :   : I  2  3      3  1: 
m  m   Mm     --:26.611:_---_____-----_--______________
-Area Sown  (ha):                             :.   : MM:              :1.292                   34.16: :               :4.6                    :       :9.6::
Total NPK on    : 3.76  : 3.9:966: 4 s9: 4.166 :1921:  6.123: 6.23  :101233: 4.16: 5.162 n634: s.9m: I.X: 11,64: 1.213   t.n    91,31:
-cotton    et.   :1                      t,6: 1a :                                                              : 4            :16.6646914:43.1   :              ;,6
Dose of NPK)     A   :      9:    IS    6,6W:   In         16:N 6,1:.         -   12:    13:633:    9:    12:11,:   13:   IS2: 66,63:   1:    12:N 1,336:
Totatl ua  on   * I1SN  3.90  *3 3,33%    MH    U N *   11t: ntI* 4.330   9 .16-    S61   5.163: 11,10   1.416: *  .30 .1 H": 1.5s * 1.414 * nM-
Dose~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~s.;                      I of ura*a   1 " So  *114      51- So1|        tl *4%  Is  so  ]I':  11. So  30     519 It   *,M  )I       . 63 10-
tkg)  e               .-      .  -    .   - -                         : .  __                   - -       .                           .
Total  insect--  331.M@  :46I.V1  50,131M.550 :492.U1   1.3:31M.10 :91.134  n 5 06.116 :41.33 : 7I.M 3nn.171  MM  :693,10:431.10: n.79  :119  9:,
Doses  (L)/EA    :          9I:    11 :5S 11:    11:    t1: 1111k:    11:    11: 6319:               9:    1: Isom:          1:    13  66,M:         9':    13:7 In.:         
_. ~       ~       KRZ           *~                              :                       :       :       :                        :      :       : 
(1)  At         uo.
(2)  ProjwSc            ant o  bads cf 190 bg of atW/u, cmlIn 8 Ltdic     161kl  dbi4 nm 19S2/U   and 849   ad 12/1
to beginning of lv65-86.
(3)  Rate of usage.



-       I NOWn (I zGdCEum ]MIM   13q4  ID I7AS
Type of prod.      1912113    :  1131"U       :  ISN          :  I1III        :  lU9m         : 11m
:C?      :C1      :CF                             ;C:    :1,,                     :CF    :1
:   :    2     :    :    2     :    :    2     :    :    2     :    :    2     :    :    2  
*:0?e  :5:          :0!  :53:    .en1  :5:          :en  :3:        :0?  :5:        :0?  .":
.   .......... ._
B.F. Phosphate:    :    :    :  2:  21: 2:  3:  29S:3:    :    ::   3S:  3:   :   3:   3:
NKP (kg)              3 n       t t              e    ftwt        t   f      t    t     t    t
:   :  43:    :  6:    :  1:  1:    :    : I: 9          : I: 114: I: 13:   1: I: 16:
UREA(kg)        0:  6:    :  6:  6:  13:  6:  13:    :  ?I:  IS:  9:  9:    1:1 :    :    :    :
Cotton insect.: I:  U:  6:   N:  U3:  IN:  N:  4:W:  U:  S:  6":  U:  46:  ":  Iff: 13: 113:
Cereal seeds    11: 11: Il: III: 1:  15   16: 16   16:  16: In:  m3: 16: 16: 13: 16: 1 : IS:                                as
Rice-Cowpea   *       IN   13 : 113: 131: 13   16  1N         : :  193: IS: IN: US:  IS: 1: sN     : IN  : 1S:
Groundnut see         I    1: U3   1             1 N: I::  13:  m : : 11: IN   1:; 13Ss  If          1 : 1:
(kg)                                                                   
(1) Supplier Price
(2) CRPA Sales Price
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L



snu    c mwarwr Qmwmm c1T miamw wit ISSaW ID 1257S7
93/13 :                   MU33 :                  1916/35 :                11U  :                   13167 :                  1967
...---- ........... .....   -- ........    -- ----------------- -:-----   -.           ~       --          
MM    Cl=               ~~~~2.216    1.4L1261    2.216            I. Mt36: 1.266    L .95   17.M: 23.16:    59: 2M,9M   2.316 :               X7 :362: 3.30      1 93: 22,416:
DI                          1.11  :   622 :56     : 1.11  :       41,63: 1.-I   :   Se1:5,55%: 1.1   :   361 :,5: 1.11  :                      :35.36: 1.11 :a  363  32,911:
:1.56       526:35,M6:lJ.56          432:230.144  1.566:       6:,27: 1.516            317:21,126: 1.951:       32216 : 1.3:1            327:21.36:
1.116:   56:5.556:  1.11     3  99 36,76: 1.116 :   67:1,55%: 1.116:   2M  : 3.494: 1.116:   34   31,366: 1.1016 :   3292.91%:
-MGM                           0        *I.                      .        .      .        .        .
*       .        .       .       .        .       .       .        .                        .       *0
366         : .Xe    t.ls:ßs, : a.s431  6:2,1 :    316:    13. :43.33%:  3.:        a: 2,6:    36:   sn:x7,1m:    36:    PA:116,.:
*       ..       .        .                                                 .  .  .                                          * .  .  .
: : * : : : : ~~~~~:                                                              :       :        :   :            :       :       :        :       :
(2) Ahbml dWWwdnt
(3) Patio of ad.dats to  *js*t1*
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



mm:e >.  NO. :~    .w.   : WD :'EU ::wl        M       : i  -M,:El           i   n                                                I
,  Ior  : 1U*.GP| *P tf.     t  t f :'M    k
::ower::: ::l1 3:1:15::.!0 ::
11      : S:  ml:  91as    :  35:                  :       :3   :         :          :         t:   aI                  :  a.- :
n:' Bo:  M:  5:   5313  :             3lot:                            9IM.3.1:11 :6.. :           1W: :   :  :S.1.5: 1 .::
MI3:    :  14:  144:                :   13:  2:           :    :    :    :   :         .     :    .       :  1421.21 :  11.38.6:
191213:  46   :64  1.149:  62 :  12 :  51:                :    :    :    :   s   1.31.93.m    1..   :  U1. 91.223 : 114.13.51
1151164:      :  IN:    :44:  ml:   32;  M              6:    :    ;.:         :  73.67. :   I.M.W:  6.26.06:   31.13:
19*I1:  U41:  643:   1:  3:   322:  HI1:  23:    :  I                    :         1.769.1:   1. .I:  71A.L.1: 1W.3N.40:
*  .      .      .       .      .      .       .    .                        
1578:  41:  I11:  493:   6:   37:  329:  38:                      1    2:   :  81.90.14:          *136.38:  63.1ff: 113.651.8:
MM6    326: 3.669:           :2.t1: 2.326 :.322:  642: 18: IS: 2: :    ..361                               :            :  131.3.     :
(2  mall flat mmig  ihtsl:pg
(3)  SmI fat cma withxm   hdfb   Pp'.
(4)  L:      f       : f          :.     :            :    : GP.
(5) Typ.t: 1W I
1M: Rzlts frz SIM are mt nmblr in the Utals.



- 81 -
ANNEX 6
Table 9
<  S ..  .5 5............
I iIg..i -. ..  .  . .a...
i  .~. ..n.._.  5   ...............
....     ....  5......    5. 5........._
h!  ~i     s        .5.... ......
_U   ik
..I I :Z.........  ........ I.
0~ ~~~     a I                 I  . . . . . ..
|    :|: E | i  i´ ß  JG~~~~~~
B~~~~                 gI  I........... . 1....
kill:g  t::. 
...............................
Sig  X i X; k .55.5
[7:5 !I 
I                     h      IX
..: ..         ...I
s Ig  .ß..&.. ..._~ .X.. .



W CoW mom DM6 pim MM 3SBW3A M 17
:      1912113    :       1933/196   :        1964161    :       19651       :      t|195/6     :       1967/66
--------------- ---------------- ---------**------- ---------------- -w------------- -----@-----------
:   I    :   2         I         2 1:   £           2    :   X    :   2          :         2 :2     I    : 2
16.461    2.711 : 17.040    1.159   19.890 : 2.0S0 : 22.050 :  2.160   24.930 : 2.580 : 24.760 :   .650:
:  7.59 :          : 9.272 :  1.413 : 10.537    1.265 : 12.651 :  1.11: 12.756    1.105 : 13.543               757
3.128:            :  4.72  :    893 : 5.405 :    O64    6.152 :    747 : 4.550 :    696 : 7.355 :    505
3.144              3.779 :    635 : 4.408 :    629 :  5.057 :          79 :  5.635 :    551 : 4.453 :  1.045
C"P             :    OS3 *.053 : $2    4.935 :    662 : 5.46          5S33 :  5.865 :    399 :   .140 :  2.275 :  9.329 :  1.19
3.704 :            3.981       277 : 4.644  :    465 :  5.471 :    625 : 7.963 :  2.979 : 8.737 :    774
(1)     o    fe_co plm  cot eIit or UIWI             fw thSWMa.
(2)   Satjin muuw  for a ionii



VVM  M  J                              On==    :    JMM    a    7V                                  :
--  Q      : K*1    :       -    - --                           
a       :         :   I~~ :7 :5:   I    :           :3a   I   S   2    :5$:   I    :  2   :5*:    I    :   *   :5*:
J| ND . .
1111                      :  : :M3: 1m.|:WAbI?..U: :1.SM.:1 s 7.,.S3:u7.1:W*m                                            : : 
*                          :2   :    I           I         I          I                           :s        I 
low                        IL:ILN : IL      :stI :         :        : :           : M M                   :
:IU   ::ULULW:                   a IULS: W..W   46U,5  3111.: 5.6.31 Aft D.SV.NLW: 31,2275.:       S A. 3..15          3 A
U      :         a         :           M:   A      :    :   L              a   a          a       : :   ..... :: :        
X: V             M:                                0    A:  .         :     6:  :  :    :  :   :   :  :   : :   A    :     :
131   : liM S": ILNIM:  s: : 7.32.: 71mW a* 1S.313..: NAS1wau 3*^ s.63*  UAU13 USk  .113..  .4^s
*      :         :         :  ::          :        :    :                                 : 2           :        : a  a  :    :
133   1SU5MS: 2L47&.5         : a                                                                                 L :    :  S N :  :  s   .     :   :.
M      :         :          :L  ::                 :    s         :        :    :                       :        :       :   :
:   :   :  ::           :        :    :~~~~~~~a    :     :   :         :             :        :        : 
III     n.61I.IS  :S.nIAI   ::            :        a :       :             :   : 1.1:15 :3.   UL  saIUIL::a. : 
5                             : a                        :.       :        :   ::                 :               
:   2         :2:                        :        :        :             :        :    :         :       :    :
11111  a^ 313 : M.7.:  : :                :        : :            a       _:              a       :    :L.ISUSW,3
*      :                   :        :     :              :        :        :   :          : a           :   :            : :
:   :         :    :          :        :    :         :        :   :         :        :    :         :       :   : 
man  : LUS.Ua  13:   : :                  :        :    :         :        :    :         :       :    :         A       :   :                          0
8      :        :          :  ::          :        :    :         :        :    :        2        2    :         s -     :   :
B *112.1:3191.1312:  : :3.311:  *.4Ua1I.N   .                 : ,73 111AM 21I.I5W.  VAq. aw W.k.3ae5   I
(1)  JztaSJts ph2          -         to be   om   in tim e    a.
(2) TOW     ute=mLd asf    w  30 of tm y.
(3)  -bf of xeamy for the ye.
Il-
I"o



:    11961N/U  :  Ut 15a1/       :    2 191y"       :   1 1913115    :  A" I4 I          :  Ns t9l66           Ns IM
:I:   2:                  I:         :        :2:I:2:1:                                    :1:                : I    :  2 :
DRAPT =a       How               ".W   0* * .       slo             . slo                slo   .4          le-                11**
:    666*   6          :653:             :3.3 :             :3.3 :            :3.6     :         :3.6:             :3.3 :
w   PM          " N 31.171    3.0 nl: 31.971: 3n.7n9l: 21.911: 3n.1l: 31.911 n3.7nl: 31.|11: 36.10:  3.6 3:2                  :  3. : 62.33
X -       ~* XtY.    9ltle   t.S            N.l   t .S   N .U   " .X    t.l                .         .t . ..t I.n C
22.34: 2.214: 22.34:   36: 22.36: X34:  22.6: 26.36: 3.36:    3: 2.116: 29. : 2.1: 3.32:
R1D@           : 16.166W : 11.632:   .1 : 11*.32 :  6.1M  : 11143: 1.1: 11.633:  L.1: 11.633: 11.636: 13 o :  1.6A : 12.:
CART           .         .        .        .         .                 .nX  . n                                      .      .
64.068   71.611: 66.36: 1111   64.36: 11.611  66.M: 11.611:  4.666  11.611921: 1.: 93:so                       sl.ow6  91.562:
CARTW           :  4.1    61.566  U.613   6.6:3161.               1.3:L :   oo  3.66   613    .161.10 xM  .3:  0.561   Iso1m2  flow6: 019.12
.   .   .      .        .~~                             ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                      ~ ~      ~ ~      ~ ~ :  :  :  :  :  :  :  :
CM W ∞    e.                       *  ß73.111   ?).o6): 1.117: 13.53 : 70.117 :  13.063: 16.111: 1.M: Is.296 :1 .3: s133.36 :16.3W              :
omq   *   *   *   .       *~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~9   .                                            ..  .  . s s ,      ,
V  I  0
CASSRT TOM          9.I         .6    931.6                .:1 3 6:   .53:113.36:1.3: 16.3:15.36: 11.366: 1M: 1.511
9.M  low  9.M: ILM:  9.1m~~~~  :.  95: Ho : Io :   A : Iso                                Now
7oso  7.50  Lm:~         ~ : .          lo:  7:        :  S. :       *M  low           : 9:: .                O.no
(2) CM  sgm pF=



SEGUERE SEED FARM - ACHIEVEHENTS
Ag. season   ' 1982/83            1983/8          1981/85       1    1985/86   1 1966087           1967/88
Api.             I   AP.a.       I Ap 'j.         I     APA.                 .. -.- b  AP.6.
VaritiSu~p hAdt  IProdiSup *Rdt  lPfodlSup Uitt    poitt 1Pg@dIS              int  pp ERAswt  Ipt@d
kg/ha!I(4tb )l(ba)1%alt  g  I h- Mg/aal k g        kg^. k  Oka _kgAlFINg
135-4 smguh  1t9511080 1135011I5 11000 1I5011    I          I    I    I    I    I    I      I    I    I    I
2I    I    I    I   1 899  1 8991    1       1    I    I    I    I    I       I    I    I    3
1I32 *oita   ,:1    I     I    I I  I      I    1 6  N1M76 113070/10 116701I6700  S11 901  176 61 a  1117S81356
QXifli  U*wir  37,5 3a987 32214100  I 1550 tI848I 6   11493 389593  8 113251I0600 10 12500 1253 1    1
NChm               I      *    * 2 b  9o 31800 I  I    I            a 11Sm t0i.01..    I    I    I    I    e
,.Mbb maim I    I        I    I  I 1 70I    70I1 2  113S7 1t6941 2t 1I5@01a91 I             I    I    I    I
SW=WA_        I    I    3      3    3      3    3    3      3               3                      33  t2@I tb 12 3
2WP- M_ =   I    I       II    I     I     I    I     I     I    t    I     I    I    I      I    I      0X1 s
WEWW-r2mli   3    3       1    1    3      3    1    1      1    1    1    1    1    3       1    31X1 7191 119
Groundnut P.Ia  I  17a0 n7so0        I     I    I 2s   19 27 1 5933  3 1 1123 3371    1      1    1    1    1
OroundnutRP.        I     3    II5 1 537 1805 I    I        I    I    I    I    I  3 I 700 la           I 
froundnut5gSs61    1      1    1    1      1    1    1      1    r    1    1    3    3       3    I S 1676t8I'5
KNI cowpeas    I    I     I    I    I      I    I I  II27031701  a I 250 001  3 1750tIt 1        1 2     I  i835
568am 542 . I    I        I    I    I      I    I    I      I    I    I    I    I    I      I    I    I    I
Soya g.t      1    1      1         1     1   1      3                11 315135t39119    1 390 1985 1    1    1
boya ^G..I    I    I* I                                                               I g    g  1    g    a      3  I    10,751867 It"0
Hyacinth bean  I    I     I    I    I      I    I    I      3    1II6 I88   3001    I        I .I    I    I
IMKA-L44 rice  I          u I       I     J           I     I    I    I    I    I    I       I 3    * 176031519
Cotton         3    3     3    3            3 3  3 1I3 1336651   .3    I    I    I           I          I^   3    3
Waterimlon                                                                                              I 3  3    I    I  I    3    I  I    I  I    I  I a  3  -I
TOrAL        115*   -         - 2o    - 1-  s20     -  I-  131, -            -    - 1                5 -   I  -117
J    3     I     3    I     3     J    3     3     3    3    I    I     3     I    I     3    I



- 86 -
AfIC 7
Table 2
U ~                            to
.a                    I.
*1| !il                                                  *1 R R  R8  f Mef
*1# IJ$                                            U.' i
hA       10 l   Mlgl2E                       tl 



87                              ANNEX 7
Table 3
DMFO        PaMcT    By _pof
.=_-*4F7#--~ ZYU  * 
Agricultural season         T-4---                            zgw 7  I
~~ -~~~ *        a ~~  A  azqa     aas a             AIS!)6 I-
SOminte              a         a                a         I  z67d  I3S
SW2S4~3-U     .                1  S4    19IS   I  3,2   1   819      1 S8O@
|fXb #NO _qa          I        I         I       I       I  I  10   S 30!I
I  387119ZO)   ISS73   1  3       1          I190
S9s6g_t          1~~~~97  1 30      11      I  31  sI J6        0
G121q                    I        I        I         I       7    I   SOS  I  109
I        I        I       I g   7   I   ss   1 J98
IMOt 7       Tae 4
;1RE KR Gt W0 Qi a! mm m
abwtiqg an  (80 kg x 22D F/kg)     17,600            WIim at the hbm
fertiI  (150 kg x 104.50 F/kg)  15,675            (6o2 1g x 125 RA)         99,130
iizig (18,000 F/3m                18000
-ovk  (4 p       x 500 I/dky x dwys    2,000
FUYt wedin  (7 p       x 500 F/day
x d.p mIt)             3,500
9omv weeding                        3,5W0
Sbded mftintm (5,000 F/&b
x /d W           10,000
Iwast (4 p _wl                      2,000
mt  po  (2D0  v    x 150 IP/d
x dAy WaMd              3,000
l yrwIx (3 c     x 400 F)           1,200
76,475
Pzeit to   c                       22,C65
mL                  .                .99,130                                   99,130
p xa£tim price of cm kigof_  g udit mm&  U CM.



~~~~~~~~~1~                    p
m ' I                          *-I  I  I
I Thm               PA         s    A   ICPA IUProJet-ID.g.pISVR  tJA        Al        Ttr al
CB      cvt    '   &H-utB- llB@O1@ItSd    IUCent4Kli6nr IIt.VA.    1      I     Istruol
3                   Bamel; lass ual  O IOnset   g ot IDIC: is              It    Iturest
I,9S/8   .. el.   ;   IX   ;    98   ; 159                                                                  59
I963/04/APOS        19        133   |362  1        |   |.I.| ...S.J....6   S O I
I98B/85/AP.3.   I  20   1   161   I 337  tI A1SI    9  I a  I             I     1  39   135 1      1     16J6
1965/86/AP.A.   I  I8   1    9I   1 19   1 I159 1    el, I         I    1 3   II 43 22 1         I       1.39
1986/87/AP.5.   t   6   1    5I    1  m    I        J       I      I      I     I     I      I   0 1     1on
I967/88/AP.6.   I       I      a1 9   1 I65  1      1       1      1      1           1      1 33 1      1303
IIII                                                        I            I               I
TOTAL       I   SI        5 63   *1392  : 3073   16  ,   o0   it I      .3   61  3 1351  76 ,!6 g s5,
cC
0



,.e 4    ,  b     
~w, ~nar~amm  vxnm mOm.wm                      .
M_= t UR  By           M W WO 31 W   19992, M, VW, 1996, I996. a. l9B7
U.  I                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
I 96a      3       1913             1 984      1    1985          19S                    1 "7
go. _ _. _ _ r_ *__ _                    l "D. I_I *      11  8 R.    M1    .   t1 6       MM  I6 19  AL
IAn~ =   1.L   OE    IM  I   e: M.   MD. il 'I m.4                      I iOI. LaJ4.  MD.*  "t .m 1
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 1U5                   ,S  3t,!  '                               1
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~MII 
MayohtI745 I l Ia 15 I1366 1 it 1 97 16660 1 Ii I 47  1 7801 13 I 60 1 713 1 9  1 79 1 7071  9  1 78
|   :hIaa9 1 13  1 9, 1 I0i61 12 1 87 ,9ao I 12 76  1 935,         8 a 1I6 11009 1 12    U  11191 I    0I
1a1133c 3 1 27  1 22   3533ai 26   135' 1a866   26 111o  13450 1 is 8   191  J&7- I iI  79 110   I7    5 28
I111   1     I        3 I      I     I      I    ,I       I     I     I     I     I     I    I    t      I
Ma4M8I26I*  8   1 157 1 r7?01  7 1 a4831 534' 7  a1i9  'X521 I 7  1 2I7 1J4   t 7  I 69 1 4901  7  1 70
-1-- 3     f 3               3     3         I            3     I   'iii    3_   J            3    I     I
TWAL7548 1 60  1M5 7676    S9 1 I3015983    59  Iot 16686 t K6 I V$  3633  46 K           78  12667U 14  6o*
Wf 11. Gi9nifiat dl  I in tin pcpation of 1  3 in 1996 is oiwbd with, y  Oa= td'p*
tiS dprbxe of an    I u   of I  I  uo hod a t fictmi600 GM . Sh IntM  fim w                                   D
IlIi  fxm thm   It of tie agm  ad ftr t  ke i who asao  _-gi*t. lt hD
tRe are s    Izumit   ane =* yet  gilaste  (dio a  In tih IE anof bongq muled),
_e xcattle pcpatkun auwsanestiintgil,S.5(OO L A0  Dzr dg,_ dyhatim 1i o    a
Iuwiwab dleui Moftin Xpilatlna ({tm   at beIm 15,OOO ed 20,000 thw in toUl
bbebm ;unxy ad &m of ea yw  din* 1980.
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~



DeMOGRAPHIC GROWTH OF THE HAUTS-DASSINS (NOT INCLUDING 30B0-DIOULASSO)
I       I        I      I       I       I      I      I       I       I Dec. I       I
I I975  1 1976  1 I977  1 1978 1  1979 8 1980 1 I981 I 1982 1 1983 3 1984  3 1985 I I986 1 1987
* 3I  *   I     1        I      I      '&'"~ I AP.O I AP.I.3 AP.a 'AP.3.  IAP.4. 'AP.5. 5    AP.6.
Sima  .A.                                                                        I       I      I
Annua'l Growth 1972 a  30o00a 1308042 13x6a9813 4775 1 33347 34aI6i351593136I016l370691I 13602633906271401300
X,I is   I      I        I  ' I          I       I      I       I      I      I        I      I       I
to31 Jb-           I I     I               I       I      I              I       I
Annual Growta92172 130783  13a4332 134I7I6 360032 6   379330'3996624210a'o41443654 467434 149266315I9070 546892
5_36     3 I              3        3      3 I            I       3 I                           1       I
ANNEX 10    Table 2       SIGNIFICANCE OF MIGRATIONS
I 1981/am   I                                         -L.,/8; 51963/5  g 1964/8.-    g /86   3   , ,7rB;
6 _             P.a.                     AP.            w AP A4.     A1P.5.      ',  A.P.6.
. SERIE e.       1399 662  1 ax 0o8'   134$  654  J 467 434   1 492663    1   5I9 070             1  546  S"a
AnnualtGrowth of'   399 662    V10 373    1421 371   *432 664   1 44 259    1   45665              g 468 390
Annual Growth due                          I                        I
to annual migra-  I          II
tions of    a,68 %I
AP11           I  10 711    3  tO 998   1II it93       1II 96     1    iI 907       1   1  U26
hPS2I          I            I I          I I 11 57   1 1I  898    1    la2al        I 12 44
AP31           1            1            3 1 890        12 209    1      a 536      3   1a 872
AP41                               I           I      1  1270I    1    ,r .'*I      I   I3 390
AP51                        I            I            I            3I6 1    3 Is
qpm4Pm61                 3             1           3            3             3                   is-111a
I      _     I  ]711          a 223   1  3 770   I go0O          I    13700
Cumulative migratio     '
Cumulative migrationj(%)       I   2,54     1   5.0      1   7,44         9 fn 23                     1 1935
Total rural popq a  I          I                                                                    3
Ion



INCREMENTAL OUTPUT
Agricultural Seasons                I 398a/83   1    .983/8.  a  I98 ,/8j   ] 1985/66  1 I9&"/87  1 1987/88
AP.I.    I  AP.2.                   1 AP*3*  "A  4. I  ".5.   I Ahp-s
Achievements (from annual technical      1    3,  9ß0 1   35 o8         38  U3o  I 5 67    1 62 477   3 61 430
_repoj s
31 O    33ISO        35 6"    3,7 34    1 39 433    1~5
Annual incremental output                      3            I9D8         3 IS6       8 3a7   ;  3 03      ; 19 9I
Cumulative incremental out,,ut                 3S6 %        5773         a 9,3S   2I7 69   *10 3            603i
___._.____.__--.T ,,- - .__    --_____.  __ _                               =_                             
ucutp-utfroom IrMwz(PYYU) season              25 1 774 1   259 774      25* 774  1 *3 774-  IM-  774   1  5  7
,tC  ?s3~~~~r                                                     1                          36s56
Annual incremental output                       7W3         95I4        i3656 .    19901
Cumulative incremental outpRut                  ) I86 -I  s WC0         3153  057                          Ii,60    416
Average output of1998,1881an'7  %
Knnual1979incre80/8ntand                  2?output       o 7 "O    37       I~ Z 3  @D*    37 Ob      g 3? @9O
Cumulative incremental output                   7 90       is 965   *  373,8 "                i''"        a"'         -
.~~~~~~~~~~W-



AREA UNDER COTTON CULTIVATION
I            AGRICULTURAL SEASONS       ;                1983/8, A2      u/8s0.1  1985/2  1       .87    9
I Achievements (from annual technical reports
.                                                2          27 _  _  _    _  .  _            _          _
Projections from cotton project trend -r PDA' 25 342  1 26 59        27 756      28 963      30 170     31 377
I Annual incremental area under cultivation  1                                                            18 sCe
all        wy?       5 447,   18 230,    is
Cumulative incremental area under cultivatn        60      1          1 931 87 378           25 60t   4b 116
lArea under-c-ulti'vation fim1818    Pyo-                  I     I     i      nVi                    I
8 1      /     8        2     (PY∞)  W 20 2W5 easo|- 20 2C    1 20 2C51  1    20   1   0 C  1   20 203
t Annual incremental area under ctvaon                      2          20                                    620  w
cutiaio: 5810  I7 155                      7       1 42           819
Cumulative incremental area under cultivatn1   5 810       2  5      20 963       3 16       63 363     93  3
lAverage area under cultivation for 1979/80, I 2                                   22                1   2
22 n122265 -2226 50              2 I         2 2        22  2
Annual incremental area under cultivation  *  3 750         5 095       5 936 8    12 145     26 1351    27 630
ICumulative incremental area under cultiva-  1  3 750 1  88W5          14 78,      26 928       0063 t         683
MANEX 10   Table 5           SEED-COTTON YIELDS
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I       Agricultural Seasons                    *19 3 I9A3Ra   I*&/"              "ft^   1       87 I"W"
Yields (kg/ha)                          1 344      I 28?                   327      1 291     1 231
*  1291--=_-=  _-=__=_ _____S_________S_ ___



. I6
OJWtIKrio r 1K no~ tm rwmme (IN WeG
A  9 2/83     /       t 1984/      1 3985/86   1986/87  1 987
AGRICULTURAL SEASONS            API         At          AP           3         1     1    P6
I  W.P.K.          Coton            1  3 7653 1       019  1  4 282  1  4 142   1    5 9271   7275 1
3                  c6r61es          I  1 548  I  3 657  1  3 114 1    2 501  1    3 8961   2 603 3
Misc. crops    1    245  1    676  1         40  t    160  1          561      598 t
TOTArJIL N.P.2  5 558 K                  8 3    ,5 1  7 436  1  6  o   1    98 9k   10 474
I     - R          C E  @tz         1    130  1    200  1    417   1    58 3 14161    1 5i              1
I                  C6rXales         1     93  1    136  1    424  1    632  J    1 1771            954 t
I                  Misc. crops    1        17  1    122  I   n1e    t         2   1      2011      112 1
*      1b~TTAL IUREE:                  240  ;    458  ;    b1          I  20e       2 794'   2 635 
A    -- = d--ib-td-=m fcr cdeu  Z:     CIf       _2t_-w   aWcuM22-
60%                    
NIet         10l
hixifed rice   2%
Krea:                         200
_b~ '75%
Miet          3%
RIzifed rice   2%
I0 



AGRICULTURAL SEASONS                                                   "ft/86    1987     19"7
I   JPt                                                    h16 A  A 5  6
tAfeg.ce~der ilttI)cult. on basis of 150 kg  I   &v M   I      z    I oz~          623'119
iewdperr                                                               2163                  II193       17 107
tArea under cotton cult. on basis or i3u  --'     2-- . 1-..
nfffp     h     SO k1  15of ureaper  5(ha)   .5 2  SW5 ∞                                               t5 0 35
Area under cotton  ult. on basis of 150kg of= 
IRSflnerhin PYO (ha)                       1  15 003      150053   15007,   15 0053   1053    150053
lAra uder Cotton cULe. on Dasth of 13tga unc __                                     I                           I1
IPierha +50k of urea pe ha  (han    )             5 2W 96t      a        5          5 203   1 - t    1
*lncreuental area under cult. with 150kg of       17     1    241              I                          -  1
3UDV..L~~~~.IL.A                 3 ______,7VO     7768      5 2m_      12       3-3   eu      21la
t PKne  b_+ 50 ki of urea Urha (ha)        I2       g        20, 31~            6 160     210
Ivith 150 kgof NWK per ha (tons)              I   296   I    306        2530  __
*VL~~T~Bftg  iK  col UM'narteoa    (T)                                      1 01 esI  i       is       I    sM
'Incremental annual out-put due to chesn. fet        16       22i               III2is*
1    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~fr.                                 4       22        4 74#3     14          iS6
(Increuental cumulative output due to chemo  rI  16           , i 3     7
S..



AGRICUIjLTURAL SEAKSONS                 I          2 1983/'f I9845 Wt (/86   19N 
API         Ate        AR3         M          A15    I 5
I                                                                             -.             I    .        
Achievements (from annual tech. reports)          ea 832   74 6,o         82 656 1 13 11 ff             a 7m066
Projections fro cotton project trand t   L         89J6                              SC
_______________________________________9 1_  _  __  ___  ___ ___ _                 I"   Oa    110
'Annual incremental output                     I -                                                0 3   i _-  012  1  2 0
;cumulative incremental output                 I      30D '  21 *961   35 _358 '-51 17 ;- GI *59"    - 8% 6s3_._ ___. ___
1utput from 1901o2 (PY19 6easons                  J2            20O 2               a 2o         DZ        JD200
, 1, I                                                                                       I                      I
IAnnual incremental output                    1I'     6W      5 560         2 56 ;   5 211     15 670R       6 J60 
!Cumulative incremental output                    a4 50       . 2 96          4 -5 50    5164    2 7 6 1  5 27 z
vuepue UWL L 7.U..,f1.I IWUV                            .U.EI               M.fU.i.fhIdEnWitt
Output8 fron 1          1=-                   =                           76 /   (    ?Ps os  o6 kW  6 kW1  76 4om 2
IEnnual incremental output                     1 6         5   1 171          25  1 * I1   19            I
____________________________     2                                 4761~~~62%  9O"  1 2704l27(9O
.Cumulative incremental output                 1    654 1   2 s9o          10 9      196           3
31VefI s ' == L =        =L L  ts I* JI-O U=...........................9      l  s-.....................  -'-  rs 



m    um amo    cummc (n  K
-         En  mm as v
AGRICULTURAL SEASONS               ;    a8  S /83; 1983 /841  1984 /85  1  1985/86  1 1986/ 87  1 1987/88
A                  -         A.       A3      - *       A3 ,%         A.P.f;
Achievements (from annual technical  1   67 gN6i   69.060  1 75.973   1   80.590  3   90.KO   I 87.715    1
bmmumUUumenÖ umflMURiA"UM.IUMUmNUSUffONSUUUU  .uuuu.  munsmu suugSE 3EUS3U
Projections from cotton project trend_l            I            I            I            I            I
+ PDA-OV                              S     0.    3   6-.99    1 67.07       1 1 -.11n J.J    9%.7t3  1  -1
Annual incremental area under cultivtn-            I            I            I            a                         I
I - fl.461l                                                           23 1-1  116t I^8^        -*a  t-o 
rumulative ineremntal areaUWU UI..iunder.
Are24ner cUFIMMvaon from 1981/82
(PYO) season                          |   74.500  1   71.520  1 71.530   1   71520 _          74.520  * 71.530
11                                    1    _
Annual incremental area under cultiva-3 _  6*572  I _  s16o  I   1.45a   3    8*070  1   17*940  3 13.195    1
'Cumulative inc_ rntl re a*-u *                                              *       *   *             *UJt!FiI -
Average area under cultivation for    ,   71.907  1   71.907  1  71t907   1  71.907           71.9D7    71.907
1979/80, 1980/81, and 1981/82 seasons 1            1            1            1            3            I            I
I  -I                                 3            3                         3-,.. 
Annual incremental area under cultiv. I _  3.959  1    2a.87    1.o06          Io3 10.683     a 20.5533 1 25O6      I
____*                         I.                                      _- I3_
Cumulative incremental area under       -  3.959        ;6*         a.7411           V    ,9 ; 28.95    4303
cultivaLtion 
USU  10      gm  10
amm YM*
AGRICULTURAL SEASONS              1     1           .        A83                       A.P.5         A.;.;
g~~~~~~~~~~~' g..                                                    a"..     --tjw*   ..     ..   
I ~      ~~~ AP,         AI*       L
YIELDS (kg/ha)               t  1.219    1   1.000    I  1008       1  10031    1   1.037   1    993    1 ' "
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~133A                                                                 



9gradu   -son  t1982/ 83    1983/864     1964/85    1985/86    1966A7       196       -
A.P.1  A P      I           II                          "/8
AjkaP.A   a .           A.P. 3      AP.4       A.P.5       A.P.6
j   Am tnkr *o*oghmc-u-t. wlth  wi-                                
soax6ty.Ofst of        65062         7-530        8 8.038     8.56  8.84              110.8541
lI   kAm uniw m* u oult. with  I             I                        I           I
u.zday ffct of                                                         U
5o-798          S     5.798       5 8    5.79         5.-71       5.798   ,
fattims              II                                    1 O1 X
3         Zclt. with US l c ffSCt   a    264    i   1a735   I   aa4o0   I  2:766   1    a.46  1   6.0%    1
Xu.1a _d  azu   w   ult. (eawl      63     j       6 j       5      j      6    j      5    j 1.3
t    QI                                                  I 9                                               I
3       lt SJta~X UStI   63   tt   479                       1.017   |   1.681|   13.18t    .731               
out(tw                                               s            I                 .     t            I 
3  a  a          u                                              -.8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~#j



DaICINM _M           MMnwin l a.uw', uwnzin
I  _____________           A.~'k    P .1  AoP*I    A .P.3                   .4. .5P        L P.
Mw r I  r I  clt. ;  enbm
*     kW*rindifclgof mmt  Qh        30940    1  9.309         7.097      6.366    1   T*917        6.6 
Am crdw org;:2clt. c bad01.I              I            3                        33 
*                        ..V     I           I I                      I            II 
I    ker _uX  uars* cult. anbn  I            I            I           I                                      I
of UO kg of W pinrha    I            *   .o                       .0
in MM fha%  1 309W        309M         ~~~~3.900  1t3.901        3-900       3-600 
1 YAM MO   ag    cust. a n b | |  I  *I
of 50kgtofumpi heI   772                3            1     772        773    1      7 I      I I
D    a  W 1altam               *             _T  I    I  I  I    I
3  uo,cgot~aw1  40   b 5*609    31  4.a7   I a.46    1  6.17  1  3.736 
Ihuinta1azes~iINV agt. with      I           I      I        I  I     I I
I  SObgof~rkg of um pw he        I               2 I   a6    U  "4   31.156    I   3*936   I   3.044    1
.  ~~~~~~~-               I-           I~           ,           I .        *III
DI  n  alcutetam <x Udnto to.                                                                   aIa
I   avdtu1lOkqofIm            to 10      t11298      1     966   1    59      I   1.444   3      654    1
I                                I    .      I3                        I           I           I1            t
IDuin*d atoutpt cxIqIdi It 
I     m ith 50 kg of am   pw he      60      1    34      3     139   1   363    I       590   1      457 *
hd       fertiliuw t   __a               364;
lkemblcami1wMm~taa  aI .50               1 1.a14     1   1.319   1  3.174    1   %AW    1   6.319    1
to dih.lA fem tilJ w (tgwu    __                                                 .    I              I
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 __



m     rxnN  (niw
Asdix1buo 1                    1 9,6.1   J f.P.a    I il.P-3  1 A.w.  I PRXJ57  117 (I  1
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
I  A*P I  I I          I sP*3 I       L        I   *P o   I           I
preko tnn + t*ot3  30.933  1 31-785   :  33.337  1 31.389   1 36.111   3 37.993    1
tgCbdCl r- I P                                  t  I 
s1   2.263  1 - 2.6a5   I   6.863s    S.30     3 10 .691   t 2-.87    t
I          I           I           I           I          I     
m-ativ. linmmdl ouqtp             3 a.a63   _   362     -7.35    -   9a1t        s          sew
-                          3on  26.760  1 26.760   1  26.760 o   26.760   t 26.760   126.760    1
hu-1 IzI2~Sw*a1 aip           3              -1       I  I   I       I           I           I
O_.lative lnm_*at*   5.736   ; 8.136    ;  7.850  ; 17.763                       38.1S  ;'a.a?5
bwa~~ao f179,Uof   geqW, 19    I          1           1
id iiV  Ion 0            Al  a6470  Ii a6.73o   1  a6720  I 26.720   1 a6.720      26*730   I3I
^   au wt                      +   5@77S |   k..5-776  ao  - 46                          ,    6973  ao.S15    IL.16o    I
A=    e bo57a79I                           t                                  I    I
ae  JwIzualoii                 3   5.776  I  8.216   1   7.970  i 17.93   1 36F.356   I 52.518    1
II 



AREA UNDER MAIZE CULTIVATION (in hectares)
AGRICULT'UMAL SkASUNS            1982/ 83  | 1963/ 84    1984/ 85    1985/ 80   1 1986/ 87  1 1987/ 88  1
A-P.1       A.P.2    I                AP*3   I.P.4    t A-Ps    1.P.6
Achievements (from annual teccalI                                                                              I
reports)   I  19.609   1 Sa.140   1 28.5P2    t  30.060   1 39.3710   I  36.695   1
Projections from cotton project    ,
trend + PDAOV                      9 23.263       24.002      24.741        25.480      26219        26.958
Annual incremental area under cult..l _ 3,554  J   3.138   1  3.781    1   4.580   1 13.151   1   9.737 1
umulative ncrementa  area under 1   3         -        516   1  3.265s                                3 7-835   t  3.33
cultivation                        I           I          . I
"Öu ^.Ö& ---------------------------
irea unaer cultivation from 1981/823            1           1            1            I           U            I
(PYO)  season                       1 22.210   1 22.210   i 2a.a2o    1 22.S10   1 11.110   I a1.210   1
___ ___ ___ ___ __ ___ ___ _!___       1 3*                                  t 3              '3  -  -
Annual incremental area under culti- _ 2.601        4.930      6.312         7.850   I  17.160      1 4.4U5 2
vat ion_______ -                                         --------.------.----- i --
Cumulative incremental area under  I _ 2.601        2 a3* 19  8.6i1    1  16.491   1  33*651   '  48.136
Average area under cultivation for I 21.603   i a1.603   1 aS.603    I 21.605   I  21.603   1  21.603   t
1979/80. 1980/81_ and 1981/82 seaso            a            I            I            I           I            I
Annual increwental area under        - 1994         5.537      6.919    1  6.4,7         17.767   1  15.092
Cumulative incremenral area under    - 1.994                                             3666         51.776 
ANNEX 10  TABLE 15            . MAIZE YIELDS
i 19a/83      1983/84'  1964/85  '                                        19*  968  978
AGRICULTURAL SEASONS      I            3              Ae?.3    t                A-P.^    ; ^.6
Yields   ( ~KgdA)       1 .i416         1.074                1 *             l.t1



~ a98a8~  ~  1~/84   ~1.964/5 ~1a85/86 ~1 1986A87        1,87/88 
AGRICULTURAL SEASONS           j 1982/83   £        I      p                                    I38    j     U984/S  U j
A.P.1       AP.P2       A,P,3         A.?       1.PS6
Area unu:r=maize cult. on basis of                                          I            I                         I
110 kg of NPK per ha (ha)                71,72   I  16.672   1 13.010    1  7-717    1  10-217   1  5254 
I                  I                  1            1                         1
Area under maize cult. on basis of
kg of ures per ha (ha)              1            I   6475 1      3- 6     54   1   09   :   6        :*04?   6.947
Area under maize cult. on basis of    /           I            I            I            I            I            I
110kg of NPK per ha in PYO (ha)      t   6.SS7   1   6.547   1 6.547    1  6.347    3   6.54?   1 6.547    1
Area under maize cult. on basis of                             a            a I  i  I£  
110 kg of NPK per ha+80kg of urea/ha I                1.8      I 1  1609     Is"         I            I.  
in PYO (ha                                                     g                                                    1
incremental area under cult. with 11a     I                                 I
kg of NPK per ha (ha)             IAUj              to U      S   6.463    1  1.170    1  3.670   I- ISM93    I
Incremental area under cult. with 110      937   1 _ '         1   166    1  4,116    1   9OUS I         70,0      I
kf NPK Per/ha+ 80 ka of urea/ha (ha) .            .            .            .                         1 .          1
Incremental output corresponding to  I
area with 110kg of NPK per ha (tons) 3      306       3.638   1  1.939    |    35$    3   I-201   I _  385    3
Incre.aenta1 output correspondina to  I                        I
area with 110kg of NPK/ha + 80 kg of I _   60    g -   347   3  1.408    I  *675    I   5.996   a  40638    1
urea per ha (tons)                   a            I            I            I            I
ncremental annual output due to chem.,      339 I  3a347    1  3.026    a   7.07   I 4.50 
ertilizers (tons)
ncremental cumulative output due to               I .
hemical fertilizer (tons)            _                a39      1 6.337    1  9.363    I  14-60   330.710 I
F!!



HUr MI=rrK  (IN .r6
kjrCUIUndSamne   I  1932733  I 19033784   I 198475'5    I 1055f0b   I l9abM    I 19W775F3
I A.P.*     I A.P.2        A.P.3        A.P4A        A  5       |A.P.6    1
Mchiefnts (frm  dam         15g 371       5 15.280     20.112     21.033      18.959    ; 23.365    1
~~ 3                                    I            I1           I            3           3            I
Iro tu                    15.504   1  15.707         15.910     16.113   _1t6.316    1 I6.519
__m_ l _ ________ o_t_p_          133   ;      427   '   4.2.0"o                  2.643       6.* 
Qdatli  1K2*I               ; _    33   j _   560   ;       .64a      8.562   ;11205    ' 18.051
OztP frcz  19    ) MO)
16.800   1  16.600        16.800      16 Coo   Ii6.o80 w       16. Bo
Amw3d 1Ur*a1  ouItp          I - 1.429   1   1,520   1    3.312  1   4.233   1  2.1159    1  6.565    1           N
0AUaUmincmerAl utpt       2  2       m*j940   *                      561 .55    g13.320 
amdiggm  II                     I           I            I            I            I            II
hA""oautptof 1979/80. 198Q'81. 1  15.300   3 15.300    1  15.300   1  15.300    1 5.300   I315.300    1
d 1981/82 s                 I                                 I I    .        I I6
.namiinarw cutp3                 71          0                       o.733      3.659       8.065    :
COaIatiwbse i *aWeA1 ouetz    :      7           51        4.863   1 100596      14a,55    1 22,320    :



AREA UNDER MII,ET CULTIVATION (IN HA)
AGRICULTURAL SEASONS            1 198a/ 83  1  14?3/84  ; 1984/85   ' 1965/86   i 1986,47   ; 1987/BC
A.P.1         Z .        AP-3 A      A.P.4         16AP-5        .P.6
Achievements (from annual technical                                        I                      -I  I
reports)         I a3, 141   t 21.790   i  ,a7.943  I aq.160   I   0. 540   3  32.38531
Pto~ectionstrots cottbn1._____
_          -cotton ~proZect trend1            uminm'
+ PDA-OV                              2 32.365   j  33.758       23,951. f   3.144       23.337       23530    j
-                                         I            ag,           I
Annual incremental area under cult.        576          1 968       4.99B      6.016        7.03           755s
_ _~(                    -   -~    1    _            066 '1.89 '3   7
Cumulative incrmntl area under cult.       576      - 33 4.600                 i0.616      173819   1 26574    1
Area under cultivation from 1981/82  1   22 t            100       33.1CC     32 100       3a1oo           ,oo
-   -   (Y)season -      ___                           I.---                      I- ---
Annual ircre.ental area under cult.?      1                         5.843
1""a0                                              841 310.583 7c6  o  8185
Cumulative increontl area under cult.     1.0m1 731  ;    6.54                    u.     Mmmn.i07s   1  3ui ni     5
Average area under cult. for 1979/80,1            1           1             I           I            I             I
1980/81, and 1981/82 seasons             2 22-533     2*      -533    3       t -533       2-53    g  MeS33    g
1_~~ __,  .                                                         S ,I 
Annual incremental area under cult.  S      608  J  -   743  1    'S0i 1       6.6a7   I   Go.07   I   9.753       I
Cumulative incremental area under    1      6        .  135         5.375      11.g        S.1          3,.66 1
cultivationIl,- 
ANNEX 10   TABLE 19                    MILLET YIELDS
AGRICULTURAL SEASONS                  662/8     1983/84 ;.gIM 70l  ;   ;I;                                           O
A*P1       AP*aA3P3                                 :0 A1967'
Yields (kg/ha)                   661          0            720        731                                     CDa   73



niL t mwr xo Q4 amiz
AGRICULTURAL SEASONS               T'
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                           , I  Pt    ! AN  P2    I T   P3   II   A*P5    I    0A           6    t
Area under millet cult. on basis of 100kg I15                                                i           r  . 
of NPK ier ha  1(548 h                        I                          3 I         a2Ot    3   9           26,3
Area under milleL Cult. on basis of 50kg  I 12 1                           24 1          7          0           7
Are~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 l-----5-7----- 
p.r ha A(h&)n----                                                            I   1      I3          I 3        3
Area under millet cult. on basis of 100kg         1       532   1            - 532  , 1 5 3      t 5 1     1
ns~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~13                                        153Y         153    153               - "Pn(
Area under millet cult. on basis of 50kg            16                                          --16  1t6  116  , s  16
Increuental area under cult. with 100kg   1          16      21R5        1 5&   ,      9691   2 36   ,   1071
Incremental area under cult. with 50kg of I -   60  t -  3    t    18   1              263 I?
rea per ha (ha)                            r1                       I           I                 M    I
Incre ental output corresponding to area                                   I 3
;th 100 kg  of NPK per hn(tonsa)            {t-     8  ,        5   ,      t9   ,      36 ,        s           62 
Incremental output corresponding to area ,I9I
with 50 kg of urea per ha (tonsl)1                    5   1     52   1    399   1       24  1    588t           3 
Incremental annual output due to hemical                                                                     19-0
.,1.i_                                             5   1     447  1       6  1 1 050  1             638  1*93 
ncremeniaf  cumu atve oufput au  t&               -
. chemical fertilzer (tons)                /



GROUNDNUT PRODUCTION
t                                           1   APARIU;ERL  UON    I    Me i*i t  £AP    I  AP~   I   AF6   I
IAc-nlevements kinf tons or nuts, from annual 1  7 010         6 760  1  6 76   1   a 55         9 986     9 860 
gtechnical reparts)
I Output  rom 1981/82 (pyO) season (tons)    I  8235           8 235     8 235        8235 2     8 235     8 J235
M uMuaL LUcremental output (tons)               I  I 1    I   I 4n               I 1 5a   1  330  1  1 751  I  I
Cumulative incremental 6utput (tons                  I              I2   ?        1R  3, &     2 128    -503
I Area under cultivation (ha)                     10 185 I  10260      10891         12 0355    14 *30  113 bA5
1Yields (kg/ha)                                      688         0 659       i8         7110       62        733
----   -     -------- -
ANNEX 10   TABLE 22                       RAINFED RICE PRODUCTION                                                             ∞
AGRICULTURAL SEASONS                 I  API   I   AN                   I A             AP         A06 
'Achievements (in tons, from annual technicaj   3 414 1i           0  11 309          2 013  I  1 3(2        15 
0utput from 1981/82 (PYO) season (tons)                        3 4i       3 '8      3  Ai1      3 0)
Annual incremental output (tons)                              2                          8 1  2 139 1    - 1 956
!Cumulative  incremental output (tons)          _ 27          2 as       4  0  1- 6 208                  -10 30
iArea under cultivation (ha) t                     2 610         900      1 3         2 0        1 36  I   1 650
1360 ~~~~
t :Yields (kg/ha)                                                     I          1            
_uz__==.*._w=__s=_=_W   =-_=E_ZU-U~-~~==                          ~     =- =-                     ~     *



- 106 -
ANNEX 10
Table 23
V -  ~- - ----- - ---e
It
-- - - - - -  - -  - -
t~ ~~~~~~1I A' '  H:
*$    S  fii 
3  ji. -  - -     x     - - - - - - j
St                     II'l- ''



GROSS MARGIN OF SED-COTTON (in CFAF)
AGRICULTURAL SEASONS              I       A    APR    I  All   It " -     2 I               AP6      I
U/kg lot select. (Z of output)                I e  t9WJI  7u %97J1 91 %9)J  1 1W IOU     J I 1W !uti   I        t 17TI
t      2ntl         C ( f n                    t 15 ( 6)   50 C 31 70 C 7) nf.- ,08i       70    .3
Gross produce/ha                           I 81 57       88 970  '90 762      1  5 1                 116  2
NPK fertilizer (Kg/ha)                       1    1.5 147 1   152                   120        122         146w
p*.g.4g (10% in cash    ~  :a.e&O&.t)        i                69,61    89,       5 I           i 2451        5
Cost of NPK fertilizer per ha                   6 496         231  13 60        11 940      1519          257,
Sia         (Kg1a)                                  5          7  1    15            17         29  1      31
PU/kg (10% in cash, 90% in credit)                 63 l       69,71    77,5  1      89,5       99251       7992 
Cost of urea per hectare                          315 1       88   1 163         I 52        2 86       2 455              CD
Inuetioid*s  Cl/ha)                          ;     915 1     ii;02      11,58;      8e92 1    8,32         8,63:           1
PU/L (10% cash, 90credit)                         4           , g, 1196   1    596  1    896  1   1 7gO  1
,COST I__ _CIDtg / Ha                          1  4 355  1   5 246    5 744         5 316  1  7 155:   i15 448
I See         (K_                    _ _    I Seeds provided free of charge by              ;          I          ;
P.. / K_g                                     _ SOFITEX.                                         8         10
I   Cost of seeds/ha                                                                              3          4I0
70 791     73 005 .t100 251     106 756  1 96 279  '         462  ;
1   Gross margin/ha                                       I          I           I          i          ;          I
I ss  margiSa                                  1    529671      56,95 1    73955 1     80,0501    74981      66,99 "I2
(0) Woms n'avowo  pae term compte des 5 Fw attrlbu6s cette  ale-l poo r6colt prooe. c 
Not taking into account the 5 F/kg  granted for an uncertain harvest.



COTTON PRODUCTION
I                            ,             '                                    !    t
-e t.. _~~~~ *                                                                   i ., 



SORGHUMt PRODUCTION
wm
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -- -'                                  ^ - ^   I ,
+   /+              ................. A1..I ...D....  ;?4
L      t6A. M.*      4                   ;    _ 
U.     ~ AL
/iY  .  F._FF.^f~~in
/   _*¢,^ .^



IAIZE PRODUCTION
-aI                                                      I .
~ I.ye#US41...WI.Wmgg     d_            am          'w                   willsibs
_ , .|_ ^'~~~~~~~*                                  Su^ I *
_~~* _g                               _                                                                        _   .
*~~~~_ *                                                           a*   v  * *  .;     1



- 111.
£3CS lOA
F    * *    .a        ii]
I.    .    . ,     .
T                             I  
o }1 .,,$4.i!$+5s'-I



IW* SflIWQ  AS C MO    31, I3
MAW              IW&~~1~p of IFzding
c'J1OU         Iel   in Cii Sw.  F*yt.  Gut  as
-r n TOM                                                                        X
Win_tr                        I              I           I
=m    0ii                     I              I                             r
bo,r Chiefs                   5              5           5
GOaLlaS                       2              2                            2
~mo=t'        £ Md            I                          I
h xurnt, Amt. A,I             5                          3                 2
CaDdw                         I                          I
0MRAM cuft                    I              I                            I
Cti  M e*a                    I                          I
Stell                         I              I                                                                                    I
ads     d      C              I I                                          I                                                       l
SLtdhb,wd 0c y t1             I                          I
l1y                           2                          I                 I
Iriur, ARXN*io
ti w        4                 II             I           3                 8
J*rwus                        9              3           I                 8
_t. law                       I                                            I
Gurfb                         7                          I                 6
rue CJ  U                     I              I                             I
1fta M, At.  1Mft             2                                            2
Guup 1unruw                   II                                           II
lKetaies, Typist              6
_ S*ot__                 71              16         24        0       47
o    I



BM    s?fhi    As M    "mm 314 1983
_ mb_T ype of   -B                               l
__________________________  1*a1  * In civil SuV.                      07t.         w  kmb
Uarm Chief                                     I            I                       I
9nioyimm1 Sctin Chief                          I            I                       I
Nx.1 OS tctkmauif                             I             I                      I
ax.bo Cdeft                                    25           5             21    4
oxmtrxI,  of:t
_m                                             5             3            5
Mminns                                         115.          1            115
Ui ,etwi, Typists                              7                          7
ti1s                                           2                          2
wi                                             I                          I
File Cld                                       I                          I
Axdvivst                                       I             I                                 I
nwz*                                           2                          2                                                            W
IdU                                           2                          2
-   Officil                                    I             I            I
Stotal                                    167           16           158       8          I
He
1tem  0d.f                                     I            I             I
So&titu cuAf                                   I            I                                  I
nd( )                              10            2            5                    5
radtio C% pors I rr                            I                                               I
Pvdib Ooprdwr                                  I                          I
kivw                                           3                          I                    2 2
Ib_o___                                   _    30            4            8          _∞__22
,  b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%



- -  s M i o                . 11w3
Uib-w                  TX* of -wu
wu1anm ~                                           I            I                     I
obtim OuI                                          2            2             I   I
lt     ' 1    i                                  II           I                               II
ItU* r a   ig                                      I            I             I
1xkw-Q d                       0I                               I             I
SW  own ld 1_                                      4                          4
-                                                  2                                             2
I _  IkXt                             ~~~~~~~I                                      I
fti s                                               4                         2                  2
ad1Obkl                                        29           7             10      2         17
-an                                                 I
_                                                   II|I                               .         .                                 -a
1S                                    ~~~~~~~~~I |  I
BoudintJw Stof                                     5                       (5
IkiVW                                               II
skglDW                                         7                          7
Ofks c.us                                           2            2                     2
=dt3                                                2            2                     2
A           I                                             I                            I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
,~~~o lamy .d
4                                 4
2mkws                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~4                                                        4.-l
I _ _ _ _ _  __ _ _ _  _ __ _ _I___     _  _   _     1  6    IL   6 _                   16    -I



_W  sMW  M i  -W  31. i
n* e X as . T.* o
1Ta1  I In CivUl Sw'. ftAkat.   *I df
1m dal.f                             I         I         I
Smviatx, CM*ZdLif                    2         2         2
Sy yosa Ant's                        17        I          17
0Efn Cldk                            3                   3
88=ltwy, 2W**                        I                    I
__                   _        _    24            4         24 
Mic
san  Ktf                                       I          I
Quiht Ag                             4         I                         4
hCMMX*Wt ad A*tes                    2         I          I              I
Ocffi  1ck                           I                 |I
_        e finw                      3                                   3,  3A
Ldxw                                 I                                   1                               .
ftiem, hauti                         10                                  10
caturilm                   ~~~~~5                              5
S6=tarbs, Typ Is                     I                                   I
Qagl~                                5                                   5
35        5       i 4               31
FInm    llr   r                      I                    I
2hm  crdfrmr                         I                    I
F/   amtuf                        1                    1
W  ~    r                                              I
0Wod5                                I                    I
fTM& Ingnj corwti                    I                    I 
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S 1=  **
a ^*tc*a                         7     ______________7_  7                  i _ _
,L L                         386       59         242     26    118



1FF SThE'  AS at 1YJ 31, 1988
Typ of Fandng
:mci                'lTa1  I in Civil Serv.  PRreigi  GDt.  Ow   u
Di~'1                                     1                             1
1KI C0dft                   2             2                             2
Stcr Chiefs                 5            5                              5
Swticn Cde1f                2
Ibit Oidef                  3             2                             3
-e    def                   1             -                             1
Pnvme Chief                 1             1                             1
homntns, Amt. a*".          8             1                             1
Chler                       1             1                             1
office CLeck                1             -                             1
FUe C                       1             -                             1
Smzstwies, Typits           5                                           5
rderly                      2             _                             2
uivs                        11            1                             11
Amt. an                     1                                           I 1
Ldxww8                      5             _                             5
omgp Pecuoim                8             _                             8
G __  .                     4             _                             4
8 Lt*al                 67           17                            67
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a 1  1= 
aQm Chief                   1             1                    1                           ~'rn
Swtian Chlef               1             1                    1
Azudo-'vlsal Swcticn Chlef    1           1                    1
xal 9 smcim dd*f            1             -                    1
IWal adio Agents           2             1                    -        2
SaCddfs                     30            27         10        20



ase_sc                    X db
law      In-   S AN&    M n -   Om  -40
~t1   Ii cvl CIv.                            --1  1
1d0it    Cot dimurs                                 5            4            5          _
-Ce                                                 95           46           95   _  _
_        ,  TWdS                                    7            _             7        _        _
FW Ofif                                             1            1             1 _ _
Kkivw3                                              2            -            2         _
Archivist                             I~~~~1                     1--
1dx s                                               2                          2 2
0uaft                                               3            _             2        _        1
S_Ial                                           153         84            126      24       3
aa    Oin                                           1            1             1        _ 
,Um 0dM                                             2            2             _        _        2
0Dm   ()12                                                       11            5    _            7
Orginx       t                                      7            4             __7 
la  _y low                                                       -             -- 2              2
8l.ty-?Wit w2                                                    -             2        -
ft1vm                                               3            -2-  
Offi    1 l                                         2            1             _        -        2
s~e..1                                          33          19            10                23
aumOd                                               1           1             _        1-
nm 0dm                                               1           1                      _ 
Mmi6t  9aA  fTainKs                                  6           3             _        _        6
c1 _                                                 2           2                      _        2 
l~ind~ia  rgo                                        3           2             _    _    3
2ld rIO OEfiC                                        1.11--                                                              9
Dr1wm                                                2-                                 -I
Sut                                                 21           - a           3                 14
9_a                                                18           10           3         1        14l



WM s=Mn  A cv Nm  31. UrN
________________________               i w*a    -in  civil BV.  Vav o       :v.   Om    mu
amav"rs  m*.Lw                                                                31
i~-   M-                 1 -lLl
1 ~ ~ ~     ~~        ~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1  -   
Cief                                 1            1            1 , _
watr                                        1           -      1         _    ,
Diverx                                              1 j                                  
0dxw1 17
ESdbtotal23   11   _1_ 
Sy.een    Ty*tI                                                  1                              I 1
Credit OfEtc                                           I             I              l-1
qF^l                         .     23_~~~~1 -1                         - 17                                 0 -
UP1ty Of fir                                        1                                           1 
Qudit coxdl ta5                                                  5                              5
-N*m                                                2            -              _ _             2
QwLis                                               4            1            -        -    I
Cdit A9gm1                                          2            2            _                 -
3ply )kos                                           2            _            _                 2
C annms "M.gu                                       4                                           4 _
S           Tyta                                    1 _        I      _     _                    1
Driv                                                7            _        i -_                   7
5          _                               5
Ldxgws                                ~~~~~~5                                      5  
a9toa                                           40          10            _        _        40
GTV mg,91                                            4           3             4                                    0 _-
Driver                                               1                         1        _        _
sd h                                            9           6             9 9



Jm   szUwac M or      3
.________________________ Togai  In civil pV.                                a _t.
Img
axu  d' 1                                                 1          1      _ 
Trainers ,                                     3         3           1     _        2
~mit W r6                                       5    _               5 _
ltivws                                          2         -          1              1
Sd obd                                      11        4          8   _           3
f f                                ~~~~~1   _    1 --
iM ozomtxr                                      1 _                  1 _ _
LTtny  dnmtb                                    1    _               1  _  _
4At Crdimtw                                 I         _          1      _        _
af   ll       ___   __    _    __           5         -          5  -    _
IDThL                                   359       161        178   25        156
.                      ,-        _            _     -        _    .~~~~~~~~~~~~~0(
aQ *IE
0s 



R1             etc.
wl mziW Amyo ur iui
AM: Aamn   DLYEK  vm
DDUSBI                            At fAt AfAa'A £13asi CD..iV                                                                                eweetli.
-                  -          -                ^  -  ---- *6                                          4#
8...-   I  S 1% ~  1~   % s { * e* w e     ^ it A  t".                     1' 11                ] %SA  Sri #        %.SW
aQ nr11tRACU                                                            ow /Rv;k I.'            t.hf            -      I" J e  _lsriemrsr# lw  94m;o-4 
03 R*dp4nt-Othw              J'So                                 -  -                           _-                      711                  >     n  |   "
04 Salarm                    ots    n4    0' 40 *L 4             446  0t   4C4  3no  s           As to       g                            4,6  am    % 
04  aarln                   "31t0 S         %  4kg  4981.4    4336  393  0434  4136 *n  n  tS   4       w   all    PB       I1            I" *    .
03    to   VI's tt    *nO   SI,           St"mrnt-OU,er    e. n,    _,                        jA            U    4         .,
toI:  64                            49    6966 rSWIm1   W r  l                  gm5  IK6          im         m        at    
OB Odinoeratpi. ,             %   s# 339    ,1 ".I es   13 g   1 it"l                   13$:                                               Item   te  43    91,3  ISWj
.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8
gn                                                                               ii       "in IKs I-i I  I  I                                          ant
101*obd                 04         gm *0, sI e   43    is  "in 4, 1" 31 13  e|                 |     ie is       | Ulm  41| 46,  Ob |  *41,
12   g           i    ell :1    :         1   KII        I          .1  ß               I'l       I   1      1     1tl         I              ':
InA   I        A.51 tf     101   1 *1 4 991 OVN   4%1  11" Us  tUbI T  MI  WM  1                  int         my            .1
4S Oiar c.Icmt                Sm   363   is,  iee   Sew  43,  3k   .19   56   iee  446   V,   Pete It                                                  iu. |  t 
6Slli*ctlS                 .4w   fi l    , Lin  4339. *"    lt          "    ,l4ti&*    ,l4tII GIb  03  66  he    nm 56                               s
dialB  |  s*X l a@1 t.1 astj tU4430433                               6,848** *1?~                                          .1 X .1  t     UM 
AM imuaxum no~ LPJWVcKs mOVzMis
09  Imattucti 
10 3dipt-Othwr               3136      *                                 a                 fl                                                    $aS43     Kel   5
3  C   C   tin    e      *~~~d      V%                                                                 so      b e e C    e  e eae   Ic
13 1bcmdc1 Assistanc           It"    4*     e   ine   e1          -V le 
14 Xrj*s.qric. i,puts          16                 its  'A3   C.,   be   la8  31.    Se   Oft  3,1  96    4Ml                                     443WI*qi
Sle   li      3fe    i. iil.    34               ,   Ie85    9336 at           M                 4t         4      a"*   ig
15 Daft Omenn                 %)       0    ,,     0   16     KS1  ?S    56           IG931 U            W tb4' 133                               as  3U
l6 Salawies                  (Iv..    a      C 13C 413 In         463.   %  389  8,  4634   813   43.45A    Sol   1,           413         Wi    355   P%
17 othe  operaticiw           3k I%u     A eg I all   8489   I,s  hue  In$   Al arme  Scite  11,6 6916  mu3   to                          1      *54 4
61WI -



3%
'44
"I4  0
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a g                                                            RDTU*~C
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ' pg s .*B  L  t*   "*                                           smIT.zwC3d Z C
El., all.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~p                                             rpTZ
'                lot Sis          waiX
est  nup  so  pute t%  to"g               n    Dow  SC obu.t  6^  tMsl  "Of IUist                     SD       e
'I    I   IL'nI   I   I   I   I   "ZDI   I   11"~I   I           II     r  It I    I quuI 11EL
'  I  1~           I        I          "'6  I  I""'Ic 1   1' 1   1                                     I I   I CZ I   I""I    I   I"1I
SIR                       eV  MP ps ig sn Vz nt m% mk pis  Im   $1 gS  si ti "M  0   9b |   SZ
I  I                                                                                s 1   1   1   1   W*1   1   1^t1   1   F  1   1   1""1   1   Fz   wIl s
_   _   _      :     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~09 é z :n   '      u*4                        pi1'
W*l "mas an       Ill     es P  im  as* 11% mt *es 'Ju     I} lt     mt It at                   "tto morm}io s
'       01110   I"A           I" -w am  fa 1was met  1^ oih -ma lw' 18seat  so1 WI Z
I . k_ F I~~~~~~~~~~Wol                 ~,^1"gat11-^ .#w>IwL                         <     8ttawl  TV0*
wpis     000          I"ts         04"          "814         met~~~~~~~~~~~~uzwTs 
tit flat w,   InJ      et  "I  "t  Idit  +wts ow  6   t%ntrI   t Ur        a        "I GEd
pfl,~d'i    D*,IV          tVv~Sv          le i_e"



411             4Art             AIJ               4t,             Afr                     J"       cta4.
alMm  o                  ff-iv  &t * 4V  ' -t  6fe    t  o._ ft;4t t     % A0V Jlrft orn  Y. Ae-*w Ae           ,.Ol A,a I- x*' e, ft;  XX   %J
______r *i'v 4..fit Iftfst pfe' >d AGwzj%  Ca of   /fro;% te   of.m *'f           .  1"         g"   I     I 4f j  %AJ
34 Salaies                 -    -    -    -                                                                      - -  -    -    - * 1  -    -    -  h
35 OEewaticn-%tcles        4WD   its  4,1  If"  U       k .   Im    sr, 4.         41n US   lg                                               cr , Sk
36 Othr Operatics             .  43" *W/          uts aESS   Usi usL tIds  a4      t1l               MS  4.                           4;
*aii       I                                                      I:                        : it
CX05 SUP       >IPs CRW   NuLQ  INUIS
A&&  Ati           At~~~4S              "'iA'f                Cv       'sin    .s
-A k   4w   A A. 'A A *  "TAtj"   A iw   t .l |                             _       ..
37 Irp'Fanrdng                   "       I                I                                                             W s :1    1  I  II
N
3840bJtG                       II    I   ,1                   1          111
42 HcaiIpwar                    a. AIMD                                 aArr  M tM
U41 EBp*t     raft Minvkls       is            4Q 4in a   "  tn   a       i         |||i
42       zn Iws                                                                     I|



D     599                4*4       AS&         4Fj       At*  A|     f  dt           - C
"JZi.t 1  zr*  ,I. bAI8  l..S;t'#     deL^ %i..j ~1j;7J   tj*4jw"; J&.* 1%A.
n .,I~-'1ca            *l   I      wI       we                 11            I 
Isr        I A                     ligi sit~j
45 Cbwbnwtim      me        :a 4P.M.N0.i0)mt9I1bi                              .I~
4B DVutDV-I_ _ m' AM
1~~~~~~~~k   I   cu 1             I"" 1  1lm    I  1 1m111   HI  I  I  1A14Q  I  I
40 Sa1axias
5        1  1i1 c                         1 1A                11d1     11 "   
52 0dw QmtMa  
a.  tow          I                     -1 N..........1  4 --I .1  I            Ii  I  I
lam~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Coe   tX M  cD r: CINI:
A14          al          ttt                                            tons
53   _      "il   I   '- Rclw   I s       I         _       *   *-  I I  *
54s                               I              1 .d  *"  .eJ l I,.*1         I  l I           I I  I I ..
56*1                     I 2    k       1  1            I     I
Iwi ~   ~      I  I; I  '-I-H   -I     I   I ßH 1 -- I -I -I  Ii-   lum  hI - I
57  lmat1cibh  1e
TOMl 1- I- 1---     I -  -4Lfk4--A



Do     _ I ND MsKH                    MDsF
All                            All*1           Ai#.            Aer              AtlG.,r "iuta
59~^                                  tt  iti I                                              --| ^   ~ ^^n
59 Ai.L  1d_ to.#"  VA         * . .NA 12D4%   am ,Z      %i.i 1* . kIW d I% AI   fmt     IAJ #i _ |        JR Ati i
60                           _sss a.  a{f*. 5V    414i/V"' is "s                                                   *.i.s ,.1 ftL1 u_ _ O  aIS  n
6                            7                     _Go"u^ U U  nf  ,u s"ut4s 4 ;
62soa 
63. I                                                                                   II I   I               "I I    am I11
641    1 TIs                                                                                                               a-i s   too"  0      16  S**1
65 Solarim                                Iga                                                                             30.1    *
66 qMmtUmwOthw                            Xs    at   u amns s e6                                                         1 "in  sw     w t"n m
a               I 1  q 41                                                       II1 1. '1
go Cwwinr                                                                                                      SPO frm    a..1i
l                                 I                                          I    I               I |                        I
n S                      4-   9.   0.@* 46.  4841   V"  43..  3.         45. --I iß.|  a1*n * tl Lie  |                   Sass  3|1   1$ @" "
L                     I~                    4831 4lq X1  80.48SF      '' o1  '"'1 4& I4J1   "s '     1    13  1           M 1
D10                UVI D  1335: se     mnm
D       -.~~D
n  <~ ~~~~~4.  uIi I,a I- I    I a~I  Iou  61I .b. I                     "~ Ie I    I  Iu. |u |          I  I    I    I ~ I   I"^1
In    _ U                       "a- £j aj *s    .            I    l  - i 1.1 *1  1 41h1 tta*    Ml   i                                       a *e  te   hut  110.
741                                                             466A'l l8*    *  l |  '    UV"  Stu1  01   1        | |&^    : "    t
7 -                        89M  itsI %u, 9I0 4S#          1    I    {   n1 m    m    6    I"   m    "A          8 S       iIn" sub I4 
76  zunaet                                                                                                                            OxI
i 0U41



aet            a ss           ASl           Aft                            Al6 S         s.fId
tTe1i"ad R.#. Ia.. *jj ~IQ  l.-as. I am  %w  t*.  AW  %.t so    g'* si &M  .1.. Ik#o % AJ 9..  AL% .
77 T2ctudM1 A1*ulrM                    i . t   i,A    e 6m& .t .4a i*,*  Svt  #.W   er.Z. &L#   Mi. 4   S4 JJ         .t p. _L a.
78 1_da  Adla^t  wm                             ...         I- , -^, ^F_ * -  - -; --    -                           -.
79 s  #                               1Aui_                                                                         ni.. _u, _  v..
80    O tl      *v  . *    * 011W    *   . * %   Smi 6s   .i  wb  _                                                 u  .n __ *,z
1I t"| I I   -I - | I h    I I ~ I   I"noa                            1111 an1
-  Rl
"d qpwtilj                 0    n        "it1"     ^t t"                lowl M.|                                    406"||   b     .|       b        *z   
84~~~~~~~~~J ßt *; tirfticit   t wa W q tl trtue  * t'5  gm1 "v   *aft  IV  it   t                            "he1^
M Aam-Othw          gin I   4I                            Ij .                          I *It                  91 tJ     *,-I  15 44 n1 0, 4191   "I   1    11  <5.1
83        w               49     1  1    M-I 1        I3 nW    IS    I ifij    I 13  $.*I  Ib      I   I1,1  31   1 41 1 *t
|~~~~~i                    4Ib| | | S1N| |ie    IN   n, |6. |.    5tjmIS    |3~   | 89                    13|||   tr 
7am                |4 1    I           I"*  I |   |  .sJ   |    |I'uf"  I   I|   |  tH  I    I|    |   I   I   I    I    I|a&  1 I    I
M14 AMI &V             AE) ,_
103 Studim                       .1 .1j                         1 .1.1_1 .1 *j1...            ^1 .1 .jsea. I.1   1   1  1   311
lO'SMe                          * *| 'l'        l 5 1  v.4e   *s u141            i*,t|                |m                n     us
lot 'Io o                        *1  4I                     a 'I   'tar
lXlL               jIJs.. I       j4&41UI    I    tt.s.l I'    '          I     496'     I '       I           e I  I"InJ    I
,12 INL  5I;UG CM
}   " ^ - 1 f.i  @1  .1    1    1    1   1    1   1'.'1'4~~~~~~'1    1   1   1    1  4         1g1g               'fi51so  1
85       34-Mici 
98          A _gstc-
91 Iocdudsl Ainistm



-1U4    .    A&            41,3S                      AS                         cv'""
t". 4.~ 5*~    fA          416  4M  . .U -EV  1'& dei |% 4.    A."       AdI Et   h t  4.
93fl~ fHj3WwluIm   *
97  {gsJmqc.s *-oi -                                   .8  .iLs4                                    [.       [ 
rXF"1F                  l"'    I-   Fr-nI i:I4lI    I -I""'IYI                    it       I'l-'-l-li"   I
1n3  iSi R. In
al        ~~~I 4s'-f  *I 'Is" 1i~     I far1I l I  <         |   |I  I   I   I   I   I   I Ihhi    I
101 |tm-hc           w1 *    }x       a      lt  l u.s   _   tI  ial SI  t*       I   I   I   I        *s I  *m 
9*ato      a P' I   F-   {fI"1 os 114          ' -T4.h.lI    di               I      I           wI w
99 Tedwdeld An  jst           4*I   I   fIsaw   *        1.61.1  I          I   1   f   I   I           u  I
L~~~~~~~~~- f's.a    I 1>           ft-    I   1 %U 1         1r  1    1    1   1 I   I    tJ      ßo1



- 127 -                        ANNEX 11
Table 4
SUMH1ARY TABLE OF EXPENDIFAD  SFINAfiEpANER IDA CREDIT 1285 BF
:C..*6801LS  *  Statement.1                                 __ _E __ _h __CR
I a    I09 Oj        Oa   m Ctmoti                     i   5.765.234
1  a      la 04. Costrwuotion                     448'-'4
I  b       01ot   A 01_ Comsottioa                        2 0.843.188
I          t   772    D. D1. C@1trZ9tiola                      17667-1I0
I II. I        10      A 02         Bt                     I 1   534. 406
l          I           £0 s 2   x4~Itfin it                5 1   1736781
I I  29               IB 04                 1                  3.56a.558
t 1.  30 I B004  nF4~t.                   j 304dn0         1     389.841
I          1  59    tD 09 Eml'ont-'hhic1m                  I  7.700-000
t          1  61       D 09 *agd  mnt-OUDw 4 4t            1    o2 2-2 96
b      I  oa    IA 01 A qi3-nm Vshicldd                1  8.540.000
2 1  03    1A01 A a 44vnt-Oturo4t                          1 13.918.368
1          1  73    ID 11 B3iNMt-vic1e                     I 44.165.574
I          1   73    IUD 11 EQiot-aothw Epipmnt               12.834.136
1  86    I E 12 E3ipnt-V*hiSc3                 I  7.835.000
1  i  88    1~~~~~~~~~~~~1                        68.2
1  88      B E 12 04iuzt-O0r 4d4pnt            1
1    £         ~~~~~~A 02 1i za-auIzktsI
I  lila    1   14    1A 02 Dqt20rqat                               6.7
I       ~~~I U4    I A 02 Draft OHM                     I     a0687
I  15    1£O   atui                                   58.991
I          1   16    3A 02 Slarsb                          £  5.831.858
1          2  17    1 o02 Otrhw Opatias                    a  2.a55.369
!          1   31    I B 04 Trining                        1     698*640
3          1   3a    I B 04 Salaris                        1 14.689.2a8
I          I  33    1 5 04 oubr Opti rs                    1    277.203
1  65    1 D 09 Suarid                           27I-2341
Ib      I99        IF g 13 Opnratk sI    878.0S2
I          I          t1                                   2.*67.857.055
I o        1  04    I A 01 Solaris                         1 479-353.54B
I          1.. 05  - AO:l mnsdf                            1  13.748.630
I      *  71~~?    IDlO0Smi,rxs                        1  10.877.437
as    I 8t      D 21 Othwr qW&tkmotf        1 14.498.315
£          r  93    tE12 SlarbI 330.142.558
£         33 12 MIan= 5calablwmu
I          Iv.  t   1      A 02 SAtsI                            504.000
3          3  13    £A02 T∂dmiSAdc     tnal                I
I          I         £ D 09 S"iUS                          I     504S.000
I  b       1  78    I D11 Todhniaa Adst-nce                1   1.677.700
I          1  79    I D 1 hidits                           1 46.804.832
I            . 90    I E 12 T1fmiu1 Aidstaunc              I     532a.555
I          t   98    IF 13 Tetkoa AJ1stae                  1   4.437.736
3          I  o t4   I G 14 Sbzil                          I as840344
1  3    3~~~~~~~~~~~~1a,?28k
I   V      I3105    3                                          a73.4
£          |         | G 14 To be .roud                       3733;8.;5 r-
I          I          I                        TO?AL       j 984.367.007
I ~                I                                    J



- 128 -                        ANNEX 11
Table 5
muNW wz O  UDMr    FDmO   UN= O            ?Dr 58.24.008.2.o8e
Smogy Statwt* Nt,     omvWt UXI TS Of Dwogiiwtl             I omulative hIcunt
*p.a                                                           3
5-    0   -    IA.S - CosaEaoio                 (               .~&.
I              a I   - .    tp Othw EViig*                 g   it oaa.37
5     11       3  mn_ _     115. 53
t     1t       I M  _n_ _ Sbu.                                   336.000
1  13       Sinm i    Tnchsiwd c1Amistan                I
a                        -        't
|               __Dx   hrrnt                                  339* 328
I             :"n I n,-afnt Omn                             3*@888890
t     17       g _nw_S.a:i                          .        _1]E]t_
a ~ ~  ~     ~    ~ a
a*  1 &003 -sainim                     1~~~~ 4.438.352
20 3^t@03   "A                                              1.736.893
as                                                     i__. 15,011434
23       amt"I -.   "   '.c1                             6.804.727
1     M        140 low- -O""r qpxatfi                      0   7-077-300
Qm tzuctJcn of livwct t                     413 554,70a
t  38     B OS& _ o   wticn                             299149I a i4.66
£     as   n_.04- _  CgtIN 5t w2374*437
a                *                                         I     230  t  n  _ B*dpmnt-othw mwk     259.894
31         ,  _ T"ani                                      465-i760i
34            -',                                           1&~937.5O0
0  35            salarie| ps   -                    i   8.736.337
a              I   -   n   cF3   t kars                        7U7t53Z
4il       c,a6 -                 nI
1  3        1      m Owp*-te O w,,Xz
a~s   UI ,07~tI1O             _       D                    I
4 9         1 _n_w _  ez a1   6,2120447
£              I      .t-. 9.7
1     53       I C.0                                       a  25.6a9.780
I     3'       I E"m_ - a     t-Otkmr Dq4T*                       219.000
*  1.1.     a        saai                                  1."4
I              a I.~ D  0_44ank     1                      : a  t0  2*00a0000
1     6 km 8ii~t w_ _          a*-Othw 3*4mnt              a   5.059.487
1 6S   1    I!P_ wuU Sr ;, 
5      6s      1 m"mueShnlada                              t    .5-330.946
a              £$  I ,"_ _ ral^.SI                         1    3.661.500
r              a I           t                             g   6.792,010
3  70       a.-~-Othw rpwtiau                                   !567
I      8*        1                                            i0. 1 982682
I t03   ta.t                                        I    3.896.825
o10      t   ". _ Sbxi                               2   17.690.S66
I        t        b~~~~~T be a4Lvd                       a 1370
a              I        1Lbs~md                IOTSJa      3".3   768.068
I              Ia
I              Ia



- 129 -                          ANNEX 11
Table 6
SLYYW WNE  OF ENO1∂UTS Co<T1UD BY GOV   lPWOF BUF4Ns FW90
t Summary                  Component and Type of Expenditure   aiti(.en v.Ci
Statement No,  -
06         A M     laV                                    a .a.08 la8
07        t  a     Xt1 MDiC1                                1*.760.9ao
X4          Dn                                             sa  M  Su
I  am.aooo
t      9,        1 9  E 12 S3arrd*                             I
I                £s  |                  *                                  '7A
t I I                                                           I.   -7X535
;t        £ P 13 Slie                                         s 39ao037
g tZ | w ItA
102                                             61~~~~~~~~~~t97.097
|   |  "      O      C                 iL       I~~~~~~~10  304:97O.OaG



- 130 -
ANNEX 12
Table 1
I
g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t rzI ot IR r4 3m ss
{] ! X X ~~~~~~~~~~v 1.0    ( 1 
<"1 bE



- 131 -
ANNEX 12
1Mm - -  Q (In aw
1987-68Ag 1ial2"a kAin
Sudt*m             1st b1aictim                 95
A bSelectio                 70
m_M*d by Qualty.                                94.25
s9                                              50
Millet                                          65
main                                            50
Mainfed Riesn                                   95
FORMIUM                           ~~~~~~~~14D
Graaft3t                                        75
Cbaum                                           80O
100



- 132 -
ANNEX 12
Table 4
BGEIsS C a    - PRI; (1987-8 Sma
(in CW/hwotae)
1.  Dyleents                  1,800        1,800
2.  ?ztilpose Ozltiatx        5,665        5,665
(65,000 F/S yeuu/3 ha)
3.  Cart                      2,000        2,000
(100,000 F/10 yers,/S h))
4.  Feed
- 250 kg of asKI-atton
at 17 FAg - 2,450 F
- 5 kg of salt lidc
1,625 P
3nuwimizatiz - 1,125 F
Totalpmir of oa3 ha -
14,000 F     4,665        4,665



-3, M?. inIL  ZLTMM   FMRq               -          2
(1987 FimKcing Price, in (MF)
ogtivated Yield    OiPi    Vtht of  MC                 Ikeva           a   b w_ctii           V
cuP          (ha         _t                 O_ .    Fftiw           Pti.    -mb*           Pfiiemat
Cti  0.80       1,160       928    87,464    12,205         1,964        320         12,358        1,440          110
rsghu         1.30        950    1,235    61,750       1,087          221        780            325        2,340          130
Mlllet       0.55         700       38S    25,025        460           39        330            137          990           51
"Mim         0.50       1,050       525    26,250      2,247          m          769            125          900           50
JDnfeI
RiCo       0.09         930        84      7,990       329           93         97             23          162            5
rcundnut    0.17          670       114      8,550   £                           865             42          306           20
Sin          0.09         400        36      2,8E0   £  690            52         40             23          162           10
Cmqws        0.10         650        6S      8,450   £                           209             25          1O            I1
QtIuxs       0.30          -         -      35,0oO    £                          300             75          540           30
1t*al        3.90          _         -    243,349    17,018         3,141      3,710         13,133        7,020          417
_,_._                 -                          - a                                                               . -  -
a* tauts:                         44,022
Nat W1Bu4: 199,327
Net Vb1usvnnrdAy                     478        Et valuneA   - 51,109
I A 
I-a



-W   m, mmnfw"     am  Fur -  aQE
(1987 Finnncing Price, in (C1A)
QlltiVWtm   YiGed    OlXtPa   'Mu Of  SW            Ikea          ard3 Mi! 1zct1cide    iari us    hnini1
CM          (ha)       ___    21         -tM       IfttIMl      F~larU    ∂Weatot   PeBtJcid                   Fft.!   lie
CbOta        2.40      1,400    3,360   316,680    36,617       5,892       960        37,075        18,396     11,196 266
Bars%mm      2.60      1,210    2,146   156,300     2,174         443     1,56G          6&0        19,929      12,129 234
Millet       0.35        790      277    1s,oos       293          25       261            8e         2,683      1,633  27
HizM        0.90       1,370    1,233    61,650     4,044       1,390     1,384          225         6,899      4,193  85
iiui±    0.05        900       45      3,375   £                        155            13           345        233   5
Others       0.10        -         -      5,000   £  157           12       100           25           766        466   9
1*1l1        6.40     _            -    562,010    43,205       7,762     4,524        38,076       49,018      29,156 626
Mht VWm:                       36,493
Net vm.%&nvw                      622        Not vabW        60,8S



-  u,D Bwr m _            uL     P -             2 m
(1987 Fizwxlng Prioe, in C(EM
Oiltivated Yield    Oztp*   Nblur of  NIK           Ur"           and x    mDcticdL     varla.
C           (ha)      0         (k)   ..2p         FgtiZ        FftrtiL   %etwit    ftinidb            l          -H
CbtnI       0.60        870       522    49,199     9,154       1,473       240         9,268       1,080          83
SbrWhun     2.10        760    1,596    79,800      1,756         358     1,260          525        3,780         210
Millet      1.20        720       964    56,160     1,003          86       720          300        2,160         no
Mpia        0.90        830       747    37,350     4,044       1,390     1,384          225        1,620          90
ranfed
Rice      0.03         760.      23     2,185       110          31        32            7           54           2
Grourdmut    0.65       700       455    34,125   a                       3,315          163        1,170          77
Pmqpelu     0.75        450      315    44,100   £                        1,047          175        1,260          70
9esomm      0.25        370       93      7,440   £ 2,581         196       131           63          450          28
Cwem        0.30        570       171    22,230   £                        627            75          540          34
Timers      0.32      4,150    1,328   132,800   £                       32,ooD           80          576          80
Cthrs       0.25         -        -      12,500   £                         250           62          450          22
teaW        7.30                       477,889    18,648       3,534    40,996        10,943       13,140        906
7btal CbosW:                    87,251
Nat Valm:                      390,638
Net vkaue/mjbw                    485        Not valuAB  - 53,512



acwnG BwaHr, uwP           anirxvm ..-  - sNm   zi
(1987 Fizwcinr Pdi, in am
Are 
Oiltivated Yield  0*Pt   W MOf 1  r                tkle          ard   IrzucUcide      VrlLA      Ai8al
(hL)        Ow    g    kiW       (g)    Qpt       rtU w FetL nfa                    ttcd              amrstd
Cttn        2.50      1,200    3,000   282,750    38,143       6,138     1,000        38,620       19,163      11,663  278
9M*m        3         1,110    3,330   166,500     2,508         511     1,800          750        22,995      13,995  260
KUlet       1.10        840      924    60,060       920          78       660          275         8,432       5,132   85
palte       2.40      1,190    2,846   142,800    10,784       3,707     3,691          600        18,396      11,196  228
Finfed rice 0.03        760       23     2,1B5       110          31       32             7           230         190    2
Gtcundnut    0.80       950      760    57,000   £                       4,080          200         6,132       3,732   86
Pbsplum     0.30        500      150    21,000   E                         449           75         2,300       1,400   29
cueme*      0.30        400      120     9,600   E 2,686         204      133            75         2,300       1,400   32
Ctbpqam     0.50        600      300    39,000   £                       1,045          iz          3,832       2,333   54
TUbers      0.45      4,1!50    1,868   186,800   £                     45,0oW          112         3,449       2,099  113
Others      0.22         -        -     11,000   £                         220           55         1.686       1,026   20
Total      11.60 o            _        978,695    55,151      10,669    58,110        40,894       88,914      54,161 1,197
_                                                                                              -_-
Total Ctets:                  307,854
Net Vblue:                    670,841
Net Vb1ue,oi-d.y                  560        Net valueAs - 57,831
II 



ImczsmT.al                                                                              Yews 7 to 20
Qztpz (tow)               I          Pr2         PY3      P4          PS         PYS     (200Q/2003 S9um)
Cttm                  9,186        9,314       12,656    19,9D0    37,703      35,656     35,226 ({otit aot of 61,000
S a*=                 2,654      - 5,560        2,456     5,211    15,670       6,860     6,800 (amstm* a*pt of 87,0OD t
Millet             - 1,429       - 1,520        3,312    4,233      2,159       6,565     8,200 (amstwt o*pt of 25,000 t
Vai                   5,736        2,400     -   296     9,933     20,375      14,120     23,240 (amwtut  atpt of 50,000 t
Qtxuumu            - 1,225       - 1,475     - 1,509       330      1,751       1,625    -  235 (amtt watp  of 8,OODt
in *dll
Pices (OP/t)
O*bm                 35,000       35,000       35,00D    35,0OD    35,0D0      35,000     35,000
Sm*um                50,000       50,000       50,000    50,000    50,000      50,000    50,000
Millet               50,000       50,000       50,000    50,000    50,000      50,000    50,000                              t
Mai                  50,000       50,000       50,000    50,000    50,000      50,000    50,000
25,000       25,OOD      25,000    25,000     25,000     25,000     25,000
@1ueof Oapt
(in 1000 l
aDttm               321,510       325,99D     442,960   696,535  1,284,605   1,247,960  1,232,910
SxOM                132,700     - 278,000     122,80   260,550    783,50D     343,000    340,000
Millet            - 71,450      - 76,000      165,60D   211,650    107,950    328,250    410,000
main                286,800       120,000    - 14,300   496,650  1,018,750    706,000  1,162,0O0
G_  n_t           - 30,625      - 36,875    - 37,7X       8,250    43,775      40,625  -  5,875
Total (1000 (7W)    638,935        55,115     679,335 1,673,635  3,238,58D   2,665,835  3,139,035
'0I-3



__ _ _ __ _ _ 7S  um  1OYTL nDawTL afnw W1M    FRNfl  TIG    aP 
flOZUUIfthl                                                                               Years 7 to 20
outpLt (tzw)            PYI           PY2         PY3      PY4         PY5        P6       (2002/2003 Sbaci)
Cbtt                  8,953         8,846       ll,714    17,947     32,255      30,539      30,171
Sorghmu               2,586      - 5,281         2,273     4,699     13,771       5,876       5,824
Millet              - 1,393      - 1,444         3,066     3,817      1,897       5,623       7,023
Mbize                 5,590         2,280     -   265      8,95B     17,906      12,094      19,905
Qrcuxku1t in il    - 1,194       - 1,401      - 1,397        298      1,539       1,392    -    201
Prces (C19F/tgn)
Ootbon                35,000       35,000       35,000    35,000     35,000      35,000       35,000
s8czuu               50,000        50,000       50,000    50,000     50,000      50,000      50,000
Millet                50,000       50,000       50,000    50,000     50,000      50.000       50,000
maime                 50,000       50,000       50,000    50,Q00X    50,000      50,000      50,000
GQuzurt               25,000       25,000       25,000    25,000     25,000      25,000       25,000
Value of Oitput
(in 1000 CUF
Cbtbm                313,355      309,610      409,990   628,145  1,128,925   1,068,865    1,055,985                             c
SorguM               129,300    - 264,050      113,650   234,950    688,550     293,800      291,200
Millet             - 69,650      - 72,200      153,300   190,850     94,850     281,150      351,150
maina                279,500      114,000    - 13,250   447,900    895,300      604,700      995,250
GrvjnfLt*          - 29,850      - 35,025    - 34,925      7,450     38,475      34,800  -    5,025
l'tal (1000 CPFM     622,655       52,335      628,765  ,509,295  2,846,100   2,283,350    2,688,560
_ __ __ _. _ _ _ . . . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



as(TN 1000 ci
Aticu1t,x Itur8 al/                                  19E4       1985/     19E6tM7   1987188
smewus             _   .i_ PY               WY2        P!3      PY4        PY5       P16
agdaicltaur ard IJAestock     85,562      139,478    109,518   151,569   50,136     12.4
(Qte2-ict3 1, 2, ard 3)
VIlage Q4ps (Omp. 4)           4,727       13,317     13.872    18,763    21,819     34,985
Crmdit O(eNim T1woz           81,467       65,248     82,756   55,493    75,989      83,030
(Omp. 6)
Annl rputs (Cm"s. 7, 8)       21,000       21,838      5,769   22.914    1,432        2,415
Afist'  ticnNritorng          71,874       83,972    113,980   148,295   125,927     98,498
(Om". 9, 10, 11).
Nmdy-6ettied rswtmaIIsts       37,650      31,241     35,968    7,607    55,854      12,7918
(Ocp. 13)
Ntqdorel Iraining Oenber         -         61,078    50,431   61,698       -            -
(Op. 12)
Ta1 (With uap. 5)            3029280      416,172    412,294   466,329   331,157    344,572
TO1  in mtinO cams PY1       302,280      385,349    353,475   370,106   243,410    234,510
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 



COS1S oF C toNer 5 (IN 1000 CFM'
_tdal                   1928            1983.44         19845           19./86          19E6B7          1987/88
seeens=                         FY1             P r2           PK3              PYN             FY5             PY6
-K Fertiliuw (tim.)         2,370  265,440   4,179 468,048   4,983 558,096   2,983 334,096   4,703 526,736   5,515 617,680
Urea Fbrtiliuw (tomn)          40    4,480     131  14,672    823  92,176   1,030 115,360   1,987 222,544   2,827 316,624
Oatton Ihnecticidoo (lit.)    59,477   89,215 123,027 184,541 148,157 222,235 12,263 192,395 224,052 336,0   251,582 377,373
Ibt   for Cbnpoet 5                359,135         667,26          872,50          641,85         1,085,31        1,311,677
ARM   12     Table 13
TW   WTIS  (IN lO0 (CF)
Agrisultural                 19Q2/83     1983/94    l984/95     19%5/86    19M87        1987/88    Years 7 tD 20
sosncaM                        PT1        PY2        PY3          PY4        PYS          PY6
WmN. CDCMPw? 5              359,135      667,261    872,507     641,851   1,05,358    1,311,677      1,311,677
IU.L JhER COMFCNES          302,280      385,349    353,475     370,186     243,410      234,510        117,313
flWEMNL IBM                 86,000     168,000    246,000      321,000    365,000       365,000        365,000
'uwoo CIs                   747,415    1,220,610   1,471,982   1,333,037   1,693,768   1,911,187      1,793,990
wENEr15Y                  622,655      52,335     628,765   1,509,295   2,846WfO     2,283,315      2,688,560
NU  Fiwm                  - 124,760    1,168,275    843,217     176,258   1,152,332      372,128        894,570



MAP SECTION



IBRD 15915R
BURKINA FASO
HAUTS-BASSINS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1  .__.J/ \XX    t n                                       PROJET DE DEVEZOPPEMENT AG04/COCE DES HAUTi-BASS/NS
CM   SeN S  )-
. OA                 S                                                                                         h|i- Ie c*a.,d
ABA ~  ~                                                                                                        G-  {     A,J..A.  
* _   *                                                                                        /  \   N  ,e/  t\Se   \ 2    2\    fit A/ S -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C A .,   e   ~
6-.rx  Ate///r    /1                                                                                           X                    X-8_tNEvZ
!,DJGOUERA   /         ORi-   .Jc,.foA
N7  0LAQ                                                                                                    MAL         F          NIGER,-
O"L.             IENA                                      'Olossm -F- \o/f  \                                 r        BURKINA FASO -
2 r\ i/ ---s    \ \  \ o-    tJ                                                                     - -ilAe D> OO  3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--D-.6P- A
t.b.i-_.__,.d.pk,.MI.p-R.RA.WHMkA.                                                            ___                                 r,TDRStDAotED;                    .A-
_KIL,R_dRS       o'@  2         Ö         ∞ -O COX'4vZ-REl  Nr IN
S  Th.~~~~~~b...p..p.,.AyThRAMfrA'..tff..&.A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A.~~~  ~~00  AORD d ,.
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ WH- .1R
GHANAof
10COlE  DIV0IRE h9        JULY 1






