Document of
The World Bank    I LE COPU r Y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3362-UV
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$4.7 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
FOR A
HAUTS-BASSINS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
July 8, 1982
Western Africa Region
This document has a resricted diribution and may be sed by recipients eniy in the perfenance of
their official dus. Its contes may not otherwise be dbdosed without Wolid Bank authorizion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
SDR 1        =   US$1.12    =   CFAF 336
US$1.00      =   SDR 0.89   =   CFAF 300
CFAF 1,000   =   US$3.33    =   SDR 2.96
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
ABBREVIATIONS
AVV       Volta Valleys Development Authority
CCCE      Central Agency for Economic Cooperation (France)
CNCA      National Agricultural Credit Bank
FAC       Fund for Aid and Cooperation (France)
IRAT      Tropical Agriculture and Foodcrops Research Institute
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development
MRD       Ministry of Rural Development
OFNACER   National Cereals Agency
ORD       Regional Development Organization
PY        Project Year
SOFITEX   Voltaic Textile Fibre Company (Parastatal)
FISCAL YEARS
Government:           January 1 - December 31
ORD:-                 April 1 - March 31
IDA:                  July 1 - June 30
Project Year 1:       July 1, 1982 - March 31, 1983
Project Year 2-5:    April 1 - March 31



UPPER VOLTA              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HAUTS-BASSINS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      The Republic of Upper Volta
Amount:         SDR 4.2 million (US$4.7 million)
Terms:          Standard
Project
Description:   The main objectives of this project, which follows the first
West Volta Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 706-UV), but
is confined to the Hauts-Bassins area, are to raise domestic
food production, increase cotton exports and improve the
quality of rural life. Specifically it aims to: (a) encourage
improved manual cultural techniques amongst traditional farmers;
(b) promote the integration of livestock and agriculture, and
the use of organic fertilizer and animal traction; (c) promote
and monitor measures which may lead to cheaper alternative
chemical fertilizers; (d) encourage the use of inputs including
selected seeds to allow further production increases by more
advanced farmers; and (e) foster further development of village
groups, and test a small literacy program for some of these
groups.
Benefits:      Agricultural extension services would directly benefit about
40,000 very poor farm families in the area, resulting in crop
production increases, higher farm incomes, better nutrition
and more on-farm employment. The livestock vaccination com-
ponent would benefit all livestock owners in the area by
reducing animal disease incidence; the village group support
program would bring greater self-reliance to the farmers in the
area; while the technical assistance component would help
improve local capability to operate and manage development
projects.
Risks:          There are no unusual technical risks associated with the
project. The proposed approach has already been tested
within the area and elsewhere in Upper Volta. Potential risks
are: inadequate use of inputs or a breakdown in the delivery
system due to difficulties in financing fertilizer subsidies;
possible constraints in the marketing system in providing an
outlet for the increased cereals surplus; slow farmer respon-
siveness; shortcomings of measures to counter the decline in
soil fertility and delays in funding of operating expenses by
Government. Recognizing these risks, particular attention is
being given to strengthening the role of village groups in
marketing, adaptive research, monitoring generally, and to
pursuing discussions with Government concerning a proposed
Fertilizer Credit under which subsidies would progressively be
reduced.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs (net of taxes and duties from which the project would be exempted):
Local     Foreign      Total
--------US$ Million--------
1.   Agriculture and Livestock             2.2         0.3         2.5
2.   Village Groups                        0.4         0.4         0.8
3.   Supplies and Credit                   3.1         2.9         6.0
4.   Management, Monitoring and            0.4         1.9         2.3
Training of Senior Staff
5.   Regional Training and Support         0.2         1.0         1.2
6.   Settled Pastoralists Extension         -          0.4         0.4
7.   Studies and Subprojects to be         0.3         1.0         1.3
Approved
Total Base Costs                   6.6         7.9        14.5
Physical contingencies             0.8         0.8         1.6
Price contingencies                2.4         2.3         4.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS           9.8        11.0        20.8
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
--------US$ Million------
External:
IDA                          1.8         2.9        4.7
France                       4.9         4.4        9.3
IFAD                         2.3         0.8        3.1
Upper Volta:
Commercial Banks             0.3         2.9        3.2
Beneficiaries                0.5          -         0.5
TOTAL                      9.8        11.0      20.8



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88
--------------US$ Million--------------
Annual                0.2    0.9    1.2    1.1    1.0    0.3
Cumulative            0.2    1.1    2.3    3.4    4.4    4.7
Rate of Return:       33 percent
Appraisal Report:   No. 3811-UV
Map:                  No. IBRD-15915



.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA FOR A
HAUrS-BASSINS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Upper Volta in an amount of SDR 4.2
million (US$4.7 million) on standard IDA termt  to hel, fiaance a Hauts-Bassins
Agricultural Developmei.t Project. The French Government will contribute
US$9.3 million equival&nt (comprising loans from the Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and a grant from the F(inds d'Aide et de Coopera-
tion (FAC)). The loans for medium-term agricultural credit, available in
annual tranches are expected to be on terms of 3 per:ent interest per annum
with repayment over 15 years, following a 5-year grace period. The loans for
other costs are likely to be in a three-year tranche, followed by a two-year
tranche, repayable over 20 years following a 10-year grace period on terms of
1.5 percent per annum during the grace period and 2 percent subsequently. The
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) will contribute a loan
of US$3.1 million equivalent on standard terms of 1 percent interest per annum
with repayment over 40 years, following a 10-year grace period.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum:  Upper Volta"
(2146-UV) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 14, 1979.
An updating economic memorandum is presently under preparation, based upon
a mission in February, 1982. Information obtained during that mission is
incorporated in the section below.
Socio-Economic Background
3.         Upper Volta is one of the poorest countries in the world with a
GNP per capita of US$210 in 1980. 2/ Over 80 percent of the population depend
on agriculture or livestock for their livelihood. Soil quality and rainfall
vary considerably across the country, in particular between the dry central
plateau and the wetter zone of the southwest. Over half of the population of
6.1 million (1980) is concentrated in this central region, which has resulted
in overcultivation of the already fragile soils and progressive erosion. The
sharp annual fluctuation in rainfall, few mineral resources, scarcity of roads
and other infrastructure, and long distances from the nearest seaports further
constrain the country's development.
1/   Parts I, II and III have been substantially revised since the President's
Report for the Third Telecommunications Project (Cr. 1235-UV, US$17.0
million, April 1982), and are identical to those in the Volta-Noire
report.
2/   National income and population data quoted here are based on recent
analyses and differ from figures in Annex I.



- 2 -
4.        The impoverishment of the central region has given rise to net
emigration to the coastal countries, mainly the Ivory Coast, of about 0.6
percent of the population each year, and spontaneous resettlement to the less
densely populated southwest. While internal resettlement and emigration
represent important avenues for many individuals to improve their incomes,
Upper Volta will face for some time a difficult challenge to raise the pro-
ductivity of food cultivation on the central plateau, which will continue
to provide the livelihood for a very large share of the population. The
opportunities for economic growth over the long term will not improve,
however, unless special efforts are made to accelerate the development of
human capital, in particular by raising the primary school enrollment rate
and life expectancy which are among the lowest in the world, at 20 percent
and 43 years, respectively.
Past Economic Performance
5.        Upper Volta's economic performance has in general reflected a
relatively prudent economic management. The Government's favorable record in
this respect, however, reflects more its inclination against active interven-
tion in the economy rather than a strong capability of policy analysis and
execution. Indeed, a problem is that the Government has provided only a
limited degree of coordination and oversight of investment planning and
budgeting, a weakness which extends to essential sectoral activities such as
agricultural research. This weak administrative capability has been put under
a special strain by the large inflow of foreign assistance and the prolifera-
tion of donor agencies which have become a feature of the Voltaic scene since
the major drought of the mid-1970s. The present Government, which came to
power in 1980, demonstrates an increasing inclination to proceed with some
major investments which have weak economic justification and will place an
undue burden on domestic financial resources (especially for operating costs).
It is also evident that the Government has made only limited progress in
implementing reforms to strengthen financial management.
6.        National Output.  Recently revised estimates of GDP show an annual
increase of 3.7 percent over the 1970-79 period, or about 1.8 percent per
capita. Real output of the primary sector, which contributes almost 40 per-
cent of total value-added, increased by about 1.5 percent annually, a perfor-
mance which compares favorably to that of other semi-arid Sub-Saharan Africa
countries and reflects the effect of development projects and reasonably
good sectoral policies. The livestock subsector showed no overall growth from
1970-79 in value-added. Industrial production, which accounts for about 13
percent of GDP, expanded by 4.1 percent per year over the same period. The
main sources of growth in the economy were public administration and other
services, which increased 6.0 percent annually. The greatest expansion in
these activities reflected the substantial increase in externally-financed
development projects following the drought.
7.        National income fell by 5 percent in 1980 as a result of poor rains,
which caused a decline in crop production of 15 percent, and the general
slowdown in economic activity preceding the military coup. The economy
rebounded in 1981, expanding about 9 percent above the previous year's low.



8.         Total gross investment averaged about 17 percent of GDP over the
past decade. The high incremental capital:output ratio (ICOR), which amounted
to 6.4 percent for 1976-81, reflects the dearth of productive resources
besides capital in the country, and the lack of coordination of public invest-
ment which is almost entirely externally-financed. The resource gap has risen
from 14 percent of GDP in 1970 to 24 percent in 1981, and domestic savings
have remained strongly negative throughout the decade. Most of this excess
consumption has arisen from the government sector. Because of workers
remittances, which largely supported private consumption, gross national
s vings have been only slightly negative or zero.
9.         Overall, the economy's performance during the past decade was better
chan average for the lowest income countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. However,
the dominant features of the Voltaic economy--the deterioration of soils on
the central plateau, the predominantly illiterate work force, vulnerability to
climatic variation and dependence on foreign capital--make it evident that the
country still has a very weak basis for sustained economic growth.
10.        Balance of Payments.  The balance on the external account has shown
a deficit for most years since 1976, in contrast to the pattern of surplus in
the early decade. The overall shortfall was estimated at CFAF 2.3 billion
(US$8.2 million) in 1981. Wide swings have been apparent in the export of
cotton and sheanuts, the main export crops, partly as a result of variations
in rainfall. Cereals, capital goods, and especially petroleum are the fastest
growing imports - to a great extent, however, these are counter-balanced by
grants (e.g. food aid) and loans for development projects. Although Upper
Volta clearly has a structural imbalance with respect to foreign trade, it is
likely that the availability of aid and remittances has enabled the demand
for imports to grow disproportionately. The balance of payments situation
therefore does not mark a need for policies to tightly restrict domestic
demand, but constraints on petroleum imports and measures to ensure buoyant
export sectors (especially cotton and livestock) will be important to achieve
greater stability of the external account.
11.        Public Finance.  Although the Government pursued generally conserva-
tive fiscal policies prior to 1975, this pattern changed with the expansion
of foreign aid at mid-decade. Budget deficits averaging CFAF 3.0 billion
(US$12.6 million) have appeared each year from 1976-80. A much larger gap of
CFAF 8.8 billion (US$31.4 million), or 2.8 percent of GDP, is estimated in
1981, with another shortfall expected in 1982.
12.        The deficitary trend has occurred despite a fairly buoyant perfor-
mance in revenue mobilization. Civil service salary raises have been well
below the rate of inflation, and the Government has recently tightened certain
administrative expenditures. Financial losses of the parastatal sector,
although they are beginning to reach an important scale for certain enter-
prises, have not been a factor to date in the overall budgetary situation.
Although there are specific areas where tax and expenditure reforms are
needed, for the most part the deficitary trend has arisen from the widespread
expansion of government activities in many sectors as a result of development
investments.



- 4 -
13.       As the first generation of development projects financed after the
drought come into their operational phase, the Government is going to be faced
increasingly with new recurrent expenditure obligations.  Yet at present the
Government has no consolidated investment budget, nor are the recurrent
expenditures of investment projects taken into account in the preparation of
the national budget. The Government and the Bank have for the past two years
been discussing an institutional reform proposed by the Ministry of Plan to
bring about a more systematic accounting for investment expenditure, and a
technical assistance project to help implement the reform has been under
preparation. Progress on the reform has been slow, owing to failure to reach
agreement on the allocation of responsibilities between different ministries.
The IMF also has a Standby Program under discussion with the primary aim of
strengthening the public finance situation.
14.       Foreign Assistance and Investment.  Although three development plans
have been prepared, the latest covering the 1977/81 period, the process of
formulating the investment programs has involved little evaluation and selec-
tion of projects by Government based upon economic criteria and development
priorities. The 1982-86 plan is still in a very early stage of preparation.
Despite the absence of a distinct investment program, foreign aid to Upper
Volta has continued at a high level, with both commitments and disburse-
ments of official inflows exceeding total budget revenues for the past several
years. Most of this aid is on highly concessional terms. The principal
foreign donors are France, the European Development Fund, Canada, the
Netherlands, Germany, the United States, the Association, and the UNDP.
Although a large degree of informal consultation among the donors exists,
especially with respect to large infrastructural projects, increased co-
ordination will become more important to improve the efficiency of investment
and ensure that the recurrent costs are sustainable, especially given the
Government's own limited capability in planning and analysis. The Bank is
discussing these issues with the Government.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UPPER VOLTA
15.       The Bank Group's commitments in Upper Volta, as of March 1, 1982,
amount to US$191 million and cover twenty-two IDA credits. IFC has one
investment. About US$87 million have been disbursed. The IDA projects
include eleven agriculture (including two supplementary credits), five trans-
portation (including one supplementary credit), two education, two telecom-
munications, one small and medium scale enterprise, and one urban development
project. The IFC investment is for plastic production. Of total IDA lending,
the agriculture and transportation sectors account for 44 and 40 percent,
respectively. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and IFC
commitments as of March 1, 1982. It also includes information on the status
of ongoing projects.
16.       A few projects have experienced implementation delays necessitating
extensions of closing dates, and world price inflation in others has led to
cost overruns, requiring supplementary financing or eliminating lower priority
components (Third Highway Project, Cr. 653-UV, US$20.0 million, 1976, and EEC
Special Action Credit 38, US$3.5 million, 1980; West Volta Agricultural



Development Project, Cr. 706-UV, US$3.6 million (IDA) and Can.$3.0 million
(Canada), 1977, and EEC Special Action Credit 49, US$3.0 million, 1980; Urban
Development Project, Cr. 766-UV, US$8.2 million, 1978). Financial control
on some projects has been weak due in part to a lack of general financial
standards or procedures. Budgets are nominally prepared, approved and
controlled by a central authority, but the procedures are insufficiently
rigorous. There are few official standards or procedures for setting expen-
diture norms. Furthermore, partly due to fiscal management problems, the
Government has had difficulty in promptly meeting its counterpart funding
obligations. Future projects will address these issues by the provision of
further project-related technical assistance and training, as well as at the
central level through a proposed Technical Assistance Project to improve
Government's financial management, investment planning and budgeting process.
On the whole, however, past project performance has been generally satis-
factory given the environmental, institutional and managerial constraints
within the country.
17.       Upper Volta's disbursement performance has been normal compared to
other countries in the region. Recently, however, its performance has begun
to deteriorate mainly due to lack of counterpart funds as a result of current
budgetary difficulties and delays in project effectiveness (Highways IV).
The Bank is helping to tackle these problems by ensuring that Government is
aware of forthcoming counterpart obligations and by offering increased assist-
ance from the Bank's Resident Representative during the period prior to
project effectiveness. The proposed Technical Assistance Project would also
help to address disbursement problems.
18.       The Bank Group's lending is in line with Government's priorities
as expressed in its Third Development Plan (1977/81), and will continue to
support Government's efforts to: (a) increase productivity in agricul-
ture, from which most of the population derives its livelihood; (b) improve
the human resource base; (c) strengthen basic infrastructure facilities; and
(d) mobilize resources from co-donors. Government is currently working on
a Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (1982/86) with UNDP assistance. Priori-
ties are, however, not expected to differ from those of the Third Plan.
19.       In the near-term (FY82-84), Bank Group operations are expected to
include a pilot agricultural development project for the Regional Development
Organization (ORD) of Koudougou; a second rail project to be executed with the
Ivory Coast; a hydro-electric power project, a technical assistance project
to strengthen Government's investment planning and control procedures; and a
credit to assist Government to deal with the policy aspects of fertilizer
usage and food security, while phasing out subsidies on fertilizers. In the
medium-term, Bank assistance strategy toward Upper Volta envisages combining
our present commitment to the promotion of food and export crop production
with a new emphasis on agricultural research, development of human resources
through basic education and health, and the strengthening of aid coordination.
20.       Upper Volta's external public debt at the end of 1980 amounted to
US$508 million (including US$185 million undisbursed) of which IDA credits
accounted for about 25 percent. The ratio of debt service to exports of goods
and non factor services was 9.2 percent in 1980, and the ratio is not expected
to increase significantly over the next several years.



PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Sector Background
21.       Economic growth in Upper Volta is necessarily closely linked to
progress in the agricultural sector which employs 80-90 percent of the popula-
tion and comprises about almost 40 percent of GDP and almost all exports.
However, soils are poor, rainfall is low and uncertain, and the potential for
irrigation is economically limited, requiring costly investments to develop.
Improving agricultural productivity as is necessary for maintaining food
security and increasing national income is thus a challenging task.
22.       Although the country is relatively flat, there are pronounced
regional differences in climate and soils. The low and erratic rainfall
in the north (600 mm) results in unreliable harvests and greater reliance on
livestock for survival, and consequently low population densities. On the
central plateau, crop farming is at a subsistence level because of population
pressure, over-exploited soils and unreliable rainfall. In the southwest,
soil and rainfall conditions (reaching 1200 mm) are more favorable, population
density lower, and production more market-oriented.
23.       Agricultural production over 1961-79 has performed as well as
could have been expected given the severe constraints. Foodcrop areas, which
account for almost 90 percent of cultivated land, have increased less than
the net annual growth in rural population. In contrast to most other food
crops, sorghum production has grown more rapidly than population, reflecting
in part the residual effects of cotton fertilizer in crop rotation, as well as
direct fertilization. Overall, the country has continued to satisfy all but a
small share (5 percent) of its consumption of foodcrops from local production
in years of normal rainfall. But this has only been achieved through increas-
ing dependence on the southwest as a source of food surplus, which tends to
limit the resources available in that region for growing the country's major
export crop, cotton. This dependence must continue, however, in the short
term, whilst adaptive research attempts to develop improved approaches for
increasing productivity over wide areas of the center.
24.       Cotton yields have risen markedly in the last decade and output
rose from 36,000 tons in 1970 to over 78,000 tons by 1979 due to cultivation
shifting to more fertile areas and to the use of fertilizers and insecticides,
coupled with extension programs. Since 1979, cotton acreage has fallen, indi-
cating that close attention needs to be paid to the relationship of cotton and
cereals prices, including reviewing whether current taxes on cotton, which are
not high, should nevertheless be reduced. The Association's continuing policy
dialogue with Government includes attention to this.
25.       Because of the population pressure, there is considerable migra-
tion away from the central plateau, partly abroad but mainly close to roads
in other parts of the country, particularly the area immediately south of
the central plateau, and the southwest. Government has sought to address
migration in an organized fashion through the Volta Valleys Authority (AVV),
which has resettled families, previously at high cost, in areas freed from



- 7 -
onchocerciasis. Government has recently adopted new policies, broadly in line
with recommendations of the Association, aimed at reducing costs of AVV opera-
tions. Under the proposed project, funds are included for studies in AVV
areas. Outside these areas, a low cost approach to migration was to have been
tested under the West Volta Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 706-UV), but
terms of reference for preliminary studies were not agreed between Government
and Switzerland, the financing source involved, in time to permit execution;
it is now intended that this component will be undertaken under the proposed
project and that of the Volta Noire.
Principal Sectoral Institutions
26.       The Ministry of Rural Development (MRD) is responsible for agricul-
ture and livestock and related national support services, including adaptive
research and seed production. It oversees parastatal marketing organizations
and eleven decentralized Regional Development Organizations (ORDs). Except in
the case of those ORDs in areas with externally-financed projects, the ORDs
lack adequate budgetary allocations; however, the heavy cost of maintaining an
ORD is most easily justified in areas where economical technological packages
exist readily usable by farmers on a wide scale - that is, presently only in
the southwest.
27.       Agricultural credit is largely the responsibility of the National
Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA) established in 1980, which, in line with
recommendations of the Association, has concentrated upon setting policy norms
for agricultural credit, training, and control of funds, and has successfully
completed its initial program in these areas. Day-to-day credit operations
continue to be the responsibility of the ORDs. Commercial banks provide short-
term credit for the purchase of annual inputs and for the marketing of cotton.
28.       Marketing:  Cereals are marketed mainly by private traders who
purchase grains in producing areas and sell them in the main consumption
points. The system works fairly efficiently, with most farmers being able
to sell any excess production without difficulty. Government sets official
consumer and producer prices, but does not enforce them as such; rather it
attempts to influence market prices through the National Cereals Agency
(OFNACER) which was able last season, to offer to purchase cereals at the
official price throughout the country, and although it did not meet its
purchase quotas, it may have induced traders to offer higher prices than they
would have otherwise. The Association has advised Government that it considers
that the role of private traders should be maintained, as at present, and that
OFNACER's role should be limited to marketing emergency stocks, selling food
aid supplies to drought-stricken areas, and improving market information.
Cotton marketing, ginning and export is competently undertaken by the Voltaic
Textile Fibre Company (SOFITEX), owned by Government (63 percent), and by the
French Textile Fibre Development Company (CFDT) (37 percent) which provide
technical support and receive a commission of 1.5 percent on all exports.
SOFITEX also imports fertilizers and insecticides for sale at subsidized
prices, not only for cotton (fertilizers and insecticides) but for cereals
(fertilizers) as well. The system which has worked successfully is under
strain however, especially for areas not producing cotton, because of delays
by Government in reimbursing SOFITEX for the subsidy element for fertilizers
used on cereals.



-8-
An active program of agricultural research is undertaken by externally-
supported specialist institutions for cotton, irrigated crops, sorghum and
millet, and other foodcrops. However, the work has suffered from a lack of
focus upon the need to produce recommendations valid at farmer level, which
has arisen in part because of concentration by the institutions upon specific
crops, and a resultant lack of attention to farming systems research. The
recently created Voltaic Institute for Agronomic and Zootechnical Research
intends to address these problems; the Association is discussing with Govern-
ment possible support to the Institute. Seed production, a Ministry function,
has also encountered problems of pricing policy, inadequate extension atten-
tion and liaison with research, and lack of attention to farmers' preferences.
Under forthcoming Association-financed projects, particular attention is to be
paid to seed production and the factors affecting uptake.
Sector Strategy and Bank Group Lending
30.       The Government's strategy in agriculture has given priority to
(a) improving the productivity of rainfed agriculture; (b) promoting migra-
tion from the densely populated and relatively infertile central plateau to
the more fertile and less densely populated areas in the southwest; (c) expand-
ing irrigation and swampland production schemes; and (d) ensuring national
food security. In line with this strategy, Bank Group lending for Upper Volta
has emphasized development of rainfed agriculture for food and cash crops in
the southwest, small-scale land development schemes to expand the agricultural
production base in the central plateau, and testing a larger scale swampland
production scheme in the southwest.
31.       Since 1970, IDA has financed eleven projects in the rural sector
of which five have been completed. The Cotton Project (Cr. 225-UV, US$6.2
million, 1970) demonstrated that an improved technology, within the means
of small farmers, could be spread widely and rapidly. The project's Audit
Report noted substantial improvements in farming practices and yields. The
First Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 496-UV, US$8.0 million,
1974) after a slow start also achieved satisfactory results in expanding
cotton and cereal production. The project closed in December 1981 and a
project completion report is being prepared. The Drought Relief Project
(Cr. 442-UV, US$2.0 million, 1973) and the First and Second Rural Development
Fund (RDF) Projects (Cr. 317-UV, US$2.2 million, 1972 and Cr. 640-UV, US$9.4
million, 1976) aimed at financing small discrete works with community par-
ticipation. The Project Audits described the Drought Relief and First RDF
Projects as highly innovative and successful in implementing diversified and
scattered subprojects. The second RDF Project, completed in December 1981,
continued the development of bottomlands, wells and anti-erosion works on the
central plateau. A third RDF Project was approved by the Board on March 30,
1982.
32.       The ongoing IDA-assisted agricultural projects are:  the West
Volta Agricultural Development Project discussed at para. 36 (Credit 706-UV,
US$3.6 million, 1977, Credit 706-5-UV for Can.$3.0 million and Special Action
Credit 49-UV for US$3.0 million equivalent); the Livestock Development Project
(Credit 557-WV, US$6.0 million, 1975); the Forestry Project (Credit 982-UV;



- 9 -
US$14.5 million, 1980); the Niena Dionkele Rice Development Project (Credit
1013-UV, US$6.5 million, 1980); and the Second Bougouriba Agricultural Devel-
opment Project (Credit 1097-UV, US$16.0 million, 1981). They are being
implemented satisfactorily, although the swamp drainage Niena Dionkele
Pilot Project has run into technical problems of water availability and rice
varieties, and the Livestock Project had difficulties with its group ranch
component which necessitated a redesign and a reduction in the credit by
US$3.0 million.
Future Orientations
33.       The Association is currently discussing with Government an agricul-
tural issues study resulting from recent sector work. The study confirms
the broad orientations of agricultural policy discussed above but seeks to
highlight some of the priority areas that merit attention if the four general
goals are to be achieved.  For rainfed agriculture,  regional priorities need
defining, in order to focus on the major constraints and areas of potential in
the west by continued promotion of food and export crop production and in the
center, by encouraging erosion control, better husbandry, and animal traction,
and undertaking research to improve drought-resistant varieties. It will be
appropriate, in the more difficult regions, for pilot projects to be under-
taken to test the suitability of promising approaches for wider adoption.
For migration, the proposed project and that of the Volta Noire include
studies and implementation of pilot components aimed at testing low cost
approaches to dealing with installation of arriving migrants. For irrigation/
swampland development, a study by the FAO Cooperative Program is currently
underway to collect more data, in order to establish whether a potential for
economically attractive investments exists, and if so, the priorities. For
national food security, one of the key issues is how to assure a steady
increase in fertilizer use which is forecast to need to rise by some 3,000
tons/year over the next five years in order to meet food production require-
ments. Government is finding it increasingly difficult to finance the subsidy,
which in turn threatens adequacy of supplies. Recognizing this and in line
with obligations under the Second Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project,
Government reduced the subsidy in June 1982 from 64 to 57 percent. It has
also confirmed its strong interest to pursue discussions concerning a proposed
Fertilizer Credit having an objective of a progressive reduction of the
subsidy over five years to a level supportable without external finance. The
Project would need to carefully monitor and take into account effects of price
changes on output and consumer prices. The adjustment process which needs to
be flexible will involve difficult political and economic judgments for the
Government, as it seeks to maintain farm output in the face of rising input
costs, whilst restraining to acceptable levels, increases in the prices paid
by urban consumers who exercise a considerable degree of political power.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The proposed project fits into the general sectoral strategy by
building upon the success of the ongoing project to raise further domestic
food production and cotton exports in the southwest. It will also seek to
increase farmer involvement in the input distribution and marketing system at



- 10 -
the village level. Particular attention has also been given to the need, in
view of Government's difficult financial situation, for cost recovery measures
in order to reduce the demand for Government support at the end of the project
implementation period.
35.       The project was identified in 1979, following Government-s request
for a follow-up project in the area, and appraised in October, 1981. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington, D.C. from June 7 to 11, 1982; the Upper Volta
delegation was led by H.E. the Minister of Rural Development. A report
entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Hauts-Bassins Agricultural Development
Project" No. 3811-UV dated June 28, 1982 is being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. Supplementary project data are contained in
Annex III.
Bank Assistance in the Area
36.       The West Volta Agricultural Development Project, which covered the
Volta Noire and the Hauts-Bassins Regional Development Organizations (ORDs),
has been successful in extending the work of the earlier Cotton Project; the
Livestock Project, the Second Education Project, the Second Rural Development
Fund Project and a French-financed Foodcrops Project have also assisted de-
velopment of the area. The West Volta Project covered both cotton production
and foodcrops. Cumulative incremental production of cotton in the Hauts-Bassins
area over the five years of the project is 32,000 tons compared to 26,500 tons
estimated at appraisal. Yields have risen from 850 kg/ha to 1,200 kg/ha,
largely through increased application of fertilizers and insecticides. Cereal
yields have increased by 12 percent and Hauts-Bassins production has risen in
1981 by 12,500 tons/year (compared to 14,000 tons/year at appraisal). A
recalculation of the rate of return gives a result of 30 percent, compared to
the appraisal estimate of 32 percent. Components not directly under the
control of the two ORDs have been less successful; for example, only about
10 percent of the targets of the small irrigation component have been met.
Organizationally, there is a need to simplify objectives and responsibilities,
and to give increased attention to financial management, both as to control
over expenditures, and in instituting cost recovery of input distribution
costs.
Description
37.       The project, to be executed over a five-year period starting in
September 1982, would cover the following components:
(i) Agriculture and Livestock Development: comprising (a) extension
services to 40,000 farmers to increase further cotton and foodcrop
production, and integrate livestock themes into the general exten-
sion message; and (b) adaptive research, to test new varietal and
husbandry recommendations and develop cheaper fertilizer formula-
tions.
(ii) Village Group Development: increasing the number of village
groups from 106 to 300, in order to continue developing farmers'
responsibility for their own affairs;



- 11 -
(iii) Supplies and Credit: providing inputs and credit with village
level administration being undertaken by village groups; and produc-
ing and promoting improved seeds for sorghum, maize, rice and
groundnuts;
(iv) Management, Training of Senior Staff and Monitoring;
(v) Regional Training and Support: continuing assistance to the
regional training center at Bobo-Dioulasso, especially in its
role of training extension staff and farmers' representatives;
(vi) Extension for Newly Settled Pastoralists: continuing for three
years extension activities for newly settled pastoralists in the
Samorogouan area; and
(vii)  Studies and Subprojects to be Approved:  undertaking further studies,
and establishing a mechanism for appraising and implementing small
subprojects in accordance with agreed criteria.
Detailed Features
38.       Extension services would be reorganized to allow a phased reduction
during the life of the project of the number of extension agents from 125
to 100, thereby reducing recurrent cost and redeploying staff, permitting
increased emphasis on seed production, applied research, monitoring and
demonstrations. The extension message would selectively cover better husbandry
techniques, use of fertilizers, animal traction, and improved seed varieties,
depending on the level of a farmer's development. Particular attention would
be paid to production of manure, and the feeding and health of draft oxen.
39.       Adaptive Research:  A project substation would be established to
test in conditions approximating those of farmers', new varietal and husbandry
approaches which research stations have developed, and alternative cheaper
fertilizer formulations in close contact with the relevant research institutes.
40.       Village Groups:  A small specialist service consisting of five
agents, together with extension staff would seek to foster a further 194
groups (and support the 106 existing groups) and to promote functional
literacy, using existing educational material prepared by the Literacy
Directorate in Ouagadougou.
41.       Supplies and Credit Services:  Under the proposed project, the ORD
Supplies and Credit Services which would become self-accounting, would, from
the outset, apply a minimum margin of 7 percent on supplies, and increase this
margin, or reduce distribution costs as necessary in order to assure complete
recovery of defined handling costs by the fourth year of the project. Assur-
ances to this effect were given during negotiations (Section 4.07 of Credit
Agreement). Medium-Term Credit would be provided for oxen and animal traction
equipment. Credit recoveries in the ORD have been satisfactory and around 90
percent in the last 5 years. CNCA national lending terms, which are acceptable
to the Association, would apply. Interest rates would be 11 percent, the
maximum permitted under the preferential schedule of the Central Bank's



- 12 -
-agulations.  This rate compares with a present inflation rate of about 12
percent which is forecast to decline by 1986 to about 10 percent. Assurances
were given during negotiations that Government would enforce a minimum interest
rate of 11 percent (Section 4.12 of Credit Agreement). Seasonal credit
financed by a local banking consortium, has also operated satisfactorily under
the ongoing project, and no changes are proposed. A seed farm would be estab-
lished, in order to produce improved sorghum, maize, and groundnuts seeds from
foundation stock obtained via the National Seeds Service (cotton seed is
produced and distributed by SOFITEX). Selected farmers or young farmer groups
would also further multiply seeds.
42.       Management, Senior Staff Training, and Monitoring:  The proposed
project would be executed by the Hauts-Bassins ORD whose director would be the
Project Director. Reflecting the present shortage of qualified Voltaic staff,
external finance at an average manyear cost of US$100,000 would allow for
international recruitment for six key posts - two of which are for regional
support activities in training and livestock/agriculture integration. The
other four posts are: technical, financial, monitoring and settled pastoralist
coordinators. For Senior Staff the project would finance five 9-month study
courses abroad, ten short study tours, and on-site courses. Monitoring will
seek to improve the data base for proper project management; to assess the
incremental production results; to undertake various special surveys and to
prepare proposals for small subprojects to be executed.
43.       Regional Training.  The ORD training center, successfully estab-
lished under the West Volta project, to which it made a major contribution,
would receive continued funding under the proposed project. It would remain
responsible at a regional level, for recycling extension agents to improve
their technical knowledge, and their communication and extension methodology
skills.
44.       Extension for Newly Settled Pastoralists:  The project provides for
a further period of extension services beyond the period of infrastructure
build-up that occurred under the Livestock Project (Cr. 557-UV) in order to
allow the pastoralists to add to their traditional herd management techniques
further modern improvements in animal health care, herd quality improvement
through castration of lower quality bulls, and possibly modifications to
pasture rotation practices.
45.       Studies and Subprojects to be Approved:  US$733,000 (base cost)
would be reserved for studies related to rural development in Upper Volta,
including preparation of a program for migrants into the project area, an
expanded literacy program and studies related to the planned work of the Volta
Valleys Authority (AVV) in settling people in areas freed of onchocerciasis.
US$550,000 (base cost) would be reserved for execution of an approved test
program for migrants, and for small development actions prepared during the
life of the project, in response mainly to requests expressed by farmers or
villagers for schemes to which they would contribute in cash or in kind, or in
response to needs identified during execution for small actions complementing
the principal project objectives. These small projects would be approved by
the Association in line with agreed criteria.



- 13 -
Project Costs and Financing
46.       Project costs, net of identifiable taxes and duties from which the
project is to be exempted, are estimated to be US$20.8 million, including a
foreign exchange component of US$11.0 million (50 percent). A detailed
breakdown of project costs and financing plan is shown in the Credit and
Project Summary. Physical contingencies added to base costs are 15 percent
for civil works and farm equipment, and 10 percent for vehicles, non-farm
equipment and operating costs. International inflation is allowed for at 8
percent in 1982, declining to 6 percent in 1986 (except for fertilizers for
which higher rates have been used); local inflation has been taken at 12
percent in 1982, declining in line with international inflation to 10 percent
in 1986.
47.       The proposed IDA Credit of US$4.7 million would finance 22 percent
of net project costs. The Association would act as cooperating agency for
the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) for a loan of US$3.1
million (15 percent of project cost) to be disbursed in general, pari passu
with the IDA Credit. The French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE) would finance US$6.4 million (31 percent of project cost) and the Fonds
d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) would contribute US$2.9 million (14 percent of
project cost). The French finance will be on a parallel basis with IDA/IFAD
for technical assistance, seed production and agriculture, livestock integra-
tion, and on a joint basis with IDA/IFAD for the adaptive research, village
groups and monitoring components. External finance of US$17.1 million would in
effect cover 100 percent of foreign exchange costs (US$11.0 million) and US$6.1
million or 62 percent of local costs (US$9.8 million). Upper Volta's contri-
bution is 19 percent of project costs - 3 percent from beneficiaries, and 16
percent from commercial sources under existing arrangements. Government would
contribute US$1.2 million to recurrent costs of the ongoing project, and
allocate a further US$0.9 million of support from France; these costs, however,
as with the Second'Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 1079-UV),
are not included in the definition of project costs. It is currently estimated
that funds of the ongoing project will be exhausted in September 1982. As
credit signing may occur after this, retroactive financing of up to US$330,000
of eligible expenditures would be permitted. Moreover, as in other recent
Upper Volta projects, due to Government's fiscal constraints, and in order to
assist project implementation, an amount of US$330,000 would be advanced from
the IDA Credit and IFAD loan to be placed in a Special Account to prefinance
eligible expenditures (Sections 3.02 and 7.01 (a) of Credit Agreement).
48.       Expenditures on total inputs in the project area, not included in
the definition of project costs, are estimated at US$32.8 million in current
terms over the next five years, and would mainly be borne by farmers directly,
or in the form of reduced prices for cotton. Of the amount, Government would
need to find some US$4.0 million for subsidies on fertilizers used on cereals,
assuming a reduction in subsidy levels broadly in line with obligations under
the Credit Agreement for the Second Bougouriba Agricultural Development
Project. As indicated previously, a special Fertilizer Credit is currently
being discussed with Government. The fiscal implication of the project
to the Government will be covered to a large extent by anticipated increased
revenue flows from indirect taxes and taxes on cotton. A potential fiscal



- 14 -
implication exists should extension costs not be reduced at project completion
to the level needed to simply maintain output, or alternatively supported by
external finance under a project designed to produce further production
gains.
Procurement, Disbursement and Audits
49.       The following procurement procedures would apply:
Project Element                  US$ Million           Procurement Procedure
(i)    Construction under            0.1       Local procedures acceptable to IDA.
contract
(ii)   Construction materials        1.6       International competitive bidding
for construction under                 (ICB) for contracts above CFAF 25
force account, vehicles                million (US$83,000); local competi-
and equipment                          tive bidding for contracts between
CFAF 5-25 million; local competitive
shopping for contracts under
CFAF 5 million (US$16,700).
Procedures satisfactory to France
for contracts of US$0.3 million
financed wholly by France.
(iii)  Animal traction equipment   2.7         Local procedures acceptable to' CCCE.
(iv)   Oxen and cereals for vil-   2.8         Direct purchase by farmers in local
lage grain banks                       markets.
(v)    Incremental fertilizers       3.2       As part of bulk orders by SOFITEX
and insecticides                       through limited international
tendering.
(vi)   Other incremental inputs    0.3         Government procedures, private traders
procedures, or procedures satisfac-
tory to France.
(vii)  Technical assistance,         4.8       Not applicable.
audits, scholarships
(viii) Local staff salaries          4.5       Not applicable.
and sundry expenses
(ix)   Subprojects to be approved  0.8         Generally as above.
20.8
50.       The proposed IDA credit of US$4.7 million and the proposed IFAD
loan of US$3.1 million would be disbursed, allowing for delays, over an
estimated six years, in the ratio of 40:60, except for technical assistance
(other than aerial surveys) and settled pastoralists, for which the ratio
would be 100:0, as follows:



- 15 -
Project Element                               IDA     IFAD   Percentage of
-US$ ( 000)-   Expenditures
(M) Construction
(a) On force account for adaptive
research and village groups
components                             150       225       60
(b)  By contract for other components         45       65      100
(ii) Vehicles and equipment
(a) For adaptive research, village
groups, and monitoring components       20        25      60
(b)  Other                                  130       190      100
(iii) Scheduled salaries and operating
expenses
(a) For adaptive research, village
groups, and monitoring components    180         270       60
(b)  For settled pastoralists component    45           -      100
(b)  Other                                1,055    1,480       100
(iv) Technical assistance, studies,
audits and scholarships
(a) Aerial surveys for monitoring
component                               60        90       60
(b)  Other                                2,140         -      100
(v)  Subprojects to be approved                   170      250       60
(vi)  Initial deposit in Special Account           130       200       -
(vii)  Unallocated                                  575       305
Total                        4,700    3,100
51.       Applications for withdrawals from the credit would be fully docu-
mented, except for scheduled salaries and operating expenses, and labor and
sundry expenses for force account construction, which would be submitted with
certified detailed statements of expenditures whose supporting documentation
would be retained for verification by the project auditors and for inspection
in the course of project supervision. As with preceding projects, the various
accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association, and certified copies of the audited accounts and the auditor's
report would be sent to the Association within six months of the end of each
financial year (Section 5.01 of Credit Agreement).
Benefits, Economic Analysis and Risks
52.       Direct Beneficiaries of the project would be the 40,000 farmers in
the area. Benefits result from increases in annual crop production, raising
farm incomes, improving nutrition and increasing on-farm employment. Farmers
in the area are very poor as indicated by the per head annual crop income of
traditional farmers of US$78. By the end of the project, the model for a
farmer using improved techniques and animal traction indicates a per head
crop income of US$96 - an increase of 23 percent. Additional benefits derive
from: (i) the livestock component which would benefit all livestock owners in
the area; and (ii) the village group support component which would bring
greater self-reliance to the farmers of the area, while relieving the ORD of
some of its present tasks. The project-s overall rate of return is estimated
to be 33 percent.



- 16 -
53.       There are no unusual technical risks associated with the project for
which the proposals are simple and have already been tested within the project
area and elsewhere in Upper Volta. The main elements of risks are: (i) inade-
quate use of modern inputs, in particular fertilizer, due to restricted
supplies caused by subsidy funding problems or decreased demand because of
input price increases not being adequately compensated for by increased output
prices; (ii) constraints in the marketing system in providing an outlet for
the expected cereals surplus; (iii) slow responsiveness of farmers; (iv)
shortcoming of livestock and land husbandry practices to counter the possible
decline in soil fertility; and (v) delays in funding of operating expenses
by Government. Recognizing these risks, particular attention is being
given to a dialogue with Government concerning subsidies in the context of a
proposed Fertilizer Credit, strengthening of the role of village groups in
marketing, adaptive research, and monitoring generally.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Upper Volta and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
55.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. These include the following conditions of effectiveness: (a)
conditions of external finance are fulfilled; and (b) IFAD appoint IDA as
Cooperating Institution.
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
July 8, 1982



-17-                                             Annex I
Page 1   of  5
TABLE 3A
UPPER VOLTA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UPPER VOLTA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVRAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. ICH.)                                                            - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            2i4.2                                  MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      125.6              1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   70.0        100.0     210.0                  250.8                  1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        5.0         13.6      26.0                  66.5                   610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 4164.0         5072.0    6064.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 4.7            6.8      10.3                   17.8                    28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        10.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          29.2
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2140
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        15.2         18.5      21.8                  27.7                    54.7
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      34.7         41.5      47.5                  86.7                   129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
f                            0-14 YRS.                           42.8        43.9       44.7                  44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                          54.3         53.2      52.5                  52.3                    51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.9          2.9       2.8                   2.9                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9          2.0/c     1.8/c                  2.7                     2.8
URBAN                               5.7          5.7       5.9                   6.2                      5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      48.6         48.0      48.0                   47.3                    47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      26.8         24.3      24.2                   19.5                    15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2          3.2       3.2                    3.2                     3.2
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          101.0        102.0      93.0                  88.7                     90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    91.8         89.4      92.8/d                90.2                     93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           71.1         68.9      70.37d                53.1                    54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        19.3         19.2      19.071                18.4                    17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      62.9         57.8      50.6                   26.7                    23.9
NEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    36.2          37.2      38.9                   45.6                    51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER                                                       129.9                    118.5
THOUSAND)                           252.3        235.0     211.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        12.0      25.0/e                 23.9
URBAN                                 .         35.0      50.o71                54.9
RURAL                                 ..        10.0      23.071.                18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         4.0       4.O/e                 25.8
URBAN                                 ..        49.0      47.071                 63.1
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                 20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          81647.1      87448.3   50000.0               32097.3                  14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      4090.0/f    3984.3    3650.0                  3264.6                  2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1717.1       1575.6    1590.0                1225.0                   1036.4
URBAN                             207.6/g      269.2     329.0/d                249.5                   430.8
RURAL                            3089.9/g    2439.2    2485.571               1712.1                   3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..      31.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               7.5/b         ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..



-18-                                              Annex I
Page 2    of  5
TABLE 3A
UPPER VOLTA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UPPER VOLTA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV,ERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  8.0         12.0      20.5                   63.2                    83.3
MALE                  12.0        16.0       26.0                  72.7                    96.1
FEMALE                 5.0         9.0       15.1                  50.3                    80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  0.5          1.0       3.3                   10.2                    15.3
MALE                   1.0         2.0        4.3                  13.2                    19.4
FEMALE                 0.3          1.0       2.4                   6.6                    11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  21.2          14.7       16.1                   7.9                     4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            47.3         44.5      56.0                   47.4                    38.6
SECONDARY                          19.8         22.6      20.0                   26.2                    23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          1.5ZI       5.0/i      5.0/                 34.0                    35.6                               )
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.4          1.3        L.7/e                 3.0                    31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.7         17.2      18.4                   34.8                    71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          O.1/f        1.2        1.2                   1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..         0.3        0.3                   2.9                    19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           0.2        0.5                   1.1                     0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      2379.9       2779.9    3178.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   47.1         46.8      46.5                   34.1                    36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              92.0         87.0       82.0                  78.4                    56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  5.0          8.0      13.0                    9.2                    17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 57.2        54.8       52.4                  41.4                    37.0
MALE                                  60.8        58.8       56.6                  53.9                    46.9
FEMALE                                53.5        50.9       48.3                  29.1                    27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8         0.9        0.9                   1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTD4ATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      164.0                 134.3                   507.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      105.0                  82.9                   200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                  96.4                   523.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..       53.0                  60.4                   203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                  39.3
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..                  69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1977; /e 1975;
/f 1963; /g 1962; /h 1964; /i 1972; Z.L 1974.
May, 1982



-19-                                                         Annex I    P., 3 of 5
OgFINfTItWS Or SOCla. 110145001
Sotoe;  Altho-gh the data 4ta drame from c-r..o juater.ly Judgod the meat A-thottnat-c .0  tei c   it cho.d .100 05 totod tOM  th7 -r  not ha L--e
OOlatL-ly  boataS           u .0,0  of tbc lack of atma4ardlad doti.iti.0ona  aC    m-t cs a   -e.d by diff.r..t uon L.st  .Iollooin  rho data.  Th. dta at.. a.
tholnos,  -a.ul to d..atrtb. order. of esgatade. Ladloct. treads. oa ohrotoi-am  -etain major diff--co.  b.twcab  -Ontci..
ho rcf ..a. . ..o... ... (Ii tOo com  ooaar  $roup of the .oob7ct coowtry Ld (21 A canney goop  Lth cofatbat higbcr  Lrarac                   ioMe atta .b -otoy 2-o:
of the cablet ..-Cay (aenape for   '01gh Ittom    Oill Raporters` group .0h1St "81410 Itto-   North Aric. 004 H1441. batr" it obo.. b-..u   of srne
cOcI-cutorl afIciic . i  tho r.farcr.a drone da.ta          -. oargo. a-  pop.l.tioc veighiod afithsocL4 mats for each indl.c.ro  cnd  hbcwn ocly  hbo
maJority of the  -oceics i. a stoP h.. d.cc for that  ottco.Si-e  th.  -onrob  of --L..ta    -8o tho indi.atr..  d.P.ed. oc thc  -elabilllty of data
-04 I0 tot  .10 .0.10moost bo encrolood in t-Iogla  -neRog    of am  iodloatartoOote.  ttwocnht. .a  rc only  -cfol L. t                                    rpta    he  -1la  of
ut   nL_acr ItatIe amog oh ... ooatr  aoddrfto    pRb..p
404 (tht....nd  q.km.)                                                                           Potulatlon   e  fcta   o P.,total. urban, and tota  - Pop.latio W          t. a
--ta  - Ttota  .orf-.e ar.  coriirtci    1.04 a-c  and Inland  .ct...a; 1979 dcta.                orbar, acd tota) dilid%d by tNheit  Isepetatna noehor c  hospital taLe
nAiil'-lora  - E.,lacte Of agric-ltural arI  I    -d tempor.rily or pIorm.cctly                  havatilihl  0  Pbll1:  and prtnt- genra  an  opoialcad hoepitl.  codto
for  -rP.. past--.   -ett cod kit.han  ardenS o-  to Iio  fallo; 1079 data..                    hatlt  tlaoffiacr .  aPitalc arc  -Atoltehmoctt  parmaanrl  ..taffed
ty aa Il...t one pttyaiui.  &at bllcbmantc ptonldi g P'Iioopall  cot
0?t!CAPITA (M0) - GNP Pan .apit. ..lesttt     at .arecta batkat  Rrcc    a-da   ar   r    aIloa .:goe  bopitl   h-on.n.  .Ltld. h.calth
cuatd by  ama do- .r.loa.matbod as World B.O& Atrase (197B-00 beelef  109,admdll   necnnprmeaystfdbyahcianbotya
1979, and 1000 data.                                                     .e~~~~~~~dleI asote    norm. sltOcf., .tt.) ohiok off., L.-P. tten.t cnaec
4.t10   04ao  pre-tde a ImL.cd r-gof -41-01fatte.Po    at-
ENRGtY CONSUM9PTION PER CAPITA - Aot-Ie    -.auptiot of -o-rta  enegy  ooI                          tIa.prn.   ebnheicelnlocaoplnpcll tora  hoptae
adltgrttc    oroem   naua  ncad hYdno ..uc..et ... octara   ,:c-                               and ru..al h-spitaL., local or cra  honpttcl.adad eadi..l sad saternLty
tt,loly) It .1lonta_  of taLl eqo ontIpr P. a.pita; 1960, 1970  . ad 1979                        .ot...t.  SpoOLli..od h-epital. trei Inldod onlyatt totl.
dota.                                                                                           Adi..iatone          ... fot.1a Sod - rfetal. nuan  af amsitot   rdehr
from hospitala diVided by toe .tter of bode.
POPULAkTIOtN AND VITA1L STATISTICS
Totl- onI    ni    K. td-Yc.-  (thoneads) - A. of Joly L; 1960. 1070. aod 19050                0UIf.
dais.                                                                                        AVetoac si0. of Itonobol  ermccthnaodI-tnl   ra.oettl
Irta  PoOlatin IptOOt otta)-aaoftoh o a  total Pop.latti";                                 A       hhaoeold CoeLate ofacoeo  idndol  eeeaolnigqatr
diff.rnt datoltlne ofab   rosean  may a1ffec'tbooep4abiLity of data                    too thei.r stin male. fasbaedr or lotg.  meay ormo  ma he L.ILtddi
amon  -oorael 1960. 1970,. c4 1950 data,                                                        ah. hooo=odffnt e.tastlo -n   p-rpom..
PPora'Lato    tltteeko                                                                                  materI.  A'.   of nradom  00 roo. - tta.   ubn. ndtua   -         .Sn.ag  Ott
Po a itnI  roar 2000 - C'rtent Ppoplation proJeotln. are hamad on 1980                   her of p*rnn  por vom to All orbs,and rura  ocnid    naalomal
total poptalatt.n by .g. and sa  and thol. eIatLtala   c-  fertilityratnet.                  deel1io.5.  -pe,ottn-ly.  D-Ieilg. eadA.ad  na-pormom  .ar-otore   oat
Pejolnpar-snttef   . ..r mnlity rtot   eoptiea  f tbrOa lenola aem-                      pnoold pats..
Ing lifa ecyontay at Yo  bitabhIL-re.ittg otth Cctry'a p.r cait.  ooe                      oee   oiOtllt   otato   ,nie  - total. orest. and Irura  -
lend, ad f_ml.II110         _ soootocc   ccisoint  at 77.5 ya...   Tb. pota-                 C_nreniona  dmlliOge wIth eetrl.tly to lInIng quo.ran   a- Pann-ntn
mratre fot fertIity rate ala. h-n  three Igr:l"a aoemln  decline Le                        of total. urbe,antod'.. tur.oplog    eegti-Sly.
fe.rtilIty ..eonrding to In-   1-1. andpatfamly pLinto  p.Formaooe-
tacftriottyi, that a-agoed one of t1boe.nto.Osrbitiatlo               of  ot'tcllity     EOOCATI(ff
no   etlity   tncf t  teroto    opoc.Odotd  t- oli4                                                      ntRation
Itotloacy pnolaton - n 0 cetloary potolaaon tbre is no- rn   olnoe                 timar  ceho:ly   t tota. oale and fatale - Groo  total.  ale and f.ealo
the birth rat. is oqoo  to the de...b rats, and alan the ago etotrtt-onoIot  fol    aa  tOm Primlry leda.-                                             rtna      of teapacal_
nalna cooatann.  Thto L.  ohien-d only after fwtilSiy  rare. denline to                         prImary 0000-0ccp popt'lSti .ne; normaFlly 1o4oda  uhild-a  aced 6-11
tOt replucomn  lend-  of -oit rot t-Ptdooton  .tat. oh.. aa.h genertion  .                      yaa-  but odjo...d for diff.rena  I.coab  of prIm11ary edootatlin  for
of :mnrP,ace. itocf  .noct ly.  The otatipoory populatio  idcc n..cotIis. nIth oni-c-1 edoat.ton  enroll_ont my  _nc.d  100Pyrc.nt
coten    ntho batia of tha pto Jcet*d oeetretsof tepopoluto-                             eloc  co-  pupil.  t r. ob e o  aba-tehb  offcia1  ohoo1 aS..
L. the yeor 2000. add te rote of daoIln  of fertilify rate to rea--'eOodaty school                                  I - toa,ae   end fml     opao   caoe   o dr
ate  (n.-.                                                                                            ".oeaioarqzitre    I.... footI yeua of oppron-d primoty larot
te-  ...atiomery p.pul,ttoot i. rautobd - the year when atantony 9popletina                       ProIde.eceI      l  vctiel. or oct.ho  troLoing. .atntoetot P.Pilla
ie0111 ha re.. bad.                                                                          ucalyof1  t17yare of ag.; ontr ... 9deoeo  c...... a.a gtanr.lly
PratO laato                                                                                   _ntldad
Pn,  -k. A. - hid-rea  pop.lation Pet- oqoo   kilaut.t (100GOae Or f otVoalnl  aolaa                                      -nreto  of  -eodnry) - Po-aeonal t.oaitottne
tot1 itse.  1960. 1070 nod 1979 data.                                                         InL-L."teehn.           ... to iet1al  oI other otoormo vuchoprt  independ-
Petno.ho.ogucutotl lnd- Coepted no abo.- f.t a                   Iiaaoa  Loed             MealyOta dnp-tamaots of oetatay toatiLtont on.
oy;106.  07  ad  9P        t.C                                                          PaPIl-teonhetrotTto-Oian   n   money-tel atadmte  e                            L.edt
FPoroa.tt   As' SCtcor   ootet     11dm   (O-ik    Isar).  okn-oe1                                p,imary and  anedaty I.-Ia dinidod by n..toe   fteoreath
64. y.er.l, an  rtire    6  ya.cd   00rsiptonao   fod-yer  op-                                   otmpondirg,  -Ine
(anIo..  1960. 1970,..ad 19080 dana.                                   Y          Pkd.lt 'Lt  .... tan. (1.on)-ltraeana   el  to teod and otih
rotol:oti:n GroIt OatnlnnrtcnI   l   total - A-noa  or-Oh r-ta  of torsi eld-                     ae*petsorotse oftoa  adult Pppattipo aSod 15 yeaer  oc  oar
yant pp.ni,   lot 1.0400-0  1964-70, and 1970-00.
Poonlati:1on roth Iat. lp-oreen   -  rban  _ Ostoaal cr-och rtate  of o1baa PoPa-            CONSIWTIOO
laloefo   91-0.1607.n _11780-N.                                                               MaMea  Car. (c  thocn   ouoi-)-Paeerlteoena   co
Crude tittt Roe. oa                     "Ioad  -Ou    live birtte par th-aeod of mId-yea           ateninleatn  Lght perenn; ea ldee amu1a...... h-at.. nOt
rotiitlo; 1064  1070  at   90  aa                                                              littay vehtle..h
.Cr00 Death Rat  hpttooaand(  O- Ooa.deh  pa -roaad  of mi-yar.l  R.. L:Ivet  (P., thooee  cot2ol1alIn) -  1l  typoe of  -eos-r  fot  .dlto
19oltuo   0h, 1970, nd 100  at..thodoapo t  gonrnlP.61   a   honn   fponal,                                                                              eoua 
uron  Rerndctln ate- A-otan   ..odar of doogbear. anmo UL  b-a  On                           ILeanand  -.cLn-r  Inconet   ate10yea.r.P nOla  relet.t.. ci of -sdLo
netnoma  rep-odotlna p01 if eke enpariooeec p.....t .go-epcifio  fo-                          nta  -a  to affeun; deto for r         Fee   aste ny not b.coveacabineinn.
trlllOytanee;oaualy fir-ynat anroeeding In 1060. 1970. cAdd 1900.                               moan  -oari..  briSh.d IIoen-ing
Fyae1tiv  -11 Pano- Aucrto,   Soo1 (th-oeanda(- .eo.1 o-Set o0f catr                            TV 0.-oL-wc  p   thout and Ro,ulation   - rIV reci-eta for bronde...ot n
ofbrh-toto  dele   re   opi..  of natiu"eI family planning p-rogram.                        omro  PbI;(   pe  thonnan  popolaniot.; anelodee ulicenSed I ot rcinera
Fosily Pl-ianto     lar'   nocetofmarodea) - yrcnotago of oarried                                 iuoaottie endin year. oOtnetotnof tVat  oa I   ffeot.
coat Of chil-ero   ag                Y-5-A   eae  nbWc. hrbeoc        d-rlce  to              OMaaptCl lt ian (tar tho ... M  potulatiool - Shthoeoboorccit-
all earrico  oomoa to eam  age crone.                                                        ITolatlon of3 d"diy genra-        Iteo1    onrP.pat". d.fLoodaoa .prtdirol
p.blication denoted primarily to recoding  ear- l .I       e   It La tooe!ider
FOOD oNtD NoMITctON                                                                                 to tM  "daily"  fI   por   tIntfu   la       ek
Index of 7odPooto   o   apt   16-110  odnofp-r -npita a-an                                     Cinem  A_-Ie Attendance Pat Capita                                aogaoo   h   ubrof
rndotln of al  lo  , nmdtlee   7doion  nldode  sod and Reod cod                          tinhkte ..Id dorlog the year, lonlading ada.iaeia    ra d.Lc--to cinemo
Ico   tndryear baaio.  Cosssdltleao--   priseory goodn(. I.acaen                       nod mohile unIte.
ioateod of tnat) ehi.b ore edIble and contaln to-i.... (en. ..ff.. and-
cn  ae  oeloed.Agoroa-te  pro orti  Of .a.. chn-ry 1. oaaad -                        1.400  P0RC!
aIone  ovt    pooe _pr.ice    hctdt; 1061-hi. t1070. and 100M  data,                       toa  ao   ooc(hond) -  ol-uolly .cti-n Ioteona  iorocding
Ptt tt 100euttlr oflalolee (orten  of  enolrmeot) - COP.otd trot                                      -.pftasad   oloyed but..-l,dinn hooseinee, atudot.Oor  .
energy tquia.n  of nnfo   apio               -lelel  onr  pet caIta                            toct5pop,aaia  of ali anca.   Dlafinittoa  to cotio... coani.                r
per day.  -oaben         P auplla  compiaa d.omaatl  p-t-totloo  leOrt. I.a.                    ton ... parabie; 19000  1070 and I990 d.to.
anate d0 thaaSa In et-rk.  Sat-eappIi:a acode animal f .d. nende.                         Passel. (Pr.ateot  - P-I.lo b-o forte .  pecaas              of tnta1 laborlte
q,antia..i    oadi  ad Oto-emlng. and la.e tdL.           tibtle.getor-                        balotr   rrm)- Lt..bofott  in farming  fnrectry. hatio  and
ma  _ wr  estimated -by P64 ba...d oc phyntLoglc-l nad. for norma  uti-                       flbn  a   aratj  Of total  lbor fore.; 190*5  1070, an  1900  ata
otty and healh to..aidetonr      nionotelterator.         , body niht,  gol-otry  Mte) -lobor forte to eligsnnt                                                  e-a,mofaet-ti.t
and sea di.trlboeion Of Pp.olti-Sadaloeo   10 Paroen  fo    et4n                                  n  nletrloty   eat   an  gs  e  mtenog  of iotal la-o  force;
bonanhld  levl; 19i-kO.  970 Sd 107da.                                                   1990. 1970 ady 1000dae
Per  anta enrl,of Ooteo (aeS.Pe  day) - Poentnnafptcpiaorlnnn   at(ereti - totlaI,ad  ela-Priptin t
.e,op,, ffY      dprOa,ntaopyo  food    . dfine  cc a:bove.R0-                              atriit  reI     aatInpue,atotl    al. d feeal  labor foroea
qoitmmot  forall totre "   nteliohad by UDADD p-nrda  o  m.iea                             oneae   fttl  ada and lemole popal-ioo of all a a  reetler
oo asca  of%'h  rtm  olf tonal protein P.t day and 20 or-m  of.atisl an                     99.100 nd190da.Th.eos  re baeea -0 1W0e P-ttllpntia I tot.
polee Otti,of rhiuh l0 nra. eu.Ld he anisa  ~protin.  Th.acetad-                                tefIefla   gem        ttott  ofth  pnpLato..  ad 10.0 ti-e trend. 
ord.  t - oat than th... of 75 oroat  of tota  pro tei  and 23 Sina Of                         fai  -etlate  arm  fra'             ....oo    entat.
nobl poton n  anaveagefor the arId. propoe..  by F00 In the Third                    funo-     Dplodenc  RAtI  - gotin of pnnalmodt 15  n tO ad  aver4  -
Ootld Fo0  Surve; loh1-65. 1970 and 1977 data,t.h.oallbrlrc
ye" aot  prten  op   fo           ane I.nd polae - Pro,teL..apply of food de-
Cone  (re  nac_    n  po     get   tome Pet 4.y; i961-65. 1970 and 1077 dano.              IOCOfO  DISTRIBTTfON
Child (ao 1-u) Death Rate bet th.-.") - u..l foethe per th-nmd in                               P-roetoaze of Ptl-vntc.100   (both It  -aah cod ktoul - Onnaived byrtht
aaooP I-4 yrat.. to thildr-  in rOli.j  group,  fo          tdnlpogcn-                     0protI  ,tlheet 20 P..t.ot. poorene 20 po-On, and p.....t4O P.te
Itti.  datn d.ri-od from  life tablee;190,  07 IadS90  doa                                        of-onhelde.
itoLtH                                                                                         PuVETtYl TAtGOdT GROUPS
.1(0 4npat tan, It 00m   (rehtyl- -    Ioaec  ounda  ot ...r IOf life   --cina                 Tre follooto               "It aocat   veY appr - l .ted aae.t.. .I Poonry le..ela,
at bi_n;  90  190ud 1000 dea                                                                    and nnoold h  ioe    iatd      h  oc ..ii0tebletolw
RnatMrtlo   atoyet cnno-          Aoooal deuth. Of Infantottoen d   no y-a             Ceimad Aeola.te Pto-ty (Arom   Leve 1 OUS Pet cPit.)- -ba-ad rurl 
of age par thousand lI-e birtnh; 1060. 1970 and 1900 date.                                      Obeuo.I -pon-rty Ittoa lne 1-1  tshe  Intone le_el baln rhiuh n minimal
y ..cc   to Safn Waor. (rratof ....olatlool - totl,arno  on          Nua      o-                ootr ......all  ooqaoe diet piu..r....ntli1 ooe-f-od rqemneIs  o
her 01 "Peopl  Iotnl, upton, and .ora)  irte-b            l r.anteatetnf.                        fonke
-t-t ..,Pp,, ( itouenoco    ufo    aano   etretd hotoanttond                                  EstIteRltirsP-ot   1oo     La.lI 121  pro  ..pit.) - -t - and raral1
-arrohaatnet from protattd borta  eroe  adsntary  "Ill) oa                                  ttlrltv    of try boom- leve  L. .er-chiod of anae00cpt
ptatgeof On Ibee    e tM   poplotoa.In o   rtb  oeoo                lio                  "or-oal Inome o  the oouoty.  Irbor  1.0.1I n. denic   (tmte  oa
or   anayet  oate  on  at.tha  20'  moter  (roe  a.."om ey te                  le-1 eitb odjoseant for hIgher t.at of lIvIng to urboacna
aoId_eto :,_eOecogothln.r.....o.ba   -.tee  ofthenh... booe.         ooto  ono             laloti"od POlOnhlo  Abeolote Poverty Incmolae                               urbanoo
-raot-blea.....aooold lI~jly  that         h- oowfe Or oeber- of the h -a-n-hod I         d     _rra  - Peta-  o  Populetion  (urban and tr.d) o ar  'acIute
00 not han  to   soen  : dlproporti.onot  part of ah  day  L0 fehtcig tha                        oo"
AOtt..etao-r.trt  DIano... I opnr-notf nolc l-total, -rbun  09  tutar I
loene  of peoplrttl  uban, aed total) tarred by ...cret. dicpoa...aI
ptcentn..    af theIr reepentio  ppolation..   Eorrota diaponoL my toclade
thetIlee.a   and dLapenl. t.n.h or  -haancaia .of b-c  nor ta
0_4 c_ete-nee   ynatat-born   cr-teS  or the uce of Pit ptrines and tt-
PooatO re  Physician- POPulation dtrid.d by Otber of pra-ticing phy.i-                                                         E-oi. oeu on Socia1 Deta Di-colo
otnequlltd Ir  -amdloal  -eool ae -i-retity le.-l                                                                      _conoI OnlycL. cod PrDeioe.Partmaot
Popuaeo  pot nor1os Petrn-.  ?opelatta  dtnidad by nombe  Of  'toitgrY 1982
na ta  " emlagrdanta ournsen.aasmtor               prcIca.l no    .aad



-20-
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - UPPER VOLTA - GNP PER CAPITA
IN 1980 US$ 210"/
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980
US$ MILLION              %
GNP at Market Prices                                  1,322.3             100.0
Gross Domestic Investment                               218.2               16.5
Gross National Savings                                   -9.5               -0.7
Current Account Balance                                -227.7              -17.2
Exportsof Goods, NFS                                    174.6               13.2
Imports of Goods, NFS                                   498.8               37.7
OUTPUT AND ECONOMICALLY ACTIVE POPULATION IN 1980
Value Added               Economically Active Population-/
US$ million      %             ('000)             %
Agriculture                                            454.3      39.6            2472            83.0
Industry                                               204.0      17.8             357            12.0
Services                                               489.8      42.6             149             5.0
Total                                                1,148.1    100.0             2978           100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
CFAF billion                    14 of GDP
1980       1981                 1980    1981
Current Revenues                                       39.5        43.3                15.1    13.8
Current Expenditures                                   35.4        42.5                13.5    13.5
Current Surplus or Deficit                              4.1         0.8                 1.6      0.3
Capital Expenditure                                    39.8        43.3                15.2    13.8
Foreign Financed                                       35.6        33.7                13.6    10.7
Budgetary Savings                                       4.1         0.8                 1.6      0.3
Overall Surplus/Deficit                                -0.1        -8.8                  0.0     2.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                             1976       1977       1978       1979      1980
(CFAF billion at end of year)
Money and Quasi Money                                31,55      35,58      42,52      46,25    53.17
Bank credit to Public Sector                         -6.95      -7.74      -3.29      -2.3/    -3.97
Bank credit to Private Sector                        32.41      45.75      54.81      57.15    60.98
PERCENTAGE OR INDEX NUMBERS
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                    20.0       18.Q       18.8       18.4      20.3
Low-Income Price Index (       = 100)               126.1      167.7      218.7      204.0    228.0
Annual percentage changes in:
Low Income Price Index                               -7.0       33.0       30.4       -6.7      11.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector                        -41.8      -11.3       57.5       28.9    -69.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector                        50.1       41.2       19.8        4.3       6.7
I/ Atlas method. Based on revised national income and population estimates.
2/ Estimate for 1976-79
May 1982



-21-
Annex 1
Page 5 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - UPPER VOLTA
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
(In millions of current US$)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS               1979-      1980 I    19811/    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS--/
Exports of Goods, NFS             159.8     174.6      149.3
Imports of Goods, NFS             487.0     498.8      422.2
Resource Gap (deficit = -)       -327.2    -324.2    -272.9        (Average of 1979 - 81)
Workers' Remittances (net)         84.5       89.4       77.7     Livestock            24.3        30.6
Other Factor Payments (net)       -4.6        -6.6      -6.4      Cotton               31.3        39.5
Net Private Yktansfers             11.8       13,7      118       Oilseeds             11.4        14.4
Balance on Curient Accounts    -235.5    -227.7    -189.8         All other            12.3       15.5
Total               79.3       100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1980
Official Capital Grants           142.0      144.8     106.9
Net MLT Borrowings                 76.0       69.1      54.9      Public Debt, incl.
guaranteed                 508.0
Disbursements                     (80.8)    (78.5)   (67.0)       Non-guaranteed Private
Repayment                         (-4.7)    '-9,4)   (12.3)           Debt
Net IMF Credits                      2.4        2.4      1.8      Total Public Debt
2/                                                      Outstanding and disbursed  323.0
Other items -                       33.0      20.9      18.0
Change in Reserves (-   increase)-17.9        -9.5 c      .2
3/                                                DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 19804~
Memo:  Imports,-  c.i.f.          300.5      357.9    298.8
of which:  Petroleum        34.0      53.5      56.3       Total Public Debt
Outstanding and disbursed      9.2
IBRD/IDA LENDING December 1980
Outstanding and
Disbursed                     77.2
Undisbursed                     52.6
Outstanding incl.
undisbursed                  129.8
Rate of Exchange
1976:   US$1.00 = CFAF 245.00
1977:   US$1.00 = CFAF 245.00
1978:   US$1.00 = CFAF 220.00
1979:   US$1.00 = CFAF 212.72
1980:   US$1.00 = CFAF 211.30
1981:   US$1.00 - CFAF 280.70
1/  Provisional
2/  Including errors and omissions, direct investment, short-term capital.
3/  Official trade only
4/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-factor Services
not available
May 1982



- 22 -
AINEX II
Page 1 of 7
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UPPER VOLTA
A.   Statement of IDA Credits (as of March 1, 1982)
(US$ Million) a/
(less cancellations)
Number   Year      Borrower          Purpose               IDA      Undisbursed
Ten Credits fully disbursed                                50.7            -
557-UV    1975   Republic of   Livestock Develop-          6.0           1.57
Upper Volta   ment Project
579-UV    1975   Republic of   Rural Roads                  7.5          0.78
Upper Volta
640-UV    1976   Republic of   Rural Development           9.4           0.37
Upper Volta   Fund II
706-UV    1977   Republic of   West Volta Agricul-         3.6           0.28
Upper Volta   tural Development
744-UV    1977   Republic of   Railway                     5.2            1.97
Upper Volta
759-UV    1977   Republic of   Small & Medium              4.0           2.59
Upper Volta   Scale Enterprise
766-UV    1978   Republic of   Urban Development           8.2           5.68,
Upper Volta
956-UV    1979   Republic of   Education II                14.0         11.85
Upper Volta
982-UV    1980   Republic of   Forestry                   14.5          12.85
Upper Volta
1013-UV   1980   Republic of   Niena Dionkele Rice
-Upper Volta   Development                6.5           5.69
1097-UV   1981   Republic of   Second Bougouriba
Upper Volta   Agricultural Develop-
ment Project              16.0         15.4
1164-UV   1981   Republic of   Fourth Highway Project  46.0 b/          46.0
Upper Volta
TOTAL                                               191.60
of which has been repaid                            0.18
TOTAL now held by IDA a/                            191.42
TOTAL undisbursed                                                 105.03
a/   Prior to exchange adjustment.
b/   Not effective.



- 23 -                        ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
C.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 1, 1982).
Amount in US$ millions
Year   Obligator    Type Business   Loan       Equity         Totals
1978   Sovoplas         Plastic       .41       .13             .54
D.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (as of March 1, 1982) 1/
Credit 557:    Livestock Development Project.  US$6.0 Million Credit of
June 18, 1975; Effective Date: November 24, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is assisting cattle production in the Dedougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso ORDs through group ranch development, improvement of veterinary
services, livestock marketing and meat processing facilities and the provision
of technical assistance. The project, which has been extended one year to the
end of 1982, is entering its last year of operation. It is anticipated that
by the end of the year almost all the project's goals would have been achieved.
The cattle market is about to be completed and 30 vaccinations yards will be
completed during the third quarter of 1982; the problem of access to the
holding ground is about to be solved. After a slow start the project's group
ranch component is now progressing well and the three pilot ranches, totalling
about 80,000 ha are fully developed and stocked with 9,000 head of cattle,
owned by 75 families. Two more ranches are about to be created on a BND
credit.
Credit 640:    Rural Development Fund II Project.  US$9.4 Million Credit
of June 21, 1976; Effective Date: January 24, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project provides a line of credit to the Rural Development
Fund for investment in small-scale rural projects, the main purpose of which
is to increase crop production and improve village water supplies. By the
conclusion   of the last construction campaign (September 30, 1981) the
project had realized: erosion control works (15,050 ha); bottomland develop-
ment (1,885 ha); small scale irrigation and improved bottomland development
(315 ha); construction of 569 wells, 160 tube wells and some 340 village
level buildings including inter alia stores, meeting rooms and training
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors on the progress
of projects in execution, and in particular, to report any problems which
are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



- 24 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
centers; had provided medium-term credit for agricultural equipment; and,
as part of the unidentified component, financed production of forest tree
seedlings for village woodlots. An appropriate field trial program has been
developed and project results are being closely monitored. The project has
been well managed and the RDF management unit has been used to handle funds
for small scale actions provided by other donors. Not all appraisal targets
were reached, however, because Government priorities and farmers' expectations
have led project management to put more emphasis on erosion control works
(164% of appraisal target) and well construction (109%) and less on bottomland
development (70%) and small-scale irrigation (63%). To allow RDF to maintain
its present rate of activities until the proposed third phase project is
approved, the Government has obtained additional funds from the Netherlands.
Credit 653:    Third Highway Project.  US$20.0 Million Credit of July 15, 1976;
Effective Date: December 15, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
EEC Special    US$3.5 Million Equivalent; Credit of January 11, 1980;
Action:        Effective Date:  July 30, 1980; Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
Credit 38:
The project consists of: (a) reconstruction of the Banfora-Bobo-
Dioulasso-Hounde road (183 km); (b) procurement of vehicle weight control
and traffic counting equipment; (c) road maintenance study; (d) preinvest-
ment study of the Ouagadougou-Kaya-Dori road; (e) technical assistance to
the Department of Transport (DOT); and (f) technical assistance to the domes-
tic contracting industry. The Bobo-Dioulasso-Hounde section was completed
in June 1978, and the Bobo-Dioulasso-Banfora section in May 1979. Equipment
for vehicle weight control and traffic counting arrived in November 1979.
The technical assistance to the DOT has been in place since January 1977.
The Road Maintenance Study has been completed by BCEOM and reviewed, and has
served as the basis for the Fourth Highway Project. Arrangements for provid-
ing technical assistance to domestic contractors are being finalized. In view
of a project cost overrun due to currency realignments and the need to recon-
struct four bridges, initially not included in the project, supplementary
financing of US$3.5 million is being provided through the EEC Special Action
Account. Delays in the execution of civil works due to contractor problems
has resulted in slower than anticipated implementation. These problems are
now largely resolved and the required civil works are underway.



- 25 -                         ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Credit 706     West Volta Agricultural Development Project.  US$3.6 Million
and 706-5:      (IDA) and Can$3.0 Million (Canada) Credits of May 23, 1977;
Effective Date: December 28, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
EEC Special    US$3.0 Million Equivalent (EEC); Credit of February 8, 1980;
Action         Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Credit 49:
The project sought to strengthen the ORDs of Bobo-Dioulasso and
Dedougou through provision of technical assistance and equipment; establishing
a Financial and Administrative Unit to assist project accounting and financial
control; financing a ginnery and training facilities for project extension
workers; supporting an annual extension program; developing low cost irriga-
tion schemes; and implementing a pilot settlement component and a pilot
women's component.  Cumulative incremental production of cotton over the
five years of the project to date is estimated at 63,000 tons, compared to
56,000 tons at appraisal; and for cereals 29,500 tons compared to 32,000 tons
at appraisal. Most of the physical targets have been met, including construc-
tion of 75 village grain stores, a training center, and a new ginnery.
However, execution of the irrigation and women's components has been slow.
The settlement component has not been executed. Aided by favorable weather,
incremental cotton production in 1979/80 (19,000 tons) was double the appraisal
estimate. Cereal production is difficult to assess with accuracy; means of
improving monitoring of cereal output are being discussed. The extension
service, which is adopting the training and visit approach, is improving in
efficiency. The low cost irrigation schemes and women's activities have fared
poorly so far, and no action has been taken on the pilot settlement project.
The Financial and Administrative Unit has established project accounts and
updated cost statements and budgets aimed at keeping future project expendi-
tures in line with available funds.
Credit 744:    Regional Railway Project in the Ivory Coast and Upper Volta
US$5.2 Million Credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
December 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project finances priority items of the 1978-1979 portion of
the Regie Abidjan-Niger (RAN) 1977-1982 investment plan. It includes track
alignment and renewal of track material in the Ivory Coast; track improvement
in Upper Volta; procurement of locomotives; freight cars and track maintenance
equipment, provision of training facilities and consulting services for
technical training and management improvement and to carry out feasibility
studies.  Procurement of goods and services provided for in the Project
description has been implemented or carried out. Major civil works were
completed by end December 1981. All other physical components are being
implemented but have experienced delays due to administrative problems. Late
contract awards have caused slow execution of sleeper renewal and embankment
construction. Ballast production is also behind schedule. Remaining funds
in the Credit accounts will be sufficient to complete the components of the



- 26 -                        ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Regional Railway Project located in Upper Volta. The railway presently
experiences severe financial constraints detrimental to its ability to main-
tain properly its equipments. A survey of RAN's management procedures will be
undertaken soon by a team of independent experts, under a separate project,
with a view to preparing a plan of action to redress the situation.
Credit 759:    Artisan, Small and Medium Scale Enterprise Project.  US$4.0
Million of January 12, 1978; Effective Date: April 12, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project provides a line of credit to the National Development
Bank (BND) for small and medium scale enterprises; technical assistance,
project preparation and follow-up and training for the National Center for
the Promotion of Rural Artisans (CNPAR) and the Organization for the Promotion
of Upper Voltan Enterprises (OPEV); technical assistance to the BND; a study
on industrial incentives; and a training program at the Department of External
Debt at the Treasury. The technical assistance financed by the IDA credit
has had little impact on the evolution of BND as a financially sound and
well managed institution and the Association is currently discussing with
Government the best use of the remaining line of credit to BND. OPEV and
CNPAR activities are progressing satisfactorily.
Credit 766:    Urban Development Project US$8.2 Million of March 23, 1978;
Effective Date: February 2, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project consists of upgrading of approximately 7,000 plots in
Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso; preparation and servicing of 1,100 lots in
Bobo-Dioulasso; water supply facilities for an additional 2,500 families in
Ouagadougou who are not living in areas to be upgraded; housing construction
and improvement loans; community facilities, social services and technical
assistance to the municipalities of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso and the
Department of town planning.  Project start-up activities were financed under
two Project Preparation Facility advances and the budget of the Ministry
of Public works. Surveys and detailed engineering proceeded very slowly
due in part to the Ministry of Public Works tendency to shift away from
previously agreed upon design standards. An agreement was reached at end
1979: (a) to proceed on a pilot basis with the upgrading in the Cissin
neighborhood with particular attention being paid to affordable standards,
minimizing demolition and relocation, and community participation; and (b)
to hire a municipal engineer as Deputy Project Director. In Bobo-Dioulasso,
the Municipality is constructing roads with force account and a contract
for drainage has been awarded. In Ouagadougou tender documents are being
finalized. Agreement has been reached for starting the Credit Union for
mobilizing saving in the neighborhoods. Rehabilitation of schools and dis-
pensaries and assistance components to Municipalities of Bobo-Dioulasso and
Ouagadougou have been implemented successfully. The project has been slow to
attain the hoped for momentum and should still receive close supervision.



- 27-                         ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Credit 956:    Second Education Project.  US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 15, 1979; Effective Date: July 30, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
An extension of the First Education Project, the project would
expand the rural education system to youths who formerly had no access to
primary education through expansion, repair and equipping of physical facili-
ties, and training and management support. It would also provide training for
three categories of workers presently in short supply in Upper Volta; agricul-
ture project managers, building construction foremen, and road and equipment
maintenance personnel. Project management has improved, but shortage of
counterpart funds may jeopardize further improvements.  Construction of the
rural youth training centers is proceeding satisfactorily, and the first
deliveries of educational materials are expected in early 1982. Architectural
designwork for two rural development training centers and an administration
building, which are being financed by the African Development Fund, is behind
schedule and requires better control by the project staff. The technical
assistants for the rural youth training component are in post. The partially
completed study on linkages between formal and rural education indicates poor
achievement in literacy and arithmetic skills for the rural youth training
system. Proposals for the strengthening of the national evaluation capacity
are being developed.
Credit 982:    Forestry Project.  US$14.5 Million Credit of April 7, 1980.
Effective Date:  December 31, 1980; Closing Date:  December 31,
1984.
The project provides a comprehensive program to strengthen the
operational capacity of the Forestry Administration with staff and equipment
to carry out its assigned functions of protecting, developing and exploiting
the country's forest resources within the framework of the national forestry
plan. The project will also establish 1,600 ha of rainfed tree plantations
and 325 ha of rural woodlots in the Bobo-Dioulasso area, manage on a pilot
basis 1,000 ha of natural forest in the Maro-reserve and maintain previously
established rainfed tree plantations. A Project Preparation Facility advance
financed preliminary works begun in 1979, including a pedological study and
aerial survey of the Maro-reserves and plantation maintenance and protection
works. The Project Management Unit (PMU) in Ouagadougou and the Project
Operation Unit (POU) in Bobo-Dioulasso are almost fully established and are
operating satisfactorily.  Although clearing and land preparation were very
late, POU established successfully during the first planting season of 1981,
142 ha of rainfed tree plantation in the Maro reserve, and, in liaison with
the natural forest unit, are carrying out a detailed reconnaissance inventory
of the reserve to select sites to be managed by the project. The project will
commence complementary studies on rural forestry and on a national forestry
fund late in 1982.



-28 -                          ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Credit 1013:   Niena Dionkele Rice Development Project.  US$6.5 Million
Credit of May 8, 1980; Effective Date: December 4, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is a pilot phase of a possible three phase program to
convert swampland to more productive use. The main objectives of this phase
would be to test key assumptions regarding future development of swamp areas
and to address price structure, marketing and economic issues of the rice
subsector. The project will also assist Government to promote institution
building in the subsector, define a national rice policy, create a market
structure to ensure farmer confidence in rice production and train future
rice industry managers. The project has had a slow start with respect to
procurement and staffing. There have been significant cost overruns with
the water control structures. In the first cropping year (second project
year) only 150 ha instead of the 300 ha envisaged were developed. The first
season has disclosed serious technical problems, of which the most fundamental
relates to water availability and appropriate rice variety. The second
cropping season will provide more insight into these difficulties, but it is
questionable whether this pilot project will give rise to a full-scale project
based on the original technical assumptions.
Credit 1097:   Second Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project:
US$16.0 Million Credit of March 6, 1981; Effective Date:
December 4, 1981; Closing Date: September 30, 1986
An extension of the First Bougouriba Agricultural Development
Project (Credit 496-UV), the project aims at further increasing agricultural
and livestock production in the Bougouriba ORD. Attention will be concen-
trated on the technical management of rainfed agriculture by improved orga-
nization of training, extension, input distribution and credit. The project
also provides for the implementation of modest animal husbandry practices and
increased use of animal traction. Emphasis will be on increasing yields of
main food crops (millet and sorghum) together with recommendations for cash
crops (yams, groundnuts and cotton). The project includes small programs to
encourage more fruit and fuelwood tree planting, and erosion control.
Credit 1164:   Fourth Highway Project:  US$46.0 million Credit of
January 28, 1982; Effective Date: April 26, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The main objectives of this project, which has not yet been signed,
are to improve the Ministry of Public Works' institutional capacity for main-
tenance operations and to provide better access to rural areas. The project
consists of: (i) the renewal of the maintenance equipment fleet; (ii) the
construction of workshops and office building; (iii) the incremental costs of
fuel, spare parts and materials for routine maintenance; (iv) the costs of
fuel, spare parts and materials for the periodic maintenance of about 450 km
of gravel roads; (v) the rehabilitation of about 280 km of gravel roads;
(vi) the resealing of about 320 km or paved roads; (vii) the construction
and initial maintenance of about 1,640 km of new and existing feeder roads;
and (viii) technical assistance, consultants, training and scholarships to
help overcome personnel constraints.



- 29 -                           ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification Mission:   1979
(b)  Project Preparation Agency:   Government/Consultants
(c)  Appraisal Mission:   September-October 1981
(d)  Negotiations:  June 7-11, 1982
(e)  Target effectiveness:   October 31, 1982
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The mark-up on inputs, including veterinary supplies, will be
sufficient to cover related costs of distribution by the fourth
year of the project (para 41);
(b) The interest rates for medium-term and short-term credit would
be at least 11 percent (para 41);
(c) Conditions of effectiveness are:
(i)  that all conditions required for the effectiveness of external
finance, other than effectiveness of the IDA credit, had been
fulfilled; and
(ii)  that IFAD had appointed the Association as Cooperating Institu-
tion to administer the IFAD loan on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.



i
I
I



IBRD 1591'
UPPER VOLTA / HAUTE VOLTA                                           JANUARY 198
HAUTS-BASSINS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1 1_ _ ,,/ \ ( n PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT AGR/COLE DES HA/TS-BASSINS
/  S                 C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--. ~~~~~~~~~~RDnre A-l  090
/  O~~~~~~~CBANG ASS )~                                                                                                                                                                                           I < _fio.wmJ?/D
.t-f  /         X         ,'                                                  1                                                                                VeterFnury F sts~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eernryPr
OMOROLABA                                 x                   I                      /                          / ,                                                                         -,     G,rne-es
I )   |  6           g                           {       ~ -.              /              ,.                                        AVV Zone
3             3                                                                   C ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---             -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~AV,  Lore-    U
C                                                                                                                                                                    \$ //  i'N J                                                        Z  ,  on  All,
N-'
ODONKEILE/                                                    ANAL
N'DOROLA*                                                                         RANWALI                                            Sy< ''  4or:yadsuger'                              /irrerd FYchenrhe d'Aeroagoenarn
3                                                0iLbULE          \ KOIJYDOYGOt                                                                                                                          e z-  <_-  \   L SARA  w/   -   x   -~   Funne tKmNDcGOtR
{  OS LORLA   L tilEt4A                                        0 'J  0 OBOSSORA   \       /  \sX                        /              ~       E             F-re,tr, P,.wF  Area
_RE.B\0   //  ;MroFor t.\-  A          -        Zone Anoi A-
etlled P.,,rara l,a A-en
/ \ \ SE>// / de Mvro . . nE' ~~S
/ u   \<  /  2                                                                                                                                                                        \ -?/ p OBOUAHOUNDE  i ORD HY dq-
OBOo AHOUN                                              C/o/rek  09
1/,\                                                                                                                                                        Aorta R155   r    \   '  2  (3  S-o, Off".
4         S1AMOROIGOUAN                                                                                     -rrarte do /4290
ORD RB-daree
Nar,r R-Jr
| .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7  ____  Se/-t \\//  oFnora Rordr
7 ,C.                                 |                              R (DKARANKASSO                 \-d'  R                                                                                                                           -nj
! 0)~~~~~~~~~DJIGOUERA                                        /BOBO-DfOLULAS    S>     u
Rf ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U ie   /                                                                                                 ohyere    ores
en-                                                                                                                                                                                      N    s\\dp                                           e       almtr
5t  ~~~~~~~~ _OKO  t   /    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /  ^                                        \                                            \         tf                                  /sohteZ5 en M/bvresre~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ahyiae 4Y/reie
I  \             \~~~~~AAION                        \                                                              /\ 
1Ch,  ,0 redaea
~}  X   OKOTOURFA  X            O R O v                                             <                                                          , ,                                                     14 MA   A L I                   E              G
!Beb  Vie                    o L , T A
N AT2
KILOMFTERS~~~~~~~~~~~ G H A N A                               5
. ...:IVORY- COAST    2                T



