OWICI
wOCUMENTS        CREDIT NUMBER 1285 UV
Development Credit Agreement
(HaULt-Bassins Agricultural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1285 UV
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                ,2-, 1982, between
the REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the French Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (hereinafter called CCCE)
loans (hereinafter called the CCCE Loans) in an aggregate amount
of forty five million French Francs to assist in financing part
of the Project;
(C) the Borrower intends to receive from the French
Republic, acting through its Fonds d'aide et de Cooperation
(hereinafter called the FAC) grants (hereinafter called the FAC
Grants) in an aggregate amount of seventeen million five hundred
thousand French Francs to assist in financing part of the
Project;
(D) the Borrower intends to receive from the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) a
loan (hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent
to two million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights to
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Fund Loan Agree-
ment) between the Borrower and the Fund;
(E) the Fund intends to appoint the Association as
Cooperating Institution to administer the Fund Loan and the
Association is prepared to accept such appointment; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the 'qregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and -onditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Fund Loan Account" means the loan account established
under the Fund Loan Agreement;
(b)  "Ministry" means the Ministry of the Borrower responsi-
ble for Rural Development;
(c)  "ORD" means the Organisme R6gional de D&veloppement for
Hauts-Bassins   of   the  Borrower,   established   under   Decree
No. 76/125-PRES-DR-MF-EN-5, dated April 21, 1976;
(d) "Project Area" means the area covered by the ORD; and
(e) "Special Account" means the account to be established
in accordance with Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various cirren-
cies equivalent to four million two hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 4,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
III of this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrooer from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association she"1 reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March I and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1992, and ending March 1,
2032, each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French ?.epublic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE III
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Credit and Fund Loan
Section 3.01. (a) Subject to the rights of suspension and
cancellation set forth in the Development Credit Agreement and


﻿-4-
the Fund Loan Agreement, the amount of the Credit and the amount
of the Fund Loan may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the
Fund Loan Account, respectively, in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Agreement and with the allocation of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Fund Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such allocation may be modified from time to time
pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or by further agree-
ment between the Borrower, the Association and the Fund.
(b) Withdrawals under Category 3 of the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall be limited to
the items set forth in paragraph 3 (b) of such Schedule.
Section 3.02. (a) The amount of the Credit and of the Fund
Loan may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and from the Fund
Loan Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Fund Loan.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
cause the ORD to open a Special Account in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfaccory to the Association.     Payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively to pay the
reasonable cost of goods and services required to carry out the
Project and to be financed under this Agreement in accordance
with the provisions of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule I hereto.
(c) The Association shall, promptly after the Effective
Date, withdraw on behalf of the Borrowerzfrom the Credit Account
and deposit in the Special Acount an initial amount in the cur-
rency of the Borrower equivalent to SDR 120,000, as provided in
Category (6) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule I
of this Agreement.    Thereafter, at the request of the Borrower
made pursuant to Section 3.03 below, the Association on behalf of
the Borrower shall further withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amounts as shall be required
to replenish the Special Account with amounts equal to payments
made out of the Special Account from proceeds of the Credit for
expenditures for the Project eligible for financing out of such
proceeds under this Agreement, but only to the extent that the
amount of any such deposit, together with any amount from such
proceeds remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the


﻿-5-
date of such request, shall not exceed in the aggregate the
equivalent of SDR 120,000.
(d) Upon each deposit by the Association pursuant to this
paragraph, the Association shall proceed as set forth in Sections
3.05 and 3.06 below.   Except as the Association and the Fund
shall otherwise determine, each such deposit after the initial
deposit shall be withdrawn from the Credit Account and from the
Fund Loan Account under the same Categories set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and in the
same respective amounts, as have been justified by the evidence
supporting the request for such deposits furnished pursuant to
paragraph (e) of this Section.
(e) Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower
for a deposit into the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association in respect of each payment out of the
Special Accovnt such documents and other evidence as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made
to pay the reasonable cost of goods or services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
the Fund Loan in accordance with Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(f) If the Association shall have determined that any pay-
ment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure
or in any amount not eligible for financing by withdrawal from
the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished purWant to paragraph (e) of
this Section, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association and, unless otherwise agreed by the Association or
the Fund, prior to any further deposit by the Association or the
Fund in the Special Account, deposit in the Special Account or
refund to the Association and the Fund an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or of the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified.
(g) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section, no further deposit in the Special Account shall be .aade
by the Association when (i) the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals can be made directly by the Borrower
from the Credit Account under Sections 3.01 (a) and 3.02 (a) of
this Agreement, or (ii) when the total amount withdrawn from the
Credit Account, plus the amount of any qualified agreement to
reimburse made by the Association and of any special commitment


﻿-6-
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Lnditions, shall have reached the equivalent of
SDR 3,960,000 whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the
Credit Account and the Fund Loan Account of the remaining amounts
of the Credit and the Fund Loan shall follow such procedures as
shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association and
shall be made only to the extent that the Association shall be
satisfied by the evidence submitted in support of the applica-
tions for such withdrawals that all payments by the Borrower out
of the Special Account and out of the proceeds of the Credit and
the Fund Loan were made on account of the reasonable cost of
goods or services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
Section 3.03. (a) When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amount of the Credit or the Fnd Loan, the Borrower shall
deliver to the Association d aritLen application in such form and
containing such statements and agreements as the Association or
the Fund shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal,
with the necessary documentation as hereinafter provided shall,
except as the Borrower, the Association and the Fund shall other-
wise agree, be made promptly in relation to expenditures for the
Project.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such
documenta and other evidence in support of the application as the
Association or the Fund shall reasonably request, whether before
or after the Association shall have approved any withdrawal
requested in the application.
(c) Each application and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to
satisfy the Association or he Fund that the Borrower is entitled
to withdraw from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account the
amount applied for and that such amount is to be used only for
the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. Except as otherwise provided in this Section,
each such application by the Borrower for withdrawal shall be
deemed to be a request to withdraw funds from the Credit Account
and from the Fund Loan Account, and the funds to be withdrawn
pursuant to such application shall be apportioned by the Associa-
tion, as nearly as practicable in the circumstances, between the
Credit and the Fund Loan in the ratio of 40:60, or such other
ratio as shall be agreed between the Association and the Fund;


﻿-7-
provided, however, that, in respects of Categories 3 (b) and 4
(b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement or in any other case where an application shall be made
in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit only or the Fund Loan only, such application shall be
deemed to be a request to withdraw funds from the Credit Account
or the Fund Loan Account only, as the case may be.
Section 3.05. When the Association shall have approved an
application by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Association
shall:
(i) pay the amount, if any, which the Borrower is
entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account to or
on the order of the Borrower in accordance with
the provisions of the Development Credit Agree-
ment; and/or, if called for in the application,
(ii) promptly notify the Fund that it has received an
application for withdrawal from the Fund Loan
Account in the aggregate amount specified in such
notice, that it has approved payment of the por-
tion, if any, to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in the amount set forth in such notice,
and that the portion to be withdrawn from the Fund
Loan Account in the amount set forth in such
notice is eligible for payment by the Fund.
Section 3.06. If at any time the amount of the Credit or the
Fund Loan shall have been fully withdrawn or cancelled, applica-
tions by the Borrower for further withdrawals shall be deemed to
be requested for withdrawal of the full amount applied for from
the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account only, and the provi-
sions of this Article III shall continue to apply mutatis mutan-
dis until the full amount credited to such Account shall have
been withdrawn or cancelled.
Section 3.07. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such
terms as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, the Association may, on behalf and for the account of the
Fund, enter into special commitments to pay amounts, out of the
proceeds of the Fund Loan, to the Borrower or others in respect
of the cost of goods required by the Project, subject to the pro-
visions of this Agreement concerning the allocation and appor-
tionment of the proceeds of the Fund Loan. The Fund has advised


﻿-8-
the Association that any such special commitment shall, once it
has been notified to the Fund, constitute an obligation on the
part of the Fund to pay, notwithstanding any subsequent suspen-
sion or cancellation of the Fund Loan, the amount to be disbursed
out of the proceeds of the Fund Loan in fulfillment of such spe-
cial commitment.
Section 3.08. Except as the Association and the Fund shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works re-
quired for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit or the Fund Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministry with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural, engi-
neer .ng and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 4.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ:
(i) consultants whose selection, qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association in accordance with the
principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Bank in August 1981; and
(ii) a Financial Coordinator, an Extension Training Coordi-
nator and a Pastoralists Extension Coordinator, each of
whom shall meel: such qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment, including terms of
reference, as shall be satisfactory to the Association,
as well as a Technical Coordinator, a Monitoring Coord-
inator and a Livestock Integration Coordinator, all
qualified aad experienced, and whose terms of reference
shall be satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 9 -
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Cr'edit or the Fund Loan
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan to be
used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation and the Fund, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work and
procuremeat schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and the Fund Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's and the Fund's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the ex-
penditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may vublish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to


﻿- 10 -
the Association and the Fund, a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the bene-
fits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land or rights in respect of land Ps shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfac-
tory to the Association that such lani and rights in r3spect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall, by June 30, 1984, exchange
views with the Association on the Borrower's forecasts of future
domestic cotton production and on any measures necessary to en-
sure the adequacy of ginning capacity in relation thereto.
Section 4.07. (a) The Borrower shall include in the sale
prices of agricultural inputs in the Project Area, including
veterinary drug supplies but not necessarily other livestock
inputs, a margin of at least 7% of the unsubsidized costs there-
of.
(b) Such costs shall include the amounts attributed to the
acquisition and delivery of the inputs as well as to operating
costs, including salaries, related to distribution, vaccinations
and depreciation of mobile and refrigerating equipment, but ex-
cluding any such amounts borne by the Borrower; such costs shall
be calculated annually in consultation with the auditors employed
under Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement, beginning in the first
year of carrying out the Project.
(c) Beginning in the fourth year of carrying out the Proj-
ect, the Borrower shall inclu,de, in the sales prices of such in-
puts a margin sufficient to ensure the recovery of the entire
amounts described in paragraph (b) of this Section.
(d) The Borower shall prepare and furnish to the Associa-
tion a statement of its policy regarding cost recovery principles
to be implemented for seeds and for livestock inputs other than


﻿- 11 -
veterinary drugs, shall exchange views with the Association con-
cerning such policy not later than June 30, 1984 and shall apply
such policy from the start of the fourth year of carrying out the
Project.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall, at least once each year,
until the Project has been completed, exchange views with the
Association on the price of agricultural products and on the in-
centives to be granted to farmers in the Project Area.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall cause the Livestock Service
of the Ministry to assign a qualified Livestock Assistant and
five veterinary nurses, in order to assist the ORD in the carry-
ing out of the Project.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
and the Fund as soon as available but not later than March 30 of
each year until the year of completion of the Project, proposed
annual budgets and work programs for the carrying out of the
Project; final budgets and programs shall be furnished to the
Association as soon as they are approved by the Board of Direc-
tors of the ORD and by the Ministry.
Section 4.11. The Borrower shall ensure that the supply
service of the ORD supervise in the Project Area the financial
management of the distribution and sale of veterinary supplies as
well as that of the production and sale of seeds, and that such
service ensure the recovery in whole or in part of the costs
thereof.
Section 4.12. The Borrower shall ensure that the seasonal
and medium-term credits granted under Part D of the Project be
granted at a rate of interest of at least 11% per annum.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain and cause to
be maintained by the ORD records adequate to reflect in accord-
aace with consistently maintained appropriate accounting prac-
tices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of
the Project, of the ORD and of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.


﻿- 12 -
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) ensure that all operations and accounts with respect
to the Project be kept separate from the other operations and
accounts of the ORD; (ii) maintain or cause to be maintained by
the ORD separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account
of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account or the
Fund Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure;
(iii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other docu-
ments) evidencing the expenditures on account of which with-
drawals are requested from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure; and (iv) en-
able the Association's and the Fund's representatives to examine
such accounts and records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts for the
Project, including the Special Account and the accounts referred
to in paragraph (b) of this Section and shall cause the ORD to
have its accounts, including the separate accounts for the supply
service and credit service, audited for each fiscal year in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association and the Fund, as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than six months after the end of
each such year, certified copies of the reports of such audits by
such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall have reasonably requested, including without limita-
tion to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in
respect of the expenditures and records referred to in paragraph
(b) (ii) and (iii) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of
the Credit withdrawn from the Cre&it Account and the Fund Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure were used to
make payments for goods received, or works or services performed,
and that such goods, works and services were eligible for financ-
ing under this Agreement and were used in carrying out the Proj-
ect; and (iii) furnish to the Association and the Fund such other
information concerning said separate accounts, records and ex-
penditures and the audits thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall cause the ORD to reorganize
its accounting practices and procedures so that not later than in
respect of its fiscal year commencing in 1984 separate accounts
will be kept for the supply service and for agricultural credits.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to para-
graph (b) of this Section:
(i) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant or loan, including the Fund Loan,
made to the Borrower for the financing of the
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
terms of the agreement providing therefor; or
(ii) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional event is specified pur-
suant to paragraph (d) thereof namely, that the event specified
in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall
occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Special Account has been opened;


﻿- 14 -
(b) the Association has been notified by the CCCE, the FAC
and the Fund that all conditions for the first disbursement of
the CCCE Loans, the FAC Grants and the Fund Loan, except the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
(c)  the Fund has appointed the Association as Cooperating
Institution to administer the Fund Loan on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association, namely, that the execution and deliv-
ery on behalf of the Borrower of the Fund Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action
and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower in
accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date                c2,is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
V of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 6.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date fifteen
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
earlier.
Section 7.05. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall have come
into force and effect and the DevelopmLnt Credit Agreement shall
have failed to come into force and effect by the date specified
in Section 7.03 of this Agreement or a later date established by
the Association for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions, or (ii) the entire principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account and all charges which shall
have accrued on the Credit shall have been paid before the Fund
Loan Agreement shall have terminated, then, notwithstanding the
provisions of Sections 12.04 and 12.05 of the General Conditions,
the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be, or to
remain, in force and effect, but only to the extent required for
the purpose of implementing the Fund Loan Agreement and of
orderly settlement of matters of mutual interest to the parties
thereunder, subject to such modifications of the Development
Credit Agreement as shall be agreed between the Borrower, the
Association and the Fund for such purpose.


﻿- 15 -
Section 7.06. If (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms before the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall have terminated, or (ii) the Association shall notify
the Borrower that its appointment as Cooperating Institution
under the Fund Loan Agreement has terminated, the provisions of
this Agreement shall, to the extent that they relate to the Fund
Loan, forthwith terminate; provided, however, that in the case
described in the foregoing clause (ii), such termination shall
apply only to the responsibilities of the Association as such
Cooperating Institution.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Ouagadougou
Upper Volta
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIFINANCE                         MIFICOM
Ouagadougou                         5256
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
B yA
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the
Credit and of the Fund Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Fund Loan,
the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the Fund Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to
be financed in each t#ategory:
Amount )f the
Amount of the      Fund Loan         % of
Credit Allocated   Allocated        Expendi-
(Expressed in    (Expressed in    tures to be
Category       SOR Equivalent) SDR Equivalent)    Financed
(1) Construction:
(a) Under force       135,000       200,000     60%
account for
adaptive
research, Part
A of the Pro-
ject and vil-
lage groups,      -
Part C of the
Project
(b) Undez contract     40,000        55,000     100%
(2) Vehicles and equip-
ment:
(a) For adaptive       15,000        25,000     60%
research, Part
A of the Pro-
ject, village
groups, Part C
of the Project
and monitoring,
Part I of the
Project


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the
Amount of the      Fund Loan         % of
Credit Allocated    Allocated      Expendi-
(Expressed in    (Expressed in   tures to be
Category        SDR Equivalent) SDR Equivalent)   Financed
(b) Other             115,000        170,000    100%
(3) Salaries and opera-
ting expenses listed
in paragraph 3 (b) of
this Schedule:
(a) For adaptive      160,000       245,000     60%
research, Part
A of the Pro-
ject, village
groups, Part C
of the Project
and monitoring,
Part I of the
Project
(b) For settled        40,000         nil       100%
pastoralists,
Part J of the
Project
(c) Other             945,000      1,330,000    100%
(4) Consultants' services,
studies, audits,
fellowships
(a) Aerial surveys     55,000        80,000     60%
monitoring,
Part I of the
Project
(b) Other           1,920,000          nil      100%
(5) Goods and services     150,000        230,000    60%
for projects approved
under Part K of the
Project


﻿- 19 -
Amount of the
Amount of the     Fund Loan         % of
Credit Allocated   Allocated       Expendi-
(Expressed in    (Expressed in   tures to be
Category        SDR Equivalent) SDR Equivalent)   Financed
(6) Initial deposit       120,000        180,000
in Special
Account
(7) Unallocated           505,000        285,000
TOTAL         4,200,000     2,800,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association and the Fund that no
proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the
amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Creit or the Fund Loan
decreases or increases, the Association way, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association and the Fund.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawal shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the later of
the date of this Agreement or the date of the Fund Loan Agree-
ment, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceed-
ing the equivalent of SDR 300,000 may be made on account of pay-
ments made for such expenditures before such later date but after
June 30, 1982; or
(b) expenditures under Category 3 of the above table, ex-
cept for the following salaries and allowances of national con-
tractual staff at levels approved by the Borrower under its
national policies, and for the following operating expenses, or
except as otherwise agreed by the Association:


﻿- 20 -
(i) Salaries and Allowances
A.   Extension Service: 119 general extension agents in
the first year of the Project, decreasing to 100
by the fifth year; 25 subsector chiefs, decreasing
to 10 by the fifth year; 6 typists, 2 drivers; 5
extension coordinators;
B.   Applied Research: 2 chiefs, 2 shepherds, I watch-
man, I enumerator, 3 workmen and 15 man-months per
year of casual labor;
C.   Village Groups: 5 agents, 1 driver and 1 typist;
D.   Monitoring:  1   controller,  10  enumerators,  2
clerks, 1 typist, 1 driver, 10 man-months per year
of temporary staff;
E.,  Regional Training Center: 2 typists, 2 laborers, 1
cook, I messenger, 1 filing clerk, 1 supply clerk,
two watchmen;
(ii) Operating Expenses, excluding costs of operating vehi-
cles and of travel of civil servants:
A.   Extension Service: training course allowances;
B.   Applied Research: expenses and costs of research
institute;
C.   Village Groups: expenses of the functional liter-
acy program; and
D.   Regional Training Center: operating costs.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the Fund Loan, or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph I above, and without limitation upon the pro-
visions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement, if the Association has
reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit or the Fund
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallo-
cate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the esti-
mated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan which


﻿- 21 -
are then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion
of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
provided, however, that no such reallocation of the proceeds of
the Fund Loan shall be made to Category 3 (b) or 4 (b); and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such ex-
penditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
itures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit or the Fund Loan, ani the Association may, without in any
way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement or of the
Fund under the Fund Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit and/or the Fund Loan as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit and/or the Fund Loan.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is intended to continue the improvement of agri-
culture ar   welfare of farmers, and pastoralists in the Hauts-
Bassins . -n by the growth of crop production, the fostering of
village groups, and by improving livestock productivity. Entailed
in this effort are the continued improvement of extension ser-
vices in the Project Area under the training and visit system,
provision of infrastructure, credits and other services related
to village groups, functional literacy, animal traction, seeds
production, adaptive research, the integration of livestock and
agriculture, monitoring and studies. The Project consists of the
following parts:
Part A:
Improvement of the agricultural extension service in the
Project Area through the continuation of the training and visit
system, together with support of services dealing with livestock
integration, seeds production, field trials, demonstration plots,
and adaptive research, through construction of housing and other
buildings, and the acquisition of vehicles and equipment.
Part B:
Strengthening of services for staff training and extension
techniques, covering the needs of agricultural, livestock and
livestock extension and of management.
Part C:
Strengthening of the input supply and credit services to
operate through the existing warehouse network through 150 vil-
lage warehouses to be constructed by village groups; procurement
and distribution of materials to be used in such construction.
Part D:
Supply of agricultural and livestock inputs and equipment,
oxen, animal traction equipment and milling equipment to farmers
and livestock owners and provision of seasonal and medium-term
credits for their purchase.


﻿- 23 -
Part E:
Sup;ort for animal health services, and encouragement of
improved animal production practices and their integration with
crop production practices.
Part F:
Establishment, staffing and equipping of about 200 new vl-
lage groups in the Project Area.
Part G:
Carrying out of a literacy program with the support of the
village groups.
Part H:
Strengthening of ORD headquarters operations through the
employment of appi:opriate staff and technical assistance, con-
struction of further office accommodation and staff housing, pro-
curement of vehicles and training of staff through fellowships
and other courses approved by the Association.
Part I:
Establishment and operation of a monitoring unit for the
monitoring and evaluation of the Project, comprising a monitoring
coordinator assisted by about ten enumerators and five support
staff.
Part J:
Strengthening of the Livestock Center located at Samoro-
.           gouan.
Part K:
The carrying out of such rural development projects, includ-
ing a pilot program for migrants, as shall be approved by the
Association on the basis of the criteria set forth in Schedule 4
hereto, and of such studies as shall be approved by the Associa-
tion.
.                The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1987.


﻿24
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts B and D hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the current edition of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cred-
its" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event niot later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifica-
tion to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 25 -
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works contracts estimated at over CFAF 5 million
for new sector offices and housing and contracts for the purchase
of vehicles and equipment and building materials which, after
grouping, are estimated to cost less than CFAF 25 million equiva-
lent but more than CFAF 5 million equivalent, may be procured
through local competitive bidding under procedures calling for
public opening of bids during which the names of each bidder and
the amounts of the bids will be announced, such opening to be
held at the time and place specified for the delivery of bids in
the invitations to bidders.
2.   Contracts for civil works and for the purchase of
vehicles, equipment and building materials which, after grouping,
are estimated to cost less than CFAF 5 million equivalent, may be
procured on the basis of competitive quotations solicited
domestically.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of CFAF 25 million or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any furt-er modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would


﻿- 26 -
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditias of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account
in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph 1, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award
of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.
D.   Procurement without Contracting
The construction of sector training buildings, applied
research buildings, village warehouses and maize cribs may be
carried out under force account.


﻿- 27 -
ZCHEDULE 4
Criteria for Selection of projects under
Part K of the Project
Except as otherwise agreed by the Association, projects to
be approved under Part K of the Project shall fall into one of
the following two categories.
A.   Small-scale actions demanded by farmers selected in accord-
ance with the following criteria:
(a) need as evidenced by a request from potential benefi-
ciaries;
(b) effective demand as evidenced by a willingness on the
part of such beneficiaries to contribute in kind or in cash to
the investment;
(c) technical feasibility which implies a design simple
enough to be realized by local farmers under the technical super-
vision of staff of executing agencies;
(d) economic efficiency, which is deemed to be atisfied by
a minimum economic rate of return of 12% on productive projects
and, for infrastructure investments by a design judged to produce
the lowest cost per beneficiary; and
(e) social acceptability, which means that the ORD must
examine proposed projects taking account of the larger social
context to ensure their acceptance by target populations.
B.   Actions complementing   the principal Project objectives.
These actions would essentially seek to remove possible con-
straints to Project execution that may arise, or to improve the
efficiency of execution. Examples are (i) a pilot program for
migrants; (ii) strengthening the functional literacy program;
(iii) improvements in rural radio coverage; and (iv) assistance
to remove possible marketing constraints.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  (5Z       day of
198 -
FOR SECRETARY


