AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2314 UG
Agreement
between
THE GOVERNMENT OF SWEDEN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
for
the Administration of Certain Funds
to be made available by
THE SWEDISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
in conjunction with
Special Program of Assistance for Low Income,
Debt-Distressed Countries
(The Republic of Uganda)
Dated                        , 1993


﻿AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2314 UG
AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT between THE GOVERNMENT OF SWEDEN (Sweden)
represented by the Swedish International Development Authority
(SIDA) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
referred to as the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has made available to the
Republic of Uganda (hereinafter referred to as Uganda) a credit for
a structural adjustment program (hereinafter referred to as the
Program) pursuant to a Development Credit Agreement, dated
December 12, 1991, between Uganda and the Association (hereinafter
referred to as the Development Credit Agreement);
(B)   the Agreement, dated May 18, 1989, between Sweden and
the Association provides the framework for cofinancing of
development projects by t,.ie parties hereto;
(C)   SIDA wishes to make available a grant of twenty million
Swedish kroner (SEK 20,000,000) to assist Uganda in its debt service
to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(hereinafter referred to as the Bank); and
(D)   SIDA further wishes the Association to administer said
funds until the debt service payments concerned have become due and
payable by Uganda, and the Association has agreed to administer them
upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Administration of the Funds
Section 1.01. (a) For the purpose of this Agreement, SIDA
shall deposit twenty million Swedish kroner (SEK 20,000,000) (the
Grant) into the International Development Association's Cash Account
"T" (No. 89501-00225) which is maintained with Sveriges Riksbank
(the T-Account).
(b)   The Grant -shall be deposited into the T-Account promptly
after the effectiveness of this Agreement. To facilitate the
administration of trust fund assets, the Association may deposit
other trust fund assets in the T-Account.


﻿- 2 -
Section 1.02. SIDA hereby appoints the Association as
administrator of the Grant and authorizes the Association to:
(a) hold and disburse the proceeds thereof towards making the
payments of principal and interest due and payable by Uganda to the
Bank; and (b) do any and all such acts and things as may be
necessary or appropriate to fully accomplish the foregoing;
provided, however, that in the event the Association shall have
suspended Uganda's right to make withdrawals under the Development
Credit Agreement, the Association may withhold disbursements of the
Grant until such right of Uganda has been restored.
Section 1.03. The Association shall exercise the same care in
the discharge of its functions under this Agreement as it exercises
with respect to the administration and management of its own affairs
and shall have no further responsibility to Sweden in respect
thereof.
Section 1.04. In order to assist in the defrayal of the costs
of administration and other expenses incurred by the Association
under this Agreement, the Association may invest and reinvest the
Grant funds pending their disbursement and may retain for its own
account the income from any such investment or reinvestment.
ARTICLE II
Records, Accounts
Section 2.01. The Association shall: (a) maintain separate
records and ledge-, accounts of the Grant withdrawn from the
T-Account; and (b) shortly after the Grant has been withdrawn in
full, as expected on or about April 30, 1994: (i) prepare a
financial statement; (ii) cause the Association's external auditors
to prepare an audit of the financial statement; and (iii) forward a
copy to SIDA. The cost of such audit shall be met by the Association
out of the investment income earnings.
ARTICLE III
Consultation
Section 3.01. SIDA and the Association shall consult from time
to time, at the request of each other, on all matters arising from
this Agreement and in particular in case the Association suspends
Uganda's right to make withdrawals under the Development Credit
Agreement as provided in Section 1.02 above.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness, Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon
signature by the parties.
Section 4.02. If at any time it appears to either party that
the purposes of this Agreement cannot effectively or appropriately
be carried out, the arrangements set forth herein may be terminated
at the initiative of such party on thirty days' notice in writing to
the other. Upon such termination, unless SIDA and the Association
otherwise agree, any of the Grant funds held hereunder by the
Association shall be returned to SIDA and the Association's
administration shall be considered terminated.
Section 4.03. This Agreement shall terminate when the Grant
has been withdrawn and applied by the Association as provided in
Section 1.02 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous
Section 5.01. The Swedish International Development Authority,
SIDA, shall be competent to represent Sweden for the application of
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. This Agreement may be amended only by written
agreement of the parties hereto.
Section 5.03. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or mail, telephone, cable, telex
or rapifax to the party to which it is required or permitted to be
given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at
such other address as such party shall have designated by notice to


﻿-4-
the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses
so specified are:
For Sweden:
Swedish International Development Authority
S-105 25 Stockholm
Sweden
Telex:
SIDA 11450
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                         197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿-5-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have signed this Agreement.
GOVERNMENT OF SWEDEN
By//                    Afthorized Representative
Date   Il/ /0' /Vog?
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By, /s/ E01WaZd       V4(.    I   6,QA
Authori ed Representative
Date


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


