Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20663-KO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-35900)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 110 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A
KWANGJU ANI) SEOUL SEWERAGE PROJECT
June 29, 2000
Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2000)
Currency Unit = Won
1,000 Won = US$ 0.90
US$ 1.00 = 1,109 Won
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOD   -       Biochemical Oxygen Demand
COD   -       Chemical Oxygen Demand
ERR   -       Economic Rate of Return
FRR   -       Financial Rate of Return
ICB    -      International Competitive Bidding
ICR    -      Implementation Completion Report
LPC   -       Local Public Corporation
MOC  -        Ministry of Construction
MOE  -        Ministry of the Environment
NBF   -       Not Bank-financed
NCB   -       National Competitive Bidding
NGO   -       Non Governmental Organization
NPV   -       Net Present Value
NRW   -       Non Revenue Water
QAG   -       Quality Assurance Group
SAR   -       Staff Appraisal Report
SS    -       Suspended Solids
UNDP -        United Nations Development Programme
WTP  -        Wastewater Treatment Plant
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:    N. G. Sri-Ram Aiyer
Sector Manager/Director:    Keshav Varma
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Ming Zhang



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
KWANGJU AND SEOUL SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LN. 3590-KOR)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     7
6. Sustainability                                                                         8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                          9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       11
9. Partner Comments                                                                      11
10. Additional Information                                                              24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P004169                                      Project Name: Kwangju and Seoul Sewerage Project
Team Leader: Ming Zhang                                  TL Unit: EASUR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 29, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: Kwangju and Seoul Sewerage Project            L/C/TF Number: CPL-35900
Country/Department: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF                                  Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: WS - Sewerage
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  11/15/91                                Effective: 09/28/93          09/28/93
Appraisal:  09/28/92                                 MTR:                       11/01/97
Approval:  04/13/93                               Closing:  12/31/97           12/31/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: Republic of Korea/Kwangju and Seoul Metropolitan Governments
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       Gautam S. Kaji
Country Manager:     M. G. Sri-Ram Aiyer                       Khalid Ikram
Sector Manager:      Keshav Varma                              Jeffrey Gutman
Team Leader at ICR:   Ming Zhang                              Jaroslav Kozel
ICR Primary Author:   Ming Zhang; Jaehyang So
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Korea is one of the most densely populated countries in the world, coupled with one of the highest
urbanization levels as well. Its rapid industrialization and urbanization have caused serious environment
problems in its major urban areas. In this context, the project aimed to assist the environmental clean-up in
two large cities, Kwangju and Seoul, with the following objectives:



(a) Assist in cleaning the Yongsan and Han Rivers in order to reduce health hazards and attain the
water quality needed for the comfort and prosperity of much of the cities' population as well as those using
water downstream;
(b) Focus the attention of water agencies on conservation of water to reduce water demand and the
wastewater generated;
(c) Encourage the cities to develop self-financing efficiency for wastewater activities; and
(d) Support technological and institutional improvements in the sector.
These objectives were clearly stated, realistic, and important for the country at the time. The
physical elements, which involve constructing some of the largest wastewater treatment facilities in Asia,
were quite demanding for the borrower.  The financial and institutional objectives, such as water
conservation and self-financing, were equally or even more challenging for the imnplementing agencies.
These objectives were developed in response to the requirements of national and city governments at the
time, and correctly highlighted the key development priorities in the sector. The objective was relatively
straightforward and not overly complicated. There were no major risks anticipated for the project.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable
3.3 Original Components:
To achieve the project objectives, the following components were included in the project:
(a) In Kwangju, expansion of the Yu Deog Dong wastewater treatment plant (WTP), to increase
its capacity from 300,000 m3/d to 600,000 m3/d; a wastewater purnping station at Song Am and about 36
km of interceptors of various diameters;
(b) In Seoul, expansion of Kayang WTP, to increase its capacity from 1.0 million m3/d to 2.0
million m3/d; and
(c) Engineering services to supervise construction and water conservation studies in both cities.
These components were directly related to the stated objectives of the project Their selection was
based on extensive studies and master plans conducted by the government. In Kwangju, the expansion
was to enable the city to treat almost all its wastewater, while in Seoul, the expansion of the Kayang WTP
was to allow the treatment of all wastewater generated from the southwest catchment of the city. The
project design was based on proven administrative capacities of the implementing agencies, and provided
assistance to further improve their financial capacities. With its emphasis on adequate preparation, well
defined objectives with regard to project targets, and commitment of the responsible agencies, the project
also took into account the relevant lessons in prior Bank-financed projects in the country, including five
water supply projects, one sewerage project and a sewerage sector study.
3.4 Revised Components:
Not Applicable
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project's quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The project's overall design was based on very
strong borrower ownership. The objectives were clearly defined and realistic. The physical design was
based on well tested technologies and least-cost solutions. The Bank's primary role was to help Korea
-2 -



adopt appropriate technology and practices for planning, design, construction and operation of water and
wastewater facilities. At the same time, the project design directed attention to finance, accounting, cost
recovery and institutional reform issues.  An important element was included by linking pollution
prevention efforts with the need to conserve water thereby reduce wastewater. The results, therefore,
would have important implications for the whole country.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory. The objective of assisting in cleaning the
Yongsan and Han Rivers was achieved. The wastewater treatment plants were completed and are
operating at full capacity. The imnpact on the quality of water in both rivers has been observed and is
positive.
The objective of focusing on conservation of water was achieved with better results in Kwangju
than in Seoul. The studies were completed and a number of the recommendations from the studies were
adopted. Products introduced through the studies, such as water-saving toilets and shower heads, are now
available on the market and were promoted by the government. Measures to reduce non-revenue water
(NRW) were also adopted.
The objective of encouraging self-financing efficiency was partially achieved. Neither Kwangju
nor Seoul realized the rate of return which was covenanted in the Loan Agreement, and which reflected
Ministry of Construction (MOC) guidelines on sewerage tariffs at the time.  So far, however, no
wastewater organization in the country has been able to achieve this rate of return.
The objective of supporting technological and institutional improvements was partially achieved.
Technological improvements have been made in both cities. Institutional improvements were achieved in
Kwangju. In fact, Kwangju pushed institutional efficiency much further than originally contemplated
during project appraisal by privatizing the operations and management of its WTP in 1998. Seoul, on the
other hand, made no progress towards achieving the outlined institutional objectives and remains a
department of the city rather than a local public corporation (LPC) with separate accounts.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Sector Policies
The project's primary goal was helping the cities adopt appropriate approaches to wastewater
collection and treatment technology. In addition, the project directed attention to finance, accounting, and
cost recovery, and linked pollution prevention control with initiatives for water conservation. The results
show that the wastewater system and treatmnent technologies adopted by the cities are advanced and
appropriate. They reflect the cities' environment and fit within their long-termn development plans.
Through the water conservation studies, the project also directed attention to the generation of
wastewater. The Kwangju water conservation study has achieved its objectives. The water agency
strengthened its NRW control effort and initiated water conservation activities. The NRW was reduced
from 30.7% in 1996 to 27.3% in 1998. It is expected that a NRW rate of 20% will be achieved by 2001.
Water conservation actions, prompted in 1999 through pilot installation of 7,300 water-saving toilet
faucets, are estimated to be saving some 300,000 m3/y; the plan expects installation of about 265,000
faucets in the next two years.
The Seoul water conservation study achieved its objectives only partially. Since the study was
carried out by the research institute associated with water agency, its focus was shifted from the whole
- 3 -



spectrun of water conservation topics to leakage control, the agency's key interest. The NRW growth was
arrested from the start of the study for several years at 38% of production and was gradually reduced to
36% in 1999. The leakage control programs aim at achieving 30% by 2001. A summary of supporting
data is available in Annex 7.
While their actual impact on specific water use per capita is negligible, the studies are proving
timely, since civic groups as well as the government are showing increased interest in water conservation.
Various water-saving fixtures are now available at reasonable prices.  This year, the Ministry of
Environment (MOE) started encouraging local administrations to support various civic groups promoting
water conservation by households and commercial users. However, since the implementing units for the
water conservation studies -- the water agencies in the two cities -- were not directly involved in the main
physical investments of the project, they did not demonstrate the same level of commitment as the sewage
agencies. Bank supervision and intervention by the governments played important roles in ensuring that
the studies were completed and major recommendations adopted.
Physical and Environmental Objectives
Achievement of the project's physical objectives is highly satisfactory. In Kwangju, the completed
second phase of Yu Deog Dong WTP, Song Am pumping station, and associated interceptor sewers (32.7
km) was taken over by Kwangju City for operation in May 1997 after five months of testing.
Implementation took five months longer than expected because of severe winter weather. Also, changes in
Kwangju City planning and requests from civic groups during implementation eliminated 3.3 km of
interceptor sewers from the component's initial 36 km, but this change did not compromise the delivery
capacity in any way. In Seoul, the completed second phase of Kayang WTP was taken over by Seoul City
for operation in January 1999. The construction, carried out from December 1992 through July 1998,
concluded with six months of testing. Implementation took two years longer than planned due to factors
discussed below. Nevertheless, the completed works are of high quality, and were constructed with due
concern to environmental requirements such as landscaping and control of noise and odor. The required
monitoring is also in place. In accordance with projections, both plants are operating almost at capacity.
The treatment performance expressed in biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), chemical oxygen demand
(COD) and suspended solids (SS) is substantially better than required by Korean standards for effluent
from WTPs.
The expansion of the WTPs has measurably improved the water quality in the respective rivers. In
Kwangju, in 1998, the expansion enabled the removal of around 64 t/d of BOD and 82 t/d of SS from the
wastewater discharged into the Yongsan River. Also, monitoring data provided by MOE laboratories shows
that some sections of the Yongsan River did experience significant reductions in BOD during the period
from 1996 to 1998.
In Seoul, the expanded WTP treated 1.8 million m'/d of wastewater in the first half of 1999 and
removed about 152 t/d of BOD and 157 t/d of SS from the wastewater discharged into the Han River.
Monitoring data shows that comparing the first half of 1999 with that of 1997, there was apparent
improvement in the quality of the Han River downstream from the Kayang WTP outlet. Monitoring data
are available in Annex 7.
Both WTPs have taken exceptional care to mitigate the negative impacts on the surrounding
environment with landscaping. The majority of the tanks have been enclosed with fibre reinforced plastic
covers.
-4 -



Financial Objectives and Institutional Development
The achievement of financial objectives and institutional development is considered substantial. In
defining the financial objectives of implementing agencies the project followed MOC guidelines instructing
local governments to start implementing sewerage tariffs from 1992. While the guidelines required
achieving a substantial rate of return (up to about 7%), the Bank agreed on values of 3% and 2% for
Kwangju and Seoul respectively, considering the extent of planned investments and impact on tariffs.
During preparation and implementation, Bank staff provided training support and institutional advice in
order to achieve the agreed rate of return, although with moderate effect. From the hindsight, the FRR
objective is too ambitious. As compared to water supply, where gradual expansion of distribution and
production facilities normally takes several decades, the Kwangju and Seoul interceptor sewers and
treatment plants, which fully serve the entire city, were constructed over the last 10 years. Tariffs
reflecting such huge capital outlays over a short time and generating a substantial rate of return are very
high and are not acceptable to local governments. It would appear, therefore, that under such conditions,
even small rates of return are not currently achievable in the wastewater sector since none of the
wastewater agencies in the country has been successful in meeting them. Other financial parameters, such
as working capital ratios, debt/equity ratio, and accounts receivable are satisfactory for both wastewater
agencies.
Project monitoring indicators were designed to track the status of financial and institutional
development of the implementing agencies. While Kwangju provided audited financial statements as a basis
for the financial monitoring indicators, Seoul's monitoring indicators were estimated because the
wastewater accounts were not separated from the accounts of the city, and the assets were not formally
revalued during the project time period.
Many institutional aspects of the project, such as cost recovery, accounting and financing from
user charges, were new in the sector, since sewerage tariffs were implemented for the first time in 1992. At
the end of project implementation, institutionally, Kwangju had adopted LPC status with commercially
based accounting and annual auditing which had gradually improved during project implementation. It also
revalued its wastewater assets in operation. Seoul, however, failed to comply with the understanding at
appraisal and has not changed its accounting system to LPC status, nor revalued its wastewater assets.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The net present value and economic rates of return were not calculated during appraisal. The
project was justified on the basis of least-cost solution, and also on the grounds that both city governments
and the national government had demonstrated strong commitment. The national government formally
required that wastewater be treated before being discharged into the river. The cities constructed the
interceptor sewers and the first phase of WTPs and were ready to carry out construction of the second
phase.
Implementation has shown that these two justifications were largely valid. Willingness to carry out
the project was demonstrated by the cities' successful efforts in mobilizing domestic funding, and by their
gradually increasing sewerage tariffs. (The Bank contributed only 4% of the total investment in Kwangju
and 12% in Seoul.)  Kwangju increased tariffs to make the wastewater activities almost financially
self-sustaining, even though the planned 3% rate of return was not achieved. In Seoul, tariffs were
increased several times, but not to the break-even point. The conclusion that the original solution is
least-cost remained valid. While some minor improvements were made to the original design of the WTPs,
no major changes were necessary.
The main project benefits were expected to result from a cleaner environment, especially the water
-5-



quality improvements in Yongsan and Han Rivers. In Kwangju, the Yu Deong Dong WTP removed
pollution equivalent to 64 t/d of BOD and 84 t/d of SS, while in Seoul the Kayang WTP removed 152 t/d
of BOD and 157 t/d of SS from the wastewater discharged into Yongsan and Han Rivers. Apparent
improvement was observed near the Kayang WTP outlet and downstream. Therefore, the expansion of both
the Kwangju and Seoul WTPs has already had a positive impact on the surface water quality in the
recipient rivers.
Other benefits of the project, as summarized during project appraisal, were improvements in the
health of the population and increased property values along the river. Examination of the available health
statistics shows apparent inconsistencies in the statistical method employed during the observed period,
which disallows comparison of data from different years. The sample land value data provided shows that
there were increases in land values both near and some distance from the Han River. It is difficult to judge
whether this land value increase can be attributed to improvements in the river environment. Experience
from various countries shows that the capitalization effect from environmental improvements usually takes
quite some time to be realized.
The major non-physical component of the project is water conservation studies for the two cities.
They have achieved their objectives. Benefits were realized in terms of the amount of water saved, but they
have not been calculated.
Since it is difficult to value most of the benefits outlined above, a simplified cost-benefit analysis is
presented in Annex 3. The major assumption used is that the economic value of each ton of wastewater
treated is equal to the current wastewater tariff. This is of course a very insufficient way of valuing the
benefits, but in absence of a comprehensive WTP survey and with the difficulties of valuing the benefits, it
is possibly the only method available. The results, however, are thus only indicative and should be used
cautiously. Generally, the current tariff level is most likely lower than actual WTP, so the actual benefits
are likely to be higher.
With these simplified assumptions, the results show that the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) is
7.4% for the Seoul component and 6.6% for the Kwangju component. At a discount rate of 10%, the net
present values (NPV) for Seoul and Kwangju are -58 billion won and -29 billion won respectively (1999
prices). These are probably the lower boundaries of the project's net benefits.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial rate of return (FRR) on revalued assets in operation was calculated during project
appraisal using assumptions regarding the tariff implications for the two cities. Recalculated using current
assumptions on tariffs and operating costs, the Kwangju FRR compares from 4.2% during appraisal to
2.3% using the latest estimated data. The Seoul rate of return compares from 3% calculated during
appraisal to 1.17%, using the latest estimated data. Detailed assumptions are available in Annex 7.
The lower rate of return for both Kwangju and Seoul can be attributed to the level of tariffs, which
were not set high enough during the project period. It can be assumed that Kwangju made significant
attempts to achieve the higher rate of return since its tariffs are the second highest in the country after
Pusan. Seoul was less successful in setting tariffs adequate to meet the targeted rate of return. However, the
Seoul Sewerage Bureau has maintained a small cash surplus each year due to generous subsidies from the
City general account. Since the city governments make decisions on tariff levels, the Seoul government
chose to replenish the wastewater accounts on a cash basis rather than to allow the wastewater agency to be
run autonomously through a tariff-based revenue system.
Finally, even the appraisal rates of return of 3 - 4% were actually too low to provide a purely
financial justification for the project. It is useful to note that the justification for the project was based on
- 6 -



other non-quantifiable benefits of increasing wastewater investment, such as improved health, increased
property value and a cleaner environment in terms of cleaner riverside parks and aquatic areas for citizens
and tourists.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Kwangju Sewerage Department, an autonomous LPC, made significant institutional reforms
during the course of the project. The Kwangju government supported the self-financing goal of wastewater
operations, and granted increases in sewerage tariffs in order to achieve self-sufficiency. In 1998, Kwangju
officials privatized the operations and management of the WTP in order to reduce operating costs and the
pressure to raise tariffs. This is expected to successfully reduce the operating costs of the WTP by 30%.
Seoul City maintained the existing structure of the Sewerage Bureau as a department of the local
government, rather than separating it out as a LPC. The accounts of the Sewerage Bureau were maintained
using the government's cash-based accounting standards, and the wastewater operations continued to
receive subsidies from the city's general account. Seoul Sewerage Bureau was not able to reevaluate its
assets, the first step in becoming a LPC.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
One major factor outside government control affected implementation. Shortly after awarding a
civil works contract for the construction of deep aeration tanks in Seoul, engineers discovered that the
foundation of the tanks as originally designed would be inadequate, and would require dense and long
piling. This design change and the associated additional construction work prolonged the implementation
schedule. Severe winter weather also made construction impossible at times, thereby causing delays. The
effects of the Asian crisis (1997-1998) were minimal as the project was largely complete by then.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Three major factors were subject to the control of the city governments. First, low allocation of
local counterpart funds in the early stages of implementation caused major delays in Seoul. Second, also in
Seoul, a dispute arose over land and crop compensation. Farmers, who were not considered the legal
owners of the land on which the WTP was to be built, were farming vegetables on seasonally inundated
lands. Compensation was offered for the crops. In July 1993, three months after Board presentation, only
53% of the land for the Seoul WTP had been acquired, with numerous cases of compensation pending in
the court system. Eventually collective civil petitions were filed on behalf of the farmers so that they would
be compensated for the loss of the lands they were farming. As a gesture of goodwill, Seoul city
government finally compensated the farmers, but the matter delayed implementation by approximately eight
months.
Third, for both cities, the ability to raise tariffs was under their control. In the course of implementation,
the Kwangju government kept approving gradual tariff increases. Kwangju city government eventually
privatized its wastewater system to reduce costs. The Seoul government, on the other hand, made minimal
tariff increases, and did not take steps to convert its sewerage division into a local public corporation. It
chose instead to provide subsidies from the city's general account.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Various reorganizations of the responsible agencies had some negative impact on the project, but
these were largely offset by keeping the core staff of the agencies intact. Generally speaking, in both
Kwangju and Seoul, strong project management was responsible for successful implementation.
-7 -



5,4 Costs andfinancing:
Kwangju's actual implementation costs are estimated at Won 101.83 billion (US$ 125.92 million
equivalent) as compared with the appraisal estimate of Won 102.42 billion (US$ 133.01 million
equivalent). The actual cost estimate in Won is 1% lower than appraisal estimates because the costs of
equipment and construction supervision were lower. The actual costs estimates and appraisal cost
estimates expressed in US$ equivalent show a greater difference (5%) due to exchange rate fluctuations.
Seoul's actual implementation costs are estimated at Won 250.9 billion (US$287.3 million
equivalent) as compared with the appraisal estimate of Won 288. 8 billion (US$ 375.1 million equivalent).
The actual cost estimate in Won is 13% lower than appraisal estimate, because some stand-by equipment
(pumps, generators) and associated buildings were deemed unnecessary. Also, to a minor extent, bid prices
for the equipment came in lower than estimated. The actual implementation cost estimate and the appraisal
cost estimate expressed in US$ equivalent show a greater difference (23%) due to exchange rate variations.
The project's actual total implementation costs are estimated at Won 352.7 billion (US$413.2
million equivalent) as compared with appraisal estimate of Won 391.2 billion (US$508.1 million
equivalent). The Loan disbursed US$39.3 million, about US$70.7 million below the actual Loan amount.
Kwangju and Seoul cities' equity, revenue generation, and local loans provided the balance of financing.
Actual implementation costs estimated in Won and US$ are about 15% and 19% lower than the appraisal
estimate respectively. A substantial part of the Loan was cancelled shortly after it was approved and
replaced by local loans. A greater difference in US$ equivalent was caused by the currency exchange,
which had only slight variations between 1992 and 1996 (US$=770 Won). But from 1997 to 1998 the
Won value changed from 800 to 1,400 to the dollar. The original Loan closing date of December 31, 1997
was extended by two years to complete the Seoul component. Project costs by components, procurement
arrangements and financing are in annexes 2a, 2b, and 2c, and supporting data are available in Annex 7.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is rated highly likely due to the high level of technical and professional
knowledge of the wastewater agencies in the two cities and the well developed management techniques of
the private operator in KwangjuL Steady pressure from independent citizen groups will also provide
incentive to maintain high quality environmental standards.
In Kwangju, the first phase of the WTP (300,000 ml/d) was successfully operated by the
wastewater agency which succeeded in building up an operational and managerial team with several years
of experience and high proficiency. Currently, management of the WTP, including the associated
interceptor sewers and pumping station, is contracted out to an experienced local operator. The terms of the
contract (3 years duration with an option for extension, monthly payments to contractor, supervision of
performnance by independent laboratory) in combination with regulatory management by an experienced
team will ensure the sustainability of high quality of operations and maintenance.
In Seoul, the sewerage agency has been successfully operating the four largest treatment plants in
the country for more than 10 years, achieving a very high treatment performance. Expansion of the
Kayang facility by 1.0 million m /day represents only about a 17% increase of the city's treatment capacity,
which is easily absorbed within the existing wastewater management organization with an adequate number
of trained staff. Independent environmental laboratories and civic groups control the quality of operations.
In addition, the recipient of the treated effluent, the Han River, crosses the city, and as such its water
quality has always been a very sensitive issue and is under tight scrutiny by the population, fishermen's
- 8 -



organizations and various environmental groups.  Therefore, strong government commitment to
environmental protection, pressures from the public, combined with technical and financial viability of the
project, will ensure the project's sustainability.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
For six months following completion of the expanded WTPs, the contractors, suppliers and both
wastewater agencies jointly tested the equipment and trained operational staff. After successful completion
of both testing and training, the wastewater agencies merged the new interceptor sewers and WTP
extensions with the existing facilities. Later, Kwangju turned over operations and maintenance of the
WTP, including the interceptors and pumping stations, to a private local company. Seoul plans to privatize
the operations and maintenance of one of its four WTPs in late 2000. Selection of the plant will be
determined through a study, and bidding documents will be prepared.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The Bank's activities during the identification, preparation, and appraisal stages were satisfactory,
with considerable support provided to the borrower and the implementing agencies. The project is a logical
follow-up of the Bank's previous involvement in the water and wastewater sector in Korea and was
consistent with the government's development priorities at the time. The project team working on the
preparation and appraisal of the project had the right skill mix, and assisted the borrower on technical,
fmancial, economic, institutional, environmental and social aspects of the project and helped improve
project design. The technical alternatives selected for the project were appropriate, and represented the
least-cost solution to improving wastewater systems and treatment facilities in the project cities. Project
appraisal was conducted when the borrower was in an advanced stage of preparation, and confirmed the
government's commitment to the project. The main risk recognized at appraisal was implementation of the
findings of water conservation studies since the range of possible actions including pricing and
technological intervention in households could be unpopular. With regard to safeguard policies, project
preparation and appraisal were thorough on environment assessment. It also reviewed land acquisition and
compensation policies and found them adequate; however the treatment of land acquisition and resettlement
issues in the staff appraisal report is less detailed than that of the environment impact.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision by Bank staff during implementation was satisfactory, with some appraisal team
members taking part in supervision missions. This continuity was especially important as the Bank's Task
Team Leader and also the key staff of the borrower and implementing agencies changed several times
during implementation. Supervision mission members generally possessed an appropriate mix of skills,
identified and resolved key issues in a timely fashion, and assessed development impact regularly.
Implementation progress was reported adequately and performance ratings in supervision reports were
realistic. Reviews of procurement documents, audit and progress reports were carried out satisfactorily and
in a timely fashion. Particular attention was given to reviewing the water conservation studies, which
represented major implementation risks. This contributed to an improved focus of Kwangju study but had
a minor impact in Seoul. Project implementation did not deviate from applicable Bank policies and
procedures. The Bank did not intervene in settling the land compensation dispute discussed earlier because
the Korean policy framework and institutional capacity were deemed satisfactory. The Bank supervision
missions were also consistent in bringing the governments' attention to financial covenants, also with better
success in Kwangju than in Seoul.
-9-



There were several changes in Bank management and Task Team Leader. The negative impact,
however, was mitigated by the retaining of one member in the core project team throughout project
identification, appraisal, supervision and completion.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Banks performance on this project is rated satisfactory. While the project itself included
modestly stated institutional goals, during supervision missions the Bank team discussed at length with
relevant officials advanced management and institutional options, including privatization and informed
officials regarding worldwide experiences which were relevant in the Korean context.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The performances of the implementing agencies and government ministries during project
preparation were satisfactory. Preparation was carried out and financed by the implementing agencies
under the general guidance of government ministries. The staff of the respective wastewater agencies was
technically capable and the engineering consultant demonstrated a high level of professional competence.
Preparation was completed within the agreed schedules without unnecessary delays or difficulties. The
design and analysis of various project aspects were found to be adequate.
Water conservation studies were formulated during preparation with assistance provided by
UNDP. While the water agencies concurred with carrying out the studies, they were reluctant to commit
resources for the entire experiment fearing an unpredictable impact of water conservation experiments on
users. Later on during implementation they financed and completed the water conservation studies.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance was satisfactory. The government ministries provided
general guidance and assistance in the areas of financing, environment, and procurement and, toward the
end of implementation, took a lead in supporting water conservation. The ministries also helped coordinate
Bank supervision missions and the implementing agencies.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The managerial and technical performances of implementing agencies were satisfactory in spite of
various reorganizations resulting in multiple changes of names, managers, and lines of reporting. The core
team responsible for managing and monitoring implementation remained almost intact. The agencies
successfully implemented the project within the agreed performance parameters. Compliance with legal
covenants as stipulated in the Loan and Project Agreements was generally satisfactory, with the exception
of the financial performance covenants.
Kwangju's sewerage agency made considerable efforts to achieve the institutional goals of the
project and proceeded beyond the project goals to increase efficiency through privatization of operations
and maintenance. However, Seoul's sewerage agency made no progress towards becoming an LPC during
the project period. The accounts are still maintained using cash-based accounting methods with no clear
distinction between operational and non-operational activities. Semiannual progress reports and annual
audit reports were submitted to the Bank; the latter were often delayed by one-year in the case of Seoul
where the sewerage department's statements had to be approved by the National Assembly before being
released to the Bank.  Audits were always found satisfactory, both for Kwangju and Seoul. The
implementing agencies maintained excellent records and were able to comply with data requests by the
Bank promptly and with detailed explanations. The Borrower's contribution to the Implementation
- 10 -



Completion Report was made available to the Bank as required. (Kwangju's contribution, originally in
Hangul, was translated through the Bank office).
7 7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower's performance is rated satisfactory. The government ministries provided
adequate and timely guidance to the project cities and implementing agencies. The cities' allocation of
funds was adequate, though in Seoul counterpart funds were lower than required early on. The two
wastewater agencies managed, monitored and reported on implementation competently with only minor
delays.
8. Lessons Learned
The implementation of this project highlights the following lessons:
1.    Strong ownership by the national and particularly the city governments helps ensure the successful
implementation and sustainability of the project.
2.     A comprehensive wastewater strategy should include both water conservation and wastewater
treatment measures; however, water supply and wastewater functions are often the responsibility of
separate agencies, making an integrated approach difficult. Implementation experience demonstrates the
need to elevate the water agencies' commitment to water conservation.  Therefore, more extensive
involvement of the water agencies and strong support from the city government can be instrumental in
making gains in this area.
3.     The financial covenants which require a FRR of 2-3% for wastewater agencies have proven
unrealistic in a situation of huge capital outlays over a short time. The experience in Kwangju and Seoul
shows that the facilities were constructed and are being operated in a satisfactory and likely sustainable
fashion even without achieving the required rates of retum. In the future, the financial objectives of
operations in the wastewater sector, instead of focusing on FRR, should be more oriented towards
promoting financial viability (such as internal cash generation) and prudent financial management.
4.     Though not included in the project design, Kwangju successfully implemented privatization of its
wastewater facilities with observable cost savings. Seoul is also considering pilot schemes for one of its
WTPs.  Therefore, for sophisticated borrowers with considerable prior experience in the sector,
opportunities for further efficiency enhancement through private sector participation exist and should be
considered thoroughly early in project design.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments from Kwanziu MetroDolitan Government
1. Introduction
Kwangju sewage treatment plant of 300,000 m3/day was constructed from 1985 to 1991. As the
population increase and urban development are steadily going on and sewage treatment capacity becomes
short for full treatment of the sewage (total sewage amount of the city by 1992 is 384,440 m3/day), an
expansion project of sewage treatment plant was planned by Loan project with the capacity of 300,000
m3/day based on the sewage treatment master plan for total treatment capacity of 600,000 m3/day by
1996.
2. Evaluation of Project
- 11 -



2-1. Project Objective
The project includes the construction of a sewage treatment plant of 300,000 m3/day, a sewage
interceptor of 32.7 km and a sewage boost pumping station of 32,000m3/day. Water conservation program
for reduction of water leakage is also included in the project. The project is focusing on improvement of
water quality of Yongsan river.
2-2. Achievement of Objective
Regional Policy
Excess sewage is to be treated by the project completion and helps the water quality of Yongsan
nver.
Financial Objective
Total project cost is 101,827 million Won including borrowings of 50,197 million Won (IBRD
Loan of 19,244 MW and public fund of 23,925 MW), developers contribution of 47,744 MW and city
general account of 3,886 MW. The project was satisfactory completed with the above mentioned project
costs.
Original IBRD Loan was planned as USD 30 million, but it was amended to USD 6,250 thousand
by June 1994 because of increasing local fund (national environmental fund and public budget management
fund). Total withdrawal was USD 6,610,823.19 by February, 1998 with a canceled amount of USD
639,176.81.
Kwangju sewerage work is operated by public enterprise system from 1985 with the operating cost
by sewage tariffs.
For the sound financial management, sewage tariffs have been increased by 9.9% in September,
1994, 9.9% in December, 1995 and 25% in January, 1977 resulting in second high sewage tariff level next
to Pusan in the country.
Institutional Improvement
Sewage department of Kwangju city was the Sewage Division (Sewage Administration Section, S
ewage Facility Section) under Construction and Housing Bureau at the time of Loan Processing.
The Sewage Division was transferred to Environment and Forest Bureau in July, 1995, moved
back to Construction and Housing Bureau by September, 1998, and re-transferred to Environment and
Forest Bureau with the new name as Water Quality Preservation Division (Water Quality Administration
Team, Water Quality Preservation Team, Sewers Team, Sewage Facility Team).
Physical Objective
The physical component of the project, composed of Sewage Treatment Plant with the capacity of
300,000 m3/day, 24 km sewage interceptors with boosting pump station of 32,00 m3/day, was successfully
completed and water conservation objective was substantially achieved according to the engineering
research work for water saving and reduction of leakage.
Water works agency will continue for water conservation work in the future.
Completed interceptor is 24 km instead of original object of 32.7 km But the remained 8.7 km is
associated with the housing development area, therefore, the housing development project is on the way to
install interceptor as much as 12 km
Social and Environment Obiective
- 12 -



Yongsan river water quality is substantially improved and contributes good environments to the
people by sewage discharge treated more than environmental criteria intercepting all sewage produced.
2-3. Major Factors Affecting Implementation
Factors Subject to Government Control
The Govermrnent executed its work successfully including subloan of IBRD Loan to the city, local
financial support and legal improvement process of the project.
Factors Subject to Implementing Agency Control
Water Quality Preservation Division:
The Division's works composed of planning finance provision, material supply and control of
supervising consultant were successfully done and the project was satisfactory completed. But the project
period was extended 3 times to complete the construction work by December, 1996 and to start normal
operation of the project by 1997 after full test operation. The suspensions of construction work were made
by cold winter, irrigation water storage and weak foundation treatment for interceptors.
The financial rate of return (FRR) was lower than 3% which was recommended by the Bank due to
less successful tariff levels during the project period. Therefore, the Sewage Agency got financial supports
from city general accounts and local bank loan rather than increasing sewage tariff levels to meet the
construction costs.
Supervising Consultant:
The consultant performed its role properly for supervising field construction works and test
operation process to complete the project successfully.
2-4. Bank Performance
The Bank's performance was done satisfactory for the loan agreement, acceptance of counterpart's
representative signature, preparation and approval of withdrawals, and field supervision to complete the
project successfully.
Total withdrawal of the Loan amount is USD 5,632,042.72 instead of final settled amount of USD
5,610,823.19. The clear explanation was very difficult and complicated for the remainder of USD
21,218.91.
2-5. Borrower Performance
Borrower's performance was satisfactory in general for the project preparation, construction work,
plant operation in initial stage and for transfer of the treatment plant operation and managetnent to a private
sector.
Sewage tariff was increased for 3 times up to 44.8% during the project period, but it was not
possible to set at high enough levels to achieve appropriate FRR, because additional increase was affected
by tax resistance and market price control.
2-6. Assessment of Outcome
As described on paragraph 2-2, the outcome of the physical objective is satisfactory.
2-7. Future Operation: Transfer of Plant Operation and Management to a Private Sector
The city planned to transfer the plant operation and management to a private sector aiming to
achieve effective sewage treatment plant operation. Kwangju Sewage Treatment Plant, total capacity of
- 13-



600,000 m3/day, was transferred to be operated by a private company from March, 1, 1998 as the first
case in Korea.
The visual results of private operation are reducing the operating costs and restructuring operating
organization cutting off 2 sections with 6 subsections and 113 operating staffs.
Present private operating staffs are 65 personnel with annual operating costs of 6,203 MW (city operating
costs assumed up to 8,818 MW) reducing 2,615 MW per year. And it is expected that private idea and
effective technologies could be applied to the management of basic environmental facilities and Kwangju
case will be a model for other cities in Korea.
2-8. Key Lessons Learned
Steady increases of urban population and sewage amount resulted in shortage of sewage treatment
plant, and extension of sewage treatment plant became necessary. Sewage treatment plant construction took
time (up to 5 years) with high capital costs affecting city's financial situation to incur debts. Therefore,
private sector investment is preferable for large scale urban infrastructures like sewage treatment plant.
- 14 -



Comments from Seoul Metropolitan Government
Chaapter 1.   Introduction
Seoul 1i the largest city of Korea, a hub of politics, economy, social affairs, cultfre and
transportation. Since the 1980s. the amount of sewage has increased signdicantly due to
rapid increase in populon and the improved Ihing stardings of the people. This has
created many problems that Seoul Metopolitan Govemment has to solve, induding the
worsened pollution of the Han River.
In connection with this, Seoul Metopolitan Government established a "Master Sewerage
Improvement Plan" in 1984 to preserve water quLaity of the Han River and to imprv.
uhan environment to more comfortable  veL The City Govemment dMded SeouL areas
Into 4 sewerage treatment division In connecton with tee Han River development proJect
and constructed 4 treatment plants: Chungrang, Tanchon, Kayang, and Nanji plants.
Starting In the 1990s, many apartient complexes were conshucted in the soutwhest
areas Covering Kangso-gu. Kwangmyong city, and Buchon city. Wrih continuous population
growth and resulting Increase In sewage. it became Inpossible for the existing 1.000,000
m-lday capachy Kayang sewerage treatment plant to handle the eratre amount of sewge
thus produced. To improve the situation, the Seoul City Govemment drw up a plan in
1992 to build another 1,000,000 liday sewerage trestment plant and in preparation for
ths project, the Seoul City Government applied for a loan from IBRD to flU the shortage of
the construction funds in 1991.
After a loan of USS80,000,000 was approved on May 17, 199:I under agreement No.:
LN-3590KO. part of the money was used to purchase major fadcilies and materials used In
the conruruction of the seerage  eabnt plant hwever, due to clange In the qum*  d
some fdlits ard ewange rate, the axrrunt ws changed to US$34,200,000, and US$S
514,000 left afltr the final expendture was executed was canceled
When the cortucton f the 1,000,000 ueday capacity tearM  p    was compbted at
the end of 1998, the Seoul City Govermwnt beme able to trmelt the entire amount of
sewage generaed from the soutfwest aea d Seoul, contrit   to lte iprovememt of te
Han Rhier water qualty and the preventon d   envimmeta polkuion.
We would like to Wke this opportunity to express our deep appredation to ISRO for
their ful cooperation. This reports  re annex documents which accompany the lan
execution report prepared upon completion of the loan proJect a borroweres report on
evaluation and appraisal of te projec execution coverkn  Seoul areas.
- 15 -



Chapter 2.   Assessment of Loan Project Achlevment
A. Seoul Component Objectives
The folowing two goals were edabished for Seoul Areas, the B division of the loan
agreement concluded for the major objects of the boan proec  - irnprovement of
environmental situation, technial and systematlc improvement in the sewage system, and
the protertion of water Pollution.
O The capacity of the exist  Kayang (Anyang) sewerage treatrent plant Is to be
expanded by 1,000,000 rriday
O Carry out researd    Nto water preservation ways
The Seoul Metropolitan Government has devoted itseit to the successf  competin d
tohe above-said project Consructon sMted In December 1992 and completed In December
1998, and curently the system handls the entr amount of sewage generated. Research
related to water preseraton was carried out fomn January 1994 to December 1997, and
he final report was submitted In March 1998.
Detaild evakuation on the achIevemnt of goals wil be described in the section.
Achievement of goals
B. Achievement of Objectives
o Policy Improvement
The sucesu  complon d  this prolect has greaty contuted to the
environment improvement by preverwing water qualty droat on In the downtream
of the Han River, and it is oonsidered that goals have been successfully attained in
terms of system and  chrg In th sewage btment field based on shes cas
oLt on ommissioning private enterprises to operate the treatnent plant and on the
Introduction of public corporation acounting system.
The ts   arrbed out in respect to water polution presorvation have enhaned
consdcousness with respect t water qualty and  nvironmentl polutDn rsuking In
the reduction of sewage. Hence, the poIcy Improvement goals are considered as
havin been successfuly achieved
However, failure to mainan mnore than ROR 2% due to te current domostc
prie polices and the delay in the enforcement of the public  rporation accounting
system are considered somewhat unsatsfactory.
- 16-



O Finandal Objectives
To appropriate part of the budgets required to construct expanded padt of
Kyayng sewerago treeament plnt a ob   agreemernt was signed on May 17. 1993
between the Korean govemment and IBRD. The original plan caled for the use of
USS 80,000,000 according to the loan agreement; however, the total arnount of loan
was reduced to USS34,200,000 after adjusting the amount four imes due to the
reduced quantity of facilities during the process, dNfference in the bid price, And the
unroquired funds resuting from the rise in exchange rate. After the final amoxt was
witdrwn in Februay 199Z an amount of USS514,199.24 reaiing after the pject
executlon was canceUed. Tne actual amount od loan used was USS 33,685,800.76,
indicating that the financial goals have been met auccessilily by saving contract
commissions.
< Reduction of loans >
. Original amount of loan: US$80,000,000
1st adjustment of bans (Feb. 23, 1994): US58,500,6W0  (reduced by US$923,500,000)
- part of machines reduced
. 2nd adjusment of loans (Aug. S, 1995): US s54,500,000 (reduced by US I2,000,000)
- final bid price based on contract
, 3rd ad  ent of ioans (Dec. 30, 1997): US 340,000,000 (reduced by US S 14,500,000)
- unneeded amount esulting from the r1se In exchange rate
. 4th adjustment of loans (Jan. 13, 1999): USS34,200,000 (reduced by USS5,80,W00)
* unneded amount resutn from th  rie In exchange rate
Final loans wfthdmwn US S 33,685,800.76 (w32,393,708.000)
. Cancelatlon of unexecued loan requested (Mar. 15, 1999): US S514,199.24
However, to maintaJn ROR 2% wth mspect to the Seoul City Sewerage proect fund
Composed of transfers fom special account and general acoownt the seweage cdee
rnwt be Increased cnsIdmbly. k Is dffiLt to impbment sch requiremnents due to IMF and
ufting change in the domestic ecnowmic situat
The Seoul City plans to gradually  ise sewerage  hares to 90%  of the
sewage treatment cost; however, as the shorte of funds is supported by transes
from general  count, it in effect carries the effect of raising ROR.
- 17 -



O Organization
In October 1998, the Sewerage Bureau and the Road Bureau were
incorporated Into the Road &Sewerage Bureau, while the technical business related to
sewerage was placed under the responsibility of the sewerage planning Divsbn, and
the admInistative aairs Iluding revenue and budget affairs were placed under the
charge of the Constrution Adminstratlon Dvslon.
o Physical Oblectives
In June 1987, kayang sewerage treatment plant began operation with a
capacity of 1,000,000 Inday to treat wage produced In the southwest sde of Seoul.
As the amount of sewage generated from Kangso.gu, Kwangyong city, and Buchon
city grew resulting from the construction of large-scale apartment complexes in te
area the original capacity of the plant has far exceeded As a result  rge amount of
sewage has flown In and the lss treated sewage or unteated sewwage was dscharged
Into the Han River agraveaing the Han River water quality and environmental poluior
To solve such problem, the Seoul Metropolitan Govemment pushed ahead with
the extension work (1,000,000 rlday) of Kayang sewerage treatment plant and has
successfully completed the project under te support of liRD.
Of the 1.000000 wlday capacity, farilities for 500.000 meday went into
satdactory operaton staring In July 1998 through test operation, and the remaining
500,000 m/day capaciy facifties, starting from Janruary 1999.
The Kayang sewerage treatment plant capacity was thus increased to
2,000,000 miday, enabkng the plant to successfully treat the eitire amount of sewage
produced per day from the southwet part of Seoul (1,740,000 re) prior to discharging,
contributIng to the prevention of water quality oontamiation at the lower steam of the
Han River. In addition, jobs were cated for a total of 450,0D0 workers during the
perod of this project and therefore physical goals are evaluatd as having been fully
aoomplished.
IBRD requested tat Seoul MMpoian Govrnoment carris out researde
into water preservabon pmoject during the period of this project. and for 4 years during
the period from 1994 to 1997, the Seoul City conducted researches on water
preservation. Based on the results of such research acaivitiss the Seoul City was able
to Implemnot systematic wator supply management and compulerization, prevention of
water leakage, replaceenrt of defcve meters, and expanded suppty of water saving
devies, greatly conbuting to the preservation of water.
- 18-



O Social Objectives
Until a while ago, the sewerage treatment plants were reccgnlzed as detestable
facilities due to the foul smell produced from sewage, and wiere constructed In
underdeveloped, suburban areas far from contact with the general public. For this reason,
the achievement level of the external social goals can be regarded as being somewhat
insufficient. To minimize the occurrence of foul smel by Installing facilities and deodorizing
equipment superior to those of other sewerage treatment plants, the Seoul City has
constructed, and opened to residents, parks, sports facilities, parking lots, and publicky
halls In the vicinity of the Gayang sewerage treatment plant. As a result, large apartment
complexes were constructed near the Kayang sewerage treatment plart, and friendliness of
the neighboring resdents was induoed by providing an opportunity to inspect the facilties,
enhancing the awareness with respect to the protedion of water pollution and environment.
Hence, the internal goal achievement lvel is considered satisfactory.
O Environmental Objeies
When the expansion plan was established in 199Z part of sewage could not be
treated due to the task of treatment capacity, and because the exising 1t000,000 torVday
plant was only a primary facility, such shortage of capacty has induoed environmnental
polAluon Induding the water quaty deterioreilon at the downsrnea  of the Han River.
In December, 1994, secondary treatment plant was completed to supplement the
exdstlng 1.000,000 tonlday plant, and when the 1.000,000 tonlday expansion work was
completed In December, 1998, the total capacity became 2000,000 ton/day which is
capable of treatin  all sewage fowing Into Ka-Yang Sewage Treament Plant
As a result, thbs is considered to have satisfied environmental obJectives by greatly
contributing to the preventon of water quality at the downstream of thei Han Rier.
Water pollution Improvement after the competion of Kayang sewerage treatment plant
Is shown in the foilowing Tab-1.
cTab-1>
As of May 30,1992                As of Dec. 30, 1998
Item       Influent Water    Effluent Water  Influent water   Effluent water
Pollution         Pollution       Pollution      Pollution
BOD              99                68             90              13
COD              53                47             47              10
SS             106                77              93              9
- 19 -



C. Major Factors Affecting Implementation
O Factors subject to government control
Under a close cooperathve system between the Minist;y of Finance and
Economy of the Republic of Korea, ard the Seoul MetopoUtan Govemment, the
responsible party for the project plannin and execution, the loan project was able to
be successfully oompleted.
o Factors subject to Implementing Agends Control
There were no ntable elmrts controlled by the workIng body during the
process of Implementation. However, due to collective civil petons related to the
compensation for farmers In the plnned site: lack of Investrmnts in  e  inlla
oDnstriction; and the lack absolute constbrcon period, the costruction work was
postponed for 2 tines, adversely affcting the implementaton of the pmject
Revise construction penod
(1) Jun. 15, 1995: 1st Revise of construction period
Original: Dec 30, 1992 - Dec. 31, 1996
Revised: Dec. 30, 1992 - DeO. 31, 1997
Reason: Delayed cii works resulrng from the oollective cMl petiions filed
In releaon lo the comperstion for farring, end the lack of  al
investments.
(2) Sep. 6, 1996: 2nd Revsbe oonsuction period
Orginae: Dec. 30, 1992 - Dec. 31, 1997
Revised: Dec. 30, 1992 - Dec 31, 1998
Reason Lack of absolute coruction period
o Factor Outside of Govement
During the finishing process of Fe profect, works were delayed due to faility
change, econ n of some  auloment and additional work requested by the
existing workers of Kayang sewerage teatment plant, the actual party taking over
Xh facilities, In addition to control by the Govemment and executive body.
To prevent such phenomenon In future, the actual workers who take over,
operate and maintain the reaWtent plant should be allowed to participate in the
ntial phase of work not in the fnal phase of the work, to exchae opinIons In
advance.
- 20 -



D. Bank Performance
O As Seoul project objectives, IBRD has chosen 2 items: expansion of the capacity of
the current Ka-yang sewerage treatment plant by 1,000,000 ton/cay and researches
Into water preservation to improve Seoul citys environmental situation, systematically
and technically improve sewage treatment system, and to preserve water. These
ltems, while being simple and clear, are considered appropriately chosen as an
important task to be performed by the Seoul Metropolitan Government.
O The high awareness and judgement of IBRD with respect to this project were
particularly noteworthy in the administrative and financial roles, and each time the
bank mission visited Korea, they checked the progress of the water preservation
researches, and their evaluation was extremely satisfactory.
o The Seoul Metropolitan Govemment feels very satisfied with the fact that the
mission visited Seoul and made detaied, repeated site inspecttns and provided
guidance prior to making decision on loans, offering technical and systematic
advice regarding the commissioning of private entexprises to operate the treatbent
plant, introduction of public corporation accounting system, and maiintenance of ROR
2%.
o However, we feel it was somewhat unreasonable that the I1RD requested us to
maintain ROR  2%    which is difficult on the part of the Seoul MetropoLtan
Government due to prie policy reasons and demanded introduction of the public
corporation accounting system.
E. Borrower Performance
o The Kayang sewerage treatmrent plant extension project was Implemented with an
aim to Increase sewage treatment capacity to 2,000,000 meday from the existing
1,000,000 zrqday leveL The project was financed by the domestic capital 83.8% and
the IBRD loan 16.2% (for machinery, electri and nstnirment arndl materiabs). Even
though Ute project was completed 2 years later than the original plan, it can be
regarded as a sucoessful project In generaL
o There have been some chawges In the machinery, electical facililies and materials
originally requested to IBRD at the tie of signing agreement, and part of the
amount became unnecessary due to large level of exchange rate change, affectig
overall plan of using the loans.
0 The construction period has been delayed by 2 years due to delayed site
aquisition resulting from colbctive ctvil petitions relating to compensation for
farming, low level of Inital Investment In cMi works, and shostage of absolute
oonstrucUon period; however, we feel satisfied about the sucessful execution of the
project in terms of overall execution and operation.
- 21 -



F. Assesment of Outcome
o The.successful completon of the project carried out to Increase the capacity of
Kayang sewerage treatment plant by 1,000,000 m'jday made ft possible to treat te
entire amount d  sewage generated from  the souhwest part of Seoul, greatly
cortnbuting to the water quaflty improvement of the downstrem of the Han River.
o ACeBsS to advanced technologies, system and technique was made through
researches conducted to stdy ways of preserving water, converting to public
business accounting system, and commissoning private enterprises tD operate the
treatment plant In all. we believe that most physlcal goals have been achieved
C. Future operatlon
o Facility capacIty wil be expanded annually untIl 2011 to enable treatment of the
"re anOUlt d sew , and reduce hifbow of ground water by reaqusting pipeline.
o Ultimately, the Seoul Metropolitan Govemment intends to oommission private
enterprses to run the 4 sewerage bMerte  plant: Chungrang, TaXchon, Kayang. and
Nanji directly controed by the City. In order to achieve management efficlency,
revialize ivlian market  and induce enhancement in the developmern  of related
tochnlogies. Flrst the City plans to seWc one treatnent plait and assign the
operation of the beatment plant to cvian enterprses on a trial basis starting in
2000.
o Furthermore, the City plans to cover the upper part of the plant and use it as the
site of parks and sports fadcities to provide resting place for the residents and
Induce citizen's sense of intimacy. This will change ctizen's awan3ness with respect
to the treatent planrs. To mhimize the neighbor's sense  of displesure,
deodorizing Jacilitles will be insted in full scale along with ila construbcon of
musoums so that citzens and students can use the area as a courke of inspecdon.
0 1999 - 2003.s Fnancial plan Is will be Ready and Subrnittd by mission when day
Visit Seoull
H. Key lessons learned
O The fact that the project has been successfully completed througlh the use of IBRD
loans to fl the shortage of the construction funds together with the banzes
advanced tochnologes and systems, and by maintaining cbse cooperatve systems
beteen the bank and the domestic partner has greatly contributed to the
preservatlon of water quarity, eaming affection of neighbors.
- 22 -



O Plans to commission civilian sectors to rUn the treatmerit pants and access to
public business accounting system have provided an opportunity to realze salient
development in terms of technologies and systems.
o Of the direct withdrawal system, specal account system, and special agreement
system related to the wlhdrwa of the loonm for the ptxtase of materials, special
agreement system was adopted and appoved. This Ls believed to have simplified
accoulng system  eadhg to the preention of the weast of administrative manpower,
and it Ia desirable to adopt such system in future loan projects.
O It is regrettable, however, that the project has beenl6omplited later than the original
plan because the constuton period,w eflpeifedly delayed due to problems
related to compensation for frming, frequent design changes, reduction of project
cost and other lack d  pior prepamtons. and through such  essons, we have
actually experienced the noceseity of maidng detailed prior angoemnt.
o Some terms and conditions of agreement, such as the ntroduction of public
business acounting systm which was difflicuk to implmert due to the domestic
dircumstances, and the malntenance of ROR 2% were some of the things dificult
to observe.
O It seems desirable to conclude a loan agreement In te direction of encouaging or
gukidin  advanced system so that the bonower can iimpbment prolects aording to
domestic situation, ratheor tan pnrAving loans under the pertornance conditions
prescribed by the bank.
- 23 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
none
- 24 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome         c Impact Indicators:
Kwangju:
Total treatment capacity             600,000 m31day in 1997               600,000 m3/day constructed In 1997
Water conservation study             Completion and review of recommendations Study completed and recommendatons
in July 1996                         reviewed in April 1996; NRWwas reduced
Environmental monitoring program     Collect and evaluate data on wastewater    Performance monitored six months before
treatnment plant performance and impact of and six months after start of operations and
plant operatons                     found satisfactory
Reduction of organic pollution in Yongsan   Reduction by 62 tUday expressed in BOD and Pollution equivalent to 64 t/day of BOD and
River                                62 tWday of suspended solids in 1998  82 tlday of SS achieved in 1998
Rate of retum on rixed assets in operations  3% starting from 1993        Rate of retum positive, but lower than
required
Seoul:
Kayang total treatment capacity      2,000,000 m3/day in 1997             2,000,000 m3/day constructed in 1999
Water conservation study             Completion and review of recommendatons Study completion and reviewed In May 1998;
in July 1996                         NRW moderately reduced
Environmental monitoring program     Collet and evaluate data on wastewater    Performance monitored six months before
treatment plant performance and impact of  and six months after start of operations and
plant operations                    found satisfactory
Reduction of organic pollution in Han River  Reduction by 200 tUday expressed in BOO   Pollution equivalent to 152 tUday of BOD and
and 220 Vday of suspended solids in 1998  157 Vday of SS achieved in 1999
Rate of retum on revalued fixed assets in   2% starting from 1993         Fixed assets were not revalued, RR values
oeprations                                                                cannot be determined
Output Indicators:
Kwangdu:
Preparation and timeliness of financial and   Gradual improvement         Timeliness and quality improved
operational reports
Seoul:
Introduction accrual accounting system  Conversion of wastewater agency to local   Wastewater agency was not converted to
public corporation (LPC) status in 1993  LPC
End of project
-25 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Kwangju                                                 133.01           125.92             95
Seoul                                                   375.05           287.30             77
Total Baseline Cost                                     508.06           413.22
Total Project Costs                508.06           413.22
Total Financing Required                508.06            413.22
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                      0.00          0.00          0.00         238.70        238.70
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                     208.00         3.00          0.00          0.00         211.00
(107.50)       (2.50)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (110.00)
3. Services                   0.00           0.00         0.00          13.40         13.40
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous (Land)       0.00           0.00         0.00          45.00         45.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                      208.00         3.00          0.00        297.10         508.10
(107.50)       (2.50)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (110.00)
Project Costs by Procureme t Arrangements (Actual0Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival(t)
1. Works                      0.00          0.00          0.00         234.10        234.10
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                      68.60          0.00         0.00          47.30         115.90
(39.30)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (39.30)
3. Services                   0.00           0.00         0.00          10.90         10.90
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous (Land)       0.00           0.00         0.00          52.30         52.30
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)         (.00)
Total                      68.60          0.00          0.00        344.60         413.20
(39.30)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (39.30)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
- 26 -



2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
ProjectFinancin  b  Com   onent(in US$ million equivalent)
.ppr - . . . . . ..of Appr9ael
______________   j~-  ~.vt|   CoF         ~                 C~,.          h           CoaL
Kwangju                     30.00                              5.63       16.07      104.22    18.8    0.0      0.0
Seoul                       80.00                             33.69         169.04   84.57     42.1    0.0      0.0
0.0     0.0     0.0
a) Actual cost estimates ofthe water conservation studies at US$0.31 million equivalent were financed by respective water
agencies rather than project funds. The studies were not included in the initial project estimates on request of water agencies
and also due to experimental character of the studies and uncertainty of cost estimates.
- 27 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Key Assumptions:
(I) During the investment phase, 10% of the cost is for tax and tariffs;
(2) The level of recurrent cost will stay at 1999 level (constant price);
(3) The value of wastewater treated is equal to the tariff charged; and
(4) All costs and benefits are converted to 1999 prices.
- 28 -



Kwan2ju Cost Benefit Analysis Table (million won)
Year      Investment    Recurrent    Total Cost     Benefits        Net
Cost         Cost
1993       17,401          -          17,401          -         (17,401)
1994       11,253          -          11,253          -         (11,253)
1995       27,712          -          27,712          -         (27,712)
1996       22,044          -          22,044          -         (22,044)
1997       26,347          -          26,347          -         (26,347)
1998        2,070          -           2,070          -          (2,070)
1999          -         10,776        10,776       17,257         6,481
2000          -           8,082        8,082        17,257        9,175
2001          -           8,082        8,082        17,257        9,175
2002          -          8,082         8,082        17,257        9,175
2003          -          8,082         8,082        17,257        9,175
2004          -           8,082        8,082        17,257        9,175
2005          -           8,082        8,082        17,257        9,175
2006          -          8,082         8,082        17,257        9,175
2007          -          8,082         8,082        17,257        9,175
2008          -          8,082         8,082        17,257        9,175
2009          -           8,082        8,082        17,257        9,175
2010          -           8,082        8,082        17,257        9,175
2011          -           8,082        8,082        17,257        9,175
2012          -           8,082        8,082        17,257        9,175
2013          -           8,082        8,082        17,257        9,175
2014          -           8,082        8,082        17,257        9,175
2015          -           8,082        8,082        17,257        9,175
2016          -           8,082        8,082        17,257        9,175
2017          -          8,082         8,082        17,257        9,175
2018          -          8,082         8,082        17,257        9,175
2019          -          8,082         8,082        17,257        9,175
2020          -          8,082         8,082        17,257        9,175
2021          -           8,082        8,082        17,257        9,175
2022          -          8,082         8,082        17,257        9,175
2023          -          8,082         8,082        17,257        9,175
2024          -           8,082        8,082        17,257        9,175
2025          -           8,082        8,082        17,257        9,175
2026          -           8,082        8,082        17,257        9,175
2027          -          8,082         8,082        17,257        9,175
2028          -           8,082        8,082        17,257        9,175
2029          -           8,082        8,082        17,257        9,175
2030          -           8,082        8,082        17,257        9,175
2031          -           8,082        8,082        17,257        9,175
2032          -           8,082        8,082        17,257        9,175
2033          -          8,082         8,082        17,257        9,175
2034          -           8,082        8,082        17,257        9,175
2035          -          8,082         8,082        17,257        9,175
2036          -          8,082         8,082        17,257        9,175
2037          -          8,082         8,082        17,257        9,175
2038          -          8,082         8,082        17,257        9,175
2039          -           8,082        8,082        17,257        9,175
NPV                78,524        46,087      124,611        95,456       (29,155)
ERR:         6.6%
- 29 -



Seoul Cost Benefit Analysis Table (million won)
Year      Investment   Recurrent    Total Cost    Benefits        Net
Cost        Cost
1993      43,870          -         43,870          -          (43,870)
1994      27,978          -         27,978          -          (27,978)
1995      78,484         -          78,484          -          (78,484)
1996      43,645          -         43,645           -         (43,645)
1997      31,707          -         31,707           -         (31,707)
1998      29,874          -         29,874          -          (29,874)
1999       16,868         -         16,868          -          (16,868)
2000                   18,368       18,368        47,362       28,994
2001                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2002                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2003                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2004                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2005                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2006                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2007                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2008                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2009                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2010                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2011                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2012                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2013                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2014                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2015                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2016                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2017                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2018                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2019                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2020                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2021                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2022                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2023                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2024                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2025                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2026                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2027                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2028                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2029                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2030                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2031                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2032                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2033                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2034                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2035                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2036                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2037                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2038                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
2039                   19,965       19,965        47,362       27,397
NPV               196,988      99,444       296,432      237,674       (58,758)
ERR:          7.4%
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
eg2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)       Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
October 1991                  3   Sanitary engineer, Municipal
engineer, Financial analyst
April/May 1992                6   Sanitary engineer (2),
Procurement specialist,
Water conservation specialist,
Environment specialist,
Financial analyst
Appraisal/Negotiation
November 1992                 5   Sanitary engineer (2),
Water conservation
specialist, Environment
specialist, Financial analyst
Supervision
March 1994                    2  Financial analyst, Sanitary           S                  S
engineer
May 1996                      3  Financial analyst, Sanitary           S                  S
engineer (2)
May 1997                      2  Financial analyst, Sanitary           S                  S
engineer
May 1998                      4  Financial specialist, Engineer        S                  S
Environmentalist, Sanitary
engineer
January 1999                  2  Financial specialist, Sanitary        S                  S
engineer
ICR
August 1999                   3   Financial specialist,                S                  S
Economist, Sanitary
engineer
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation              89.20                      247.50
Appraisal/Negotiation                    5.10                       18.20
Supervision                             66.40                      213.50
ICR                                     10.93                       57.85
Total                                  171.83                      537.05
- 31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA-=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                        O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Physical                               * H  O SU O M  O N  O NA
3 Financial                              O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
2 Institutional Development              O H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Environmental                           * H  O SU O M  O N  O NA
Social
0 Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
IGender                           OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
Z Other (Please specify)          O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
2 Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
z Public sector management               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Other (Please specify)                 OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
- 32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
* Lending                                             OHS OS OU OHU
* Supervision                                         OHS OS  OU  OHU
M Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
2 Preparation                                         OHS OS  O  U  O HU
X Government implementation performance               0 HS OS   O  U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                   OHS OS  OU  O HU
H Overall                                             OHS *S O U O HU
- 33 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. ICR Borrower's contribution, Kwangju
2. Kwangju: Report of Post Construction Environmental Effects
3. Organization Chart of Kwangju Environment and Forestry Bureau
4. Kwangju River Quality Monitoring Data, by Kwangju Water Quality Conservation Department
5. ICR Borrower's contribution, Seoul
6. Seoul: Post-Environmental Impact Assessment Service Agreement
7. Seoul: Additional data submitted to ICR mission
8. Environment Monitoring Data from Kayang Sewerage Treatment Plant
9. Detailed Cost Tables
10. Calculation of Financial Rate of Returns
11. IBRD's ICR mission aide-memoire
- 34 -



