Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3590 KO
                              KWANGJU
               (Kwangju and Seoul Sewerage Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                      KWANGJU CITY GOVERNMENT
                        Dated May 17, 1993
                                                 LOAN NUMBER 3590 KO
                      KWANGJU PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 17, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and KWANGJU CITY GOVERNMENT
(Kwangju).
      WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of Korea (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to one hundred and ten million dollars ($110,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that Kwangju agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are
set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and Kwangju, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will be relent to Kwangju on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Kwangju Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
      WHEREAS Kwangju, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obliga-
tions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                              ARTICLE I
                             Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                             ARTICLE II
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) Kwangju declares its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, environmental, engineering and public utility practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for Part A of the
Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Bank and Kwangju shall otherwise agree,
Kwangju shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods required for Part A of the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
      Section 2.03. Kwangju shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Condi-
tions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Kwangju Project Agreement and Part A
of the Project.
      Section 2.04. Kwangju shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Kwangju Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall other-
wise agree, Kwangju shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Kwang-
ju Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) Kwangju shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part A of
the project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Kwangju Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
      (b)   Kwangju shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part
A of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by Kwangju of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Kwangju Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                             ARTICLE III
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) Kwangju shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of Part A of the Project of the departments or agencies of
Kwangju responsible for carrying out Part A of the Project.
      (b)   Kwangju shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in para-
Page  3
                   graph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                   case not later than six months after the end of each
                   such year, the report of such audit by said audi-
                   tors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                   shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
                   ing said records and accounts and the audit thereof
                   as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
                   request.
      Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Kwang-
ju shall take all steps necessary to establish, maintain and collect
sewerage charges at such levels so as to produce revenues, commencing
July 1, 1993 to the end of the 1993 fiscal year, and for each fiscal
year thereafter:
            (i)    covering, with respect to sewerage activities, oper-
                   ation and maintenance costs, including depreciation,
                   and debt service payments in excess of depreciation;
                   and
            (ii)   yielding an annual return of not less than three
                   percent of the average current net value of Kwang-
                   ju's fixed revalued sewerage assets in operation.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    The annual return shall be calculated by dividing
                   Kwangju's net operating income from sewerage activi-
                   ties for the fiscal year in question by one half of
                   the sum of the current net value of Kwangju's fixed
                   revalued sewerage assets in operation at the begin-
                   ning and at the end of that fiscal year.
            (ii)   The term "net operating income" means total operat-
                   ing revenues less total operating expenses.
            (iii)  The term "total operating revenues" means revenues
                   from all sources related to sewerage operations.
            (iv)   The term "total operating expenses" means all
                   expenses related to sewerage operations, including
                   administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and pay-
                   ments in lieu of taxes, and provision for deprecia-
                   tion on a straight-line basis at a rate of not less
                   than 2.66 percent per annum of the average current
                   gross value of Kwangju's fixed assets in operation,
                   or other basis acceptable to the Bank, but excluding
                   interest and other charges on debt.
            (v)    The average current gross value of Kwangju's fixed
                   revalued assets in operation shall be calculated as
                   one half of the sum of the gross value of Kwangju's
                   fixed revalued assets in operation at the beginning
                   and at the end of the fiscal year, as valued from
                   time to time in accordance with sound and consis-
                   tently maintained methods of valuation satisfactory
                   to the Bank.
            (vi)   The term "current net value of Kwangju's fixed
                   revaluated assets in operation" means the gross
                   value of Kwangju's fixed revalued assets in opera-
                   tion less the amount of accumulated depreciation,
                   as valued from time to time in accordance with sound
                   and consistently maintained methods of valuation
                   satisfactory to the Bank.
Page  4
      Section 3.03. Kwangju shall revalue from time to time its fixed
sewerage assets on the basis required by the relevant laws of the
Borrower.
                             ARTICLE IV
                     Effective Date; Termination;
                     Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of Kwangju thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify Kwangju thereof.
      Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE V
                      Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram
to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made
at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address
as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                     248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.              82987 (FTCC),
                                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                                 197688 (TRT).
      For Kwangju:
            Kwangju City Government
            505-900 Kyelim Dong, Dong Ku
            Kwangju City, Korea
2     Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement
on behalf of Kwangju, or by Kwangju on behalf of the Borrower under the
Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the Mayor of Kwangju or such
other person or persons as the Mayor of Kwangju shall designate in writ-
ing, and Kwangju shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
Page  5
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                               RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By   /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                      Acting Regional Vice President
                                               East Asia and Pacific
                         KWANGJU CITY GOVERNMENT
                         By   /s/ Ban, Ki-Moon
                                           Authorized Representative
                              SCHEDULE
                       Implementation Program
1.    Kwangju shall, without limitation or restriction to the provisions
of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, carry out a water conserva-
tion investigation under Part A.3 of the Project over the period April
1993 to December 1995 in accordance with the plan agreed with the Bank
and shall furnish to the Bank, not later than July 31, 1996 a final
report setting forth the findings of the investigation and the recommen-
dations for a water conservation program based on such findings.
2.    Kwangju shall, by not later than June 30, 1996, furnish to the
Bank an environmental monitoring program (which shall collect and evalu-
ate data on waste-water treatment plant performance and the environmen-
tal impact of plant operations) satisfactory to the Bank, and shall by
such date commence to implement such environmental monitoring program
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
3.    Kwangju shall, without limitation or restriction upon the provi-
sions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions:
      (a)   by September 30, 1994, and by March 31 and September 30 of
each year thereafter, furnish to the Bank a semi-annual report on the
progress of Part A of the Project, including revised cost estimates and
implementation schedules; and
      (b)   by September 30, 1994, and by September 30 of each year
thereafter, furnish to the Bank updated financial projections for its
sewerage activities.
