Page  1
                                                 CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3590 KO
               (Kwangju and Seoul Sewerage Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF KOREA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated May 17, 1993
                                                 LOAN NUMBER 3590 KO
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 17, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      (B)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by Kwangju City
Government (Kwangju) and Part B of the Project will be carried out
by Seoul City Government (Seoul), all with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
Kwangju and Seoul the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this
Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and con-
Page  2
ditions set forth in this Agreement, in the Kwangju Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and Kwangju, and in the Seoul
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Seoul;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
            which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
            inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section
            3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Kwangju Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and Kwangju of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Kwangju Project Agreement.
      (b)   "Seoul Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and Seoul of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Seoul Project Agreement.
      (c)   "Kwangju Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and Kwangju pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Kwangju
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
      (d)   "Seoul Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and Seoul pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Seoul Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
      (e)   "Kwangju IBRD Special Account" means the account referred
to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
      (f)   "Seoul IBRD Special Account" means the account referred
to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred and ten million dollars ($110,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
Page  3
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A and B of
the Project, open and maintain in dollars two special deposit
accounts (the Kwangju IBRD Special Account and the Seoul IBRD Special
Account respectively (together the Special Accounts)) in Korea
Exchange Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attach-
ment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Kwangju IBRD Special
Account and the Seoul IBRD Special Account shall be made in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-
half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such
Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                   on the date immediately preceding each date
                   specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                   beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                   Agreement is signed.
            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                   reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                   as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                   borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                   1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                   thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                   the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                   be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                   interest rates determined otherwise than as
                   provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
Page  4
            (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
            Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
            of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
            Quarter."
                   "(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause
Kwangju and Seoul to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Kwangju Project Agreement and the Seoul Project Agreement, respec-
tively, all the obligations of Kwangju and Seoul therein set forth,
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable Kwangju and Seoul to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall relend a portion of the proceeds of
the Loan to each of Kwangju and Seoul under two subsidiary loan
agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and Kwangju (the
Kwangju Subsidiary Loan Agreement), and the Borrower and Seoul (the
Seoul Subsidiary Loan Agreement), under terms and conditions which
shall include in each case:
            (i)    maturity of fifteen years including five years of
                   grace;
            (ii)   interest rate at the rate payable under Section
                   2.05 of this Agreement;
            (iii)  commitment charges at the rate payable under
                   Section 2.04 of this Agreement;
            (iv)   an administrative charge of 0.05% (point zero
                   five percent) of the amount payable from time to
                   time in accordance with the Kwangju Subsidiary
                   Loan Agreement and the Seoul Subsidiary Loan
                   Agreement, as appropriate; and
            (v)    foreign exchange risk be borne by Kwangju and
                   Seoul, respectively.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Kwangju
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Seoul Subsidiary Loan Agreement in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive either the Kwangju Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Seoul
Page  5
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of: (a) Part A of the
Project shall be carried out by Kwangju pursuant to Section 2.03 of
the Kwangju Project Agreement; and (b) Part B of the Project shall
be carried out by Seoul pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Seoul Project
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                   with sound accounting practices, records and
                   accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                   at least one year after the Bank has received the
                   audit report for the fiscal year in which the
                   last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made;
                   and
            (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                   records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) (i) of this Section including those
                   for the Kwangju IBRD Special Account and the
                   Seoul IBRD Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six months after the end
                   of each such year the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested,
                   including a separate opinion by said auditors as
                   to whether the statements of expenditure submit-
                   ted during such fiscal year, together with the
                   procedures and internal controls involved in
                   their preparation, can be relied upon to support
                   the related withdrawals; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                   reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
Page  6
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   Kwangju or Seoul shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Kwangju Project Agreement or Seoul Project
Agreement, respectively.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that Kwangju or Seoul will be able to
perform its obligations under the Kwangju Project Agreement or the
Seoul Project Agreement, respectively.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agree-
ment shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Kwangju Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and Kwangju; and
      (b)   the Seoul Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and Seoul.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank:
      (a)   that the Kwangju Project Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by Kwangju, and is legally binding upon Kwangju in
accordance with its terms;
      (b)   that the Seoul Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by Seoul, and is legally binding upon Seoul in accordance
with its terms;
      (c)   that the Kwangju Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Kwangju and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and Kwangju in accordance with its terms;
and
      (d)   that the Seoul Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Seoul and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and Seoul in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
Page  7
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Kwachon
            Republic of Korea
            Cable address:           Telex:
                   MOF                     K 23243
                   Kwachon, Korea
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:           Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD               248423 (RCA),
                   Washington, D.C.        82987 (FTCC),
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT).
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF KOREA
                         By  /s/ Ban, Ki-Moon
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                               RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By  /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                             East Asia and Pacific
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expendi-
tures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
Page  8
                               US Dollar            to be
      Category                Equivalent)         Financed
1)    Equipment and             30,000,000      100% of foreign
      materials under                           expenditures,
      Part A of the                             100% of local
      Project                                   expenditures (ex-
                                                factory cost)
                                                and 65% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
2)    Equipment and             80,000,000      100% of foreign
      materials under                           expenditures,
      Part B of the                             100% of local
      Project                                   expenditures (ex-
                                                factory cost)
                                                and 65% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
      TOTAL                    110,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to:
1.    Enhance the environmental conditions of Kwangju and Seoul.
2.    Support technological and institutional improvement in the
sewerage sector.
3.    Support water conservation in Kwangju and Seoul.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:      Kwangju
1.    Expansion of an existing sewerage treatment plant at Yu Deog
Dong.
2.    Construction of a sewerage wastewater pumping station at Song
An and about 36 kilometers of interceptors.
3.    Undertaking of a water conservation investigation.
Part B:      Seoul
1.    Expansion of an existing sewerage treatment plant at Anyang.
2.    Undertaking of a water conservation investigation.
Page  9
                     *           *           *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
      On each April 15                     5,500,000
      and October 15
      Beginning October 15, 1998
      through April 15, 2008
_____________________________
*  The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions,
Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment             Premium
                                     The interest rate
                                     (expressed as a
                                     percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on
                                     the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:
Not more than three years                  0.20
      before maturity
More than three years but                  0.40
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                    0.73
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than eleven years but not             0.87
      more than 13 years
      before maturity
More than thirteen years before            1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                            Procurement
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procure-
ment under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May
Page  10
1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to
bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide
that, when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A. hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Korea may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guide-
lines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:      Other Procurement Procedures
      Equipment and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $1,500,000 for each of Part A and Part B of the Project respec-
tively may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of compe-
titive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equi-
valent of $1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be made out of the Kwangju IBRD Special
Account and the Seoul IBRD Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first pay-
ment out of each of the Kwangju IBRD Special Account and the Seoul
IBRD Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preced-
ing paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Kwangju IBRD Special Account or
the Seoul IBRD Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together with
the other information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant
to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
                         SCHEDULE 5
                 Kwangju IBRD Special Account and
                    Seoul IBRD Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) for the Kwangju
IBRD Special Account, Category (1); and (ii) for the Seoul IBRD
Special Account, Category (2); as set forth in the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  11
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to: (i) for the Kwangju IBRD Special Account $3,000,000; and
(ii) for the Seoul IBRD Special Account $7,000,000, to be withdrawn
from the Loan Account and deposited into the Kwangju IBRD Special
Account and the Seoul IBRD Special Account respectively pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish said Special
Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit into said Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of said Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into said Special Account at such inter-
                   vals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                   and other evidence required pursuant to para-
                   graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or pay-
                   ments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested.  On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, with-
                   draw from the Loan Account and deposit into said
                   Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                   have requested and as shall have been shown by
                   said documents and other evidence to have been
                   paid out of said Special Account for eligible
                   expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respec-
tive equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said docu-
ments and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence show-
ing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into a
Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Category for said Special Account, less the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank pur-
Page  12
suant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
respective Part of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for the
respective Parts of the Project shall follow such procedures as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdraw-
als shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
said Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of a Special Account:
            (i)    was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
                   eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Sched-
                   ule; or
            (ii)   was not justified by the evidence furnished to
                   the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
                   notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional
                   evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit
                   into said Special Account (or, if the Bank shall
                   so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
                   to the amount of such payment or the portion
                   thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the
                   Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
                   the Bank into said Special Account shall be made
                   until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
                   made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstand-
ing amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit into a Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
