Page  1
                                                      CONFORMED COPY
                                                 LOAN NUMBER 3590 KO
                                SEOUL
                (Kwangju and Seoul Sewerage Project)
                               between
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                           AND DEVELOPMENT
                                 and
                        SEOUL CITY GOVERNMENT
                         Dated May 17, 1993
                                                LOAN NUMBER 3590 KO
                       SEOUL PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 17, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SEOUL CITY GOVERNMENT
(Seoul).
      WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of Korea (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to one hundred and ten million dollars ($110,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that Seoul agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are
set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and Seoul, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will be relent to Seoul on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Seoul Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
      WHEREAS Seoul, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Page  2
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obliga-
tions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                             Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                             ARTICLE II
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) Seoul declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, finan-
cial, environmental, engineering and public utility practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for Part B of the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Bank and Seoul shall otherwise agree,
Seoul shall carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods required for Part B of the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
      Section 2.03. Seoul shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively)
in respect of the Seoul Project Agreement and Part B of the Project.
      Section 2.04. Seoul shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Seoul Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, Seoul shall not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Seoul
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) Seoul shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part B of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Seoul Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
      (b)   Seoul shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the perfor-
mance by Seoul of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
Seoul Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                             ARTICLE III
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) Seoul shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of Part B of the Project of the departments or agencies of Seoul
responsible for carrying out Part B of the Project.
Page  3
      (b)   Seoul shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in para-
                  graph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                  case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
                  of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
                  have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as
                  the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Seoul
shall take all steps necessary to establish, maintain and collect
sewerage charges at such levels so as to produce revenues, commencing
July 1, 1993 to the end of the 1993 fiscal year, and for each fiscal
year thereafter:
            (i)   covering, with respect to sewerage activities, oper-
                  ation and maintenance costs, including depreciation,
                  and debt service payments in excess of depreciation;
                  and
            (ii)  yielding an annual return of not less than two
                  percent of the average current net value of Seoul's
                  fixed revalued sewerage assets in operation.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
             (i)  The annual return shall be calculated by dividing
                  Seoul's net operating income from sewerage activities
                  for the fiscal year in question by one half of the
                  sum of the current net value of Seoul's fixed reva-
                  lued sewerage assets in operation at the beginning
                  and at the end of that fiscal year.
            (ii)  The term "net operating income" means total operating
                  revenues less total operating expenses.
            (iii) The term "total operating revenues" means revenues
                  from all sources related to sewerage operations.
            (iv)  The term "total operating expenses" means all
                  expenses related to sewerage operations, including
                  administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and pay-
                  ments in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreci-
                  ation on a straight-line basis at a rate of not less
                  than three percent per annum of the average current
                  gross value of Seoul's fixed assets in operation, or
                  other basis acceptable to the Bank, but excluding
                  interest and other charges on debt.
            (v)   The average current gross value of Seoul's fixed
                  revalued assets in operation shall be calculated as
                  one half of the sum of the gross value of Seoul's
                  fixed revalued assets in operation at the beginning
                  and at the end of the fiscal year, as valued from
                  time to time in accordance with sound and consis-
                  tently maintained methods of valuation satisfactory
                  to the Bank.
            (vi)  The term "current net value of Seoul's fixed revalu-
                  ated assets in operation" means the gross value of
                  Seoul's revalued fixed assets in operation less the
Page  4
                  amount of accumulated depreciation, as valued from
                  time to time in accordance with sound and consistent-
                  ly maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
                  the Bank.
      Section 3.03. Seoul shall revalue from time to time its fixed
sewerage assets on the basis required by the relevant laws of the
Borrower.
                             ARTICLE IV
                     Effective Date; Termination;
                     Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of Seoul thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify Seoul thereof.
      Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE V
                      Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram
to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made
at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address
as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                     248423 (RCA),
                  Washington, D.C.              82987 (FTCC),
                                                64145 (WUI) or
                                                197688 (TRT).
      For Seoul:
            Seoul Metropolitan Government
            31, Taepyong-Ro,
            1-Ga, Chung-gu,
            Seoul, Korea
      Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement
on behalf of Seoul, or by Seoul on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan
Agreement, may be taken or executed by the Mayor of Seoul or such other
person or persons as the Mayor of Seoul shall designate in writing, and
Seoul shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority
Page  5
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                              RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By   /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                      Acting Regional Vice President
                                               East Asia and Pacific
                        SEOUL CITY GOVERNMENT
                        By   /s/ Ban, Ki-Moon
                                           Authorized Representative
                              SCHEDULE
                       Implementation Program
1.    Seoul shall, without limitation or restriction to the provisions
of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, carry out a water conserva-
tion investigation under Part B.2 of the Project over the period April
1993 to December 1995 in accordance with the plan agreed with the Bank
and shall furnish to the Bank, not later than July 31, 1996 a final
report setting forth the findings of the investigation and the recommen-
dations for a water conservation program based on such findings.
2.    Seoul shall, by not later than June 30, 1995, furnish to the Bank
an environmental monitoring program (which shall collect and evaluate
data on waste-water treatment plant performance and the environmental
impact of plant operations) satisfactory to the Bank, and shall by such
date commence to implement such environmental monitoring program in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.
3.    Seoul shall, without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions:
      (a)   by September 30, 1993, and by March 31 and September 30 of
each year thereafter, furnish to the Bank a semi-annual report on the
progress of Part B of the Project, including revised cost estimates and
implementation schedules; and
      (b)   by September 30, 1993, and by September 30 of each year
thereafter, furnish to the Bank updated financial projections for its
sewerage activities.
Page  6
