Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7273-MOR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Basic Education Reform Support Project) 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated February 23, 2005 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7273-MOR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated February 23, 2005, between the KINGDOM OF 
MOROCCO (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter 
 
dated December 30, 2004, describing a program of its national policies and strategies 
(hereinafter collectively referred to as the Program) for the development of its education 
sector over a five (5) year period, 
and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the 
implementation of the Program; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), which Project forms 
the first phase of the Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project; and 
 
(C) 
the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to extend 
the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) (the General Conditions). 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Annual Allocation” means the portion of the Loan determined jointly 
between the Borrower and the Bank within the limit of the amount of the Annual Work 
Plan; 
 
(b) 
“Annual Report” means the annual report to be prepared by DSSP in 
accordance with Section 3.05 of this Agreement, describing, 
inter alia
,
the progress 
achieved in meeting the Monitoring Indicators (as this term is hereinafter defined) in the 
Fiscal Year preceding said report; 
Page  3
-2- 
 
(c) 
“AREF” means a Borrower’s regional academy for training and 
education (Académie régionale d’éducation et de formation
), an autonomous public 
entity (établissement public à caractère administratif
)
governed by Law No. 07-00 and 
Dahir No. 1-00-203 of May 19, 2000, Decree No. 2-0566 of January 24, 2003, and 
“AREFs” means, collectively, two or more AREFs; 
 
(d) 
“Annual Work Plan” means an annual work plan for the implementation 
of the Program for a given Fiscal Year (as this term is hereinafter defined), to be 
submitted to the Bank in accordance with Section 3.04 of this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“DEN” means the department of national education (Département de 
l’éducation nationale
)
within MENESFCRS (as this term is hereinafter defined), or any 
successor thereto; 
 
(f) 
“DSSP” means the directorate of statistics, strategy and planning 
(Direction de la statistique et de la programmation
)
within DEN, or any successor thereto; 
 
(g) 
“Eligible Category” means Category (1) set forth in the table in Part A.1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
 
(h) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, 
consultants’ services, training, incremental operating costs and Sub-grants referred to in 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(i) 
“ESSF” means the Environment and Social Safeguards Framework, 
satisfactory to the Bank, prepared by the Borrower and submitted to the Bank  
on December 7, 2004, setting forth, 
inter alia
,
(a) the mitigating and monitoring measures 
to be applied during Project implementation, (b) the capacity building mechanisms for 
strengthening DEN and AREFs capacity, (c) the mitigating and monitoring measures 
relating to land acquisition for school construction, and (d) the applicable school 
construction norms and technical standards, as the same may be amended from time to 
time with the Bank’s prior agreement;   
 
(j) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each semi-annual report 
prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(k) 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the fiscal year of the Borrower, starting 
January 1 and ending December 31 of each calendar year; 
 
(l) 
“MENESFCRS” means the Borrower’s Ministry of national education, 
higher education, civil servant training and scientific research (Ministère de l’éducation 
nationale, de l’enseignement supérieur, de la formation des cadres et de la recherche 
scientifique
), or any successor thereto; 
 
Page  4
-3- 
 
(m) 
“Monitoring Indicators” means the monitoring indicators agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Bank to measure the progress achieved in the 
implementation of the Project, said indicators to be monitored in accordance with  
Section 3.05 of this Agreement, as the same may be reviewed from time to time by 
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank; 
 
(n) 
“Partner” means a non-governmental entity to which a Sub-grant is made 
or proposed to be made pursuant to a Partnership Agreement (as this term is hereinafter 
defined) in accordance with Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(o) 
“Partnership Agreement” means a partnership agreement (convention de 
partenariat
)
entered into between a Partner and an AREF or DEN for the financing of a 
Sub-project, in accordance with Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(p) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, 
 
dated December 17, 2004, covering the initial 12 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover the succeeding 12 month period 
(or longer) of Project implementation; 
 
(q) 
“Program Operations Manual” means the program operations manual, 
satisfactory to the Bank, dated December 15, 2004, prepared by the Borrower for the 
carrying out of the Project, including, 
inter alia
:
(i) the procedures governing 
administrative, procurement, accounting, financial management, monitoring and 
evaluation arrangements; (ii) the sample formats and frequency for the preparation of 
Annual Work Plans and Annual Reports; (iii) the Procurement Plan; (iv) the eligibility 
criteria, selection procedures and terms and conditions for the provision of Sub-grants to 
Partners; as the same may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s prior 
agreement;  
 
(r) 
“Project Area” means the areas of the Project in the Borrower’s regions 
of Casablanca, Chaouia-Ourdigha, Doukala-Abda, Fès-Boulmane, Gharb-Chrarda-Bani 
Hsen, Marrakesh-Tansift-Alhaouz, Meknes-Tafilalt, L’Orientale, Rabat-Salé-Zemmour-
Zairs, Souss-Massa-Draa, Tadla-Azilal, Tanger-Tetouan and Taza-El Houseima-
Taounate and the Borrower’s province of Guelmin; 
 
(s) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(t) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;  
 
(u) 
“Sub-grant” means a sub-grant provided by an AREF or Den under the 
Project pursuant to a Partnership Agreement for the financing of a Sub-project, in 
accordance with Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and  
Page  5
-4- 
 
(v) 
“Sub-project” means a specific project to be carried out under Parts A.1, 
A.4 or B.3 of the Project utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-grant. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan  
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to sixty million 
four hundred thousand Euros (EUR 60,400,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of  
Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (a) expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of interest and other charges 
in respect of the Loan, the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and 
any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the 
Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions; and (b) amounts 
paid (or if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) on account of withdrawals made by the 
Borrower to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works, consultants’ services, training, 
incremental operating costs and Sub-grants required under an Annual Work Plan. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an 
amount equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a 
portion of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. On or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to:  
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and  
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  6
-5- 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
Page  7
-6- 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate educational, financial, environmental, administrative, 
technical, engineering and general management practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with: (i) the Implementation Program set forth in  
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; (ii) the ESSF; and (iii) the Program Operations Manual. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable 
it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring 
Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 
twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the continued 
achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower, through DSSP, shall, not later than March 31 of 
each Fiscal Year during the implementation of the Project, submit to the Bank an Annual 
Work Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the format included in the 
Program Operations manual, setting forth, 
inter alia,
 work programs, budgets, the Annual 
Allocation, the Procurement Plan and, where appropriate, revised Monitoring Indicators, 
for the same Fiscal Year.  
Page  8
-7- 
 
Section 3.05. The Borrower, through DSSP, shall, not later than March 31 of 
each Fiscal Year during the implementation of the Project, provide to the Bank, for its 
review and assessment, an Annual Report, satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with 
the format included in the Program Operations manual: (a) describing progress achieved 
in the implementation of the Annual Work Plan approved for said Fiscal Year and 
evidencing compliance by the Borrower with the Monitoring Indicators; and (b) detailing 
the budgetary allocations for the following Fiscal Year as shall be necessary to ensure 
adequate financing and proper implementation of 
said year’s Annual Work Plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank) as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements), the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
Page  9
-8- 
 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; and 
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s reporting obligations 
set out in Sections 3.04 and 3.05 of this Agreement and the preceding Section 4.01, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover 
the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end 
of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover 
such calendar semester. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified, namely, that: 
 
(a) 
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; 
 
(b) 
the Program shall have been amended, waived or abrogated in a manner 
that could materially or adversely affect the Project’s implementation or the achievement 
of its objectives; and 
 
Page  10
-9- 
 
(c) 
the Program Operations Manual shall have been amended, waived or 
abrogated so as to adversely affect the efficiency, economy and transparency of various 
operational, implementation, environmental and social safeguards and procurement 
procedures under the Project. 
 
Section 5.02. 
Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely that any of the events specified in 
paragraphs (b), and (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue 
for a period of thirty (30) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to 
the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Privatization of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Privatization 
Avenue Mohamed V 
Rabat 
Kingdom of Morocco 
 
Cable 
address: 
    Facsimile: 
 
MINFIN     212-37-67-75-30/31 
 
Page  11
-10- 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Rabat, Morocco, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO 
 
By 
   /s/ 
Fathallah 
Oualalou 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
 
 
          /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman 
 
Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
Page  12
-11- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
A: General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the  
Loan Allocated 
(expressed in Euros)
%
of 
Expenditures 
To be Financed
(1) 
 
(2) 
 
(3) 
 
Goods, works, 
consultants’ services, 
training, Sub-grants and 
Incremental Operating 
Costs under approved 
Annual Work Plan  
 
Front-end Fee 
 
Premia for Interest 
Rate Caps 
and Interest Rate 
Collars 
 
TOTAL 
 
60,098,000 
 
302,000 
 
0
________ 
60,400,000
100 % of the Annual 
Allocation under the 
Annual Work Plan 
ending December 31, 
2005; 100% of the 
Annual Allocation under 
the Annual Work Plan 
ending December 31, 
2006; and 100% of the 
Annual Allocation under 
the Annual Work Plan 
ending December 31, 
2007 
 
Amount due under  
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement 
 
Amount due under 
Section 2.09(c) of this 
Agreement 
 
2. 
For the purposes of the table set forth in the preceding paragraph 1, the term 
“Incremental Operating Costs” means costs incurred for the operation and maintenance 
of schools, for training and pedagogical support, with the exception of salaries and 
utilities (water, electricity and communication).    
Page  13
-12- 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding 
 
three million eight hundred thousand Euro (EUR 3,800,000) may be made in respect of 
Category (1) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments 
made for expenditures before that date but after January 1, 2005; (b) payments made for 
expenditures under an Annual Work Plan for school renovation activities unless the 
Borrower shall have furnished evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, confirming that no land 
acquisition is required for purposes of said renovation activities; and (c) payments made 
for any expenditures under an Annual Work Plan, unless the Bank has determined that 
evidence of the 
Borrower’s compliance with the Monitoring Indicators relating to such 
Plan is satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement.  
 
4. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR, the Annual Report and the Annual Work Plan 
(Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first such request submitted to the Bank 
before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan Account, the Borrower shall submit 
to the Bank only a statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the twelve (12) month period following the date of such request.  
 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dirhams a special deposit account in 
its general treasury (Trésorerie Générale du Royaume
)
on
terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1.
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in  
Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
Page  14
-13- 
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
 
Page  15
-14- 
 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and  
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in  
Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the twelve -month (12) period 
following the date of such reports. 
Page  16
-15- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the implementation of its 
Program for the development of the education sector in the Project Area. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Generalizing Basic Education
1. 
Increasing access to pre-primary education for children, by developing, 
upgrading and managing pre-schools, through Partnership Agreements; 
 
2. 
Carrying out a program of works and provision of equipment for the construction 
and renovation of classrooms and schools at the primary level in priority rural and peri-
urban areas;  
 
3. 
Carrying out a program of works and provision of equipment for the construction 
and renovation of classrooms, schools and boarding facilities at the lower-secondary level 
in priority rural areas; and 
 
4. 
Developing, through Partnership Agreements, social services such as school 
lunches, boarding facilities and transportation, for students attending primary and lower-
secondary schools. 
 
Part B
:
Improving the quality of Education
Developing and institutionalizing education systems aiming at improving the quality 
of education, including: 
 
1. 
the improvement of evaluation systems and procedures in the education sector 
through: (a) the establishment of a sample-based student assessment system; and (b) the 
standardization of examination systems; 
 
2. 
the strengthening of training for teachers through: (a) the design and 
implementation of a continuing education strategy; and (b) the reinforcement of teacher 
inspection and support services; 
 
3. 
the improvement of school quality through: (a) the development of quality 
standards for schools; (b) the development of school-based projects on the basis of said 
standards through Partnership Agreements; and (c) the provision of educational 
equipment to priority schools; and 
 
Page  17
-16- 
 
4. 
the promotion of research activities for the development of quality enhancement 
innovations.  
 
Part C
:
Institutional Capacity Building
1. 
Improving DEN and AREFs’ capacity in the areas of: (a) human resource 
management, including the deployment of personnel based on new job descriptions;  
(b) the introduction of program-budgeting; and (c) procurement, financial management 
and environment and social protection; 
 
2. 
Designing and implementing a communication strategy on the reform of the 
education sector to promote partnerships with all stakeholders; and 
 
3. 
Strengthening DEN and AREFs’ strategic management capacity through the 
development of: (a) information systems; (b) procedures and mechanisms for 
communication; and (c) financial projection, monitoring and evaluation methods.  
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007. 
 
Page  18
-17- 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
July 
15, 
2010 
       1.93 
January 
15, 
2011       2.00 
July 
15, 
2011 
       2.07 
January 
15, 
2012       2.14 
July 
15, 
2012 
       2.21 
January 
15, 
2013       2.29 
July 
15, 
2013 
       2.37 
January 
15, 
2014       2.46 
July 
15, 
2014 
       2.54 
January 
15, 
2015       2.63 
July 
15, 
2015 
       2.72 
January 
15, 
2016       2.82 
July 
15, 
2016 
       2.92 
January 
15, 
2017       3.02 
July 
15, 
2017 
       3.12 
January 
15, 
2018       3.23 
July 
15, 
2018 
       3.35 
January 
15, 
2019       3.46 
July 
15, 
2019 
       3.58 
January 
15, 
2020       3.71 
July 
15, 
2020 
       3.84 
January 
15, 
2021       3.97 
July 
15, 
2021 
       4.11 
January 
15, 
2022       4.26 
July 
15, 
2022 
       4.41 
January 
15, 
2023       4.56 
July 
15, 
2023 
       4.72 
January 
15, 
2024       4.89 
July 
15, 
2024 
       5.06 
January 
15, 
2025       5.61 
Page  19
-18- 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  20
-19- 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement  
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, contracts for works and goods shall be awarded on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement 
Guidelines, providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to 
goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by 
domestic contractors. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, as these thresholds may be reviewed by agreement between the Borrower and 
the Bank, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding and the following additional provisions:  
 
(i) 
The bid document clearly explains the bid evaluation, award 
criteria and bidder qualification criteria;
 
(ii) 
Technical and financial bids are publicly and simultaneously 
opened; 
 
Page  21
-20- 
 
(iii)  
Bids shall be evaluated on price and any other criteria disclosed 
in the bid documents and quantified in monetary terms and 
contracts are awarded to the qualified bidder with the lowest 
evaluated responsive bid; and 
 
(iv) 
Prior to issuing the first call for bids, a draft standard bidding 
document to be used under National Competitive Bidding 
procurement must be submitted to, and found acceptable, by the 
Bank. 
 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract and 
works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 
 
4. Community 
Participation
.
Goods, works and services required under Partnership 
Agreements for Parts A.1, A.4 and B.3 of the Project, estimated to cost less than $10,000, 
may be procured on the basis of community participation in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank, set forth in the Program Operations Manual.  
 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  22
-21- 
 
3. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. Selection 
Bas
ed on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
5. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
 
6. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  23
-22- 
 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 
 
A. General
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Program 
Operations Manual and the ESSF and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision of said Manual or Framework if, in the 
opinion of the Bank, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the 
carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, throughout the duration of the Project, maintain or cause to 
maintain MENESFCRS and AREFs with qualified staff in adequate number to ensure 
Project implementation, in particular in the areas of accounting, financial management, 
procurement, environmental and social safeguards and management information systems.  
 
3. 
Overall responsibility for Project oversight shall be vested with DEN. DEN, 
through its relevant directions, shall be responsible for implementing Project capacity and 
institutional building activities. At the regional level, AREFs shall be responsible for 
implementing Project activities relating to construction and equipment. DEN and AREFs 
will respectively enter into Partnership Agreements.  
 
4. 
The responsibility for coordination, monitoring and evaluation of Project 
activities shall be vested with DSSP. To this end, DSSP shall coordinate with DEN 
directorates and AREFS for purposes of consolidating information on Project 
implementation and preparing Annual Reports in accordance with Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement. 
 
5. 
Throughout the duration of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that no land 
acquisition is required for purposes of school renovation activities. The Borrower shall 
ensure that: (a) all construction activities under the Project shall take place on land owned 
by the Borrower and no resettlement of local population shall take place; and (b) said 
activities shall be consistent with the Bank’s environmental policies and the ESSF.   
 
B. 
Procedures and Eligibility Criteria for the Selection of Sub-Projects 
1. 
The Borrower shall require a Partner applying for a Sub-grant to submit to the 
relevant AREF its proposal for a Sub-project in accordance with the procedures set forth 
in the Program Operations Manual.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall cause each AREF to: (a) ensure that proposals for Sub-
projects meet the requisite terms and conditions set out in the Program Operations 
Manual; (b) ensure that Partners have the capacity to carry out, manage and maintain 
Sub-projects in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical, 
Page  24
-23- 
 
managerial and educational standards; (c) approve each Sub-grant and, to that end, enter 
into a Partnership Agreement under which proceeds of the Loan will be made available to 
the Partner for the purposes of the Sub-project; and (d) monitor and evaluate the Sub-
project in accordance with the guidelines set out in the Program Operations Manual.  
 
3. 
The Partnership Agreement shall provide for rights adequate to protect the 
interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including, to the extent that it shall be 
appropriate, the right to: 
 
(a) 
require the Partner to: (i) carry out the Sub-project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical, 
managerial and educational standards; and (ii) maintain adequate records for the Sub-
project; 
 
(b) 
require that all goods, works and services required for the Sub-project 
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section II, paragraph B.4 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
require that such goods, works and services shall be used exclusively in 
the carrying out of the Sub-project;  
 
(d) 
require the Partner to allow the Borrower to inspect by itself or jointly 
with representatives of the Bank, if the Bank shall so request: (i) the operations of the 
Sub-project; and (ii) any relevant records and documents; and 
 
(e) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Partner to use the proceeds of the 
Sub-grant upon failure by the Partner to perform any of its obligations under the 
Partnership Agreement.
 
