                                           Document of
                                       The World Bank

                               FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                               ReportNo: 30721




                             PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                              ONA

                                       PROPOSEDLOAN

                         INTHEAMOUNT OFEUR60.4MILLION
                              (US$SOMILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

                                  KINGDOMOFMOROCCO
                                             FORA

                  BASICEDUCATIONREFORMSUPPORTPROGRAM


                                         January 7,2005




HumanDevelopmentGroup
MiddleEastandNorthAfricaRegion
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World
Bankauthorization.

                                            CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                                  (Exchange Rate Effective December 22,2004)
                                          Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham(MAD)
                                                   MAD1 = US$0.12
                                                     U S $ l = MAD8.33

                                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                               January 1 - December 31

                                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AREF   RegionalEducationandTraining Academies              ICT    Information andcommunicationstechnology
       [AcadCmies Rigionales d'Education et de
      Formation]
AWP   AnnualWork Plan                                      LCS    hast-cost selection
CAS   CountryAssistance Strategy                           MDG    Millennium DevelopmentGoals
CERED Center for studies andresearchon population          MFP    Ministry of FinanceandPrivatization
       [Centre #Etudes et de Recherches
      DCmographiques]
CGED   BudgetExecutionController                           NCB    National CompetitiveBidding
CIDA   CanadianInternationalDevelopment Agency             NGO    Non-govemmentalorganizations
CNEF  NationalEducation& Training Charter [Charte          OED    Operations EvaluationDepartment
       nationaled'Cducation et de formation]
COSEF  Special Commissionfor EducationandTraining          OPCS   OperationsPolicyandCountry Services
       [CommissionspCcialeeducation formation]
CSDSE  Strategic Frameworkfor the Developmentof the        PARL   Public AdministrationReformLoan
       EducationSector [Cadre StrajCgiquede
       DCveloppementdu Syst2me Educatifl
DEN    Departmentof NationalEducation[Dtpartementde        PESW   Programmatic EconomicandSector Work
       1'EducationNationale]
DGBP  Directorateof General Affairs, Budget, andAssets     PIP    ProgramImplementationPlan [Plande mise en oeuvre du
       [Directiondes Affaires GCnCrales, du Budgetet du           PARSEM]
      Patrimoine]
DSSP  Directorateof Statistics, Strategy andPlanning       PIRLS  ProgressinIntemationalReadingLiteracy Study
       [Direction de laStatistiqueet de laPlanification]
ESA    EnvironmentalandSocialAssessment                    POM    ProgramOperationsManual
ESSF   EnvironmentandSocialSafeguardsFramework             PTA    Parents-TeacherAssociation
FM     FinancialManagement                                 SBD    StandardBiddingDocument
FMR    FinancialMonitoring Report                          SIL    Sector InvestmentLoan
GDP    Gross DomesticProduct                               SWAP   Sector-WideApproach
GNP    GrossNational Product                               TGR    General Treasury of the Kingdom [Trtsorerie GtnCrale du
                                                                  Royaume]
GoM   Governmentof Morocco                                 TIMSS  Trends in IntemationalMathematicsand Scientific Study
GPN   GeneralProcurementNotice                             TOR    Terms of Reference
ICB   IntemationalCompetitive Bidding                      UNICEF The UnitedNationsChildren's Fund
ICR   ImplementationCompletionReport                       QCBC   Quality andcost-basedselection
ISCAE InstitutSupCrieur de Commerceet                      QER    Quality EnhancementReview
      d'Administrationdes Entreprises

                                         Vice President:        Christiaan Poortman
                         Country ManagerDirector:               Theodore Ahlers
                                        Sector Manager:         Regina Bendokat
                                    Task Team Leader:           Michel J. Welmond

                                                                                          FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                            MOROCCO
                                 BasicEducationReformSupportProgram

                                                            CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                     Page

 A .  STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE                                                 .................................................................  1
    1. Country andsector issues....................................................................................................                    1
   2.  Rationale for Bank involvement.........................................................................................                         1
   3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes ....................................................                                    2

 B PROJECTDESCRIPTION
   .                                            .................................................................................................      3
    1. Lending instrument.............................................................................................................                 3
   2.  Project development objective and key indicators..............................................................                                  4
   3.  Project components .............................................................................................................                4
   4.  Lessons learnedand reflected inthe project design............................................................                                   5
   5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..............................................................                                 6

 C IMPLEMENTATION
   .                                   ..........................................................................................................      6
    1. Partnership arrangements....................................................................................................                    6
    2. Institutional and implementation arrangements ..................................................................                                6
    3. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomesh-esults..................................................................                                 7
    4.  Sustainability.......................................................................................................................          7
    5.  Critical risks and possible controversial aspects.................................................................                             8
    6.  Loan conditions and covenants ...........................................................................................                      9

 D APPRAISALSUMMARY
   .                                           ...................................................................................................     9
    1. Economic andfinancial analyses........................................................................................ 9
    2.  Technical...........................................................................................................................          10
    3.  Fiduciary ...........................................................................................................................         11
    4.  Social.................................................................................................................................       13
    5. Environment......................................................................................................................              14
    6.  Safeguard policies.............................................................................................................               14
    7.  Policy Exceptions andReadiness......................................................................................                          15

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                                   .
without World Bank authorization.


Annex 1:Country and Sector or ProgramBackground                               .........................................................       16

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                    .................24
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                    ........................................................................        27

Annex 4: DetailedProject Description          ......................................................................................         34

Annex 5: Program Costs ............................................................................................................           41

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements               .................................................................................         42

Annex 7: FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements                                             ....................................   -47

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements             ......................................................................................          58

Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis                .............................................................................         64

Annex 10: SafeguardPolicy Issues       ............................................................................................           80

Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision                    .....................................................................         84

Annex 12: Documentsinthe Project File              .................................................................................          85

Annex 13: Statementof Loans and Credits               ..............................................................................          87

Annex 14: Country at a Glance    .................................................................................................            88
MapMorocco IBRDnumber 33450


A. STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE

1. Countryandsector issues

1.       Morocco's education system has shown remarkable progress despite adverse economic
conditions. The country underwent a period of economic stagnation inthe late 1990sand the
early 2000s as a result o f extreme drought that negatively affected a predominantly agricultural
economy (with average GDP growth rates of 2.5 percent duringthe 1990s). Despitethese
challenges, education has been extended to almost all children at the primarylevel.' The
national net enrollment rate for primary education increased from 52.4 percent (1990-1991) to
92.0 percent (2003-2004). Net enrollment inmiddle school has increasedfrom 17.5 percent to
32.0 percent, and inupper secondary education from 6.1 percent to 14.9percent over the same
period.

2.       The future development of the Moroccan formal education system, however, faces many
new challenges. Internal inefficiency i s high, as evidencedby highdropout and repetition rates
(see Annex 1). Gender and geographical disparities remain important at all education levels.
There i s also rapidly growing demand for middle school, as a consequence of successful
increases in access to primary education. Budget allocation to the education sector i s already
substantial at 6.6 percent o f GDP, limiting the financial margin to expandthe system. Inthis
context, the education authorities need to simultaneously manage a complex education system
and meet increasingly diverse demands while they implement a large-scale education reform.

2. Rationalefor Bankinvolvement

3.       First,the Bank has substantial experience with large-scale education reformprograms.
The Bank can identify best practices in other countries with similar development challenges that
can inform the reform process inMorocco. Second, as a major development partner, the Bank
can help strengthen the link between education reform, macro-economic stability, and the
development of other sectors, such as agriculture, health, water, infrastructure, legal, and social
protection. Third, the Bank has provided continuous support to the Moroccan education sector
since the 1960s. Many years of collaboration between the Government and the Bank have built
commitment and trust. For these reasons, the Government of Morocco (GoM) requested the
Bank to provide technical and financial support for their education reform, in the specific area o f
basic education.

4.       Moreover, Bank support for decentralization and education sector reform i s clearly
spelled out inthe Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Strong emphasis i s placed on social sector
reform, and education i s indicated as one o f the pillars of social development. There i s a strong
linkbetweenilliteracy andpoverty, andthe availability of quality education will be critical for
decreasing the poverty rate inMorocco. Higher primary education attainment levels are
positively correlated with less poverty and improved living standards for the poor, particularly
for women. The CAS also emphasizes the importance of community development and
decentralization to reach the population inextreme poverty, mostly living inrural andperi-urban

'Formal  education consists of three levels of instruction: basic, upper secondary and higher. Basic education
includes two sections: primary (grades 1-6) and middle (grades 7-9).


                                                            1

areas. Finally, the CAS states that the Bank will support the implementation of the National
Education andTraining Charter.

3. Higher levelobjectives to which the project contributes

5.       This operation supports the Government's efforts to meet the objectives of National
Education and Training Charter. The Charter i s the product of a national consensus to expand
educational opportunities at all levels in a sustainable manner. With regards to basic education,
the Charter aims to achieve universal net enrollment of six to fourteen-year-olds and improved
quality o f instruction by 2010. To this end, the G o M has begun a process of decentralizingkey
education functions to the regional, provincial, and school levels of the education system.

6.       To address the next phase o f the education reform, the G o M established a Strategic
Framework for the Development of the Education Sector inFebruary 2004. The Strategic
Framework, elaborated with technical assistance from the Canadian InternationalDevelopment
Agency (CIDA), outlines strategic plans to operationalize the Charter for the period 2005-2009.
The key objective of the Strategic Framework over this period i s to consolidate current
achievements and to achieve full enrollment of children in basic education.

7.       The Strategic Framework seeks to achieve two principal outcomes. First,it aims to
reinforce sector capacity to manage an education system that delivers quality education in an
efficient and sustainable manner. This will be achieved through partnershipmechanisms, regular
assessment o f student learning, teacher support services, school quality improvement strategies,
reinforced financial and human resource management, better information and communication
systems, and more effective strategic and operational management. Second, the Strategic
Framework will continue to expand basic education while ensuring higher retentionrates.

8.       To meet the above objectives, the Strategic Framework includes several key reforms and
initiatives. First, it proposes a sustainable budgetary framework for the development of the
education sector that includes a number o f important measures to control and reallocate costs.
Measures include: the optimization of teachers' instruction time, better use of school
infrastructure, new construction norms, andpartnerships with civil society for the provision o f
certain services (e.g., preschool, boarding facilities). Second, it consolidates the new governance
structure o f the sector by reinforcing the capacity of the central education ministryand
decentralized regional offices through the introduction of contract budgeting and better human
resource management. Third, it aims to improve enrollment andretentionrates inrural areas,
particularly for girls. Fourth, it supports the provision o f special services through partnership
grants for children who would not attend schools or would drop out o f schools because o f
disability, poverty, distance from school, or cultural norms. These partnership grants support
initiatives by local education stakeholders (e.g., local government, NGOs, local associations) to
improve access to basic education. Fifth,the Strategic Framework supports the establishment o f
school-based projects to improve the quality o f education.

9.       By supporting Government's sector-wide reform, the Basic Education ReformSupport
Program (Programme d'appui a la re`forme du systbme e`ducatif marocain-- PARSEM),
contributes to improving the education system's capacity to better address complex demands.
Improved access to quality education will strengthen the individual's capacity to exercise his or



                                                   2

her freedom. Moreover, a society with strong education foundations can compete more
effectively inthe global economy. Inthe long run, education will help reduce the incidence of
poverty: a society with highlevels of primary education attainment, particularly for women, i s
more productive and healthier. However, improved education is necessary, but not sufficient for
fully attainingthese higher-level objectives. The development of the education sector must be
accompanied by sustained economic growth, better access to other social services, enhanced
public sector efficiency, and reduced vulnerability to environmental hazards and degradation.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

10.     PARSEMadopts a Sector-wide Approach (SWAP) to be implemented as a Sector
InvestmentLoan (SIL). PARSEMsupports the implementation of the education reform
described inthe five-year Strategic Framework mentioned above. It co-finances budget lines of
the Department o f National Education (Dipartement d'Education Nationale -DEN)and its
regional offices (Academies Rkgionale d'Education et de Formation- AREF) that fund selected
components o f the Strategic Framework, as well as certain non-salary recurrent AREF
expenditures related to improving the quality of education.

11.     The overall cost of PARSEM for five years i s US$275.47 million. The Government's
Sector Policy Letter states that Morocco intends for the Bank to support PARSEMthrough two
consecutive loans, each for an amount equivalent to US$ 80 million. The first loan (this
operation) supports the first three years of the implementation o f PARSEM, which i s estimated
as US$ 150.55 million.

12.     To support the increased importance given to educational quality, PARSEMwill co-
finance the following AREF non-salary recurrent expenditures: (i)      primary andmiddle school
operations, (ii) services for and supervision of teachers; and (iii)
                support                                                     in-service teacher
training. These expenditures correspond to PARSEM's general strategy for improving education
quality, which focuses on teachers and school-level actions. The Government will increase
expenditures for these budgetary categories, as additional resources are made available through
savings producedby the education sector reform program (see Section C.4. Sustainability and
D.1.Financial andEconomic Analyses).

13.     A specified proportion of the loan will be disbursed at the beginning of each calendar
year, which constitutes the Borrower's fiscal year. Each disbursement will co-finance the
budgetary lines that fund PARSEM for that particular year (including certain AREF non-salary
recurrent expenditures discussed above). Program implementation will be tracked through
regular reviews usingpre-established Performanceindicators, thus engendering the
Government's capacity to monitor and implement complex reforms. Disbursementswill depend
on implementation performance. Through this approach, more effort can be focused on
substantive aspects of the reform program, while reducing transaction costs for the G o M andthe
World Bank. As loan effectiveness will occur after the commencement o f the GoM's fiscal year,
there will be retroactive financing equal to 6 percent o f the loan, limitedto Euro 3,800,000.




                                                  3

14.     Except for certain types of expenditures (e.g., technical assistancefor institutional
capacity building, andprocurements above certain levels), andfor environmental and social
safeguards, the Bank will rely on the Borrower's own implementation systems andprocedures
(see Annexes 7, 8 and 10).

2. Projectdevelopment objective and key indicators

15.     The principal objective of PARSEMis to support Government efforts to provide basic
education of improving quality to all children ages six to fourteen in a financially sustainable
manner. To meet this objective, PARSEMcontributes to the establishment of practices,
mechanisms, and approaches that will improve the education systemon an ongoing basis.

16.     PARSEMwill bemonitored through Performance indicators andMonitoring indicators.
Both are listedinAnnex 3.

17.     Performance indicators are usedto follow the annual progressof basic education
development by tracking enrollment, repetition, retention, andcomplete rates. These indicators
will be desegregatedby gender and region (urban andrural). Target values for Performance
indicators were identified on the basis of financial simulations conducted by the DENand the
Education Charter objectives (see Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalyses). Although
Performance indicators are not directly linkedto disbursements,they allow monitoring of the
overall progress of the sector to achieve the objectives of the Charter.

18.     Monitoring indicators are critical steps required to achieve the overall targets of
PARSEM. They are linkedto actions and activities that introduce new practices or have
significant long-term impact on the development of the education system. They also reflect key
policy decisions, such as the increaseinteacher instructional time and the use of new
construction norms. These indicators will be established on the basis of the DEN'SAnnual Work
Plans and can be adjustedon the basis of progressmade. Monitoring indicators will serve as
benchmarks for disbursements. The linkbetween Monitoring indicators anddisbursements i s
described inAnnex 7.

3. Project components

19.     PARSEMwill support the implementation of the Strategic Framework described above.
The actions to be supportedby PARSEM are organized into three components.

20.     Component One: Generalize basic education [estimated cost: US$95.87million]: This
component's objective i s to ensurethat basic education i s available to most school-agechildren
by 2008. Its overall strategy i s to increasethe provision of schooling in a cost-effective manner
by usingnew construction norms. It also funds provisions of social services (boarding facilities,
school transport, etc) for under-served students by promotingpartnerships with local
stakeholders. Demand will also be strengthenedthrough the promotion of pre-school education.

21.     Component Two: Improve the quality of education [estimated cost: US$42.53 million]:
The objective of this component i s to improve student learning and reduce dropout andrepetition
rates. The principal strategy implementedthrough this component i s to establish the capacity



                                                  4

necessary to ensure ongoing improvements inthe quality of education: systematic assessment of
student achievement, cost-effective in-service teacher training and teacher support services,
setting and usingquality standards to promote and monitor school efforts to improve quality, and
the development of a regularly programmedresearchagenda for the development of quality
enhancementinnovations.

22.     Component Three: Build institutional capacity [estimated cost: US$12.16 million]: This
component supports the sector's decentralization process at the central, regional, provincial, and
local levels through capacity building. It also introduces two innovations. First,it will help
implement the government-wide public administration reform within the education sector,
through program budgeting and personnel deployment basedon standardjob descriptions.
Second, it improves key systems (procurement, financial management, environment, and social
protection) for greater accountability, transparency, efficiency, andperformance.

23.     The following table summarizesPARSEM'sthree components and 13 sub-components.



1:Generalize basic education       1.1:Promotepre-primary education through partnership
                                   1.2 :Achieve full primary education enrollment (grades 1-6)
                                   1.3 :Increase equitable access to middle school (grades 7-9)
                                   1.4 :Mobilize partnerships towards the expansion o f basic education
2: Improvethe quality of education 2.1 :Improveevaluation systems
                                   2.2 : Improve support services for teachers
                                   2.3 :Promote the quality of education at the school level
                                   2.4 :Promote research to improve the quality o f education
3: Buildinstitutional capacity     3.1 :Support implementation of public administration reform inthe education sector
                                   3.2 :Reinforce human resource management
                                   3.3 :Reinforce finance and administrative management capacity
                                   3.4 : Improvecommunication and partnership with education stakeholders
                                   3.5 : Reinforce change management inthe education sector

4. Lessonslearned and reflected inthe project design

24.     PARSEMbuilds on the experiences and lessonslearned from previous sector operations.
The following key lessons were raisedinImplementation Completion Reports (ICR) of other
basic education projects: i)decentralization can accelerateimplementation; ii)community
contributions should be promoted; iii)a balanced approachbetween school construction and
quality of education i s important; and iv) executing agencies capacity should be evaluated prior
to the beginning of the project.

25.     Inresponseto these lessons, the following measureswere incorporated inthe program
design. First,PARSEMsupports Government initiatives to decentralize education sector
responsibilities to regional, provincial, and local levels, thus improving implementation capacity.
Second, the program encourages local stakeholders to become more involvedin the provisionof
school services so as to increase access to quality education (e.g., school-based projects and
partnershipagreements). Third, the program strikes abalancebetween access andquality of
education. Fourth, as part of the project preparation process, the Bank conducted assessments on



                                                     5

the implementation capacity of the DENand AREFs. These assessmentsindicatedthat the
AREFs have the capacity to monitor andimplement programactivities.

5. Alternatives consideredand reasons for rejection

26.     A Sector-wide Approach (SWAP) was selected after discussions with the GoM andwith
different units o f the Bank. In October 2003, a Quality Enhancement Review (QER)was
convened, which examined the comparative advantage of different Bank instruments. The QER
concluded that adjustment lending would be premature consideringthe phase of the education
reform and a standard investment operation would be too restrictive for such a broad-based
program. The QER recommendedthat a pooled-finance investment operation (Le., a form of
Sector-Wide Approach) would provide the flexibility and the systemic vision to support this
phase of Morocco's education reform. Moreover, this approach would simplify project
implementation and emphasize results-based management.

27.     The education sector reformencompasses all levels of education; however, the G o M
strategically places more importance on basic education duringthe next phase of reform. For
this reason, PARSEMconcentrates on this level of educationinalignment with the objectives
and principal outcomes described inthe Strategic Framework. The Bank is also engaged in
continuing policy dialogue with the GoM for other levels of the education system. For example,
Programmatic Economic and Sector Work (PESW) supports Morocco's higher education reform,
and the on-goingAlpha Maroc project reinforces capacity to implement adult literacy strategies.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnership arrangements

28.     The G o M andthe World Bank will co-finance the project. Other aid agencies are also
supporting the Strategic Framework and coordinating their efforts with this operation. They
have expressed interest injoining a SWAP at a later phase, based on the results of this operation.

2. Institutional and implementation arrangements

29.     The DENi s ultimately accountable for meeting the objectives set out inthe Strategic
Framework, providing oversight, monitoring and evaluation, and technical support to the
AREFs. Directorates inthe DENare responsible for their respective areas of expertise for
program implementation. The Directorate o f Strategy, Statistics and Planning (DSSP) serves as
an overall coordinator for the Strategic Framework, and thus o f PARSEM. Inline with their
general responsibilities, the AREFs will take charge o f implementing most o f the activities
described in the Strategic Framework, such as construction, equipment, and partnership
agreements. The DEN,through its relevant directorates, is responsible for implementingmost o f
the institutional capacity buildingactivities o f the Strategic Framework.

30.     A ProgramOperations Manual (POM) will guide implementation. The POMdescribes
guidelines and procedures to successfully carry out Annual Work Plans (AWP). It defines
procurement, financial management, and monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. This
document also includes action plans for improving procurement and financial management



                                                   6

capacity within the education sector. The document will be disseminated to the DEN
directorates as well as to AREFs before program implementation. Its contents will be regularly
revised as institutional capacity improves and program implementationprogresses.

3. Monitoringandevaluationof outcomes/results

31.      PARSEMi s implementedthrough a results-based framework, monitoring progress of the
education reformprogram through Performance andMonitoringindicators. As discussed in
Section B.2 above, Performance indicators track the overall progress of the education sector,
whereas Monitoring indicators track program implementation.

32.     The DSSP i s responsible for monitoring the implementation of the Strategic Framework
and coordinates with other directorates and the AREFs responsible for specific actions and
activities. Directorates and AREFs responsible for the implementation of specific activities will
then provide updates on Monitoring indicators to the DSSP before the Bank-DEN semi-annual
reviews held each year in September and March. The DSSP will then consolidate the
information received from the directorates and AREFs, synthesize findings, and submit progress
reports to the Bank inpreparation for these reviews. The specific reporting formats for
implementing agencies and for overall monitoring are detailed inthe POM.

4. Sustainability

33.     The Government's program i s ambitious, andrequires significant financial, human and
institutional resources to succeed. The government has adopted a number o f strategies and
measures to ensure program sustainability.

34.     Interms of financial sustainability, the DENandthe Ministry of Finance and
Privatization (MFP) will establish an annual financing plan for the implementation of the
Strategic Framework. This financing plan ensures that sufficient resources are allocated to
implement programmed activities and to cover their recurrent cost implications. Budget
allocation and execution will be closely monitored through the review process described above.

35.     Furthermore, the Government's program includes a number of measures that will
improve the allocative efficiency within the sector, which are reviewed ingreater detail in Annex
9 (e.g., maintaining student-teacher ratios inprimary levels, increasingthe number of hours
taught per teacher at middle and upper secondary levels, and usingexisting infrastructure to meet
the increasingdemand for middle school education in urban areas). According to the
Government's education sector financing strategy, these savings will be re-allocated toward
recurrent non-salary budget categories that finance education quality actions and inputs, such as
school operations, teacher support services, and teacher training.

36.     Finally, inline with the Government's finance sustainability strategy, the Government
has divided PARSEMinto two phases. Over the first three years, the DENwill establish the
mechanisms and systems to conduct better sector operations, while beginning to expand capacity
at the sector. For the subsequent two years, these approaches will be operationalized and
generalized. This operation supports the first phase of PARSEM.




                                                 7

37.       Interms of institutional sustainability, the Strategic Framework aims to consolidate the
transfer of responsibilities towards the AREFs, ensuring the deployment o f appropriate staff and
the allocation o f neededresources. Furthermore, AREF and central staff will be provided with
training as well as technical and material resources. Finally, the DENaims to develop new
mechanisms (e.g., teacher support services, information systems, financial and human resource
management) that take advantage of the new decentralized structure of the sector.

5. Criticalrisksandpossiblecontroversialaspects

Table2: Projectrisks
                   Risk                                    RiskMitigatingMeasures                    RiskRating
To meeting program development ohiectives:
  Political pressuresto provide increased Monitoring indicators will enable the Bank and GoM to
                                                      -                                                  S
  access to educationovershadows the        track each component; results of reviews will be made
  need to improve quality and the           available to the public.
  institutional capacity o f the sector,
  leading to unbalanced implementation
  of PARSEM.

  PARSEMrepresents an ambitious             (i)Capacity building, system design, and piloting will be    S
  program that could overwhelm the          emphasized during the first year of implementation;
  budding implementation capacity of        (ii) processwillprovideopportunitiestoadjust
                                                Review
  the newly decentralized education         programplanning as more information i s gathered
  system.                                   regarding implementation.

  The GoM might not be able to allocate Sector Policy Letter includes commitments to ensure              S
  the necessary resources to meet the       program financing.
  objectives set out in the Strategic
  Framework.

  From Components to Outputs
  Management of partnership grants is an DENwill develop tools and procedures and reinforce             M
  administrative burdenfor m F .            capacity o f Al2EFs to implement partnership grants.

  GoM fails to increase average number      (i) willtrainpolyvalentteachers;(ii)
                                               DEN                                                      M
  of hours taught by teachers or maintain Annual teacher recruitment levels will reflect new targets
  student-teacher ratios at current levels. of hours taught by teachers and studentlteacher ratios.

  Monitoring and administrating school- Program includes training of school directors, teachers,         S
  basedprojects might overwhelm local       and board members.
  capacity.

  New modalities to improve teacher         Sector Policy Letter includes commitment to developing      M
  services not implemented.                 in-service training strategy.

  Delays inredeployment of human           Duringthe first year o f PARSEM, a human resource            M
  resources and training o f individuals to assessment will be conducted, and new distribution o f
  establish firm basis for                 responsibilities will be delegated to all administrative
  decentralization.                         levels inparallel with the public administration reform.

  Newly created entities requiring          (i)Capacity strengthening activities will be implemented     S
                                                                                                         I




                                                            8

 important institutional support pose a under close supervision by the central ministry.
 substantial fiduciary risk.            (ii)Training of appropriate finance staff with required
                                        budgeting and financial management skills within AREF
                                        and controllers at the delegations.
                                        (iii) willensureclosesupervisionofthe
                                             Bank
                                        implementation and provide support to the AREF.

 The government cannot finance the      Inthe Sector Policy Letter, the Government indicates     N
 recurrent expenditures necessaryto     its commitment to reallocating savings produced by
 improve quality.                       reform measuretowards education quality, and thus to
                                        financing targeted non-salary recurrent expenditures.
 OverallRisk Rating                                                                                S
RiskRating: H(HighRisk), S (Substantial Risk), M(Modest Risk),N(Negligible or Low Risk)

6. Loanconditions and covenants

38.     Effectiveness condition:

0   The Government shall submitto the Bank the legal opinion authorizing and approving the
    loan agreement within 120days of signature.

39.     Disbursementconditions:

e   The Government shall confirm that no landacquisition is requiredfor school renovation.

e   The Government's compliance with the MonitoringIndicators is satisfactory to the Bank.

40.     Covenants:

0   InMarchof every year, the Government shall submit to the Bank an Annual Work Plan
    setting forth work programs, budgets, the annual allocation, the procurement plan and, where
    appropriate, revised MonitoringIndicators.

0   InMarchof every year, the Government shall provideto the Bank an Annual Report: (a)
    describing progress achieved inthe implementation of the Annual Work Plan approved for
    the previous year and evidencing compliance with the MonitoringIndicators, and (b)
    detailing the budgetary allocations for the following FiscalYear as shall be necessaryto
    ensure adequate financing andproper implementation of said year's Annual Work Plan.

0   The Government will ensure that: (a) all school construction activities under PARSEMtakes
    place on land owned by the Borrower and no resettlement of local population takes place;
    and (b) these activities are consistent with the Bank's environmental policies and the ESSF.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economicandfinancial analyses

41.    The financial analysis performedfor this operation indicates that meetingthe sector goals
of the Strategic Framework and the Education Charter i s financially sustainable over the long


                                                      9

term, even though there will be a temporary spike of additional resource requirements over the
next decade. Demandfor basic and upper secondary education i s expected to peak in five and
ten years respectively, as falling fertility rates eventually decrease the size of the school-age
population. It will be possible to shift some resources from primary to middle to upper
secondary school over this period; however, financial simulations predict an overall financing
gap averaging 12percent of the education expenditure annually over the next ten years. The
simulations assume an average economic growth rate of 5 percent and holdeducation spending
as a proportion of govemment spending constant.

42.      Inorder to temper some of the projectedbudgetary pressure, andthus improve financial
sustainability, the Strategic Framework includes several measures and actions aimed at
improving allocative efficiency inthe sector. First, the DENwill increase the average number of
hours taught by middle andupper secondary school teachers to officially sanctioned levels. One
key strategy to achieve this aim i s the introduction of polyvalent teachers who can teach more
than one discipline. A second strategy put forward by the DENi s to limit the growth of non-
salary expenditures allocated teachers and students social services (housing subsidies, boarding
facilities, etc.). These savings will be reallocatedto finance improvements inthe quality o f
education (e.g., teacher in-service training and school grants). Financial projections indicate
that, if these measures were applied, the financing gap for recurrent expenditures could be
reduced to 4 percent of annual education expenditures.

43.      However, on the investment side, a considerable gap could remain as the govemment
attempts to meet targets to increase school enrollment (particularly if retention rates increase, as
predicted). The DENwill conduct a study on construction norms duringthe first year of the
program to determine whether more cost effective approaches could be adopted to reduce the
overall cost o f buildingschools. Additionally, usingpartnerships grants to local entities to
establish and runboarding facilities for middle and upper secondary school students will
decrease overall sector investment needs. Nevertheless, other measures will needto be
developed over the medium term to address the potential impact of growing enrollments.

2. Technical

44.      The DEN'SStrategic Framework represents a coherent and feasible set o f actions and
measuresthat are based on reasonable assumptions. In addition, it introduces a number o f key
innovations, supported by PARSEM, for the development of the education sector, including:

    a. New mechanismsfor promoting partnerships: AREFs will provide grants to local entities
    (e.g., local governments, NGOs, and local associations) to provide services to students and
    their families, thus helping to increase enrollment, attendance, retention, and achievement.

    b. New capacityfor assessingstudent achievement: Although the DENhas participatedina
    number of international assessmentso f student achievement (PIRLS andTIMSS), the
    Strategic Framework (and PARSEM) includes the development of a Moroccan system for
    assessing the distribution of and contributing factors to student achievement. This will prove
    to be an essential tool, as education stakeholders shift their focus from access to quality.




                                                   10

    c. Thedevelopment of cost-efective teacher support services: The Strategic Framework
    intends to promote higher teacher performance through the development of a coherent system
    of teacher support services, which will include cost-effective in-service training (through
    both site-based and distance training), more regular and effective inspections, and a
    reinforcedrole for school directors.

    d. Theestablishment of quality standards and school-basedprojects: The DENintends to
    develop new standards for ensuring school-level quality. These will serve as a framework
    for primary and middle schools to develop proposals for improving achievement and
    retention, which will intum be financed through grants provided by the AREFs.

3. Fiduciary

45.      Procurement (seeAnnex 8for detailed information). An assessment of the Borrower's
public procurement system concludedthat it i s solid and operates in a structured andreliable
control environment. It does not present major fiduciary risks. The national legislation on
procurement i s generally in line with World Bank's guidelines. However, a few procedures
would need to be adapted to conform with these guidelines:

  a    For goods and works: (i) envelopes constituting a bidshould be opened simultaneously
                                  all
       inone public session, with the pricereadaloud andrecorded; (ii)      quantifiable evaluation
       criteria should be included inthe biddingdocuments and, in the case o f goods, a point
       system should not be used; (iii)  the contract i s awarded to the bidder who meets the
       qualifications required and whose bidhas been determinedto be responsive to the bidding
       documents, and offers the lowest evaluated bid; (iv) the requirement for bidders to have a
       local representative, established inMorocco, should be discontinued; and (v) the
       evaluation method for procurement o f goods should be by lot (instead o f by article).

  a    For consultants, open competitive biddingshould not be applied. Invitation to bidshould
       be addressed to a shortlist of firms, having the requiredqualifications and experience. The
       financial proposals will be opened publicly following completion of the evaluation of
       technical proposals.

46.      At the central level of the DEN,procurementcapacity was found to be satisfactory. At
the decentralized level, there i s more capacity within the provincial delegations (which are
extensions o f AREFs inthe provinces) than within the AREFs. The AREFs have only become
operational in mid-2003 and will need to strengthen the qualifications of their staff and to
increase their material resources. Inaddition, standardized operational and procurement
procedures need to be developed. By their legal status, the AREFs are not automatically subject
to the national regulation that govems public procurement. They can establish their own
regulatory procedures to be approved by their Board of Directors and the MFP. Duringthis
transitional period, the AREFs are adopting the present national regulation for their procurement
activities, taking into account the few exceptions indicated above.

47.      The overall risk i s assessedto be moderate. This risk could lead to some delays in the
implementation of PARSEM and will be mitigated by actions included under the institutional
capacity buildingcomponent. These actions will strengthen procurement management and


                                                  11

coordinate and harmonize capacity between the AREFs and the provincial delegations.
Furthermore, the following measures will be implemented:

       Standardized biddingdocuments (SBD), to be approvedby the Bank, are being developed
      inaccordance with the guidelines of the Bank. The SBD will beusedbythe executing
       agencies of PARSEM(e.g., certain DENdirectorates and the AREFs).
  a   Procurementrules and procedures are described inthe POM.
      Annual technical audits andregular ex-post reviews are programmed, which will leadto
      action plans to implement recommendations.

48.     The procurement plan for the first year of PARSEMi s presented inAnnex 8 and included
inthe POM.

49.     Financial Management. As a Sector-Wide Approach (SWAP), the agreed FM
arrangements inthis operation aim to simplify procedures and reduce the transaction costs
imposedby parallel systems required intraditional investment operations. Over time, it will help
set the framework for more efficient implementation o f the government's own education
programs and a sustainable institutional capacity. It therefore, seeks to align with the
government own procedures, improve on these where there are deficiencies and capitalize on all
the reform initiatives going on inthe country.

50.     An assessmentof the existing financial management capacity was conductedbyBank
staff duringthe missions leading to appraisal. A summary o f the findings o f the assessment of
the financial management capacity i s presented below. Annex 7 presents a more detailed
presentation of the assessment, and of government's plannedactions to respond to identified
shortcomings.

51.     A reliable system to accountfor public expenditures with low fiduciary risk. The overall
Moroccan public administration operates in a structured and reliable control environment, with
uniform public accounting rules and procedures. It presents low fiduciary risk, even though
efficiency and effectiveness can be enhanced.

52.     Newly created entities requiring important institutional support pose a substantial
fiduciary risk. The central administration of the DENi s part of the country general framework
and as such, FMarrangements at the central level represent a low risk. However, with the
decentralization of the DEN, the regional academies (AREFs)face certain financial management
issues, as they take on their new roles: (i) weak staff capacity; (ii) of an accrual
                                                                     absence
accounting and managerialaccounting systems as required by their statutes; (iii)     no audits o f
accounts currently inplace; (iv) not fully definedFMrelations between AREFs and their
provincial delegations, (v) a lengthy budget preparation process from the central administration
to the AREFs, delaying work program execution at the decentralized level; and (vi) the necessity
to establish a management information system at the central level and at the AREFs level. Given
the above, the level of risk at the AREFs is estimated to be relatively high. Though considered
relatively high, at the decentralized level, the risk remains under strict central control until
capacity i s inplace.




                                                   12

53.     To mitigate and manage the identified risks: (i) the existing acceptable financial
                                                          given
management capacity at the central level within the Finance and Administration Division, the
latter will have full responsibility of ensuring proper budgeting, accounting, reporting and
internal control at the AREFs while capacity strengthening activities are being implemented; (ii)
the G o M i s particularly expected to establish and allocate appropriate finance staff with the
requiredbudgeting andfinancial management skills within AREF and controllers at the
provincial de'le'gationswithin thefirst year of project effectiveness, and (iii) Bank will
                                                                                  the
ensure close supervision of the implementation andprovide support to the AREFs inthis regard.

54.     Financialmanagement capacity building activitiesand agreed arrangements. The
government will address the sector financial management issues through two main avenues.
First,various reforminitiatives aimedat improving the financial management of the public
sector ingeneral and the DENin particular are currently being designed or are underway. The
project integrates well within the on-going government reform o f performance basedbudgeting,
civil service reform, computerization of the public sector budgeting and accounting, the reform
of the control function, etc, and will capitalize on other initiatives at the sector level.

55.     Furthermore, as part of the Strategic Framework of the DEN, the sector i s implementing a
comprehensive action plan that aims at reinforcing financial management capacity throughout
the sector. This action plan i s incorporatedinto the third component of PARSEMand a number
of progress indicators will track its implementation.

56.     Audit of the PARSEM. Given the absenceof regular audit andreporting at the center
and decentralized levels, provisional arrangements inaccordance with standards, and by auditors,
acceptable to the Bank are being considered and agreed with the G o M untilfurther capacity
strengthening inthis area. Annual audit reports prepared according to TORSacceptable to the
Bank are to be submitted no later than 6 months following the end o f each fiscal year being
audited.

57.     Flow of funds and periodic reporting. Bank funds will be transferred to a deposit
account at Tre'sorerie Generale du Royaume, annually based on the agreed cash flow requiredto
undertake the annual activities. The annual amounts will be agreed at negotiations and
eventually revised duringproject implementation if needed. The MFP then transfers funds to
DENandAREFs respectively within its current budget execution framework andrules.

58.     Semi-annual Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will be submitted to the World Bank
duringthe implementationof the program. The report will show budgetedamounts,
disbursements by the MFP and the transfer o f funds to the AREFs, commitments andpayments
by the AREFs for budget lines identified to finance PARSEM activities. These reports will be
used as part o f the ex-post review process that will determine subsequent disbursements o f the
PARSEM loan. A format of FMR has been agreed and endorsed with the MEN-Finance
department at negotiations.

4. Social

59.     As stated above, the Education Charter was developed through extensive participation
with education stakeholders. The DEN'SStrategic Framework was established through a



                                                  13

strategic planningprocess that brought together central and regional education staffs. Thus, the
Strategic Framework i s endorsed by stakeholders responsible for implementationof the
education reform program and aims to achieve education goals that have the support o f
Moroccan society.

60.     PARSEMsupports aspects of the Strategic Framework that specifically ensure more
social equity and more stakeholder involvement: increasing enrollment and retention rates in
rural areas, specifically targeting girl population; providing special services for underserved
children through partnership grants; and supporting the establishment of school-based projects
that target specific populations. Moreover, a large-scale communication strategy i s incorporated
inthe programdesign, which aims to encourage the public to participateineducation initiatives.

5. Environment

61.     No major hazards to land and people are anticipatedduringthe implementationof
PARSEM. However, both the Environmental Assessment (OP4.01) and Involuntary
Resettlement Policy (OP4.12) were triggered. PARSEM was classified as Category B according
to the Environmental Assessment Safeguards Policy 4.01. An environmental and a social
assessmentwere jointly conductedduringthe preparation of the operation. A summaryo f
findings is presented under SectionD.6.Safeguard policies.

6. Safeguard policies

62.     Inorder to comply with the Bank's Operational Safeguards Policy relative to
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) and the Involuntary Resettlement Policy (OP4.12), an
Environmental and Social Assessment (ESA) was conducted for PARSEM duringthe
preparatory phase o f the operation. This assessment addressed environmental as well as social
safeguards concerns mainly relatedto the construction of new schools. An Environmental and
Social Safeguards Framework (ESSF) was prepared as a consequence of this assessment process,
which details the mitigating as well as monitoring measures that are to be carried out during
project implementation. It also lists ways to improve the capacity of implementing agencies.

63.     The ESA findings are the following: (i)   existing construction and operating standards, as
well as construction monitoring norms do not fully guarantee the safety, health, and well-being
of students, teachers, and personnel at schools; (ii) there i s a lack of adequate resources for
school maintenance; (iii) practice of sole-source contracts with architects does not guarantee
                           the
cost-effectiveness of school construction programs; and (iv) there i s a sector-wide issue o f
arrears related to payment of land acquired for construction of schools.

64.     Although existing land acquisition procedures inMorocco are, in general, consistent with
corresponding Bank policy, the issue o f arrears inpayment of compensation is of concern. The
Involuntary Resettlement Policy (OP4.12) was triggered because of the concern stemming from
delayed payment of compensation for land acquisition although this issue is not specific to the
education sector. An on-going Bank adjustment operation, the Asset Management Reform Loan
(AMRL,4700-MOR), is currently assisting the GoMto addressthis problem. Measures have
been agreed with the Ministry of Education to minimize delays incompensation payments. The
ESSF includes activities that will help improve the capacity for monitoring the progress achieved



                                                  14

inthis regard. Finally, there is a covenant relatedto resettlement and a disbursement condition
related to land acquisition (see Section B.5. Loan conditions and covenants).

65.      The ESSF will be distributed with the ProgramOperations Manual (POM) to all
implementing agencies before loan effectiveness. The ESSF constitutes a depository of norms
and guidelines for the implementation of the PARSEM and for reporting on program progress.
For example, this framework defines mechanisms for monitoring the application of construction
norms and functional standards and payment o f land acquired for school construction.

Table 3: Safeguard PoliciesTriggered by the Project
                                                                                         Yes                     No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP4.01)                                                [XI                     [ I
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP4.04)                                                            [ I                    [XI
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                               11                     [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                                 E l                    [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                  [XI                     E l
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                  [ I                    [XI
  Forests (OP/BP4.36)                                                                     [ I                    [XI
  Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                            11                     [XI
  Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                              [ I                    [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                     [ I                    [XI

7. Policy Exceptions andReadiness

66.      N o policy exceptions are anticipated.


                               Listof Indicators
Program i s officially approved by the Government of Morocco                                              Yes
Executing/Imulementation agencies identified                                                              Yes
Organization of workshop for the preparation of the project                                     After effectiveness
Fiduciary and social safeguards are found adequate                                                        Yes
Procurement documents are prepared for 1st year of the program                              1st year procurementplan
                                                                                                      established
Biddingdocuments are launched for the first year of the program                                            N o
Performance indicators and data collection methods for monitoring                                          Yes
and evaluation are identified
Program Operations Manual (POM) prepared                                                                  Yes
Active participation of the program director inthe preparation,                                           Yes
amraisal. and negotiation of the loan




* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputed areas


                                                            15

                        Annex 1:CountryandSector or ProgramBackground
                      MOROCCO:BasicEducationReformSupportProgram

Country Backaround

1.       Over the past two decades, variation ineconomic growth has affectedthe sustainability o f
public expenditures. Between 1980-1990, GDP average annual growth was 4.2 percent;
however, it declined to 2.5 percent between 1990-2001primarily due to intermittent droughts
and stagnating industrial outputs. Economic growth improved for 2001 and 2002, at 6.5 percent
and 3.2 percent respectively, owing greatly to recoveredagricultural revenues andexpanded
tourism. As a result, unemployment rates decreased from 12.5 percent in2001to 11.6 percent in
2002, with a decline from 4.6 percent to 3.2 percent inthe agricultural sector alone. Despite a
short-term positive outlook, unemployment remains highnation-wide, and mostly inurban areas
(18.7 percent inQ12003). Twenty-six percent of educated adults andthirty-four percent of
youth are unemployed.

2.       Morocco faces a highlevel of poverty. The national poverty level has increased from
13.1 percent in 1990-1991to 19.0 percent in 1998-1999, an increase from 3.4 to 5.3 million
people. Poverty i s predominantly a rural phenomenon, with 27.2 percent of the rural population
living under the national poverty line, comparedto 12percent inurban areas. Iti s estimated that
approximately 64 percent of these poor are illiterate. Poverty i s also correlated with limited
access to health care and clean water, as well as highmaternal as well as infant mortality rates.

Sector Background

3.       By designating 2000-2009 as the decade for education and training, Morocco has
emphasized the role o f education as an element o f human development and an effective tool for
reducing poverty. This marksthe beginning o f the country's education reform. Significant
advancements have been made, especially after the declaration of the Education Charter.

4.       In 1999, abroadly representative Special Commission for Education andTraining
(Commission spe'cialee'ducation-formation, COSEF) produced the National Education &
Training Charter (Charte nationale d'e'ducation et deformation), endorsed by the Palace, the
Government, and Parliament. The Education Charter establishes a national consensus on the
Government's strategies to address education issues. It also sets out objectives for all levels of
the education system, including universal primary education of children between the ages o f six
to eleven years by 2007, improved internal inefficiency through measures to improve the quality
of education, especially at basic education levels, and to help children access schook2 The
Charter proposes a number o f reforms to reach these objectives, including administrative
decentralization, community involvement in school management, curriculum reform, and the
introduction of partial user charges at higher levels of education. The Government has put in
place the legislative framework for reform, most notably in the areas o f decentralization at the



 Formal education consists of three levels of instruction: basic, upper secondary and higher. Basic education
includes two sections: primary (grades 1-6) and middle (grades 7-9).


                                                          16

central, regional, and school levels. As a part of this effort, the G o M created regional education
offices (Academies regionales d'kducation et deformation - AREF).

5.       Millennium Development Goals. Morocco has pledgedto work towards achieving the
MillenniumDevelopment Goals (MDGs). Of the eight global goals, two goals are directly
related to education: (i)  achieving universal primary education and (ii)   promoting gender equality
and empower women. A summary of Morocco's MDG goal andtargets ineducation are
presented below.



Achieve completion    Ensurethat by 2015,   Net enrollment rate
of universal primary  all children, boys    inprimary education       73.5%                 100%
education             and girls, complete   Proportion of
                                primary     students starting first
                      education             grade completing          82.7%*                100%
                                            fifth grade
                                            Illiteracy rate of 15
                                            and 24 year olds          64.3%                 100%
Eliminate gender      Eliminate gender      Female1Male ratio:
disparity aiprimary   disparity inprimary                             81.2%                 100%
and secondary         and secondary         ---- Primary
                                                 Middle school        75.4%                 100%
education             education,                 Secondary            81.8%                  100%
                      preferably by 2005,        Higher Education     75.4%                  100%
                      and to all levels of
                      education no later    Illiteracy rate for

                      than 2015             females (age 15-24)
                                            incomparison with         69.5%                  100%
                                            male cohorts
Note: (*) 1999-2000data



6.       The next section briefly summarizes the current state of the education system, recent
achievements, and challenges with regards to the following four issues: (i)      equitable access to
education; (ii) o f education; (iii)
                 quality                    institutional capacity; and (iv) financial sustainability.

Equitable access to education

7.       Enrollment in Primary Education (Grades 1-6).The implementation of the first phase of
the reform has been an overall success; however, there are disparities inaccess to education
especially between gender and in geographical regions. As Figure 1-1indicates, Morocco has
made significant progress towards reaching near universal primary education. The net
enrollment rate for primary education has increased significantly from 52.4 percent (1990-1991)
percent to 92.0 percent (2003-2004) at the national level. The rapid increase in student
enrollment at the primary level i s largely due to improvement inaccess through construction of
schools. Although access to primary education has improved at the national level, disparities
continue between urban and rural areas. In2003-2004,96.2 percent of children were enrolled in
primary schools, compared with 87.8 percent in rural areas.




                                                        17

      Figure 1-1: Primary net enrollment rate, 1990-         Figure 1-2: Female net enrollment rate in primary
                          2003                                            education, 1990-2003


  100%
  90%
  80%
  70%




8.      Figure 1-2shows increased girls' primary enrollment inboth urban and rural areas.
Despite national enrollment increase, the proportion of girls inrural regions in school i s less than
the proportion in urban settings. Most children who are not enrolled inprimary schools are girls
living inrural areas.

9.      Enrollment in middle school (Grades 7-9). Although there has been an increase inboth
urban andrural areas, access to middle school education i s still relatively low. Inurban areas,
enrollment has increased to52.1 percent in 2003; rural areas, however, only register an
enrollment rate of 11.7 percent. Again, the situation i s worse for girls inrural areas, as less than
9.3 percento f female cohorts are enrolled in middle schools. The total number of students
reaching upper-basic school i s expected to increase from 1.1million to 1.6 million students by
2010, if there are significant increases in internal efficiency (drop out andrepetition rates) at the
primary (Grades 1-6) level.

Quality of education

10.     Although there has been a considerable increase inaccess to basic education, Morocco's
education system continues to experience highintemal inefficiency. The repetition rate i s 13.6
percent for primary, and 18.4 percent for middle school education. The completion rate i s 57.8
percent at the primary and43.7 percent at the middle school level. According to a study
conducted by COSEF in 1999, out of 100 students who joined the school system, 65 would
complete the first cycle of basic education, 36 would go on to secondary school, 13 would pass
the baccalaureate, and 5 would attend college. The reasons for dropout and repetition are
multiple. Many students drop out because of exogenous reasons, such as family and individual
problems. However, other reasons are directly linkedto instruction. These include: the
inadequacy o fthe curriculum, lack of teacher supervision and support, and little continuous
assessment of student achievement.

11.     Student learning i s low inMorocco. According to an international study conducted by
UNICEFandUNESCO, only 17.2 percent of the sample of 4,249 students from 12delegations



                                                      18

acquired the competency inreading and spelling, andmathematics needed inevery day life. As a
participant of the Trends inInternational Math and Science Study (TIMSS) for the first time in
1999, Morocco rankedbelow what would be expected consideringits level of economic
development. Figures A1.3 and A1.4 show that Morocco i s more than 100points below the
expected score.



                    Fig. A1.3: TIMSS 1999 Math                                              Fig. A1.4: TIMSS 1999Science

    700 1                                                                    600     Jordan

                 !
              Tunisia
    600 -                                                .                   500
 e  500 -  . ,. * + . . -      .,"     . . ..                                400
                                                                          v)                    \
 f                                                                           300                  Tunisia
    300 -                                                                 52
                            Jordan                                           200
                                                                                  j      Morocco

    100 4                                                                    I00

                                                                               0

        0       5         10           15        20        25      30             0        5        10       15       20        25      30

Source /EA TIMSS. 1998-1999           GNP per capita (PPP) 1998(US$OOO)                                   GNP per capita (PPP) 1998 (US%OOO)
                                                                          Source:IEA TIMSS, 1998-1999




12.      Morocco also participated inthe cross-national assessment of fourth-grade students in
reading skills, the 2001Progress inInternationalReading Literacy Study (PIRLS) (Figure A1.5).
The results of PIRLS showed low readingcomprehension for Moroccan fourth-graders (see
Figure A1.3 and A1.4). Findings also revealedthat only 23 percent o f fourth graders placed
above the minimuminternational benchmark (Lower Quarter Benchmark: 75th percentile) and
only one percent of them scored above the Upper Quarter Benchmark (25thpercentile).


              Figure A1.5: PIRLS 2001 Distribution of Reading

        600  1 Iran, Islamic
        550       Repof

        5004        \
     8x 450
     2  400
    28  350

        300
                             Morocco
        250          Belize
        200 I                                                                  I

     Note: International average age IS 10.3;20
             0       5        10         15                25     30    35    40
                                                   Morocco 11.2
     Source: PIRLS 2001



13.      Inaddressing these issues, the following advancements were made duringthe first phase
of the sector reform: (i) curricula were introduced inthe first year of primary education in
                                       new
2002-2003, as well as in second andthirdgrades duringthe 2003-2004 academic year; (ii)                                                 five
new school textbooks were publishedfor first graders for the 2002-2003 school year; and (iii)                                              65


                                                                        19

new school textbooks were prepared for four other grades for the 2003-2004 school year.
Amazigh is taught inmore than 300 primary schools starting infirst grade. Frenchi s now
introduced in second grade rather than inthird grade.

14.     Generally, however, more progress has been made on access objectives than on
pedagogical ones. With a choice between pedagogical support services or construction, Morocco
has tended to favor the latter. As a consequence, critical developments to ensure higher quality
have laggedbehind. These areas include: student achievement assessment systems, in-service
teacher training and support systems, andthe provision of quality-enhancing inputs to the
classroom and school in a continuous manner.

Institutionalcapacity

15.     The DENhas shown strong political will to decentralize responsibilities as a means to
efficiently and effectively support the development of the education system. As a part of the
education reform, which began in2000, large-scale decentralizationwas instituted at all
administrative levels of education. The number of administrative units at the central level (DEN)
was decreasedby more than half. In2001, The AREFs were created andnow carry out most of
the management functions previously the purview of the DEN.

16.     As a result of the creation of this new "level" of management, the education system is
currently going through a transitional stage. A successful reorganization of the sector will,
however, require more than an official transfer of responsibilities to new directors. Each level o f
the system will require a new mix of competencies, resources, and methods of operations.
Furthermore, the relations between levels will change significantly. Operationalizing the
reorganizationwill be a long-term endeavor requiring careful change management.

Financial sustainability

17.     The expected increase in demand and other complementary inputsrequiredto meet
Charter objectives may signify additional resource needs for the sector. However, education
expenditures are already high, with 6.6 percent of GDP allocatedto this sector. A simple
multiplication of current unit costs (not talung into consideration quality enhancing inputs)
would leadto an unsustainable budget requirement (see Annex 9 for a detailed analysis).
Essentially, the Charter objectives might not be attainable or sustainable without a reallocation of
govemment resources, cost saving measures, and new sources of revenue.

Government Education Reform Strategy

18.     GoM i s currently at a crossroads, as it faces new as well as persistingchallenges to
meeting education objectives. These include: (i)    addressing the inequalities between gender and
geographical locations especially inpost-primary education; (ii)   improving the quality of
education; (iii)strengthening institutional capacity buildingo f the educational system at all
levels (schools, provincial delegations, regional academies, andMinistry) inthe context of
decentralization, and most importantly; and (iv) achieving the above-mentioned objectives
within a sound and sustainable finance management.




                                                  20

19.     Although large-scale institutional reform has taken place, the DENhas been slow to
implement some of the more substantive reforms. For example, no strategic plan hadbeen
established to operationalize the Education Charter. The Ministry of Education has weak reform
capacity and resistance to change has been strong amongst the Ministry rank-and-file. This state
of affairs i s not unique to Morocco. Implementation of the sector reform began to improve since
the nomination of the new government inNovember 2002. New directors for the AREFs and the
central directorates of the DENwere nominated in 2003, marking the true beginning of the
process o f decentralization of the education sector.

20.     With technical assistancefrom Canadian InternationalDevelopment Agency (CIDA), the
Government o f Morocco (GoM) developed a Strategic Framework for the Development of the
Education Sector (Cadre Stratkgique de De'veloppementdu Systbme Educatm inFebruary 2004.
This document presents policy directions and strategies for the development of the education
sector for the second phase of the education reform from 2004 to 2009.

The Strategic Framework:

    0   Establishes interim quantitative, qualitative andinstitutional targets to meet the objectives
        o f the Education Charter;
    0   Explores critical steps inthe development of the education sector by defining short and
        long-term goals;
    0   Elaborates a mid-term action plan (2005-2009) as a tool to consolidate knowledge,
        address constraints, and to reinforce conditions to achieve the goals o f the education
        reform, in agreement with the recommendations of the Education Charter;
    0   Putsinplace mechanisms and methods for coordination, monitoring andevaluation of
        efforts and achievements to attain targets.

21.     The Strategic Framework i s organized according to sub sector (pre-primary, primary,
secondary, etc.) and only addressespre-university education. Below i s a summary of the key
strategies included inthe Strategic Framework as they relate to the basic education sub-sector.

IncreasingAccess to Basic Education

22.     The primary objective of the Strategic Framework i s to provide basic education with
higher quality to all children ages six to fifteen in a financially sustainable manner.

23.     Universal access to primary education i s projectedto be attained between by 2004-2008.
Total primary education sector enrollments are stabilizing as a result o f a decline inthe school-
age population. Due to these demographic changes, primary enrollment will decline from 3.8
million children in 2004 to 3.5 million by 2009.

24.     Duringthe same period, the number of students inmiddle school is expected to increase
from 1.1million to 1.6 million. This will require intensive preparation to increase access, better
knowledge and management o f pedagogical needs of students, and the mobilization of required
financial resources to middle school education.




                                                   21

25.      Additionally, the number of students inupper secondary school i s expected to increase
from 574,000 in 2004 to one million by 2009 and to 1.5 million by 2013. Therefore, it will be
necessary to eventually ensure the quantitative, qualitative, and structural extension of this sub-
sector of education.

26.      The G o M will focus on basic education during the next phase o f the education reform,
the period covered by the Strategic Framework. The Government also aims to meet demand for
primary education inremote rural areas. With a projectedrapidincrease inenrollment at the
middle school level, the Government will buildnew middle schools, prioritizing areas with the
greatest need.

27.      The need for additional places in basic education will principally be met through public
education. The DENwill keep the overall investment costs down by developing new
construction norms. It i s expected that the overall private school enrollment will increase from 9
percent to 14percent inprimary and middle school education by the end of the decade providing
some relief for public expenditure.

Improving the Quality of Education

28.      The Government aims to improve completion rates to 83.3 percent inprimary education
and71.4 percent at the middle school level by the end of the decade. Repetition rates are
expected to decrease from 13.6 percent (2003-2004) to 9.1percent (2008-2009) at primary
education, and decline from 18.4 percent to 12.1 percent at middle school level by the end of the
decade.

29.      The G o Mwill adopt the following policy actions duringthe next phase of the sector
reform to meet these objectives: (i)  reinforce pre-service and in-service teacher training; (ii)
adapt curriculum and school textbooks to the needs o f the students and their learning; (iii)
introduce polyvalent teachers inmiddle school; (iv) reinforce language instruction inthe
curriculum; (v) reinforce information technology in schools; and (vi) improve social and material
conditions for students in school settings, and (vii) ameliorate evaluation systems.

Reinforcing Institutional Capacity

30.      As a result of the large-scale decentralization effort described above, all administrative
levels are currently re-defining their roles, recruiting staff with new profiles, and adjusting to
changes. The GoM i s implementing the following three strategies: (i)     restructuring the central
structure (DEN); (ii)  transferring many responsibilities to regional administrative levels, and (iii)
strengthening human resource management. The first two efforts have already been realized.
Furthermore, the DENintends to engage in an ambitious institutional capacity buildingprogram
at all levels of the system.

Ensuring Fiscal Sustainability

31.      As part of the Strategic Framework, the DENproposes a financing plan that includes
measuresto meet sector objectives within existing budgetary constraints. The plan incorporates
three key policy measures for improving sector cost-effectiveness: (i)    reducing repetition



                                                  22

(through quality enhancement), (ii) increasingthe number of hours taught by middle school and
upper secondary teacher (through the use of polyvalent teachers) so that they teach the maximum
number of hours they are supposed to teach, (iii) allocating resources from primary to middle
school as a consequence o f the declining enrollments. Annex 9 provides a detailed analysis of
this financing plan andthe fiscal impact of these measures.




                                                23

        Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies
                    MOROCCO: BasicEducationReformSupportProgram

School Education

1.       World Bank. Social Priority Program (BAJ)Education (P005501). US$54 million
(approved), US$44.4million (actual disbursement). 1996-2003.

The specific objectives of the project were (i)  to contribute to the Government's efforts to boost
its educational system inboth qualitative and quantitative terms to make its performance
correspond more closely to that ineconomically comparable countries, and (ii)      to strengthen
human capital by making education and literacy available to populations that have been deprived
of them. The project would have an impact on both the supply of and demand for education, and
would affect institutions both upstream and downstream of the formal education system.

Rating for Project Impact inImplementation Completion Report (ICR): Satisfactory
Rating for Project Impact inthe OED FinalEvaluation Report: Satisfactory

2.       Rural Basic Education Development Project (P00.5460).US$ 145 million (approved),
US$ 55 million (actual disbursement). 1992-1998.

The two main objectives of the project were to (i)   promote greater equality o f educational
opportunity and increased school attendance by improving college enrollment figures among
disadvantaged populations such as rural children and girls; and (ii)  improve the educational
environment through in-service teacher training, general inspections, curriculum development,
and assessment of student achievement and proper use of students' materials.

Rating for Project Impact in Implementation Completion Report (ICR): Unsatisfactory
Rating for Project Impact inthe OEDFinal EvaluationReport: Unsatisfactory

3.       Rural Primary Education Project (P005480). US$ 83 million (approved), US$75 (actual
disbursement). 1989-1996.

The objectives of the project were: (i) to increase access to primary schooling inrural areas; (ii)
to increase rural primary education participation, particularly for girls; (iii) improve the quality
                                                                                to
of primary education; (iv) to strengthen planning, monitoring and evaluation capacity; and (v) to
strengthen the efficient and rational use o f resources inprimary education. These objectives were
consistent with the Government's general policy to develop basic education inrural areas and its
specific purposes: (a) to guarantee universal access to the first cycle o f basic education; (b) to
improve school participation, and the quality and effectiveness of the education system; and (c)
to ensure better allocation of the resources assigned to basic education. The project was one of
the first inthe generation of projects that integrateda mix of inputs to address demand for
education. These included educational materials, in-service teacher training, programs to train
school directors and introduction o f health topics inthe primary school curricula.

Rating for Project Impact inImplementation Completion Report (ICR): Unsatisfactory
Rating for Project Impact in the OED Final Evaluation Report: Unsatisfactory


                                                  24

4.      Education SectorReform Project (P00.5421).US$l50 million (approved and actual
disbursement). 1986-1989.

The loan supported the implementation of the first two-year phase of the Government's education
sector reformprogram, aimed at making the provision of education more equitable, more cost-
effective, and more consistent with the country's medium-term development needs. It also aimed
at developing and implementing a number of pedagogical measures to improve the quality of
education while extending the coverage of basic education and controlling the growth of
education expenditures.

Rating for Project Impact inImplementation Completion Report (ICR): Unsatisfactory
Rating for Project Impact inthe OED Final EvaluationReport: Unsatisfactory

Non-formal Education

5.      Alpha Maroc (P075808). Amount: US$4.1 (approved). 2003-2005. (currently being
implemented)

This project has two objectives: first, to improve the management system at the central, regional,
and NGO levels; and second, to improve the quality of literacy programs inMorocco. This
project is inits second year of implementation. The project is scheduled to close inDecember
2005.

Most recent Rating for ImplementationProgress inthe Project Supervision Report (PSR):
Satisfactory (March, 2004)
Most recent Rating for Development Objectives in the Project Supervision Report (PSR):
Satisfactory (March, 2004)

Vocational Training

6.      ThirdPrivate Sector DevelopmentProject (P038978). US$95.30 (approved), US$89.20
(actual disbursement). 1996-2002.

The main objective o f the project was to improve the competitiveness o f the Moroccan private
sector, by improving the skills of its workforce. Project preparation took place in a context of
overall upgrading of the Moroccan industry. The authorities were seeking to intensify trade
relations with the European Union (EU),while recognizing the increased competition which
would result from the upcoming trade agreement with the EU.The Moroccan private sector had
an urgent need to modernize, inparticular its labor force. This resulted from an inefficient
education system and insufficient in-service training. To help address this situation, the Bank
based its strategy on a twofold support: (i)to the education system, e.g., through the BAJproject;
and (ii)to the training system, inparticular in-service training, through the present project.

Rating for Project Impact inImplementationCompletion Report (ICR): Satisfactory
Rating for Project Impact inthe OED Final Evaluation Report: Moderately Satisfactory




                                                 25

7.      Second Vocational TrainingProject (P005426).US$22.3 million (approved), US$22.27
(actual disbursement). 1987-1994.

The specific objectives of the project are to consolidate andimprove the quality of Morocco's
vocational training systemandto implement cost reduction andcost recovery mechanisms.It
was designed to be complementary to the previous First Vocational Training Project (Loan 2479-
MOR) which focused on expanding the capacity of the public vocational training system. The
project would address its objectives by (i) improving instructor training; (ii)upgrading training
programs, particularly, the re-equipment and minor refurbishingof 33 existing training centers
and 15 technical centers; (iii)minor construction and equippingof 10regional coordination units
and 50 sub-regional units; (iv) equippingof 10traininghepair service units; (v) improving
planningand management of the system; (vi) providingfinancing for expert services,
fellowships and studies.

Ratingfor Project Impact inImplementation Completion Report (ICR): Satisfactory
Ratingfor Project Impact inthe OED FinalEvaluation Report: unrated

8.      Vocational Training Project (P005415). US$27.1 million (approved), US$23.06 (actual
disbursement). 1984-1992.

The specific object of the project is to expand vocational training capacity consistent with future
needs for the skilled labor force, improving coordination of vocational training, contributing to
the financial viability of the main public vocational training institution and helping to develop
appropriate future training activities. The project also aimed to help improve project selection
and preparation inthe public sector.

Ratingfor Project Impact inImplementation Completion Report (ICR): Unsatisfactory
Ratingfor Project Impact inthe OED FinalEvaluationReport: Unsatisfactory




                                                 26

                          Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
                   MOROCCO:BasicEducationReformSupportProgram

Proceduresfor monitoring

1.      The Directorate of Statistics, Strategy andPlanning (Direction de la Statistique et la
Programmation, DSSP) of the DENwill be responsible for: (i)       monitoring the implementation
of the Strategic Framework; (ii)  consolidating information providedby DENdirectorates and the
AREFs; and (iii)  reporting PARSEMprogress to the Bank. The DSSP will submit an Annual
Report (AP) and an Annual Work Plan (AWP) to the Bank every year. It i s also responsible for
transmitting to the Bank necessary documents prior to the semi-annual supervision missions held
inMarchand September. Specific reportingformats are described indetail inthe Program
Operations Manual (POM).

2.      The Annual Work Plan (AWP) i s the action plan for a given year of PARSEM. It
includes the following four documents: (i)Program ImplementationPlan (PIP), (ii) budget
                                             a                                           the
to finance the PIP, (iii)
                        the list of Monitoring indicators for the current year, and (iv) the annual
procurement plan.

3.      The Annual Report (AP) describes the progress made duringthe course of the past year,
as detailed inthe corresponding Annual Work Plan. The AP presents the results o f both
pedormance and Monitoring indicators. This document also includes financial monitoring
reports (FMRs), a progress report of implementation of safeguard policies (especially inrelations
to the Environmental and Social Safeguard Framework), an analysis of education sector
expenditures, and a summary of problems encountered and lessons learned during the
implementation o f the program during the year inquestion.

4.      Both these documents are submitted to the Bank for review duringthe Annual Review to
be held inMarch of every year. The Bank will determine subsequent disbursements as a result
of the Annual Review.

5.      The DSSP i s also responsible for providing necessary documents to the Bank prior to the
semi-annual reviews held each September, in order to facilitate supervision by the DEN-Bank
team. The September review provides an initial estimate of advancement towards the objectives
andMonitoring indicators of the Annual Work Plan. Prior to the September review, the DSSP
will also transmit a draft version of the subsequent year's Annual Work Plan. Finally, the DSSP
will submit the semi-annual FMR for the first six months of the calendar year (refer to Annex 7
for further information on FMRs).

6.      Inaddition, the DSSPwill submit an Annual Financial Audit Report to the Bank, which
will be conducted by an external auditor (see Annex 7 for more information).




                                                 27

Indicators

7.      PARSEMfocuses on results-based management. It will monitor implementationprogress
of the education reform program through two sets of indicators: Performance indicators and
Monitoringindicators. These indicators will be closely monitored duringsupervision missions.

8.      Perjfomzance indicators. Performance indicators are usedto follow the annual progress
of basic education development by tracking enrollment, repetition, retention, and complete rates.
These indicators will be desegregated by gender and region (urban and rural). Target values for
Performance indicators were identified on the basis of financial simulations conducted by the
DENandthe Education Charter objectives (see Annex 9:Economic andFinancialAnalyses).
Although Performance indicators are not directly linked to disbursements, they allow monitoring
of the overall progress of the sector to achieve the objectives of the Charter. A list of
Performance indicators andtheir end of project targets i s presented inTable 3-1.

9.      Monitoring indicators. Monitoring indicators are critical steps requiredto achieve the
overall targets o f PARSEM. They are linked to actions and activities that introduce new
practices or have significant long-term impact on the development o f the education system.
They also reflect key policy decisions, such as the increase inteacher instructionaltime andthe
use of new construction norms. These indicators will be established on the basis of the DEN'S
Annual Work Plans andcan be adjusted on the basis of progress made. Monitoringindicators
will serve as benchmarks for disbursements. The mechanismlinlungMonitoringindicators and
disbursements is described inAnnex 7. A list of Monitoringindicators elaborated for the five-
year PARSEM i s presented inTable 3-2; and a synthesized list o f Monitoringindicators for the
first year i s presented in Table 3-3.




                                                 28

     ..
     20
     .3
     U
     u




     0
     .3

     m
     3




     0'
     .e
     3




B
e

               I
         I    I




                    0
                   rl




E
c
0
.-m0
-m
E




        I

             -0   I
               c
               0




         YI    Y>     a
               (I)

         CT
         n     8n     2mn

I  .E

1




hl
7-

Table 3-2: First year Monitoringindicators, 2005




                    Study on accountingsystem                   List of appointed
           sc 3'3   elaborated and validated, and              personnelin budgetary
                    operations manualelaboratedand    DAGBP    and financial services at
                    validated                                  each AREF

           sc       Studv on constructionand                    Final reDorton the
              3.3   equipment of norms developedand I DAGBP    1resultsof the study
                    /validated                                 validatedand
                                                            /disseminated




                                                 33

                                 Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
                      MOROCCO: BasicEducationReformSupportProgram

1.       PARSEM will support the implementationof the Strategic Framework of the Department
of National Education (Dkpartement de 1'Education Nationale, DEN),which defines a five-year
operational plan towards the objectives of the National Education andTraining Charter. The
Bank and the Government have agreed that PARSEM will support those actions from the
Framework that have the most strategic value for achieving Charter objectives andwhere the
Bank has a comparative advantage. PARSEMessentially supports the activities from the
Strategic Framework that will increase equitable access to basic education, improve educational
quality, encourage stakeholder participation, ensure financial sustainability, and promote
accountability insector management.

2.       The actions to be supported by PARSEM are organizedinto three components described
below. Inaddition, PARSEM includes certain non-salary recurrent expenditures of the AREFs
that finance education quality improvements.

Component1: Generalizebasiceducation [estimatedcost: US$95.87 million1

3.       The DEN'SStrategic Framework presents an ambitious program to ensure that basic
education will be available to most school-age children by 2009.4 This component focuses on
three levels of education: (i)    pre-primary; (ii)    primary, and (iii) school. It improves access
                                                                             middle
via the construction of primary and middle schools inrural areas and also supports the
development of pre-primary, which i s expected to contribute to sustaining primary enrollment
rates andboostingretention rates. Finally, it promotes partnerships with education stakeholders
to co-finance and co-manage social services for students (e.g., boarding facilities, school
transportation). This basic education component i s comprised of four sub-components.

4.       Sub-component 1.l:Promotepre-primary education through partnership [estimated
cost: US$5.53 million]. The government emphasizes the importance of pre-primary education
as a step before formal schooling, andhas pledged inthe Education Charter that pre-primary
education will be accessible to all children ages four and five by 2007. This sub-component
supports initiatives taken by local entities, such as local governments, associations, NGOs, and
local communities to establish and runpre-schools. RegionalEducation and Training
Academies (Acade`miesrkgionales d'kducation et defomation, AREFs) will finance contracts
with local entities to undertake various initiatives to establish pre-schools. These include
constructionof classrooms and schools, renovation of premises within public primary schools
that are not currently utilized, improvement of pre-schools that do not meet construction norms,
purchases of equipment andpedagogicalmaterial, andtraining for pre-school instructors.

5.       Sub-Component 1.2: Achievefull primary education enrollment (grades 1-6)[estimated
cost: US$15.85 million]. Significant progress has been made inimproving access to education
over the past decade. Morocco witnessed a rapid increase innet enrollment rate for primary
education from 52.4 percent in 1990-91 to 92.0 percent in 2003-04. This was largely due to


 Formal education consists of three levels of instruction: basic, secondary and higher. Basic education includes two
sections: primary (grades 1-6)and middle (grades 7-9).


                                                          34

construction of classrooms. To improve current conditions, DENwill buildnew classrooms and
renovate existingones. Interventions include building of latrines, school fences, teacher housing,
school playgrounds, and athletic fields. It will focus particular attention to regions that have the
lowest enrollment rates, particularly for girls.

       Activity 1.2.1: Construction and equipment of new classrooms in primary education.
       Underthis sub-component, approximately 350 classroomswill bebuilt andequipped.
       These classrooms will be built indouars (zones) where there are more than 30 school-age
       children who live more than two kilometers away from the nearest school.

       Activity 1.2.2: Renovation of existing primary schools. This activity will help improve
       the conditions of the neediestprimary schools inrural areas to help achieveminimal
       conditions for learningand teaching (see Subcomponent 2.3 for development of selection
       criteria). It includes the renovation of classrooms for 200 primary schools andthe
       construction of adjunct structures (e.g., latrines, teacher housing, fences, recreation areas,
       administrative offices).

6.     Sub-component 1.3: Increase equitable access to middle school (grades 7-9)[estimated
cost: US$69.67million]. The rapidexpansion of access to primary education has brought
increasing demands for middle school education. Between 2004 and 2008, the numberof
students reaching middle school education will increasefrom 1.1million to 1.6 million. This
sub-componentwill support arise in student enrollment at this level.

       Activity 1.3.1: Construction and equipment of new middle schools in rural andperi-
       urban areas. Taking into account the interventions of other donor agencies inthe
       construction and equipment of new middle schools, an additional 70 middle schools will
       be built under PARSEM. School constructions underPARSEMwill start in2006, the
       secondyear of PARSEM,using the new construction norms that will be established
       during2005. These schools will be builtinregions that demonstratethe greatest need.

       Activity 1.3.2: Renovation of middle schools. This activity will help renovate 60 schools
       that are incritical physical conditions.

       Activity 1.3.3: Construction and equipment of satellite middle schools. Approximately 60
       satellite middle schools will be built as extensionsto existing primary schools and will be
       located inregions where standard middle schools are situated too far for students to
       commute. Satellite schools encourage continuation of education after the primary level.

7.     Sub-Component1.4: Mobilize partnerships towards the expansion of basic education
[estimated cost: US$4.80 million]. This sub-component introduces an important innovation. It
promotes partnershipswith local education stakeholdersto create social services for students
who attendpublic primary and middle schools through partnership agreements, with a goal to
improve access (enrollment and attendance). Construction of boarding facilities for middle
schools will be financed through partnershipgrants under this sub-component.

    e  Activity 1.4.1: Identification and development of new strategiesfor providing support
       servicesfor middle school students in rural areas. Currently, the principal response



                                                 35

        adoptedby DENto addressthe needs of those who live far from school i s to build
       boarding facilities. However, previous experiences have shown that buildingboarding
       facilities can be costly and hardto manage. A study to identifycost-effective and
       innovativeoptions will be conducted to introduce various options that are adaptable to
       different situations andregions.

       Activity 1.4.2: Partnership development. The objective of this activity i s to mobilize
       localentities, such as local governments, associations NGOs and local communities to
       provide services and support to schoolsthrough agreements with the AREFs. The
       agreementsinthe form of grants will finance proposals presentedby local entities to
       implement the more cost-effective strategies defined inActivity 1.4.1 to improve
       enrollment andretention rates (e.g., studenthousing, transportation systems, and
       dormitories).

Component 2: Improve the quality of education [estimated cost: US$42.53 million]

8.     Component 2 supports the development and institutionalization of various approaches to
improve the overall quality of education. The primary objective of this component i s to increase
student learningand achievement and to help reduce highdropout and repetition rates. This
component supportsthe following approaches inimproving the quality of education: (i)
assessment systems; (ii) and inspection of teachers; (iii) of education at the
                         training                               quality
school level; and (iv) researchon quality of education.

9.     Sub-component 2.1: Improve assessment systems [estimated cost: US$1.19million].
Improvingthe quality of education requires a coherent evaluation system that allows for all
education stakeholders and decision makers to obtain complete, timely, andreliable information
and data on student learning. A thorough diagnostic of student learning will help identify the
reasonswhy studentsunder-achieve and the results of that study will eventually contribute to
measuresand policies to improvethe quality of education. This sub-component will support the
development of various education assessment mechanisms to helpbetter evaluate student
achievement and learning, curriculum, andteaching practice andperformance.

       Activity 2.1.1: Implementation of system-level periodic assessment of student
       achievement. This activity builds uponMorocco's participation ininternational cross-
       national examination of student achievement, such as TIMSS and PIRLS, as well as the
       macro-level study, Programme National de Diagnostic et d'Appui aux Apprentissages,
       program initiatedby DENsince 1999 and supported by UNICEF ineight provincial
       delegations. This activity will support the development of a Moroccan sample-based
       studentassessment systemthat will provide periodic andcomparative evaluations of
       student achievement. It will also encouragethe DENto publishthe results of the
       assessment by creating a monitoringindicatorlinked to this activity.

       Activity 2.1.2: Improvement and standardization of examination systems. An
       examination coordination unit will be createdineach AREF. Furthermore, examinations
       will be standardizedfor the last year of middle school education. A test item data bank
       will be created and made available to AREFs for this purpose.




                                                36

10.    Sub-Component2.2: Improve support servicesfor teachers [estimated cost: US$24.09
million]: This sub-component will assistthe DENcreate a system of continuous training and
support of all pedagogical actors. Through this new system, the DENwill meet various
professional needs, includingthe following: (i)   introduction to new curricula; (ii) of
                                                                                    training
polyvalent teachers for middle school; (iii) training informative evaluation and assessment of
student learning at the class-room level; and (iv) training innew informationtechnologies and
communication (ITC). The emphasis of this sub-componentis on in-service training, which i s
currently poorly developed and providedin an adhoc fashion.

    0  Activity 2.2.1: Elaboration and implementation of a new strategy of in-service training.
       This activity will support the introduction of innovative andcost-effective practices for
       primary and middle schoolsteachers. It will first conduct an assessment of the current in-
       service training system, followed by the development of anew strategy for in-service
       teacher training, and finally the actual training of teachers basedon the new strategy.
       The new in-service trainingsystemis expectedto include both an approachbasedon on-
       site visits and clustering of schools, and distance training usingnew information
       technologies.

    0  Activity 2.2.2: Reinforcement of the inspectorate andpedagogical administration.
       Linked to Activity 2.2.1, this activity will train inspectors and administrative personnel so
       that they can monitor, inspect, and provide support services to teachers inclassrooms.
       This activity will train inspectors, purchasenecessaryequipment, andensureregular
       visits to primary and middle schools. This sub-component also includes training of 4,000
       school directors.

11.    Sub-component 2.3: Promote the quality of education at the school level [estimated cost:
US$16.57million]: This sub-component's objective is to improve the conditions of teaching and
learning by channeling resources to the school level. Through the use of school quality standards
and school level projects, this sub-component respondsto local conditions and priorities to raise
education quality.

       Activity 2.3.1: Establishment of an operational definition of education quality. On the
       basis of a participatory process, quality standards for schools (environment, pedagogical
       materials, etc.) will be established basedon the quality standards developed by
       UNICEF's "Grille Ecole de Qualitk." These standards will then provide the basis for
       classifying schools for subsequentinterventions. .

       Activity 2.3.2: School-basedprojects. Schools committees will develop proposalsto
       improve learningthat will be funded through grants provide by the AREFs. Proposals
       will be developedthrough the application of school standards developed inActivity 2.3.1
       and an analysis of local conditions. Approximately 220 school-basedprojects will be
       financed at primary schools, and 110 school-basedprojects in middleschools.

       Activity 2.3.3: Provision of pedagogical material for the neediest schools. Usingthe
       classification of schools developed under Activity 2.3.1, the neediest schools inthe
       poorest areas will receive didactic material, textbooks, documentation for school libraries,
       and school kits to raise teaching conditions. This activity will provide pedagogical


                                                  37

        material to these neediest schools based on requests elaborated by school stakeholders,
        most notably school directors andparents associations.

12.     Sub-component 2.4: Promote research to improve the quality of education [estimated
cost: US$0.67million]. The objective of this sub-component i s to conduct studies that can assist
inthe development of new approachesto improve educationquality. A suggested list of studies
cover topics such as: (i) the development of new textbook policies; (ii) generalization of the
                                                                           the
new curriculum; (iii)  the identification of options to address school absenteeism and dropout; (iv)
the efficiency and impact of student orientation; (v) the integration of students with special
needs; (vi) and the promotion of socio-educative activities. Actual study subjects will be decided
each year, as part of the PARSEMreview process. The findings of these studies could feed into
future activities to improve educational quality.

Component 3: Buildinstitutional capacity [estimated cost: US$12.16 million]

13.     This component addressesthe institutional capacity needsassociatedwith the sector's
decentralization process at the central, regional, provincial, and local levels. It reinforces
administrative structures duringthe transitional stage o f the decentralization process.
Component 3 i s comprised of five sub-components:

14.     Sub-component 3.1: Support implementation of public administration reform in the
education sector [estimated cost: US$0.58 million]. The objective of this sub-component i s to
support the implementation of the government's public administration reform at the sector level.
This reform aims to improve the performance andcost-effectiveness of public services. Inthe
education sector, the reformwill help institute a new personnel structure based on an analysis of
key functions and competencies.

    e   Activity 3.1.1: Develop a new organizational structure and stafSingprofiles. An analysis
        of the current organizational structure and functions of different units at the central,
        regional, and provincial levels in terms of its efficiency, human and technical resource
        needs, and governance mechanisms will be undertaken. Furthermore, needs assessment
        will be undertaken to ensure an effective application of a new organization chart.

    e   Activity 3.1.2: Redeploymentof human resource. This activity aims to effectively
        decentralize human resources by developing a redeployment strategy in line with the new
        organizational structure and staffing profiles.

15.     Sub-component 3.2: Reinforce human resource management [estimated cost: US$ 1.24
million]. This sub-component will develop the human resource management capacity at all
administrative levels.

    e   Activity 3.2.1: The sub-componentwill support the implementation of an integrated
        human resource management information system adapted to the needs at various
        administrative levels.




                                                  38

    e  Activity 3.2.2: Improvement of theprocessing of human resource management actions.
       The objective of this activity i s to simplify, accelerate, and rationalize many routine
       human resource decisions andprocedures.

16.    Sub-component 3.3: Reinforce finance and administrative management capacity
[estimated cost: US$8.98million]: The objective of this sub-componenti s to put inplace
systems and tools to improve managementof non-salary resources. Through this sub-component,
result-basedbudgeting(1'approche contrat-programme) andprogram budgeting (budget-
programme) will be introduced. These are also key aspects of the public administration reform.
Several different facets of resourcemanagement will be addressedby this sub-component.

    e  Activity 3.3.1: Improvement of budget andfinancial management. Training and support
       will beprovidedto individuals responsible for budgetingand financial managementin
       every AREF. The establishment of a computerized accounting systemineachAREF will
       also be supported.

    e  Activity 3.3.2: Introduction of new construction norms. New construction norms will be
       developed with an aim of better ensuring the safety and health of students, reduce costs,
        and improve the pedagogical environment.

       Activity 3.3.3: Implementation of asset management at the central (DEN) and regional
       (AREF) levels. This activity will helpelaborate and distribute guidebooks on asset
       management.

    e  Activity 3.3.4: Capacity improvement in administrative management. An improved
       informationsystem for financial managementwill be implemented at the central and
       regional levels. Necessary equipment and,software will be purchasedand an operational
       manual will be developed for each AREF.

       Activity 3.3.5: Results-based budgeting. This activity will support the establishment of
       results-basedbudgetinginthe AREFs. The AREFs will be providedtechnical support for
       developing their annual work plans.

       Activity 3.3.6: Reinforcement of AREF's procurement capacity. Staff at the central and
       regional levels will be trained on the creation and use of bidding documents for
       procurement through seminars, training sessions, and workshops.

       Activity 3.3.7: Reinforcement of AREFs and Central Administration (DEN) with technical
       equipment. The capacity of the administrative functions both at the central and regional
       levels will be strengthenedby purchase and installation of new computers, printers,
       software, as well as other necessaryequipment such as automobiles.

17.    Sub-component 3.4: Improve communication andpartnership with education
stakeholders [estimated cost: US$0.30 million]. The objective of this sub-component i s to put
inplace acommunication strategy to informthe central ministry,AREF, delegations, and
schools of this large-scaleeducation reform.




                                                 39

       Activity 3.4.1: Elaboration and implementation of a communication strategy. This
        activity aims to address the importance of reform at the central andregional levels. All
        actors and stakeholders involvedinthe development of the education sector needto be
       better informed.

       Activity 3.4.2: Elaboration and implementation of a partnership strategy. The aim of this
        activity i s to inform the larger population of the importance of partnership inachieving
       the objectives of the National Charter and improving education in general inMorocco.

18.    Sub-component 3.5: Reinforce change management in the education sector [estimated
cost: US$1.07 million]. The objective of this sub-component is to develop an information
system and mechanism for monitoring and evaluation at all administrative levels so that there
will be an efficient system for results-based monitoring of the education reform. This sub-
component will help monitor the progress of the education reform supported by PARSEM. This
sub-component consists o f the following principal activities:

       Activity 3.5.1: Elaboration of tools and mechanismfor strategic planning or educational
        development. This activity will finance the development of approaches, tools, and
       methods necessary to conduct financial simulations as well as quantitative and qualitative
       projections of the education sector. It will also help develop techniques necessary to
        conduct a needs analysis based on school mapping at pre-primary, primary, middle, and
        secondary education. These techniques will be available to the central and regional levels.

       Activity 3.5.2: Development of capacity to strategically manage the reform process. This
        activity will reinforce the information system by developing monitoring tools and by
        purchase of equipment necessary to manage and monitor the progress o f the education
        refom.




                                                  40

                                          Annex 5: ProgramCosts
                      MOROCCO:BasicEducationReformSupportProgram

The cost of the reformprogrami s basedon needs identifiedbythe Department of National
Education (DEN)to achievethe goals of the Strategic Framework. PARSEMi s a sub-set of
activities from the education Strategic Framework. The following table provides an indicative
cost of PARSEM for the five years (2005-2009) basedon activities provisioned undereach
component of PARSEM. The Bank will co-finance PARSEM. A first loan will be for 80 million
U S Dollars, covering approximately 53 percent of the overall cost of the first three years of the
program. It i s expectedthat a secondloan will be preparedfor years four and five of the
program, equal to 80 million US Dollars.


                                   Table5-1: IndicativeProgramCost
     ProgramCost By Componentand Sub-component               2005-2007 (3 years) 2005-2009 (5 years)
     1:Generalize basiceducation
       1.1:Promote pre-primary educationthrough                             5.53               10.68
     partnership
       1.2: Achieve full primary educationenrollment                       15.85              26.11
       1.3: Increaseequitable access to middle school                      69.67              144.16
       1.4: Mobilize partnershipstowards the expansionof                    4.80               8.62
     basic education
     Totalfor Component I                                                  95.87             189.57

     2 :Improve the quality of education
       2.1: Improveevaluation systems                                       1.19                1.22
       2.2: Improve support services for teachers                          24.09              41.68
       2.3: Promote the quality of educationat the school                  16.57              24.26
     level
       2.4: Promoteresearch to improve the quality of                       0.67               0.76
     education
     Totalfor Component 2                                                  42.53              67.91

     3 :Buildinstitutional capacity
       3.1 : Support implementation of public administration                0.58               0.67
     reform inthe educationsector
       3.2: Reinforce humanresourcemanagement                               1.24                1.90
       3.3: Reinforce finance and administrative management                 8.98               13.72
     capacity
       3.4: Improve communication and partnership with                      0.30               0.63
     education stakeholders
       3.5: Reinforce change management inthe education                     1.07                1.07
     sector
     Totalfor Component 3                                                  12.16              17.98

     Total Program Costs'                                                 150.55             275.47
                                Note: lMAD= US $0.1205 (22 December 2004)




                                                       41

                             Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                   MOROCCO: BasicEducationReformSupportProgram

1.      The institutional setting. The Ministryof National Education, Higher Education, Civil
Service Training, and Scientific Research (Ministdre de 1'Education nationale, de
I'Enseignementsupkrieur, de la Formation des cadres et de la Recherche scientifique) is
responsible for all formal education from preschool through university, as well as literacy and
non-formal education initiatives. It consists of two Departments, which hadconstitutedtwo
separate ministries untilJuly 2004: The Department of National Education (Dkpartement de
Z'EducationNationale -DEN)and the Department of Higher Education, Civil Service Training,
and Scientific Research (Dkpartement de 1'Enseignementsupkrieur, de la Formation des cadres
et de la Recherche scientifique). Subsequently, there are Regional Academies of Education and
Training(AcadkmiesRkgionales d'Education et de Formation -AREF) that are responsible for
educational activities (pre-primary through secondary, non-formal and literacy) intheir
respectivejurisdiction. The AREFs are autonomous public entities, created by Law no. 07-00,
Dahir no. 1-00-203o f May 19, 2000. They have their own administrative council, receive
budgets from the Ministry of Finance andPrivatization (MFP),and can collect revenues. Each
AREFhas several provincial delegations, which constitute their sub-regional extensions.

2.      The DENi s responsible for setting policy, articulating strategies, issuing norms and
guidelines, allocating investment and operating budgets at a national level, and exercising
oversight. It consists of nine directorates. The AREF, along with their provincial delegations,
elaborate regional development plans within the broad outlines developed by the DEN, develop
procurement plans for works, goods and services, manage non-salary budgets (investment and
recurrent) within their jurisdiction, deploy staff, and supervise and inspect teachers and schools.




                                                  42

Figure 6-1: Organizational Chart of Pre-university FormalEducation Sector


                                                    I                                                                                                    I
                  D C p ~ e m e nde l'Education National (DEN)
                                 t
                                                    I
I  I                                                                                                                                             I




                                                                                                                                            Adm Level2:




                                                                                                                                            Adm L G V 3:
                                                                                                                                                      ~
                                                                                                                                            Provincial




                                                                                                                                             School

              KEY TO ACRONYM
              AREF                A c d m i e s rdgionales dVducationet de formation
              CNIPE               Le Centre National des innovations pidagogques et de l'expilimentation
              D                   DCYgations ( p m i a lunits)
              DAGBP               LaDirectiondes affains @nlmles,dubudget et dupatimoim
              D A J C             LaDirectiondes affaves jurdques et ducontentieux
              D C                 LaDirectiondes cunicula
              DCPEP               LaDirectionde lacoopirationet de lapmmtionde l'emeignement           s c o b ptid
              DEOVSFC             LaDirectionde l'hluatios de l`organisatmn de lavie scolaire et des formatiom communes entre les academies
              DivComm             LaDivisionde lacommunication
              DPSS                LaDirection de lapmmotionduspolt scolaire
              DSPP                LaDirectionde lastrat@e,desstatLtiques et delaplanif~ation
              DRHFC               LaDirection des ressoullles h u n k set de l afomrationdes cadres
              DSI                 LaDirection de lastratlgie, desstatistiques, et de lap W K a t i o n
              E                   Etabljssernents (schooL)




                                                                            43

3.     The DENi s ultimately accountable for meeting the objectives set out inthe Strategic
Framework, providingoversight, monitoring and evaluation, andtechnical support to the AREF.
Operational directorates inthe DENare responsible for their respective areas of expertise in
program implementation. The Department for Strategy, Statistics and Planning (DSSP) inthe
DENserves as an overall coordinator for the Strategic Framework. The AREFs along with the
provincial delegations are responsible for implementing andmonitoring most of the activities
within the Strategic Framework, such as construction, equipment, and partnership agreements.
The DEN, through relevant directorates, i s responsible for implementing most o f the institutional
capacity building activities of the Strategic Plan. The following table summarizes the
implementation responsibilitiesfor all the subcomponents of PARSEM.




                                                                          DRHFC, DC, AREF,




                                                 44

._.
  ..
Activity 3.4.2: Elaboration of a strategy for partnership                          ~DCPEP
Sub-component 3.5: Reinforce change management in the education sector
Activity 3.5.1: Elaboration of tools and mechanism to provision the prospective of IDSSP, AREF
educational development
Activity 3.5.2: Development of capacity to strategically managethe reform process. IDSSP, AREF



4.       Inaddition, the non-salary recurrent expenditures co-financedby this loan are includedin
the AREF budgets.

5.       Since the AREFs are newly formed, their capacity for the implementation o f many
program areas i s still in formation. Activities included under PARSEM will help improve
capacity inmany relevant areas such as: (i)           program planning andbudgeting, through the
introduction of results-based budgeting; (ii)         program implementation, through reinforced
procurement andfinancial management capacity, and (iii)               monitoring andchange management,
through strengthening information systems andthe development tools necessary to strategically
monitor and plan the education reform.

6.       The DENwill develop Annual Work Plans (AWP) for the implementation of Strategic
Framework activities, which will include action plans and Monitoringindicators usedto track
program implementation. The DENwill apprise the AREFs' Annual Work Plans from the point
of view of regional implementation capacity and readiness, technical norms and standards,
monitoring targets, and Strategic Framework objectives. It will subsequently approve the plans
for financing. As part o f the budget preparationprocess, the DENwill then submit a
consolidated annual budget proposal to the Ministry of Finance and Privatization (MET)for
approval, which will consist o f estimated capital expenditures and incremental recurrent
expenditures for implementing the Strategic Framework for the following year, as well as
expenditures for the operation and maintenance of the existing system.




                                                         45

7.     The procedures for developing the AWP are described indetail inthe Program
Operations Manual (POM). The POMdetails guidelines andrules for all implementation
agencies to successfully complete their Annual Work Plans, describing the procurement and
financial management procedures (see Annexes 7 and 8 for a fuller description of procurement
and financial management arrangements). The P O Mwill be circulated to the AREFs for
reference before effectiveness.




                                              46

              Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
                   MOROCCO:BasicEducationReformSupportProgram


1.       Duringproject preparation, the Bank mission assessedthe financial management system
at the central (Ministry of Education), regional (in a sample of 6 AREFs) and governorate (6
provincial delegations) levels, to determine the needed arrangements: (a) to ensure that the funds
will be used for the intendedpurposes and (b) to contribute to buildingsustainable financial
management capacity at the DEN. The mission also discussed financial management
arrangements with the Ministry of Finance andPrivatization (MFP),a key partner inthis
operation, to agree on aspects of the budget reform relatedto the program, such as reporting
requirements, disbursement mechanisms, and other support needed for the successful
implementation of this operation.

2.       As a Sector-Wide Approach (SWAP), the financial management arrangements inthis
operation aim to simplify procedures andreduce the transaction costs imposed by parallel
systems requiredintraditional investment operations. Over time, this procedures helps set the
framework for more efficient implementation of the government's own education programs and
improve institutional capacity. Therefore, it seeks to align Government own procedures with
Bank guidelines, improve on these where there are deficiencies and capitalize on all the reform
initiatives going on inthe country. A startingpoint for the assessmentwas therefore, a
compilation of all the existing reforms and activities aiming at improving public financial
management performance.

3.       The assessmentfocused on the following dimensions: (i)    financial management systems,
including the budgetary process, flow o f funds, accounting system, internal and external controls,
financial reporting, and financial management capacity interms of adequacy of staff
qualification and physical infrastructure (office, equipment); (ii)the required financial
management capacity needed to implement the government's ongoing reform agenda (i.e. the
performance basedbudgeting framework and the various other initiatives aimed at improving the
public financial management performance); and finally the (iii)   the action plan developed to
improve the capacity of the DENand AREFs over the short and medium term. These actions are
part of the capacity strengthening activities under Component Three of PARSEM.

Summary of findings and risks analysis:

4.      A reliable system to accountfor public expenditures with lowfiduciary risk. The
overall Moroccan public administration operates in a structured andreliable control environment,
with uniformpublic accounting rules and procedures. It presents low fiduciary risk. The latest
core diagnostics undertaken by the Bank (CFAA (FY03) and CPAR') show that the fiduciary
framework o f the G o M i s basically sound and provides a strong control environment, even
though efficiency and effectiveness can be enhanced. The major recommendations in the
Country Financial Accountability are inline with the government's own reformprogram.




 Country ProcurementAssessment Review, FY 02.


                                                 47

5.      Newly created entitiesrequiring importantinstitutionalsupportpose a substantial
fiduciary risk. The central administration of the DENrepresents a low financial management
risk. However, with the decentralization of the DEN,aprocess that began in2000,the regional
academies (AREFs)are now responsible for many fiduciary tasks. The AREFs are autonomous
public entities (e'tablissementspublic a caractBre administratif et social -EPA),established by
Law no. 07-00, have only become operational since mid2003. As a consequence, these
institutions face certain financial management challenges, as they take on their new roles. First,
they have weak staff capacity, both interms of numbers andcompetencies. Second, they didnot
adopt, as their statutes require, accrual accounting or managerialaccounting. Third, they have
not hadtheir accounts audited so far, as prescribed by Law no. 07-00. Finally, the FM
relationship between AREFs and the provincial delegations (which usedto be extension services
of the DENbut are now accountable to the AREFs) have not yet been clarified. This may result
inapartialre-centralizationof controls andexcessive delays inthe budget allocation and
commitment, thus increasingthe level o f risk at the AREF level. The risk, though considered
moderate at the decentralized level, remains under strict central control untilcapacity i s inplace.

6.      To mitigate and manage the identified risks: (i)given the existing acceptable financial
management capacity at the central level within the Finance and Administration Division, the
latter will have full responsibility of ensuring proper budgeting, accounting, reporting and
internal control at the AREFs while capacity strengthening activities are being implemented; (ii)
the GoM i s particularly expected to establish and allocate appropriate finance staff with the
required budgeting and financial management slulls within AREF and controllers at the
provincial delegations within thefirst year of project effectiveness; and (iii) Bank will
                                                                                 the
ensure close supervision o f the implementation and provide support to the AREFs inthis regard.

7.      A lengthy budgetpreparationprocessfrom the centraladministrationto theAREFs,
delaying workprogram executionat the decentralizedlevel. The flow of funds to the AREFs is
slow and complex. In general, the AREFs only receive the transferred funds at the end of the
first semester of the budgetary year. The AREF budgets are established by their Boardof
Directors and are approvedby the DENandthe MFP. The government budgetary allocations for
the AREFs within the budget of the DENare transferred to the AREFs through a lengthy
process. A subsidy order is signed by the DEN, approvedby the budget direction of the MFP
and the budget execution controller (CGED) before the treasurer gives the order to transfer funds
to the accounts of the AREF, which are open inthe provincial treasury (tre'sorerieprovinciale).

8.      Necessity to establish a managementinformation system at the central level and at the
AREFs. Inview of the DEN'Srole in guidingthe sector reform program, it is necessary to
strengthen its capacity inreporting through training of its staff and the establishment of an
information system.

9.      Given the absence of regular audit andreporting at the center and decentralized levels,
provisional arrangements are being considered and agreed with the G o M untilfurther capacity
strengthening inthis area. Annual audit reports prepared according to the TORSacceptable to
the Bank are to be submitted no later than six months following the end of each fiscal year being
audited.




                                                  48

10.     Government's approachto improvingfinancial managementcapacity in the education
sector. The government will work to improve sector financial management through two main
avenues. First, various reform initiatives aimed at improving the financial management of the
public sector in general and the DENinparticular are currently being designed or are underway.
For example, with the assistance of the Canadians (CJDA), the DENhas developed a manual on
organization and accounting procedures that i s still at the pilot stage. Ministry o f Education i s
also working with the Institut Supe`rieurde Commerceet d'Administrationdes Entreprises
(ISCAE) on an administrative procedure manual. They are also developing a management
information system for six EPA (on pilot basis), including the AREF of Rabat. The project will
capitalize on these and other capacity buildingactivities going on inthe country and will
complement them under this operation.

11.     Furthermore, as part of the Strategic Framework o f the DEN,the sector i s implementing a
comprehensive action plan that aims at reinforcing financial management throughout the sector.
This action planis incorporatedinthe ThirdComponent of PARSEM and a number of
Monitoringindicators have been identified to track implementation.

Flow of funds andperiodic reporting

12.     Bank funds will be transferred to a deposit account at the General Treasurer of the
Kingdom (Tresorerie Generale du Royaume), annually based on the agreed cash flow requiredto
undertake the annual activities. The first annual amount was agreed at negotiations and
subsequent annual disbursements will be determined after annual reviews. The MF'P then
transfers funds to DENand AREFs respectively within its current budget execution framework
andrules.

13.     The government budgetary allocations for the AREFs are directly transferred to them by
the Treasury. A subsidy order i s signed by the DEN, approvedby the budget direction of the
MFP andthe budget execution controller (CGED) before the treasurer gives the order to transfer
funds to the accounts of the AREF, which are open inthe provincial treasury (tre`sorerie
provinciale).

14.     Finally, semi-annual financial monitoring reports will be submitted to the World Bank
duringthe implementationof the program. The report will show disbursements bythe MFP and
the transfer of funds to the AREFs, commitments and payments by the AREFs for budget lines
identified to finance PARSEMactivities. These reports will be used as part of the ex-post
review process that will determine subsequent disbursements of the PARSEM loan.

Assessment of sectorfinancial management capacity

A) Financial management at the central level: DEN

15.     Accounting system. The accounting system i s based on the rules of public accounting
applicable to government financial and accounting operations, defined by Royal Decree 330-66
o f April 21, 1967. The budget execution personnel (ordonnateurshous-ordonnateurs) and the
public accountant keep separate accounts, referred to as administrative accounting and
treasury accounting.



                                                49

16.     Administrative accounting, as maintained by the ordonnateurs andsous-ordonnateurs, i s
based on commitments. It records the execution of budget authorizations listed inthe
government's general budget and ineach of the categories of special accounts. It covers
commitments, certification of services rendered and issuance of orders to pay to the public
accountant. Treasury accounting i s the accounting of orders to pay received from the
ordonnateur and of payments made. This i s maintainedby the General Treasurer of the
Kmgdom (Trksorerie gknkrale du Royaume), who centralizes the operations performed by other
public accountants. This accounting system records by chapter and, if appropriate, by article and
by paragraph, appropriations and the payment of expenditures from the general budget and the
special accounts.

17.     The administrativeaccountingand the treasury accountingare reconciled on a
monthly basis and on an annual basis inorder to compare payments authorizations handledby
the public accountant.

18.     Znternal control. The internal control system of public expenditure guarantees the
separation of functions through a number o f levels of a priori control, involvingthree
independent actors: (i)the ordonnateur or sous-ordonnateur for the administrative phases of
expenditure commitment, certification o f services rendered and issuance of orders to pay; (ii)  the
Budget Execution Controller (contr6leur d'engagement des dkpenses) for ex-ante control of
expenditures at the commitment stage; and (iii)   the public accountant for ex-ante control of
expenditures at the payment stage and actual payment. This system involves three different sets
of actors: the ordonnateur /sous-ordonnateurs, the Budget Execution Controller, and the
General Treasurer inRabat.

19.     Another level of control i s the "a posteriori" internal control performed by the central
audit unit of the DEN.

20.     External control. Externalcontrol of public expenditures may be performedperiodically
by the Cour des comptes,the highest oversight level. This represents the independent audit of all
public expenditures and can be performed independently at any time and scope. Control of
accounts of the Comptablespublics called "judgment of the public accounts" is ajudicial process
and i s done annually by the Cour.

21.     Znformation system andfinancial reporting. The current information system i s based on
the public accounting system. This system i s not computerized. An "Evaluation and Reporting"
unithasbeen createdinthe DEN'Snew organizationchart to monitor the execution of work
program contracts between the MFP, the DENand the AREFs. This unit i s not yet operational
and needs strengthening interms of personnel and physical infrastructure.

B)Financial management at the decentralized level: regionalacademies andtheir provincial
delegations

22.     The regional academies (AREFs). The AREFs are autonomous public entities, created
by Law no. 07-00, Dahir no. 1-00-203o f May 19,2000. They are subject to government
oversight, exercised by the DEN, and to financial government regulations through MFP.




                                                  50

23.     The AREFs are supervised by a Board of Directors, presidedby the Minister of National
Education. The Board reviews budget execution and approves work programs andbudgets
before submitting them to MFP. Each AREF i s headedby a director, appointedby dahir. The
directors were appointed inJuly 2003. At the time of this assessment, the AREFs were not fully
staffed. A number of posts to headthe divisions were filled at the endof 2003, but some
remainedvacant.

24.     All AREFs organizational charts were approved by the MFP. The financial management
and accounting function i s assumed by a Budget Service unit, which i s part o f the Human
Resources, Budget, and Equipment Division.

25.     Work i s on-going to establish standardized operational procedures. With the assistance
from a consulting firm (financed by CIDA) a manual on accounting procedures andbudget
monitoring was developed inOctober 2003. However, this manual has not yet been widely
disseminated. Among the six AREFs visited, only two were usingthe manual. Inaddition, the
DENisworkmg with the Commerce andEnterprise Administration Institute(InstitutSupe`rieur
de Commerce et d'Administration des Entreprises -ISCAE)to establish an organization
procedures manual.

26.     Theprovincial delegations. According to Law no. 07-00, creating the AREFs, the
provincial delegations are extensions o f the AREFs andreport directly to them. (Before the
creation of the AREF, the provincial delegations reported directly to the MFP).

27.     As the provincial delegations are extensions of the AREFs, they come under the AREF
administration, organizational structure, thus adhering to the same regulations. At the time of the
assessment, no budget delegations from the AREFs to their provincial delegations had occurred.
Nevertheless, the provincial delegations have a solid experience inbudget execution, monitoring
and accounting, experience gained duringthe former organizational structure, when they were
extensions of the DENand reported directly to them.

C) The budgetary process

28.     AREF. The decree no. 2-0566 of January 24,2003, which addresses the financial and
accounting administration of the AREFs, stipulates that the Board o f Directors must review the
AREF budget before October 15 for the following budget year. The budget is presentedto the
Board and became effective once approvedby the Ministry of National Education (the tutelage
ministry)andthe MFP. Incase of delay inthe budget approval, the recurrent budget can be
executed up to one-twelfth of its previous level. This i s not the case for the investment budget
whose execution needs to wait for the final budget approval by the MFP. The AREF directors
are ordonnateurs of the expenditures and revenues of their academies and can appoint their
provincial delegations as sous-ordonnateurs.

29.     Provincialdelegations. The provincial delegations can be designated as sous-
ordonnateurs by the AREFs for the execution of delegated operational and investment budgets.
At the time of this assessment, there has not been any budget delegation. Untilthe time of this
assessment, the provincial delegations are only providing technical support to the AREFs inthe
execution of the work programs. The DENcontinues to delegate budget to the provincial



                                                51

delegations for some financed projects still on-going and are expected to be closed shortly and/or
for minor recurrent expenditures.

D) Flow of funds (see diagramon page 57)

30.     AREF. The AREFs receive their funds through annual government budgetary allocation
transferred from the budget of the DEN(subvention). Before funds are made available to the
AREFs, their budget mustbe approved by their Board of Directors, then by the DENand the
MFP. Fundsare then transferred from the DENbudget by the General Treasury (Tre'sorerie
principale) inRabat to the respective accounts of the AREFs inthe provincial treasury
(tre'sorerieprovinciale). Ittakes an average of 3 months for the funds to reach the AREF
accounts from the time the budget i s approved by the DEN.

31.     Provincialdelegations. The AREFs can delegate funds to their provincial delegations.
Fundsare transferredto the provincial delegations accounts after being approvedby the Budget
Direction (Direction du budget) of the MFP andthe State Controller (Contrtjleur d'e'tat) o f the
Direction o f public enterprises and participation (Direction des e'tablissementspublics et
participations--DEPP).

E)Accounting system

32.     AREF. The AREF accounting system is basedon the Government's accounting
regulations applicable to public institutions (decree no. 2-89-6 1,November 10, 1998), which
requires the keeping of three sets of accounting: budgetary, general and analytical, in accordance
with the national general accounting rules (Code ge'ne'rulde normalisation comptable).

33.     At the time of the assessment, no AREF maintainedgeneral and analytical accounting
systems. The AREFs were only maintaining the budgetary accounting manually, with the
exception of some AREFs which maintain a budgetary accounting for the operating budget,
usinga computerized system basedon ACCESS. The budgetary accountingconsists of
monitoring the execution of the budget in terms of commitments andpayments in accordance
with the general Chart of Accounts (Plan comptable ge'ne'ral). At the end o f the year, situations
are established showing by budgetary line, the available credits, commitments, the balance to be
committed, payments and the balance to be paid. The books for commitments and payments
orders were not kept for 2002 and 2003; some AREFs planned to start usingthem for 2004.

34.     The MFP i s developing a management information system (named SIG EPA)for six pilot
autonomous public entities, including the Rabat AREF. The system covers five modules inthe
following areas: general and analytical accounting, budget/purchase/inventories,human
resourcedwages and reporting. The system was expected to be operational in 2004, with further
generalization afterwards.

35.     There i s no standardized structure for accounting. The accounting function i s organized
depending on individual initiatives and availability of resources within the AREFs. Inthree o f
the six AREFs covered by the assessment (Meknes, Kenitra and Settat), there was no accounting
office because of the lack of staff appointed to that function. Under the best scenario, the
monitoring of budget execution was conducted by the head o f the budget office, with assistance



                                                 52

from the office incharge of procurement; otherwise, budget execution was monitoredbased on
procurement activities. Accounting was done manually (Excel spreadsheet), with the exception
o f two AREFs (Meknes andTetouan) which have an applicationdeveloped under Microsoft
Access to track the operating budget. Three other AREFs will develop the same application.

36.     Documentation for expenditures i s filed at the budget office; however, clear procedures
need to be established. The budget and accountingpersonnel do not have the qualified
professional profile. They tend to have worked as teachers andhave not hadformal education in
finance and accounting.

37.     Provincial delegation. The regulations that govern AREFs accounting do not describe
rules for the provincial delegations. Nevertheless, the delegations have good budget execution,
monitoring and accounting experience acquired duringthe former organizational structure when
they were extensions of the DEN. It i s the responsibility of the AREFs to consolidate the
operations executed by the provincial delegations. Accounting procedures for the use o f
transferred funds should be included inthe AREFs accounting procedures.

F)External control

38.     Pursuant to the accounting decree governing the AREFs, their director must submit
annual financial statements auditedby independent external auditors, before June 30 of each year
to their Boardo f Directors. The auditors should also indicate the reliability o f the internal
control. N o audits have been performed since the creation of the AREFs.

G)Information system andfinancial reporting

39.     The AREFs do not yet have a system that allows them to fulfill their obligations in terms
of accounting and auditing. As indicated above, a system is being developedby the MFPand is
expected to be operational in2004.

H)Miscellaneous

40.     Physicalassets: The decree establishing the AREFs stipulates that the government
physical assets are provided free of charge to the AREFs for their use. Inthe prospect of
establishing an accounting system, it i s critical to provide a module for asset safeguard and
management.

41.     Expenditures under local government control: The expenditures mainly consist of food
supplies, cleaning supplies and fuel for schools, canteens andboarding facilities, which can
represent up to 45 percent of the operatingbudget o f a number o f AREFs (excluding salaries).
Those expenditures are not subject to regular a priori controls. Requests for food supplies are
established by a manager (re'gissseur)at the school level, centralized at the provincial delegation,
the AREF and tre'sorierpayeur levels, to be then paidby transferring funds to the account o f the
re'gisseur. Expenditures paidon the advanced amount arejustified andcontrolled a posteriori by
the tre'sorier. Because of the large number of transactions, internal control procedures must be
strengthened and clearly documented.




                                                   53

42.      Status of thepersonnel: In accordance with Law 07-00, the status o f AREF personnel is
determined by decree. This status i s not inplace and AREF personnel are subject to the status of
the civil service. Salaries remain centralized inthe budget of the DEN.

I) AgreementsbetweenAREFsandlocalcommunities/entities.
   Grant

43.      AREFs can finance local entities such as local governments, associations, NGOs, and
local communities to implement community-based activities such as operating pre-schools and
activities related to enhancing the quality of education. Under PARSEM, a procedures manual
will be established to specify the management of the grants. The funding arrangements will be
based on a standardized agreement between the AREF andthe community/local entity and will
define, among other things, the modalities of transfer of funds andfinancial management tasks.
The beneficiaries will be responsible for: (i)     maintaining a simple cash accounting of funds
receivedfrom AREFs; and (ii)          presenting regular reports, with needed supporting
documentation, on the use of funds receivedand balances. They will also be subject to annual
independent audit as part of PARSEM overall annual audit.

Table 7-1: Actionplanfor activitiesrelatedto financialmanagement
               Actions and Activities              Responsible                  Indicators
                                                   agency         Target indicators     1    Deadline
ISub-Component3.1:Support implementationof publicadministrationreform in the educationsector


/Activity3.1.1 :Developa new organizationalstructureand staffing profiles

TOR for the assessmentof the organizational        DRHFC;      TOR developed            June 05
structure                                          DSSP; AREF
Assessmentstudy on the organizationalstructure     DRHFC;      Assessment realized       May 06
conducted(datacollection on the field, analysis,   AREF
and preparationof the report based on findings and
recommendations).The report will includea
thoroughanalysis of different staffing profiles.


Conductworkshops on main findings and              DRHFC;      Workshops are            Sept 06
recommendations.The recommendationsvalidated AREF              conducted with
by participants, and new recommendations                       concerned participants.
integratedinto the findings, ideas into the final
version of the report.
Implementationof recommendationsof the study       DRHFC;      Findings implemented      Dec 08
                                                   AREF




Study on accountingsystem elaboratedand            DRHFC AREF List of appointed          March 05
validated, and operations manual elaboratedand                 personnel in budgetary
validated                                                      and financial services at
                                                               each AREF
Numberof personnelat AREFs and DEN trained         DRHFC AREF Adequate training         June 06
based on the new operationsmanual, and number                  delivered
of AREF, selectedon an experimentalbasis,that
use the accountingsystem
Establish a general accountingsystem accordingto DAGBP,        General accounting       June 07
the regulationsof EPA in the AREFs covered by      AREF        system put in place at
PARSEM                                                         each AREF


                                                      54

1
Activity3.3.4: Capacity improvementin administrativemanagement                                   I
 Launchthe establishmentof an informationsystem DAGBP        Informationsystem is    March 05
to improvefinancial management at the centraland             put in place
AREF levels.
 Evaluationof informationsystem and statisticson DSSP,AREF Final report on the       Dec 05
AREF                                                         evaluationof information
                                                             system is disseminated
 Informationsystem at the centraladministrative   DAGBP; DSI; Completionof the       May 06
level and AREFs put in place                     AREF        proceduresmanualwith
                                                             those relatedto MIS in
                                                             AREFs and DEN



Seminar on the objective, information,and methods DAGBP, MF, Seminarsare organized April 06
of programbased budgeting and program            AREF
contracting.
Developmentof an operational planto implement    DAGBP       OperationalManual       June 06
the program-budgetingand program contracting                 developed.
Developprogram budgetingand program              AREF,       Performancecontracting December 06
contracting in a select numberof AREFs.           DAGBP      and programbudgets
                                                             establishedfor a
                                                             number of AREFs


J) Annual external audit and periodic reporting arrangements for PARSEM

44.      Annual externalindevendentaudit of PARSEM activities. The statements of budget
execution of all PARSEM activities (including those of AREFs and delegations) will be audited
annually by an auditor acceptable to the Bank and inaccordance with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank. The audit will be conductedinaccordance with acceptable auditing
standards. The auditors will issue an opinion on the program financial statements. The audit
will report on whether the ProgramFinancial Statements (PFS) show true and fair view of its
financial position and funds received and expenditures incurred. It will also provide an opinion
on the Program internal control weaknesses, and whether the goods and services procured
followed the Program's agreed procurement arrangements.

45.      The report will be remitted annually to the Bank no later than June 30, following the end
o f the fiscal year subject of the audit. The program audit can, when available, be based on the
AREFs annual audits for revenues and expenditure received and incurredby AREFs and their
affiliates, when these audits are conductedby acceptable auditors and in accordance with
acceptable standards to the Bank.

46.      Financial Reporting: The GoMwill prepare and submit to the Bank, following each
semester, (and no later than 45 days following the semester end) financial monitoring reports
(FMRs) showingthe PARSEMbudget execution for the semester, according to the format
agreed duringnegotiations and annexed to the minutes of negotiations. The FIvlR will include
the agreed budget lines of the PARSEM as they appear in the annual Government Budget (Loi de
Finance) of the DEN.




                                                    55

47.     The FMRs will include the budget allocation, levels of authorized commitments,
payments and payment orders for the period of the report and cumulative amounts for program
activities (central, AREF and delegation levels).

48.     The reports are consolidated by the DGBP of the DEN. They include activities
undertaken at the central level by the DENand those undertaken at the regional and provincial
levels under the responsibility of the AREFs. Annexes detailing the budget and its execution at
the AREFs and provincial levels will also be includedjustifying the aggregate amounts reported
per the Loi de Finance summary. Each AREF will be responsible for the preparation and
submission of the semi-annual report relatedto the activities they are implementing per the
program operations manual.

DISBURSEMENT

49.     Methods of disbursement. Disbursements for PARSEM activities will be made by annual
payments to the Government budget, usingthe country budgetary system and procedures. On
this basis:

        a) an advance payment of the annual cost of PARSEM will be made at the beginning of
            the first year o f implementation and upon Government's request;
        b) subsequent annual payments are made based on the review of the implementation
            process;
        c) retroactive financing will be applied for the first year of financing.

50.     This methodwill ensure that the implementationof the program is adequately funded in
accordance with the annual work program and relatedcosts agreed upon between the Bank and
the Borrower. Disbursements will be made annually, early inthe calendar year, against the
following three items: (i)  an agreed annual work plan, (ii) approvedbudget for the
                                                            an
implementation of the work plan, and (iii)  FMRsindicating the level of expenditures of those
budget lines that financed the previous year's work plan.

51.     Transfer offunds to Government. The Government will open a special account at the
General Treasury to receive funds earmarked for PARSEM. The account will be managed by the
multilateral financial division (Division dufinancement multilate'ral) within the Budget
Directorate o f the MFF. The MFP will be responsible for submittingall requests to the Bank for
fundtransfers, andensuringthat the withdrawal applications arepreparedand submittedin
accordance with Bank requirements and based on FMRs.

52.     An initial deposit equivalent will be made at loan effectiveness at the borrower's request.
For the subsequent years o f the program, the Bank and the Government will review progress of
the implementation of PARSEM. The implementation progress will be evaluatedthrough review
missions as well as information provided in progress reports detailing progress on operational
indicators, financial, fiduciary and safeguard aspects. The content and format of the progress
report are specified inthe POM. The amount of the first disbursement was determined during
negotiations. The amount o f subsequent annual payments will be based on: (i)    provisional cost
of PARSEMfor the year inquestion, (ii)     the remaining balance of advanced payments made the
year before, (iii)satisfactory progress in meeting Monitoringindicators, (iv) acceptable financial



                                                 56

monitoring report, and (v) technical and financial audit report producedby an external auditor.
All withdrawal applications will be supportedby FMRs.

53.     Itis expected that the government will spendfor program activities ina given year an
amount at least equal to that year's advance disbursement. However, if less than that amount i s
spent, the following year's advance disbursementwill be adjustedaccordingly (i.e. bythe amount
not spent the previous year) amongst other factors. All withdrawals applications will be
reviewed by the Task Team before being approvedfor disbursement. Details of these
arrangements will be outlined inthe DisbursementLetter to be sent to the borrower.

54.     Categoriesof disbursement: For disbursementpurposes, andinline with ongoing efforts
to simplify project implementation and disbursementof funds, PARSEMactivities will be
covered by a single category of disbursementinthe loan agreement for goods, works and
services required for the Program, including support for institutionalcapacity building,
incremental operating costs and subgrants. This simplified approachto disbursement will further
strengthenthe use of, andreliance on, the Government budgetary system and procedures for
project implementation. This approachwill ensurethat PARSEMactivities are carried out
effectively.



                             PARSEMFLOW OFFUNDS




                                                57

                               Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
                    MOROCCO:BasicEducationReformSupportProgram

A) Assessment of the agency'scapacityto implementprocurement

1.      An assessment of the agencies to implement procurement activities for PARSEMwas
carried out intwo phases duringprogram preparation. The assessmentreviewed the procurement
systems related to process, organizational structure, controls, documentation, staffing andthe
general procurement environment.

2.      Overall, the public procurement system i s solid, operates ina structured andreliable
control environment and does not present major fiduciary risk. The national legislation on
procurement i s generally in line with World Bank's guidelines. However, a few procedures
would need to be adapted to conform with these guidelines:

    0   For goods and works: (i) envelopes constituting the bid should be opened
                                   all
        simultaneously in one public session, with the price read aloud and recorded; (ii)
        quantifiable evaluation criteria should be included inthe biddingdocuments and, inthe
        case o f goods, a point system should not be used; (iii)contract i s awarded to the bidder
        who meets the qualifications required, and whose bidhas been determined to be
        responsive to the bidding documents and to offer the lowest evaluated bid; (iv) the
        requirement for bidders to have a local representative, established inMorocco, should be
        discontinued; and (v) the evaluation method for procurement of goods should be by lot
        (instead of by article); and


    0   For consultants,open competitive biddingshould not be applied. Invitation to bidshould
        be addressedto a short-list of firms, having the required qualifications and experience.
        The financial proposals will be opened publicly following the completion of the
        evaluation of technical proposals.

3.      It should, however, be indicated that a number of procedures prescribedby the national
legislation (Decree no. 2-98-482) need to be adhered to, particularly those related to: Article 21.2
concerningthe minimumtime allowed for bidpreparationof 21 working days; Article 22.b)
concerningthe evaluation criteria for financial and technical capacity of bidders; Article 42.1
concerningthe publication of evaluation results; Article 44 concemingjustification for bids
rejection; Article 81concerning the publication of provisional programs; Article 83 concerning
task definition of the person responsible for contract management; and Article 86 conceming
control and internal audit. For contracts o f very small value, the AREF can rely on shopping,
usingthe actual public procurement regulation, pending the establishment of their own
regulatory procurement code.


4.      Selection and employment of consultants for activities related to institutional capacity
buildingof the education system will be carried out at the central level, by the DEN. The DEN
will also be responsible for the procurement of goods and equipment related to centralized
activities, such as the establishment of the monitoring and evaluation system andthe provision of



                                                 58

pedagogical goods for underserved schools. The AREFs, together with their provincial
delegations, will carry out procurement for the remaining activities of PARSEM.

5.      At the DEN,procurement capacity was found to be good. At the decentralized level,
capacity was found to be satisfactory, with provincial delegations (which are extensions o f the
AREFs) having more capacity than the AREF. The AREFs are autonomous public entities and
have only become operational since mid-2003. Because of their nascent establishment, the
AREFs currently lack qualified staff and materialresources, andtheir standardized operational
and procurement procedures need to be strengthened. By their legal status, the AREFs are not
automatically subject to the national regulation that governs public procurement. They can
establish their own regulatory procedures to be approvedby their Board of Directors and the
MFP. Duringthis transitional period, the AREFs are adopting the present national regulation for
their procurement activities, taking into account the few exceptions indicated above.

6.      The overall risk i s assessedto be moderate. This risk could leadto some delays inthe
implementation of PARSEM and will be mitigated by the following action plan.

    0   PARSEMincludes an institutional capacity buildingcomponent under which there are
        activities aim to coordinate and harmonize and strengthen the existing procurement
        capacity o f the AREFs and provincial delegations.

    0   Standardized biddingdocuments to be compatible with the Bank's procurement and
        agreed with the Bank will be used by the entities executing PARSEM activities. Those
        documents include: (i)   works, (ii) and equipment, (iii)
                                           goods                          employment of consulting
        firms (for technical studies and supervision of works, topography), and (iv) employment
        of individual consultants. A timetable for this action is presented in the table below.


    0   Procurement rules andprocedures are described inthe Program Operations Manual
        (POM).

    0   The procurement plan for the first year of PARSEMhas been established and i s included
        inthe POM.



Action                                                                                Due date
Establishmentin draj?form of invitationfor bids, instruction to bidders and bid data, Before March 31,
in collaboration withDAGBP and the Bank                                               2005
Finalization and validation of above documents                                        Before June 30,
                                                                                      2005
Difision toprocurement staff in AREFs, including their provincial delegations,and     Before Dec. 31,
training                                                                              2005
Generalizationof the use of the documents                                             Starting Jan. I,
                                                                                      2006




                                                  59

B) ProcurementGuidelines and Standard Documents

7.      The WorldBank'sprocurementprocedures. Goods. For high-value goods contracts
above US$3.0 million equivalent and high-value works contracts above US$5.0 million
equivalent, international competitive bidding (ICB) will apply andprocurement will be madein
accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" dated May 2004. The World Bank's standardbidding document (SBD) for ICB will be
used.

8.      Consultants. All consultants' services for institutional capacity buildingwill be procured
inaccordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
WorldBank Borrowers" datedMay 2004. The standardrequest for proposals (RFP) and the
StandardForm of Contracts will be usedfor contracts above US$200,000 equivalent. For the
selection process of firms ,the SampleFormof Evaluation Report for the Selection of
Consultants (October 1999)will be used.

9.      National procurementprocedures. Goods. For other goods and works for which
contracts are valued at US$3 million or below and US$ 5 million or below, respectively,
national competitive bidding (NCB) will apply, with a few proceduresadaptedto conform with
the World Bank's guidelines, as indicatedunder A) above. Agreed upon standardbidding
documents will be used.

10.     Consultants. For the selection of consultants services below US$200,000 equivalent, the
methods described below and appropriate consultation standarddocuments agreeduponwith the
Bank will be used.

C) Advertising and Procurement Plan

11.     A General ProcurementNotice (GPN)will bepublished on-line inDGMarket, inthe
UnitedNations Development Business andinat least three newspapersof national circulation.
The GPNwill provide a description of PARSEMandthe generalnature of procurement
activities.

12.     The concept of a procurement plan was discussedwith the implementing agencies during
the preparation of PARSEM. The first year procurement planhasbeenestablished, (presented
below), and i s included inthe POM. It will be updated annually, or as required, to reflect the
actual project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutionalcapacity.




                                                60

 PROCUREMENT PLAN. 2005 :CONSULTiNGSERVICES
                                                                                        Estimated                Bank's prior Plannedbid
                                                                                        cost (in   Selection     review of    submission
 Activity                                                                               $E.U.)     Method        RFP           date             Note
 COMPONENT 1
 1.1.1.01: Partnershipconventions
 (I) Establishmentof a partnershipsystem                                                   170,@43    QCBS       NO                      5-Mar

 14.1.02, 1.4.1.03: Boardingstrategyfor lower secondaryschool
                                                                                                                                                Banks reviewof termsof
                                                                                                    ind.Consult./             Selectionmade in reference(TOR) produced
 (i) Developmentof terms of reference                                                        10,643 Cons.Qualif. No           Jm.05             byconsuH.
 (ii) Establishmentandexecutionof the boardingstrategy                                     319,783    QCBS      Yes           April05
 (iii) Developmentof informationcampaigns                                                  228,639    QCBS       Yes          Sept. 05

 COMPONENT 2


2.1.1: Establishmentof an evaluationsystem                                                 215,687    QCBS      Yes           April05

                                                                                                                                                Banksprior reviewai
2.1.2: Strengtheningand standardizationof exams                                            117.280    QCBS      NO            Avril05           TOR

                                                                                                                                                Banksprior reviewof
2.2.1: implementationof an in-servicetraining                                               95,907    QCBS      No            FBv. 05           TOR

 2 3: Establishmentof a systemto implementsub-projectspromotingqualityof educationat                                                            Banksprior reviewof
the school ievel.                                                                           82,840    QCBS      No            FBv.05            TOR

COMPONENT 3
3.1.1.01 102: Reviewof DENorganizationalStrwture
                                                                                                                              Seiect.du consult Banks reviewof TOR
(i) Developmentof termsof reference                                                         24.096 Ind.Consuit. No            FBv.05           producedbyconsult.
(11) Study to reviewDENstructure                                                           198,795    QCBS      Yes           Juin 05

3.1.2.3.2.1: Elaborationof a developmentplanfor decentralization                           244,578    QCBS      Yes           Mars05

3.3 1.3.3.4.01: Upgradingfinancial managementandbudgetarycapacity,includinga                                                                    Banksprior reviewof
computerizedinformationsystem betweenthe centraland the decentralizedIeveis.               133,458 CorsQuaiif. No             FBv. 05           TOR
                                                                                                                                                Banksprior reviewai
3.3.2: Study on normsandcosts of COnStNCtion                                                50,000 Cons Quaiif. No            FBv. 05           TOR
                                                                                                                              SBiect.du consult Banksprior reviewof
3.3.3: Developmentof a system to managepatrimony                                            32,530 1nd.Consuit. No            Avrii05           TOR
                                                                                                                                                Banksprior reviewai
3.3.4.02.Assessmentof the statisticsSystem in the AREF                                      21,687 Cons.Quaiif. No            Mars05            TOR
                                                                                                                                                Banksprior reviewai
3.3.4.03.04:Strengtheningof DENandAREF informationssystem                                   32,530 Cons.Quaiif NO             Mars05            TOR

3.3.6 Strenghteningof procurementcapacity,includingdevelopmentof revisedbidding
documents
                                                                                                                              SBiect.du consuit Banksprior reviewof
(i) Developmentof biddingdocumentsand proceduresmanual                                      31,325 1nd.Consuit. No            Jan 05            TOR

3.5.1: Developmentof M&E
(i) Developmentof M&Etoois at the DENandthe AREF                                           226,265    CXBS      Yes           AvrilO5
(ii) Establishmentof a managementSystemfor M&E                                             228,434    QCBS      Yes           Avril 05


PROCUREMENT PLAN. 2005 : WORKSAND GOODS

                                                                                                                   Bank's prior
                                                                                       Estimated                   reviewof     Planned
                                                                                       cost (in   Selection        bidding      submission
Actlvlty                                                                               $ELI.)     Method           documents     date           Note
COMPONENT 1
Generalizationof basic education

(I) Constructionof 50classroomsin5 AREF (5contracts at approx.S180,7W per contract)       180,700       NCB        NO           March05
(11) Equipmentfor aboveciassrooms(5Contracts at approx. $10,800 percontract)               10,800       NCB        No           March 05
(iii) Rehabilitationof20 primaryschoois (2 contractsat approx. $180,700 percontract)      180,700       NCB        No           March05

COMPONENT2
Strenghteningof DENand AREF evaiuationsystem
(I) Procurementof IT equipment                                                           218,916        NCB        No           March05

Promotionof educationquality at the school level
(i) Procurementof educational goods for the needyschoois                                3,821,835       iCB        Yes          May 05

COMPONENT 3
Capacitystrengtheningat the DSSP
                                                                                                                                                Combinedwiththe
                                                                                                                                               procuremeniof IT
                                                                                                                                                equipmentfor the
(i) Procurementof iT equipment                                                             16,265                                               evaluationsystemabove




                                                                                        61

D)Procurement Arrangements

13.     Procurement of civil works: Works procuredunder PARSEMwill include construction
and rehabilitation o f schools. Due to the geographically dispersed works inrural areas and
availability of local contractors, as well as the relatively small value of contracts, it i s expected
that the contracts will not attract foreign competition. Standard biddingdocuments for NCB
agreed upon by DEN,AREFs andthe Bank will be usedfor contracts valued equal or below US$
5.0 million equivalent. For contracts valued above US$5.0 million equivalent, the World
Bank's procedures and SBD for ICB will be used.

14.     Procurement of goods: Goodsprocuredunder the project will comprise of educational
materials, furniture, IT equipment, etc. Standard biddingdocuments for National Competitive
Bidding(NCB) agreeduponby DEN,AREFs andthe Bank will beusedfor contracts valued
equal or below US$3.0 million equivalent. For contracts valued above US$3.0 million
equivalent, the World Bank's procedures and SBD for ICB will be used. The use of bons de
commande,equivalent to the Bank's method of shopping, should be applied when permissibleby
the national legislation, as this methodproves to be efficient for the acquisition of standard
specification commodities that are of small value.

15.     Community participationprocurement. Systems to administer these agreements will be
established, inconformity with the Prime Minister's decree o f June 27, 2003, relatedto
partnership. PARSEM's implementation plan indicates the establishment o f such systems during
the second year.

16.     ConsuEtingservices: Consultant services will consist of architectural studies, preparatory
design, supervision and inspection related to the construction and rehabilitation of schools, and
technical assistance for activities relatedto institutional capacity buildingo f the education
system. The following methods will apply:

- Selection based on individual consultants qualifications for architects, on the basis of
comparison of at least three CVs and workload. The fees will be based on actual national scale
of charge.

- Selection based on consultants'qualifications for architectural firms hired for feasibility studies
and supervision o f works, on the basis of the consultants' qualification and references, work
program and eventually regional preference.

- Least-cost selection for standard androutine services relatedto the control, supervision and
topography work o f construction andrehabilitation of schools.

- Quality- and Cost-basedselection (QCBS) for other technical assistance related to capacity
buildingof the education system. Bank's procedures and standardrequest for proposals will be
used. Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$ 200,000 equivalent
per contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.

17.     The Bank's standard evaluation report models will be used.



                                                   62

E)FrequencyofProcurement Supervision

18.     Procurement supervision efforts constitute an integral part of the Bank's supervision of
the progress of PARSEM. Based on the moderateoverall procurement risk assessment and the
nature of PARSEM, procurement post reviews will cover 15 percent of contracts. This
percentagewill be adjusted duringimplementation depending on the performance of the
executing agencies and the results of the reviews.

19.     External audit. Externalannual audits will be undertakenby an auditor with terms of
referenceacceptable to the Bank and will include opinion on whether works, goods and services
have beenprocured in accordancewith agreedprocedures and arrangements.

20.     A list of actions and decisions to reinforce procurement capacity is presentedbelow.
These actions combine mid-termand long-term goals.

 Table 8-2: Activity and Actions to reinforce the cal city of implementation ai mcies
                          ActivityIActions                                   Deadline            Agencies responsible
                                                                                                 for implementation
 1. Establish a list of personnel with technical skills at AREFs  Done                           DEN,AREF
 (Division of budget and asset management) and the provincial
 level (services responsible for civil works).

 2. Propose an organizational chart of technical personnel in     Received during negotiations   AREF
 each AREF.

 3. Define respective roles and responsibilities of the central   Received during negotiations   DEN,AREF
 level, AREFs and delegations.

 4. Develop a draft version of a manual on procurement            Before the end of the first 6  DEN,MFP(DEPPet
 arrangements and procedures to be included in the Program        months of implementation       CGED) and WB
 Operations Manual.

 5. Develop draft standard bidding documents                      June 30,2005                   DEN,MFP(DEPPet
                                                                                                 CGED) and WB

 6. Disseminate and implement procedures described inthe          See action plan for Sub-       DAGBP. AREF
 manual on procurement at AREFs and provincial delegations.       component 3.3.6
 These procedures must address the different levels o f
 responsibility between the AREFs and the provincial
 delegations, as well as the internal audit function.
 7. Establish an internal audit unitinthe AREFs and reinforce     Incoordination with the same
 the general audit system at the central MEN.                     action for financial
                                                                  management.
 8. Training in procurement                                       In-going activity during the   DEN,MFP (DEPP et
                                                                  mplementation of PARSEM        CGED) and the WB




                                                           63

                                  Annex 9: Economic andFinancialAnalysis
                        MOROCCO: BasicEducationReformSupportProgram

 1.       One o f the principal challenges facing the Moroccan education system i s to
 simultaneously improve its overall quality, and thus increase the percentage o f children
completing education at all levels, and improve access to basic education. Additional resources
would help reach this goal; however, education expenditures already make up over 6 percent o f
GDPand 31percent of government expenditures. This annex will examinethe fiscal impact of
expanding the education system and improving quality using a financial simulation model.6The
principal question it seeks to answer i s whether the policy options to be implementedthrough the
Strategic Framework are financially feasible (and sustainable), particularly recurrent
expenditures generated by the government's program that will be supported by PARSEM.

2.        The process for estimating the cost o f reform has three steps. First, targets are set for the
education sector with regards to access andinternal efficiency. Second, an education finance
model i s used to determine the resources required to meet these targets. Finally, the impact on
the government budget i s estimated, the financing gap i s identified, and options to close the gap
are assessed.

3.        Simulation model: The model simulates the evolution of primary, middle school, and
upper secondary ed~cation.~While secondary technical/vocational education i s offered, the
impact o f higher enrollments on these sectors i s considered part o f total secondary general
expenditure. It i s expected that the demand for middle and upper secondary education will rise
sharply over the period under consideration (2005-2020). Projections are made usingthe model
created by the Department of National Education (DEN),which uses 2003/04 school year as a
baseline and the objectives outlined inthe Charter for the flow of students through pre-university
school levels to project targets.

4.        Public resources available for the sector are determined on the basis of the expected
growth of the economy, government spending as a fixed proportion of GNP, andeducation
budgets as a fixed proportion of government expenditure. Expenditures pertainingto reforms are
determined usingdata on enrollment, efficiency parameters such as repetition, dropouts and
survival rates, and the rate of transition between education levels. Cost variables include teacher
salaries, non-salary spending on materials, overheads, andtransfers such as scholarships and
other social services providedto students and teachers (housing, meals, transportation, etc.). The
difference between the cost of meeting Charter targets and the projectededucation budget
envelope determines the financing gap for each education level.




6Thismodel draws on the Strategic Framework (Cadre Stratkgique de Dkveloppment du SystemeEducat~produced by the
Department of National Education (DEN), which outlines the two scenarios considered in this analysis. The results obtained
from those scenarios (enrollments, resource requirements etc.) have been used to estimate thefinancial sustainability of the
'educationeducation
          reform program supportedby PARSEM.
  Formal             consists of three levels of instruction: basic, upper secondary and higher. Basic education
includes two sections: primary (grades 1-6) and middle (grades 7-9).


                                                              64

Key variables and assumptions

5.        Estimating the budget envelopefor education: The simulations are done under the
assumption that the economy will grow at an average annual rate of 5 percent (average of the
past three years) over the planning period, 2005-2020. The government budget i s assumed to
remain constant at 22,7 percent of GNP,while the share of education recurrent budget in
government recurrent budget i s to stay at current levels (28.8 percent of sector recurrent
expenditures and 6.7 percent of sector capital expenditures). Flexibility ineducation finance
comes from a decline in primary school age population that would allow a reduction inthe share
of primary education inthe total recurrent education budget. This enables a transfer of resources
to middle and upper secondary education over the same period. The following diagrams
illustrate the present structure of the budget of the education:

Figure9-1: DEN: Structureof recurrent                          Figure9-2: DEN: Structureof capital
budget (2004)                                                  budget(2004)
Higher secondary (25.5%)         Primary (48 0%)               Highersecondary (31 006)      Primary (21.71)




      Lower secondary (27 O0o)                                                 Lower secondary (47 3%)



Targetsfor studentflows: Specific targets have been set inthe model for access to andefficiency
of education. The enrollment projections are based on three base scenarios':
          Scenario 0     -- Baseline     scenario: assumes that current trends ininternal efficiency
          (repetition, promoting, andretention) will remain unchanged for primary, middle school
          and upper secondary education.
          Scenario 1 Efficiency scenario: assumes improvements in internal efficiency at
                         --
          primary, middle school and upper secondary education levels, in line with the objectives
          of the Education Charter.

          Scenario 2     -- Progressive      scenario: assumes a more gradual improvement of internal
          efficiency than that targeted by the Education Charter, reflecting recent trends at the
          primary education level.



'  Thesame level of private sector enrollment is assumed in all three scenarios. Private school enrollment has increasedfrom
   6.3%of total primary education enrollment in 1999to 7.9%in 2003. Maintaining the same rate of growth, weproject private
   education to reach 14%and 20% of total primary enrollment in 2014 and 2020 respectively. In addition, transfers between the
   private andpublic sector were maintained constantfor all three scenarios (60%of private primary education completers enter
  public middle schools and 3.5% of public middle school repeaters continue their studies in public upper secondary schools).


                                                               65

6.     Meeting the Charter objectives for intemal efficiency andretention will require an
immediate and substantial reduction of drop out rates at the primary school level. Presently,
average repetition rates are 13.6 percent and average drop out rates are 6.2 percent for primary
education. According to the Charter,"90 percent of the cohort o f children startingprimary school
inSeptember 2003 shouldsuccessfully finishprimary school by the 2010-11school year. This
will require a drop out rate of less than 25 percent, starting in2004-2005. Consideringthe
challenge o f such a sharp decline in dropout rates, scenario 2 presents a more gradual decrease.
The following chart illustratesthe projectedevolution of drop out rates by scenario.

Figure 9-3: Average primary education drop out rates by scenario




Forthe 2003-2004 cohort, retentionrates for each level are presented inthe followingtable:




7.     InScenario 2, the Charter objectives are achieved with a lagof two years compared to
Scenario 1. For the 2005-2006 cohort, retentionrates will be 90 percent, 80 percent and 60
percent to finish primary, middle, and upper secondary education respectively.

RESULTSOFTHE SIMULATIONEXERCISE

8.     The results of the projections are presentedinthree sections: i)enrollment projections;
ii)financialprojections;andiii)financegapsandoptionsforoptimizingexpenditures.



                                                 66

Enrollmentprojections

9.      Primary education: Since the mid-l990s,the growth of the six-year-old population began
to slow (annual growth rate between 1994 and 2001 of 1.47 percent). CERED (Centre d'Etudes
et de Recherches De'mographiques)forecasts the six-year-old populationto stabilize at about
585,000 over the next decade. This demographic trend will temper overall demand for primary
school, with overall enrollment expected to level at 3 million in 2019-2020 for all three
scenarios. However, the underlying assumptions concerning the evolution of internal efficiency
for each scenario produce substantially different paths. The higher the retentionrates (as in
Scenarios 2 and 1respectively), the longer the periodbefore the primary education population
begins to decline. The following chart illustrates this point:

Figure 9-4: Evolution of Primary Education Enrollments
   4,000

   3,900                                                                 +Scenario     1
   3,800

   3,700
            3,664            \

   3,600                  3,65r


   3,500




10.     Middle school: Regardless of the evolution of primary education enrollments, there will
be a substantial increase in demand for middle school education as a result o f recent increases in
access to primary education (average growth rate of 4.5 percent between 1998 and 2003). The
projectedrate of growth at the middle school level from 2004 to 2010i s expected to be 3.17
percent, 8.81 percent and 6.87 percent for Scenarios 0, 1,and 2, respectively. From 2011, the
number of middle school students will decline for Scenario 0 and will stabilize for Scenarios 1
and 2 at approximately 1.6 million students. The following chart presents the results of the
projections for the three scenarios.




                                                67

Figure 9-5: Evolutionof Middle School Enrollments




11.     Upper Secondary Education: The same trends will occur for this level after alagof 3 to 4
years; however, there i s a greater variation between scenarios. The projections indicate that
enrollments at the middleschool levelwill double between 2003/2004and 2009/2010andwill
triple between 2004/2004 and 2014/2015. For Scenario 0, upper secondary school enrollments
would be less than one-half of that in Scenarios 1and 2. The following chart illustrates the
results of the projections for the upper secondary level:




                                                 68

Financialrequirements

12.     School infrastructure. With Scenario 0, no new primary school classrooms will be
needed. Incontrast, the rapid improvement of retention rates inherent inScenario 1will
necessitate the construction of an average 80 primary classrooms per year (approximately 131
primary schools) duringthe period coveredby PARSEM(2005-2008). Fewer classrooms would
be needed under Scenario 2 (27 schools for 2005-2008 and 25 for 2009-2014). UsingScenario 2
as a guide for investment decisions at this level would reduce the risk o f an under-utilization of
classrooms.

13.    For middle school education, construction needs will be substantial for both Scenarios 1
and 2. Over the period 2005-2008,411 middle schools will need to be built annually for
Scenario 1and 312 for Scenario 2. Even inthe case of baseline scenario, 212 additional schools
would be required annually. Demand for additional upper secondary schools will grow from
2009 to 2014, with an additional 234 schools per year needed for Scenario 1and 189 for
Scenario 2.




                                                 69

Table 9-2:Demand for new schools bv levelof instruction


    Scenario 0
    Average 2005-2008
    Average 2009-2014




    Average 2005-2008




14.     Financing requirements. The enrollment objectives of the Charter result in substantial
increases in financing requirements over the next decade. Investment needs can be categorized
into two periods: (i)risingdemand for middle school education from 2005-2010, which translate
into an annual financing requirement of 3.9 billion MDfor Scenario 1and 2.9 billion MDfor
Scenario 2 for school construction at current unit costs; and (ii)
                                                                rising demand for upper
secondary education from 2008-2013 with an annual school constructionbudget requirement of
2.9 billion MD for Scenario 1and 2.3 billion MD for Scenario 2 at current unit costs.

Figure 9-7: Projected investment budget by level of education (Scenario 2)




15.     Subsequently, these new schools will cause recurrent expenditure requirements to almost
double by 2014. This i s primarily the result of the increase number of teachers needed inthe



                                                 70

system to accommodate growing enrollments at the middle and upper secondary levels. The
distribution of recurrent budgetary requirements by level of education is presented inthe
following chart.

Figure 9-8: Recurrent budget requirements by education level (Scenario 2)

         50  - BillionMAD
                     I
       1     1                           1
                     1-Uppersecondary   I




          " 2004'2005 2006 2OO7"2008'2OOS~'20102011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
      1~




Financing gap and options

16.      The following table summarizes the available resources for national education under the
assumptions discussed inthe previous section.

Table 9-3: Potential public resources available for pre-university educi tion, based on
C

                                                                                         rota1DEN




                                                                                   32,533 1,823 34,356

                                                                                   43,597 2,443 46,040



17.      For Scenarios 1and 2, the projected capital budgets for education presented inTable 3
fall substantially short of investment needs at the middle school level duringthe period 2005-
2008 (with deficits runningfrom 81 percent to 85 percent) and at the upper secondary level
duringthe period 2009-2014 (deficits of 74 percent to 79 percent). The following chart
illustrates the evolution of the financing gap for all three levels. It shows a persistent financing
gap averaging 21.4 percent duringthe period 2005-2014 under Scenario 1and 16.7 percent under
Scenario 2.


                                                  71

Figure 9-9: Proportionof financing requirements covered by projected allocation of public
resourcesfor education (assumingcurrent parameters)



   140% -     -Scenario0
                   Balance
              -a- Scenario1
   130% i A        9rnnarin 3




 I
    90%


    80%

    70%

 I  60%

 I     2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020



Options for reducing the financing gap

18.     Inorder to ensure moresustainable financingfor the sector, the simulations undertaken
by the DENhave focused on four possible areas of optimization: (i)more efficient use of
                                                                     a
personnel; and (ii)a more balanced allocation of non-salary resources between social and
pedagogical expenditures (iii) the improvement of teaching conditions, and (iv) a more
                               delaying
optimal usage of school infrastructure to calculate the potential impact of these measures.
Scenario 2 was uses a baseline which reflect the implementation capacity o f the envisaged
reform.

19.     Optimizing salary expenditures:On average, middle school and upper secondary school
teachers do not teach the full number of hours officially required (90 percent at the middle school
level and 83 percent at secondary). The simulations assume a progressive increase inthe average
numberof hours taught to 98 percent of the required total bythe year 2011. With the
construction o f new schools, particularly inrural areas, the DENaims to train polyvalent
teachers who can teach more than one discipline. This option will reduce the demandfor
additional teachers at middle and upper secondary levels. Under Scenario 1, projections show
that 2,925 and4,808 additional teachers would be needed every year for middle and upper
secondary schools respectively duringthe period2008-2014. Without optimization of hours
taught, 3,697 and 5,883 teachers would be needed for middle and upper secondary schools. This
option would reduce the financing gap by "creating" resources equal to more than 3.4 billion MD
annually over the period 2015-2020. This represents more than 10percent of the overall
financing needs for middle and upper secondary education. These projections include an annual




                                                72

real salary increase of 2 percent (5 percent nominally). The following table summarizes the
impact of optimizing teaching hours on the financing gap.


Tab1

                                                                                        1
                                 at middle school                in upper secondary
                                            ~- - - - ~                                                   7---secondary--
                                                                                                           1
                                                                                           ~ - - - _ I _ _

                              W i t h o u t 1    With           Without         With
                             optimization    optimization      optimization  optimization   Middle school
                                                                                           1               1
                           ~




                                                                                         1
      Average 2005-2008           5 959                             3 455         2744              772            711

      Average 2009-2014           2 701   '       2 095
                                                  5187              7562          5836              606          1 :7:
                                                             ~




      Average 2015-2020                                                                  I
                                  2 310           2354    1         3341          3111     1         -44


Figure 9-10: Optimizingsalary expenditures: Potential savings
   3,500
                                                 7.0% 7.0% 7.0% 6.9% 7.0%

   3,000


   2,500


   2,000


   1,500




20.     Optimizingoperating expenditures: Salary expenditures represent more than 94 percent
of the overall recurrent budget of the DEN. Almost two-thirds of the remaining 6 percent are
allocatedto social expenditures and one-fourth i s reserved for administrative costs. As a
consequence, pedagogical expenditures (school supplies, pedagogical materials) only represent
12percent of non-salary expenditures or less than 0.7 percent of the recurrent budget.

This level of allocationdoes not reflect the increased focus on educationquality andretention,
key objectives of the Education Charter. One of the hypotheses retained in order to optimize
social and pedagogical expenditures i s that the budget of social services for DENpersonnel (e.g.
housing subsidies) remains unchanged at their 2004 level, and that the reallocation of these
savings would go towards pedagogicalexpenses. The following chart presents potential savings




                                                              73

from reallocating a portion of social expenditure towards pedagogical expenditures. It shows
that pedagogical expenditures could double by 2009 and triple by 2018 trough this reallocation.

                                                                                                                 itures




                                                                                                                   80%

                                                                                                                   60%

                                                                                                                   40%

                                                                                                                   20%

 i MMAD 2005                                                                                                       0%
                 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020




21.      Delaying the improvement of teachingconditions. Under the base projection, teaching
conditions would be gradually improvedby decreasingpupil/ class ratios, teacher / class ratio
andteacher / pupilratios. If these improvements were delayed untilthe next decade, the ratios
would be maintained at current levels. These ratios would be allowedto improve after 2013.
The following chart presents ratios with andwithout this option.

Table 9-5: Pupilklassand pupilkeacherratio
                                -                                      -
                                                                      '
                              !!                                                                                                    1
                                                                                         _c
                                      Student/class                              1
                                                                      I
                                                                      I       Teacher/class                 Student/ teacher
                              1I             Middle                                Middle  1 Upper    1
                                Primary    j School  /SecondaryUpper   1Primary    school  /Secondary'          1                    H
                                                                                                      IPrimary    School ISecondary
                                                                                                                              Upper

 1995-96

                                                                      1          1         1                                   :;::I
-2009-10 (Withoutoptimization~6,Ol      j    31,OO      32,39              1,OO      1,70            1          1
                                                                                             ___-
                                                                                               2,20       26,O      18,2
                                                                                                                            ~




 2009-10(Withoptrmization)    1  28,97       34,20   11 34,OO              1,OO      1,66      2,lO                 20,6
                                           ~                                                              29,O 1


22.      Additionally, implementingoptions to optimize the use of school classrooms (see below)
would free up 22,300 teaching positions by 2007-08 and over 40,000 by 2013-14. The number
of teachers requiredi s illustrated inthe following chart.




                                                                        74

Figure 9-12: Number of teachers required: with and without optimization

       330,000
       320,000
       310,000
       300,000
       290,000
       280,000
       270,000
       260,000
       250,000




23.    Optimizing of the use of school infrastructure. The decrease indemographic pressure
and improvements inthe efficiency of primary education will free up capacity inprimary school
classrooms. Up to 5,400 classroomsby 2007-08 and 13,000 by 2013-14 would no longer be in-
service. Traditional school mapping does not take into consideration the total number of
classrooms that would be available in one school cycle to reallocate them to another level of
education. Under this option, half of the non-usedclassrooms at the primary level are reassigned
to the middle school level, after renovation and the provisionof complementary equipment. The
following chart illustrates the needs of classrooms inmiddle school and the net requirement after
transfers from primary to middle school.




                                                 75

Figure9-13: Requirements inclassrooms at middle school level (without and with
optimization)
                Annual requirements in classrooms in the                              Capacity released in the Primary
                  Lower secondary (without o p t i m i z a t i o n ) l  which can be recovered in the Lower secondaryr 3,500


                     2,643     # 2,979

                                   2,416                  Net requirementsfor
                                              ,-construction              in the Lower




FinancialEquilibriumafter the optimizationof expenditures

24.      Through the moderation of sector objectives and the application of the options discussed
above, the financial needs of the national education sector are substantially reduced. On average
of 1.3 million MDi s gained every year between 2005-2008, up to 4.8 million MDbetween 2009-
14, which i s close to 13 percent of the recurrent budget of the sector. The available resources for
investment budget increaseon an annual average of 1.5 millionMDbetween 2005-2008, which
i s one third of the needs of the investment budget. The following table provides the details of the
available resources:



                              Recurrent budget                       Investment budget                         Total
                      in millionsMAD    in % of Budget        in millionsMAD     in % of Budget   in millionsMAD    in % of Budget
 Average 2005-2008            1,273            4.7%                   1,624           34.2%               2,897            9.1%
 Average 2009-2014            4,769          12.5%                      984           31.O%               5,753          14.0%
 Average 2015-2020            6,437          14.6%                      122           19.0%               6,559          14.6%


25.      The evolution of financing needs inDEN'Srecurrent cost usingdifferent scenarios is
illustrated inthe following chart. It shows that recurrent cost inScenario 1i s close to 33 billion
MDby2009, andmorethan 41billionMDby2014. The different options for optimization
introduced in Scenario 2 allows a reduction of the overall budgetby 29.5 and 36.2 billion MD,
respectively.




                                                                  76

Figure 9-14: Projection of financing needs: comparing scenarios




      10

       5

       0
       2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
    M MAD                                                                                      I

26.    The investmentneeds show an annual averageof 3.0 billionMDduring the period
coveredby PARSEM(2005-2009), which will decrease to 2.2 billionMD during 2009-2014.
The following chart illustrates the change ininvestmentneeds after optimization. It also shows
the projectedinvestmentbudgetbefore and after optimization.

Figure 9-15: Projected investment budget before and after optimization

       "."                 3. I

       5.0 -                                                  -Upper     Secondary

       4.5 -
               3.9
       4.0 -                                                  +Total    Without Optimization




                                                 012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 202C




                                               77

27.     The different optimization options would considerably reduce the financing gap for
national education duringthe next years. The financing gap would be limited to less than 5
percent during 2005-2012 while it would exceed 26 percent in Scenario 1without optimization.
After 2013, the surplus inthe education budget can be allocated to improving teaching
conditions. The following graph illustrates this point:

Figure 9-16: FinancialEquilibrium of NationalEducationBudget




Conclusion

28.     Meeting the objectives of the Charter to improve access to all levels of education as well
as improve teaching conditions would require substantial increases inrecurrent and investment
budgets (Scenario 1-base option without optimization). The Scenario 2 tempers this rate of
change, delaying the achievement of certain quantitative and qualitative targets by two years
(from 2010 to 2012). The financing gap calculated on the basis of potential resources for the
education sector increases progressively reaching 26 percent in 2010. Even with the
optimization of the number of hours taught by teachers, the gap persists, reaching 21percent in
2009. Covering sector expenditures would require a significant increase in the proportion
allocatedto the education sector inrelations to the Government budget reaching almost 36
percent in 2012 of the recurrent budget.

29.     Expectedimprovements inefficiency at the primary level would also be attainedin a
more progressive manner. The improvement inteaching conditions (reduce the ratio o f pupil/
class and pupil/ teachers) would be carried out after the full achievement o f all enrollment rate
targets (i.e., after 2013). Under this scenario, the current budget allocated to the National
Education would remain under 29 percent of the overall government budget.




                                                  78

30.     These results are achieved through a numberof options to optimize the use of resources
allocated to the education sector. These options include the reallocation of a portion of social
expenditure to pedagogical expenditure, better utilization o f human resources (increasing the
numberof hours taught by middle andupper secondary school teachers andmaintainingcurrent
studentheacher ratios). Without the application of these options, the recurrent budget would be
more than 33 percent of the national education budget of the government by 2012 (see Figure 8).
Regarding the investment budget, despite the excess capacity that could be freed up at the
primarylevel to be utilizedfor middle schools, an additional effort will need to be made over the
next five years to capitalize the results achieved duringthe previous years of the education
reform. This needs to be linkedto the present needs inmiddleschool andsecondary education to
meet the objectives of the Charter by 2010 inmiddle school and 2014 for secondary education.
The following chart presents the equilibrium condition for the recurrent education budget as a
proportion of total government recurrent expenditures for scenario 1and 2, with and without
optimization.

Figure9-17: Shareof RecurrentEducationBudgetinTotal GovernmentBudget:
EquilibriumCondition




        -u- Scenario1 (WithoutOptimization




31.    The share of primary, middle and secondary education expenditures follow the trends
given infollowing chart. Inthe final year, the share of primaryfalls to 29 percent, while that of
middleschool education increases to 35 percent in2006, beforefalling to 25 percent in2018.
Upper secondary education would have to increase its share to 46 percent by 2018 for fiscal
sustainability.




                                                 79

                                Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
                    MOROCCO:BasicEducationReformSupportProgram

1.      Inorder to comply with the Bank's OperationalSafeguards Policy relative to
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) and the Involuntary Resettlement Policy (OP 4.12), an
Environmental and Social Assessment (ESA) was conducted for PARSEM duringthe
preparatory phase of the program. This assessment addressed environmental as well as social
safeguards concerns mainly relatedto the construction o f new schools. An Environmental and
Social Safeguards Framework (ESSF) was prepared as a result of this assessment process, which
details the mitigating measures that need to be carried out during project implementation as well
as ways to improve monitoring capacity. These measures will be carried out concurrently to
ensure proper compliance with the Bank Operational Policies triggered by the project namely the
above-mentioned OP. 4.01 and OP.4.12.

2.      The ESSF takes also into consideration the current institutional and regulatory framework
inMorocco as applicableto PARSEM. This reformprogramispreparedandwill be
implementedas a Sector Wide Approach (SWAP) operation, meaning that it will be an integral
part of a larger reform programinthe education sector. The ESSFhas been made available to
the public through the DENwebsite as well as inthe participating AREFs and the World Bank
Infoshop.

3.      The findings o f the ESA are the following: (i) existing construction, functional standards,
and construction monitoring norms do not guarantee the safety, health, and well-being of
students, teachers, and personnel at schools; (ii) i s a lack o f adequate resources for school
                                                  there
maintenance; (iii)  the practice of sole-source contracts with architects do not guarantee cost-
effectiveness of school construction programs; and (iv) there i s a sector-wide issue of arrears
relatedto payment of land acquired for school construction.

4.      Moreover, although existing land acquisition procedures inMorocco are consistent with
the corresponding Bank's policy, the issue of arrears inpayment of compensation i s o f concern.
The Involuntary Resettlement Policy (OP4.12) was triggered because of the concern stemming
from delayed payment of compensation for land acquisition. This issue i s not specific to the
education sector. The Bank's adjustment operation, the Asset Management ReformLoan
(AMRL,4700-MOR) is currently assisting the Government of Morocco to help improve the
situation and to alleviate further problems. The ESSF includes monitoring activities with regards
to the level of arrears inthe education sector over the duration o f PARSEM. Finally, there i s a
covenant relatedto resettlement and a disbursement condition related to land acquisition (see
Section B5: Loan conditions and covenants).

5.      The G o M and the Bank agreed that PARSEMwill only finance school rehabilitation
projects that do not require acquisition of new land. For new school construction, priority will be
given to schools that do not require purchase o f new land. These measures will help decrease the
incidence of arrears inpayment. The DENand the AREFs will set up a budget line to finance
new land acquisition, and payjudicial fines and penalties for delays incompensation.




                                                 80

6.     Inaddition, the PARSEMoperation includesMonitoring indicators that cross-reference
many of the commitments made inthe ESSF. For example, with regards to the above mentioned
environmental issues, new construction norms will be introduced duringthe first year of program
implementation and applied starting the second year (no new construction activities under
PARSEM i s programmed during the first year of the project). This progress will be closely
tracked through Monitoringindicators (see Component 3.3). Furthermore, to ensure that
PARSEMdoes not contribute to an increase in the amount o f the arrears related to land
acquisition, Monitoringindicators linked to asset management were also established under
Component 3.3 (see list of Monitoringindicators in Annex 3).

7.     A suggested list of measures designed to address the issues pointedout above are
presented inTable 10-1. A list of indicators has been identifiedfor the G o M to monitor
improvements inthe following areas: 1)capacity building; 2) mitigation measures; and 3)
monitoring and evaluation. These measures are included inthe ESSF as crucial steps for the
Government to improve their performance in addressing environment and social safeguard
issues.

8.     Moreover, mitigating and monitoring measures identified inthe ESSF will be distributed
along with the Program Operations Manual (POM), which will be available to all implementing
agencies before loan effectiveness. The ESSF constitutes a central depository o f norms and
guidelines for the implementation of the government's program and for reporting on program
progress. For example, this framework defines mechanisms for monitoring the application of
construction norms and functional standards and payment of land acquired for school
construction.

9.     Finally, there i s a covenant related to resettlement and a disbursement condition related to
land acquisition (see Section B.5. Loan conditions and covenants).

10.    The list of AREFs that will benefit directly from the PARSEM are the following: Grand
Casablanca, Chaouia-ourdigha, Doukala-Abda, Fks-Boulmane, Gharb-chrarda-bani hassan,
Marrakesh-Tansift-Alhaouz, Meknes-Tafilalt, L'Oriontale-Oujda, Rabat-Salk-Zemmour-Zair,
Souss-Massa-Draa, Tadla-Azilal, Tanger-Tetuan, Taza-El Houseima-Taounate.




                                                  81

Table 10-1: Acti
                             Related                                           Obiectives
        Measures             PARSEM
                             Operation                     1               1
                                             verification
                                             Sourcesof        Indicator         Year 1     Y e a r 2  Year3  Year4
 Capacity strengthen g measures
Updateanddevelop        sc 3.3 :           Audit report     Action          To be
operating standards     Reinforcefinance                    completed
for school buildings    and                                                 completed

                        administrative                                      during the
                        management                                          first semester
                        capacity
Designand               sc 3.3 :           Audit report     Action          To be
implementsystemfor      Reinforcefinance                    completed
monitoringissues        and                                                 completed

relatedto land          administrative                                      during the
acquisition             management                                          first semester
                        capacity
Conductworkshopon       sc 3.3 :            Audit report    Numberof         30
the implementationof    Reinforcefinance                                                   15
                                                            staff trained
environmentaland        and
social safeguards as    administrative
definedinthe            management
operationalmanual       capacity
(with the support of
the World Bank) for
AREF
Conductconsultation     sc 3.3 :            Audit report    Numberof         30            15
workshop onland         Reinforcefinance                    stafftrained
acquisition(with the    and
support of the World    administrative
Bank) for AREFs and     management
DEN                     capacity
Properproceduresfor     sc 3.3 :           - Manual         Ratio of        To be          100       100
environmental and       Reinforcefinance                                                                    100
                                           completed        AREFs using
social safeguards       and                andvalidated     new             completed

describedinthe POM      administrative     - Audit report procedures        before
(includingprocedures    management                                          negotiations
for managing            capacity
contentionregarding
landacquisition)
   Mitigating measure
Implementnew and        sc 3.3 :          - Report          Ratio of
updatedset of           Reinforcefinance  completed         AREFs using
operatingstandards      and                                 new set of                                      100
andconstruction         administrative    -andvalidated operating
                                            Audit report                    during
noms for school         management                          standards and   second
buildings(including     capacity                            construction    semester
site selection)                         I                   norms
                                                                                                           I




  A benchmarking)) system will be put inplace for all activities involving the AREFs. An incentive mechanism
     G
will be established to help improve performance. This will provide incentives to improve their monitoring
capacities, as well as encourage competitiveness among AREFs by disclosing their performance basedon modalities
specified as agreed with the DEN.




                                                           82

                      1     Related     1                                    Objectives
       Measures            PARSEM          Sourcesof'
                          Operation        verification       Indicator      Year 1     Year2     Year3    Year4

AREFs                  sc 3.3 :          - Audit report Performance       100          100       100      100
Implement              Reinforcefinance  (on the basis      scale from 1
maintenanceandup       and               of an              to 100
keepingmeasures        administrative    appropriate
                       management        sample)
                       capacity
  Monitoringand Evaluation
Monitor number of     1                                    ~
                       SC 3.3 :          Reportfrom         Amount of     Total of     malof    Total of  Total of
contentiouscases       Reinforcefinance  the litigation     arrears for   arrears       mean     arrears  arrears
relatedto              and               departmentof
compensationof land    administrative    Ministry of        land          should       should    should   should

acquisitionfor school  management                           acquisitionin decrease     iecrease  decrease decrease
constructioninthe      capacity          -Education
                                           Report from      the education relativeto   relative  relative relative
                                         the Central        sector        previous     to        to       to
                                         Directorate                                   previous  previous previous
                                         for Assets I                     Year

                                         MoF                                           Year      Year     Year
                                         (Direction
                                         Centraledes
                                         Domainesdu
                                         Ministhe des
                                         Finances)
Implement              sc 3.3 :          - Report           Ratioof       To be         100      100      100
monitoringplan         Reinforcefinance  completed          AREFS using   completed
during construction    and               andvalidated       the
of school as defined   administrative    - Audit report monitoring        during first

inthe POM              management                           Plan          semester
                       capacity
Conduct Annual audit   Supervision       - Audit report     - Audit       Yes          Yes       Yes      Yes
of theoverall          missions                             submitted
implementationof
environmentaland
social safeguards




                                                        83

                       Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision
                  MOROCCO: BasicEducationReformSupport Program

                                                    Planned                  Actual
PCNreview                                        February2004            February 2004
InitialPID to PIC                                  May 2004                 May 2004
Initial ISDS to PIC                                May 2004                August 2004
Appraisal                                          June 2004             December 2004
Negotiations                                    September 2004           December2004
BoardRVP approval                                October2004             February 2005
Planneddate of effectiveness                       April 2005
Plannedclosing date                                June 2008

Key institutions responsiblefor preparationof the project:Department of NationalEducation
(DEN),The Directorateof Statistics, StrategyandPlanning(DSSP).


Name                                           Title                        Unit
WELMOND Michel           Task TeamLeader, Sr. EducationSpecialist         MNSHD
DIAGANAOusmane           Senior Operations Officer                        MNSHD
PHAMDung-Kim             Operations Officer                               MNSHD
BICHARA Dominique        Sr. Counsel                                      LOAG2
BENCHEMSIMeryem          Financial Management Specialist                  MNACS
BOUAMOUD Fatiha          Executive Assistant                             MNCMA
CHALAL Hocine            Sr. Environmental Specialist                     MNSRE
CHAOUALIRafika           Sr. Financial Management Specialist              OPCFM
DUBEYAshutosh            Economist of Education                           MNSHD
ENGLISHLinda             Sr. Education Specialist                         MNSHD
KADERClaudine            Project Assistant                                MNSHD
KIJIMA Rie               Education Specialist                             MNSHD
KONATEKangbai            Education Specialist                             MNSHD
LAURENTCatherine         Sr. Public Sector Management Specialist          MNSED
MELKONIAN Hovsep         Sr. Finance Officer                              LOAG2
MOTAMEDIAlaleh           Procurement Specialist                           MNACS
SEDERLOF Hjalte S. A.    Implementation Specialist                        ECSHD
SPRATT Jennifer          Education Specialist                            Consultant
WEBBER David             Lead Finance Officer                             LOAGl
WILDT Andreas            Lead Procurement Specialist                      MNACS
YAMOURI Najat            Sr. Participation Officer                       MNCMA
ZAAFRANEHafedh           Economist of Education                          Consultant

Bankfunds expendedto date on project preparation:
    1. Bank resources:US $ 872,210.89
    2. Trust funds: US $964,421.32
    3. Total: US $ 1.83 million (as of November 1,2004)
EstimatedSupervisioncosts:
    1. Estimatedannualsupervisioncost: US $ 85,000



                                                 84

                        Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
                 MOROCCO:BasicEducationReformSupportProgram

ProgramImplementation Plan:

The ProjectImplementationPlan (PIP)is locatedinthe Projectfiles.

GovernmentDocuments:

COSEF(2000). Regards sur le systkme d'Cducation formation auMaroc. Rabat:COSEF.

DEN(2004). DocumentCadrepourlaProtectionEnvironnementalet Sociale.Rabat:
MENESFCRS.

DEN(2004). Programmed'Appui B lareformedu systkme Cducatifmarocain.Rabat:
MENESFCRS.

Governmentof Morocco (2003). RapportNationalRelatif aux Objectifsdu Millhairepour le
DCveloppement.Rabat:Governmentof Morocco.

MENJ(2004). CadreStratCgique.Rabat:MENJ.

MENJ(2003). StatistiquesScolaires:Bilan de larentrCe scolaire 2002-2003.Rabat:MENJ

MENJand CIDA (2003). PlanificationStratCgique.Rabat:MENJ.

World BankDocuments:

OPCS (2001).Key PerformanceIndicatorsfor Managingand AchievingResults.(Unofficial
document).

OPCS (2004). Sector-WideApproaches: Concept, Applications, and Implications.Washington
D.C.: World Bank.

World Bank (1999). ChangingPatternsof Illiteracy inMorocco:Assessment Methods
Compared.LSMS Working Paper, Number 115. Washington,D.C: WorldBank.

World Bank (2004). CountryBrief Middle East andNorthAfrica Region-Morocco.
Washington, D.C: World Bank.

WorldBank (2004). EvaluationPrCliminairedu Systkmede GestionFinancikredes Agences
d'Ex6cution du Programme,Mars-Avril2004 (Maroc). WashingtonD.C.: World Bank.

World Bank (2004).EvaluationPrCliminairedu Systkmede Passationde Marchesdes Agences
d'ExCcutiondu Programme,FCvrier-Avril2004 (Maroc). WashingtonD.C.: WorldBank.




                                            85

World Bank (1994). Kingdomof Morocco:Poverty,Adjustment, and Growth. (2 volumes).
Washington, D.C: World Bank.

World Bank (2003). Morocco:Economic monitoring-Fall Update.Washington, D.C: World
Bank.

World Bank (2004). Morocco: EducationSectorfor the SpringMeetings(Unpublished
document). Washington,DC: World Bank.

WorldBank (2004). Morocco: EducationStatus Report (Unpublisheddocument). Washington,
D.C: World Bank.

World Bank (2004). Morocco: PovertyandHumanDevelopmentBrief (Unpublisheddocument).

World Bank (1995). PerformanceIndicatorsinBank-FinancedEducationOperations.Second
edition. HumanDevelopmentDepartment.

World Bank (2004) Laprockdured'agrtment des entreprisesde travaux, ingknieursconseils ou
bureauxd'ktudes. Rabat: WorldBank. (Unpublisheddocument).

World Bank (1990).Reachingthe Disadvantaged:Social ExpenditurePrioritiesinthe 1990s.
WashingtonD.C: WorldBank.

Other donor documents:

UNDP (2003). HumanDevelopmentIndicators.Website:
http://www.undp.or~/hdr2003/indicator/cty f MAR.htm1[2004/4/10]

UNESCO(2004). EFA GlobalMonitoringReport.Paris: UNESCO.




                                            86

                                         Annex 13: Statementof Loansand Credits
                               MOROCCO:BasicEducationReformSupportProgram

                          ~                                              ~~                                       ~


                                                                                                                             Difference between
                                                                                                                             expectedandactual
                                                              Original Amount inUS$Millions                                     disbursements

Project ID  FY     Purpose                                 IBRD        IDA       SF      GEF     Cancel        Undisb.       Orig     Frm. Rev'd

PO69124     2003   MA-Rainfed AgricultureDevelopment         26.80      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00           28.55      0.40        0.00
PO05516     2003   MA-ASSET MANAGEMENTREFORM                 45.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00           26.58      -1.32       0.00
PO75808     2003   MA-Adult Literacy(Alpha Maroc)             4.10      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00            4.75      0.75        0.00
PO73531     2002   MA-SocialDevelopment Agency                5.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00            6.86      0.90        0.15
PO56978     2001   MA-IRRIGATION BASED                       32.57      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00           31.40       8.20       0.00
                   COMMUNFY DEV.
PO48314     2000   MA-PROTECTED AREAS                         0.00      0.00     0.00     9.80      0.00            9.96      9.69        0.00
                   MANAGEMENT
PO63918     2000   MA-LEGAL AND JUDICIAL                      5.30      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00            2.97       1.90       0.00
                   DEVELOPMENT
PO65757     2000   MA-SUSTAINABLE COASTAL                     2.20      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00            0.79       0.37      -0.01
                   TOURISM DEV.
PO05525     1999   MA-HEALTHMANAGEMENT                       66.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     20.33           45.69      60.10      -0.38
PO05524     1999   M A FESIMEDINA REHAB.                     14.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      4.40            7.85      11.18       0.75
PO05519     1999   LAKHDAR WATERSHED MG                       4.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      1.oo             1.78      2.78       0.00
PO05521     1998   MA-WATER RESOURCEMGMT.                    20.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      3.28             8.33     11.37       0.00
PO43725     1997   MA-RAILWAY RESTR & PRIV                   85.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00           44.68      49.24      26.67
PO05503     1996   SEW.& WATER REUSEI1                       40.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     12.00            11.96     23.96       0.17

                                                    Total: 349.97       0.00     0.00     9.80     41.01           232.15    179.52      27.35




                                                             MOROCCO
                                                      STATEMENTOFIFC's
                                                   Held andDisbursedPortfolio
                                                      InMillions of USDollars


                                                              Committed                                    Disbursed
                                                             IFC                                         IFC
        FY Approval   Company                     Loan      Equity      Quasi     Partic.  Loan          Equity          Quasi     Partic

        2000          Maghreb Inv. Mgt            0.00        0.02         0.00    0.00      0.00         0.02           0.00        0.00
        2000          Maghreb InvestP             0.00        5.00         0.00    0.00      0.00         4.75           0.00        0.00
        2001          MediTelecom                 56.42       0.00      22.13     319.63     56.42        0.00           22.13     319.63
                                                                                                        ~    ~~


                                 Total portfilio: 56.42       5.02      22.13     31963      56.42        4.77           22.13     319.63




                                                                             Approvals PendingCommitment
                      FY Approval     Company                           Loan       Equity      Quasi           Partic.
                      2003            A1Amana Micro                     0.00        0.00        0.00               0.00
                      2002            SGRI                              0.00        0.00        0.00               0.00

                                           Totalpendingcommitment:      0.00        0.00        0.00               0.00



                                                                   87

                                                Annex 14: Countryata Glance
                              MOROCCO:BasicEducationReformSupportProgram
                                                             M. East    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            & North mlddle-
                                                    Morocco    Afrlca  Income         Development diamond'
2002
Population, mId-year(millions)                          29.6      306     2,411                      Lifeexpectancy
GNIpercapita (Atlas method, US$)                        180      2,070    1,390
                                                                                                           T
GNI(Atlas method, US$ billions)                         35.3      670     3,352

Average annual growth, 1996-02                                                       I
Population (77)                                           16        19      10
Laborforce (%)                                           2.5       2.9      12        GNI                                   Gross
                                                                                      per                                 primary
Most recent estlmate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                 capita                            nrollment
Poverty (%ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)           8
Urbanpopulation (%of totalpopulation)                     57       58       49
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                            68       69       69
Infant mortallty(per lOOOlivebirths)                      39       37       30
Childmalnutrition (%of childrenunder5)                                        11             Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improved water source (%ofpopulation)        80       88        81
Illiteracy(%ofpopulationage 154                           49       35        x3
Gross primaryenrollment (%of school-age population)       94       95        in         -Morocco
   Male                                                  XI1       98        in                 Lowr-middle-hco megroup
   Female                                                                                    -
                                                          88       90       1s

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                               1962    1992     2001     2002
GDP (US$ billions)                                                                    Economic ratios'
                                                 15.4   28.5     33.9     37.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                   282     23.2     24.8     252
Exportsof goods andserv1ceslGDP                 82      25.1     30.7     29.9                           Trade

Gross domestic savingsiGDP                      13.8     16.5     8.5      8.3
Gross national savingslGDP                      182     217      25.0     24.0                             T

Current account balance/GDP                     - 2 1    -15       4.8
Interestpayents/GDP                              4.3      8.1      2.7      2.9
Totaldebt/GDP                                   80.4    79.7     58.9     49.9
Totaldebt setvice/exports                       44.8    40.6      182     32.9
Presentvalue of debt/GDP                                         43.4
Presentvalue of debtlexports                                     104.6                                Indebtedness
                                    1982-92 1992-02    2001     2002 2002-06
(averageannualgrowth)
GDP                                      4.2     3.0     6.5       4.5      3A           -Morocco

GDP DercaDita                            2.0      1.3    4.8       2.9      1.7                  Lower-middle-Incomegroup
                                                                                            ~




                                               lgE2lgg2 2o01             2002         Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(%ofGDP)
Agriculture                                     153     154       E8        16 1      40

Industry                                        319     323       314       311       30

  Manufacturing                                 173      181      173      7 3        2o
Seivices                                        528     523      528      528         lo

Private consumption                                                                    0
                                                679     667      624      648         ,o
Generalgovernment consumption                   183     168        181     160
Imports of goods andsetvices                    337     318       361     359                    -GDI           -GDP


                                            1982-92 1992-02     2001     2002       1 Growth
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                           of exports and imports     ( O h )I
Agriculture                                      5.3     1.7     23.0       7.O
Industry                                         32      3.5       3.0      35
  Manufacturing                                  42      3.0       4.0      45
Services                                         4.3     32        5.1      4.5

Private consumption                              4.3     3.4       3.9     n.0
Generalgovernment consumption                    3.8     3.9      US       -6.0
Gross domestic investment                        2.9     5.1       8.1      5.6
Imports of goods andsetvices                     5.9     6.5       2.3      6.7               -Exports         -Inports




                                                                    88

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                                                             I
                                         1982    1992    2001    2002       lnflatlon (%)
Domestlc prlces
("'%change)                                                                4 T
Consumer prices                            10.5     5.7     2.0     0.6
ImplicitGDP deflator                        7 2     4.4      16     2.6

Government finance
(%ofGDP, includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                           22.0    26.2     24.5    24.0             97    98     99       00    01      02
Current budget balance                                      -14     0.2
Overallsumlusldeficit                     -P.1    -2.3     -0.8    -3.4             -GDPdeflator          -CPI


TRADE
                                         1982    1992    2001    2002       Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                      2,065   5,045    7,256  7,663     15,000
  Agriculture                              546    1,186   1,745   1,958
   Phosphorus rock                         572    307      445     439
   Manufactures                            407   2,6P     3,822   3,966
Total imports (cif)                       4,315   8,lB   11,394  P,083
   Food                                    580    695     1,370   1,459
   Fuelandenergy                          1,l73   /P4     2,026  2,086
                                                                           !                                               I
   Capital goods                           953   2,019    2,237   2,393

Export price index(W95=WO)                  70      87       82      65             98   97   98     99    w    01    02

Import price index(W95=WO)                  78       91      89      68               iExports         mlnports
Terns of trade (1995=100)                   89      95        91     96


BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                         1982    1992     2001   2002        Current account balance t o GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
E X ~ O of ~ S
          ~ goods andservices            2,969    7,m     10,541  10,941     8
Imports of goods andServices              5,199  9,043   P,380    ?3,109
Resource balance                         -2,230  -1,909   -1,839  -2,m       4

Net income                                -650   -1,057    -944   -1,066
Net currenttransfers                        981  2,533    2,520   2,567      2

Current account balance                  -1,867   -433      1611
                                                                             0
Financingitems (net)                      2,061    116      374
Changes innet reserves                     -194   -683    -1,985    223      2
Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)
Conversion rate (DEC, /ocaUUS$)             6.O     8.5      113     na

 EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                          1982   1992     2001   2002
 (US$ millions)                                                              Composltlon of 2002 debt (US$ mlll.)
Total debt outstanding anddisbursed       PA01   22,674   19944   18,601
   IBRD                                     698  3,408    2,500   2,549
   IDA                                       41      37       25      24

 Total debt service                        1,721  3,894   2,556    3,691
   IBRD                                      89     518     452      47.2
   IDA                                         1       1       2       2

 Composition of net resourceflows
   Official grants                          163     B2       l72
   Official creditors                       726     471     -432   -727
   Private creditors                        804      49       62   -399
   Foreigndirect investment                  80     503   2,658
   Portfolio equity                           0       0       -8                                    E6,209
 World Bank program
   Commitments                              x36     275        8      33     A . IBRD                         E- Bilateral
   Disbursements                            x35     477       61      45     8 - IDA    D Other rmltilaterA
                                                                                         -                    F. Private
   Principalrepayments                       36     270     280      269     C-IMF                            G. Short-!err




                                                               89


MAP SECTION


