                                                                    E1534 v2

         Environment and Social Management Plan (DRAFT)

Lesotho Private Sector Competitiveness and Economic Diversification Project
             (P088544-IDA Credit 4275-LSO, Grant H281-LSO)




1.0 Introduction

The report outlines the Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) for the
Private Sector Competitiveness Project (PSCP). The ESMP provides the operational
guidelines for mitigation and tracking of expected environmental and social project
impacts. The Project Management Unit (PMU) has the overall responsibility for the
implementation of the actions required under this plan.

The Project Development Objective (PDO) of the PSCP is to facilitate increased private
sector investment by improving the business environment and diversifying sources of
growth. The Project comprises three components: 1) Improving the Business
Environment, 2) Supporting Economic Diversification, and 3) Project Implementation
Support. Project activities under Component 1 support the implementation of agreed
policy measures aimed at reducing the cost of doing business. Activities under
Component 2 support building capacity of the private sector by strengthening linkages
with the regional economy and access to skills while improving firm level productivity.
Sub-components are listed in Table 1 below.

                 Table 1: PSCP Components and Subcomponents

                 Component 1: Improving the Business Environment

                 1A    Company registration and licensing reform
                 1B    Immigration and passport service reform
                 1C    Improving access to finance

                 Component 2: Supporting Economic Diversification

                 2A    Skill development for the garment industry
                 2B    Horticulture out-grower scheme
                 2C    Tourism industry support
                 2D    Lesotho Enterprise Assistance Program (LEAP)

                 Component 3: Project Implementation Support

                 3A    Project Management Unit (PMU)
                 3B    LEAP management


The ESMP was undertaken as a desk study based on a prior ESMP draft and relevant
project documents, with input provided by the project team.




                                                                         Page 1 of 17
2.0 Scope and Objective

The ESMP seeks to establish clear procedures, methodologies and responsibilities to
address identified environmental and social issues. The Plan provides a strategy for two
subcomponents: skill development for the garment industry (2A) and horticulture out-
grower scheme (2B).

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) identified no social impact from the project. The
ESMP therefore identifies social issues in order to properly monitor social aspects and
document the expected positive linkages. Environmental issues under the ESMP are
largely based on the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) prepared for the project.
The additional identification of issues under the ESMP will enable the project team and
GoL to better manage information on social linkages and ensure that project
investments produce the desired impact. The monitoring of social and environmental
linkages will produce data that can feed into future policy prioritization and project
design.

The PSCP has been restructured and extended through 2013.

2.1 Skill Development for the Garment Industry

The skill development component provides assistance to establish and implement two
industry-led skills development centres based in Maseru and Maputsoe, aiming to
enhance the competitiveness of the textile and garment industries in Lesotho. The
project initially sought to increase the average task efficiency of trainees to address the
issue of low labour productivity. In addition to productivity, the project sought to reduce
worker turnover and absenteeism – and increase the number of Basotho supervisors.1
At project inception, there was a significant mismatch between skill training and
industry needs resulting in few students ensuring jobs in the garment industry.

As part of the restructuring a public private partnership (PPP) advisor conducted a due
diligence and needs assessment study. Based on the study’s recommendations, the
Government of Lesotho (GoL) is inviting technical and financial proposals from potential
private sector partners. GoL expects negotiations with a preferred candidate to be
complete by February 2012 and a partnership agreement in March 2012. In preparation
of preparing this partnership agreement the skills centres will undergo a second round
of refurbishment. The ESMP thus provides a description of expected impact and
linkages, specifically focusing on expected changes proposed under the PPP proposal
and the refurbishment. Under the restructuring of the project, the project indicators
have shifted from increase efficacy, to improved placement and launch of the PPP, see
table 2.




1Atproject initiation, expatriates provided almost all technical and middle level supervisory and
management skills. Expatriates held an estimated 1,000 positions.

                                                                                  Page 2 of 17
Table 2: Project Indicators for Skill Development for the Garment Industry

Original indicator                                New indicator2                      Data source/
                                                                                      responsibility
Average task efficiency per operator              Percentage of trainees placed       M&E/PMU
(number of pieces/worker/day) increased           from the training centre
from 12 to 24 by project end                      increase to 95% by project end
Average floor rejection/rework rate               Successful PPP model                Survey/PMU
reduced from 30% to 15% by project end            established for the training
                                                  centres

2.2 Horticulture Out-Grower Scheme

The horticulture component seeks to add value to horticultural products grown in
Lesotho. Initially the project provided support for vegetable and tree crop production,
but under the restructured project, the project is focused on tree crops. The
intermediate outcome sought was increased export and income among participating
farmers. The horticulture out grower scheme is managed in partnership with a private
partner, Denmar Estates. The current action plan has three objectives: 1) exporting
fruits from the pilot sites, 2) targeted rollout of the pilot activities in the surrounding
villages, and 3) the introduction of investment in the agriculture sector by potential
producers and processors.

Under the restructuring the project focuses on the second objective; a targeted rollout of
pilot activities in one village but the indicators remain unchanged, see table 3.

Table 3: Project Indicators for the Horticulture Out-Grower Scheme

Indicator                                                                       Data source/
                                                                                responsibility
Increased exports of horticulture products from pilot sites by 30% by           Market report/PMU
project end
Improve income retention among farmers participating in the pilot               Market report/PMU
schemes by 40% by project end

3.0 Organization and Responsibilities

The overall project oversight is delegated to the Project Steering Committee (PSC)
consists of members from government agencies and business.3 The PSC provides
strategic guidance and oversight of the project, approved and reviews annual plans and
progress.4

The Project Management Unit (PMU) manages the day-to-day operations of the project
and responsible for the implementation of sub-components. The PMU reports to the PSC
and coordinates with relevant agencies, donors and projects.




2 World Bank. Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Private Sector Competitiveness
and Economic Diversification Project Credit to the Kingdom of Lesotho.
3 Representing the Ministries seated on the PPSC, the Registrar General and the CEOs from the Lesotho

National Development Corporation (LNDC) and the Lesotho Tourism Development Corporation (LTDC).
4 Strategic guidance and oversight was previously in the project provided by the Private-Public Steering

Committee (PPSC) comprised of ministerial and business representatives with a Project Review Committee
(PRC) providing technical and operational guidance. The PRC was elevated to Project Steering Committee
(PSC) to perform the functions of the PPSC.

                                                                                         Page 3 of 17
3.1 Skill Development for the Garment Industry

GoL has provided buildings for two skill development centres, one in Maseru and one in
Maputsoe. The aim was to establish two financially sustainable centres after the initial
three years of operation. The training was envisaged as both pre-employment training
and programs which would training existing workers and provide supervisory and
management training. At project inception it was envisaged that the Maseru centre
would train between 2,000 and 3,000 students per year while it was expected that
around 1,000 people would be trained at Maputsoe centre each year. Maseru is host to
the greatest concentration of garment factories in the country. A cluster of garment
factories and shoe factories are located in Maputsoe.

A Centre Manager manages each skill centre and prepares all reports required under the
project. The Manager is responsible for the day-to-day implementation of activities and
staff. Under the restructuring, staff will include a registrar section with responsibilities
for student recruitment and placement.

A Management Council is in place for each skill centre as a decision-making and
advisory body for the centres. The composition of the management council for the two
training centres vary slightly, but consists of members from industry and government.

The main beneficiaries under this component are trainees, both unskilled workers
seeking an entrance to the industry, and existing employees seeking to enhance skills to
gain managerial positions. The private garment industry is expected to benefit through
support to provide qualified candidates for staff positions.

3.2 Horticulture Out-Grower Scheme

The Scheme seeks to improve quality, volume and delivery capability of Basotho
farmers, transitioning away from smallholder farming into group or block farming
methods of fruit trees, produced organically to help tap into high premium niche
markets.

A Horticulture Pilot Manager oversees the out-grower scheme. The Manager is
responsible for the day-to-day implementation of activities and is responsible for
preparing all reports required under the project.

The Manager works directly with the District Agricultural Office (DAO) to provide
support to the farmers either directly or through the short-term consultants who
provide discrete technical assistance. Under the project, a private sector advisor,
Denmar, supports the roll out of the pilot phase and provides expertise to farmers on
growing techniques. In addition, the Denmar has an established supply chain and
distribution network which the project will tap into.

The direct beneficiaries under the component are the farmers who will receive a
subsidy to convert their land to fruit tree farms and attain technical expertise. The
farmers are organized into three community groups. The farmers will hire seasonal
workers from the community.




                                                                             Page 4 of 17
Figure 1: Existing Organization of Component 2A & 2B



                                         Project Steering Committee
                                                    (PSC)




                                          Project Management Unit
                                                                               Denmar
     Management Council                            (PMU)




                                                                      Horticulture Pilot Manager
                        Centre Manager



                                                                          Local Horticulture
                                                                             Consultant


       Staff/trainers
                                    Students/trainees


                                                                                  Farmer groups



4.0 Environmental and Social Baseline

The EIA provides an environmental baseline for the horticulture project area. To
establish a social baseline for the ESMP, the World Bank’s 2010: Lesotho - Sharing
Growth by Reducing Inequality and Vulnerability: Choices for Change. A Poverty, Gender
and Social Assessment is utilized. The report identified a significant lack of data in
Lesotho, which undermines the understanding of policy implications from targeted
investment to ensure that projects reach intended beneficiaries. The baselines in this
section are brief and related to social and environmental linkages under the project and
therefore do not provide a complete environmental or social baseline of Lesotho.

4.1 Social Baseline

Lesotho faces significant development challenges, including a high rate of chronic
poverty. In 2002/03, 37 percent of households lived on less than US$1/day – roughly 50
percent lived under the national poverty line. Income inequality is entrenched, both
within rural and urban areas, and Lesotho has one of the highest HIV/AIDS prevalence
in the world. Approximately one in four adults carry HIV.

People in rural areas have lower incomes and higher incidence of poverty. Households
in rural areas depend on subsistence agriculture and remittances, but remittances,


                                                                                 Page 5 of 17
which were stable for decades through male labour in the South African mining
industry, have gradually declined.

While 50 percent of the labour force is engaged in agricultural production, only five
percent sell maize and only 0.2 percent sells all of their production. The average land
cultivated per former is 1.3 hectare – only 11 percent cultivate over 3 hectares.5

The textile industry has attracted mainly young women migrating from rural areas.
Women working in the textile sector have higher incomes that those living in rural
areas, and their children are more likely to be in school. Approximately five percent of
all households in Lesotho – 2.5 percent in rural areas and 13.4 percent in urban areas -
have a family member employed in the textile industry.6 However, these households do
not fare better than other households nor does textile employment have a sizeable
impact on livelihood strategy of the household.

4.2 Environmental baseline

Village interviews7 seeking to uncover local causes of poverty indicate insecurity in
agricultural production as a main source of poverty. Soil erosion, lack of productive land
or labour, lack of adequate farming inputs and weather impact (drought and harsh
weather conditions) are main causes.

Devastating droughts have been persistent over the past two decades occurring in the
periods of 1983-84, 1991-93, 1994-96 and 2002-04. Other climatic risks include impact
from hailstorms, snow, frost damage and, often extensive, droughts.

Farming in Lesotho is tested by depleted soil, lack of irrigation, limited use of fertilizers,
weak extension systems, inferior infrastructure, under-development markets, lack of
land tenure security and lack of credit availability. GoL subsidies have traditionally
favoured farmers owning more than 15 hectares.

The horticulture project is situated in two districts, Berea (Thuathe village) and Leribe
(Quqolosing and Mahobong villages). The project areas are in the northern foothills,
which have fertile land and high agricultural productivity. The foothills have higher
rainfall than the lowlands and better access to irrigation.8

5.0 Environmental and Social Linkages

According to the project team, the expected favourable social outcomes include
employment and poverty reduction. The EIA established the environmental impacts
were minor. Key stakeholders have been consulted and been involved in project design
through their participation in several workshops.

The following section identifies the environmental and social linkages to feed into the
ESMP.


5
  World Bank, 2010. Lesotho - Sharing Growth by Reducing Inequality and Vulnerability: Choices for Change. A
Poverty, Gender and Social Assessment.
6 World Bank, 2010. Lesotho - Sharing Growth by Reducing Inequality and Vulnerability: Choices for Change. A

Poverty, Gender and Social Assessment.
7 World Bank, 2010. Lesotho - Sharing Growth by Reducing Inequality and Vulnerability: Choices for Change. A

Poverty, Gender and Social Assessment.
8 20002/03 data in World Bank, 2010. Lesotho - Sharing Growth by Reducing Inequality and Vulnerability:

Choices for Change. A Poverty, Gender and Social Assessment.

                                                                                           Page 6 of 17
5.1 Skill Development for the Garment Industry

Since the skill centres were established the skill centres have trained a total of 1,441
students. The Maseru centre has trained 769 students, 83 percent of students were
female. In Maputsoe, 672 students have been trained – 61 percent of students were
female. In Maputsoe, 58 supervisors were trained – 40 of these were female (69
percent). The average age of trainees is 25-30 years and originates from all across
Lesotho. 83 percent participated in the basic sewing course. The centres have accepted
all applicants. As of December 2011, a total of 1,058 trainees have found work in the
garment industry, 520 from the Maputsoe centre (59 percent of these were women) and
538 workers were from Maseru (90 percent of these were women).

The training under the project has consisted mainly of a basic skills sewing course,
which is a two-month training, eight hours per day. Students pay M200 (app. US$24) to
participate and cover own accommodation and transportation. Those who are
unemployed when entering the training program are exempt from fee payment.

The majority of trainees are unemployed and unskilled when entering the course. 80
percent of the trainees found employment in the garment industry after receiving
training. In Maputsoe the private sector has had an agreement to employ trainees post
training. A typical salary in the garment industry is M800/month (app. US$97).

The project is seeking to reduce worker turnover and absenteeism currently impacting
the sector. The PAD notes that HIV/AIDS is a significant challenge to worker
productivity and development.

Under the restructuring the centres will undergo a) refurbishment and b) fee
restructuring. The PPP Feasibility study suggests that the skill centres should be GoL
owned, but operated by the private sector. It is expected that both the GoL and the
private sector will provide capital investment. Further there is an identified need to
diversify the training available currently, by providing more advanced courses with a
view to increasing skills levels and having more general business development courses
that would foster more entrepreneurial skills.

As noted, the skills centres have mainly provided a two-month basic skill sewing skills
course, and not provided the managerial training, which was initially envisaged. The
Maseru Centre has app 45 students at a time (180/year) and the Maputsoe 30 students
at a time (270/year). There is a significant gap between the payment provided by
students (M200/course – app. US$24) and the actual cost of the training. The cost
operating cost of the course has been M4,600/student (app. US$555) - M7,675/student
(app. US$926) if including the projects capital investments.

Under the restructuring GoL is considering whether to include training of other skills,
including small bakery and tourism training. But as a result of the significant gap
between cost and the existing fees charged to trainees, the PPP Feasibility study
suggests charging increased fees for students.

Based on the PPP Feasibility study, it is envisaged that the refurbishment will include
rehabilitation on the existing site. With a limited budget, the reconstruction required is
expected to address the main problems:
    Address safety issues: ensure adequate number of fire exists and ensure
        appropriate fire fighting equipment is available and functioning;
    Repair roof leakages;
    Repair ceilings;

                                                                            Page 7 of 17
       Repair electrical wiring to bring it to compliance;
       Repair gutters;
       Weather proof;
       Ensure that the building is accessible to persons with disability;
       Increase number of toilets.

The refurbishment is expected to be conducted over a short period of time and be
contracted through normal procurement procedures. As a minor undertaking, only a
small number of construction workers will be involved.

5.2 Horticulture Out-Grower Scheme

Lesotho offers favourable microclimate growing conditions for fruit trees, early growing
season and competitive wages. Additionally, proximity to potential markets makes
horticulture attractive for high-value horticulture. The horticulture component is
expected to directly benefit rural and thereby the most impoverished regions in
Lesotho.

The project will provide livelihood support during the course of the project – to get the
project off the ground and compensate lost income in the transition period. Calculated
based on prior production, the livelihood stipend is provided on a monthly basis to
participating farmers. Participating farmers will provide the labour inputs needed and
are expected to pay the hired labour through the proceeds of the project funds. The
horticulture manager initially distributed the livelihood support, but the responsibility
has been transferred to Denmar. The social and labour standards practiced in the pilot
areas are expected to spill into the rest of the country.

Due to limited project funds, the project will support the roll out of the project in one of
the three project villages. To participate, farmers must:

       Establish a group of farmers to form a legal entity to ensure access to minimum
        10 hectares of arable land for the project;9
       Commit to the project for a minimum of five years.

The EIA found, that with the proper project management, potential environmental
impact from the project is likely to be insignificant. The EIA monitoring and evaluation
plan needs to be followed during the project implementation to ensure that the
objectives are being met to ensure safe handling and use of agrichemicals and
pesticides, and adequate protection of the environment in application.

To facilitate a roll out of the initiative, irrigation will be required. The Caladon River will
likely provide the water needed for irrigation. The volume of water required for the
rollout is limited and is not expected to pose any impact on surrounding communities,
particularly given that household water is accessed through boreholes, and surrounding
agriculture is currently 100% rain fed.




9Grouping farmers addresses prior issues with government subsidies favoring farmers owning large land
holdings in a country where the average holding is 1.3 hectare.

                                                                                       Page 8 of 17
6.0 Environmental and Social Management Plan

The ESMP provides a simple, yet detailed plan to monitor project impact and provide
mitigation where needed. Lesotho has lacked analytical and operational capacity to
adequately measure project impact and use project outcome in policy and project
design. The ESMP can therefore feed information into this vacuum by providing linkages
and data to enhance design and policy making. DFID, through its Poverty Support
Program has provided support to MTICM to strengthen their analytical and operational
capacities. The information gathered under the ESMP can be aligned and shared with
MTICM to feed into this existing effort to provide better policy design and decision-
making and to ensure the greatest poverty reduction impact.

Appendix 1 provides an overview of monitoring and mitigation measures under the
ESMP.

6.1 Skill Development for the Garment Industry

The training centre operator should implement the ESMP whether under public or
private management. If the centre management is contracted to the private sector, the
ESMP components should be built into the contract.

6.1.1 Social Issues

Under the restructuring plan, the fees paid by trainees are proposed to be substantially
increased. It will be necessary to assess if it is feasible for all prospective trainees, in
particular the unemployed and those with few skills or prior employment history. The
GoL may decide to apply a sliding scale based on ability to pay to ensure that the basic
skill training is available to all.

The project should better track trainee profiles to understand the impact of the training
provided. To obtain a spot in the training program, trainees should provide basic
information to enable the centre to track who benefits from the program by developing
socio-economic profiles of trainees. The information provided should include:
     Gender
     Age
     Education status
     Urban/rural status
     Family status
     Prior employment history (unemployed/full time/part time, sector and position,
        and contract/casual)
     Income per month
     Health (disability and HIV/AIDS status)

Given the significant challenge of HIV/AIDS, proven to be a particular problem among
young factory workers, the training centre should offer HIV/AIDS education during the
first week trainees join the centre. This is expected to, in some part, address the issue of
absenteeism and lack of retention in the work place. Rural households, where the new
trainees are in large part recruited from, have less awareness of HIV/AIDS than their
urban counterparts. Young women, the majority of the trainees, are more likely to be
young and single and engage with several partners. The PMU should assist the centre
managers in developing relationships with NGOs or donors who can provide the
training at low or no cost. For example PSI/USAID Corridors of Hope HIV/AIDS



                                                                             Page 9 of 17
Education Project, which targets high-risk groups – or the SHARP program. Both have
programs have experience in educating factory workers.

As the training centres are undergoing refurbishment, the refurbishing plans must
include improvements that will ensure access for trainees and employees with
disabilities.

To understand the long-term impact of the training offered at the centre, the registrar’s
office should monitor placement of trainees post training for three years. The registrar
should conduct brief interview three months after training and subsequently annually
for three years. The following issues should be tracked to monitor relative impact of
training and HIV/AIDS education provided at the centre.
     Urban/rural status
     Family status
     Employment status (unemployed/full time/part time, sector and position, and
        contract/casual)
     Income per month
     Education status
     Health (disability and HIV/AIDS status)

The registrar’s office should annually conduct a garment industry assessment to
establish the number of expatriates in technical and middle level supervisory positions
versus Basotho in these positions. The aim is to increase the percentage of Basotho’s
retained in managerial and technical positions in the garment industry.

The impact of the training provided can also be improved through understanding the
needs of staff, industry members and trainees. The centre manager should provide a
comment/complaints box and post grievance/suggestion procedures in a visible space
at the training centre. PMU will collect responses, both written and verbal and forward
redressal proposals to PSC for approval. Key issues raised through comments provided
should be reflected in annual project reports.

6.1.2 Environmental Issues

During the refurbishment of the training centres, the PMU should ensure that
contractors adequately dispose of construction waste. The PMU should consult with
METC to screen for hazardous materials and make appropriate accommodations to
ensure that neither persons nor environment are exposed to hazardous materials.

Centre managers should notify neighbours and immediate community of construction
activities and length of engagement. One month prior to commencement of construction,
the centre manager should invite community and neighbours for a brief tour of the
training facilities with a briefing of construction about to be undertaken. The centre
managers should provide future contact information to ensure continued understanding
of activities and address concerns as they may arise.

6.1.3 Occupational Hazards

The refurbishment of the training centres must address current shortfalls in fire escapes
and fire fighting materials. The PMU should provide a detailed description of
requirements in the refurbishment contract. In addition, the centre manager should
establish a program for emergency training and appoint fire marshals. Plans should be
posted on a public wall and be described in accessible language at the training centres.


                                                                         Page 10 of 17
The PMU and the centre manager should work with the contractor to ensure that
students and staff are safe during refurbishment. The contractor will be required to
cordon off unsafe areas and plan to halt training in periods if impact from work put staff
or students at risk, including exposure to noise and dust. Training should be halted if
heat/ventilation is unavailable, if toilets or water is cut off for more than two hours
(unless alternative facilities are identified in the immediate vicinity).

6.2 Horticulture Out-Grower Scheme

By receiving the support through the project, the pilot farmers have committed to use
their pilot farms as demonstration plots to train other villagers during the roll out. The
project funds education and awareness of farming methods to ensure that participating
farmers follow environmental guidelines and organic growing standards, while ensuring
a high standard of production. Given illiteracy among Lesotho farmers, the training
programs are hands-on and holistic to include the entire community – using the
language of the farmers.

Initially, protective fences were constructed blocking existing footpaths used by
community members. The project has addressed this issue by providing gates.

6.2.1 Social Issues

To ensure strong project data, the project should collect data on participating farmers,
both those participating in the pilot project and those participating in the roll out of the
project. The project should use this data to analyse poverty impact of the project. Data
collection should occur annually and include:
     Size of land
     Gender
     Age
     Education status
     Family size and status
     Family employment (current employment status of family members)
     Income per month (remittances or other income, average seasonal income)
     Health (disability and HIV/AIDS status)
     Employees under the project (number of employees, days employed, salary)

The project has developed an informal agreement between communities and
participating farmers, where farmers share a portion of their harvest with community
members. In return, community members have an informal community arrangement for
security to prevent theft or damage of produce. This arrangement thus ensures mutual
benefits for community members.

Farmer groups, the foremen/field managers and the horticulture project manager
should work closely with the community leadership and provide relevant updates at
community meetings to ensure the continued community support of the initiative and
address any concerns that may arise. Grievances with the project should follow
traditional grievance procedures in the community, for example verbal complaints or
concerns shared at community events/meetings. However, should grievances escalate,
the horticulture manager is required to step in to mitigate. The PMU should describe
how grievances if any were mitigated in annual reports.




                                                                            Page 11 of 17
6.2.4 Environmental Issues

The application of fertilizers and pesticides will consider soil type and slope to ensure
protection of watershed and groundwater. Pesticides and fertilizers application will be
based on an Integrated Pest Management (IPM) approach. IPM will be monitored under
the Global Gap framework. The subscription to Global Gap ensures that the project is
compliant with international norms in the use and handling of agrochemicals. Under the
Global Gap program, inspectors will ensure compliance through inspections. The
horticulture manager will monitor erosion, water quality and soil nutrition, but with the
Global Gap the project has enhanced inspection with an independent monitoring regime.
Global Gap compliance is expected to simplify export procedures for the international
market. Participation in Global Gap will also ensure proper handling of potential surplus
pesticide or fertilizer, as currently Lesotho lacks adequate legislation on hazardous
waste.

Training of farmers and community members involved in activities related to pesticide
and fertilizer use is essential to ensure sound environmental management for soil, water
and occupational safety. The project will provide training, which enables farmers to
understand the complex negative impact inadequate handling of both fertilizers and
pesticide. The training will include good management practises in storing (ventilation,
prevention of leaching, stock management etc.), occupational hazards and
environmental safeguards. Given the high illiteracy among Basotho farmers, the project
will ensure innovative approaches, including audio-visual tools and hands on training.

In the short term, the PMU will work with various project managers and contractors to
ensure that adequate erosion prevention. In addition, regular tests will be obtained and
analysed by an independent lab to monitor chemical residue, soil nutrition and water
quality, with oversight by METC and Global Gap inspections. In the medium- to long
term, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security will maintain this oversight.

In addition, the project will fund the installation of hail nets and ensure that they are
adequately installed to protect trees and allow for community access.




                                                                         Page 12 of 17
APPENDIX


APPENDIX 1: Environmental and Social Management Plan


Issue              ESMP Action                      Responsibility             Desired outcome


SKILL DEVELOPMENT FOR THE GARMENT INDUSTRY


Social issues

Trainee profile    As part of application for       Centre manager             Understand trainee
                   training, prospective trainees   (admin registrar’s         background, including:
                   provide a brief socio-           office). Share with        gender, age, rural/urban,
                   economic profile.                MTICM.                     family status
                                                                               (married/unmarried, #
                                                                               kids), prior employment,
                                                                               education status and
                                                                               income.
Affordability      Assess affordability of new      PRS and PMU to             Ensure affordability of
                   fee structure for prospective    consult garment            training, in particularly
                   trainees. Ensure that higher     industry and centre        training offered to those
                   fees are not imposing barriers   managers.                  with few skills or
                   to access training.                                         employment history.
Income             Monitor income of trainees       Centre manager             Track income development
                   for three years post training.   (admin registrar’s         to establish impact of
                   See 6.1.1 for details.           office). Share with        project.
                                                    MTICM.
Job                Monitor trainee employment       Centre manager             Track employment to
stability/impact   for three years post training.   (admin registrar’s         establish impact of project.
of training        See 6.1.1 for details.           office). Share with
                                                    MTICM.
Managerial         Conduct annual industry          Centre manager             Increase the percentage of
positions          assessment to establish the      (admin registrar’s         Basotho’s retained in
                   number of expatriates in         office). Share with        managerial and technical
                   technical and middle level       MTICM.                     positions in the garment
                   supervisory positions versus                                industry.
                   Basotho in these positions.
Health             Provide HIV/AIDS awareness       PMU to request NGO/        Improved HIV/AIDS
                   training at initial stage of     donor projects to          prevention in high-risk
                   training. Track impact of        provide training.          group.
                   awareness training, see 6.1.1
                   for details.
Persons with       Refurbishment plan to            Included in contract for   Training centres accessible
disabilities       include plan for accessibility   refurbishment (PMU)        to persons with disabilities.
                   for persons with disabilities.                              Disabled persons gaining
                   Track number of disabled                                    employment skills.
                   persons trained and
                   employed.
Complaint          Provide comment/complaint        PMU will forward           Ensure that managers
mechanism          box and procedures for           comment/ complaint         address complaints in
                   addressing                       mechanism to PSC for       adequate manner, use good
                   comments/complaints from         approval. Monitor          ideas.
                   staff, trainees, neighbours,     comments/ complaints
                   private sector or others.        and reflect on how
                                                    these address
                                                    addressed in annual
                                                    reports.




                                                                                          Page 13 of 17
Environmental issues

Waste             Ensure that waste from              Disposal standards to     Ensure that waste is
management        refurbishment is adequately         be included in            disposed of adhering to strict
                  disposed of during construction.    contract for              environmental standards.
                                                      refurbishment. PMU
                                                      oversight.
Hazardous         Screen construction site for        METC to assess            Ensure that no hazardous
materials         existence of hazardous material,    existence of              materials are present.
                  including asbestos.                 materials. If existence   Prevent exposure to persons
                                                      of hazardous material     or environment by adhering
                                                      confirmed, PMU is         to strict environmental
                                                      responsible for           standards.
                                                      mitigation plan.10
Noise, traffic    The impact is expected to be        Centre managers           Ensure good neighbourliness.
and dust          minor. Ensure neighbours are                                  Seek to minimize impact and
                  appraised of pending                                          adhere to potential
                  construction. Provide written                                 agreements with neighbours
                  notice to neighbours two months                               on timing.
                  prior to construction with
                  invitation to a briefing one
                  month prior to construction
                  commencement. Provide contact
                  should any issues arise.

Occupational hazards

Fire              Refurbishment must include          Included in contract      Reduce fire hazards to
protection        appropriate fire escapes            for refurbishment         minimum. Ensure that staff
                  Refurbishment plan must             (PMU). Centre             and trainees appraised of
                  include fire-fighting materials.    managers to               procedures in an emergency.
                  Emergency plan developed and        coordinate training
                  posted in project buildings.        and appoint fire
                                                      marshals.
Constructing      Halt training during                PMU, centre manager       Ensure that students and
impact on staff   refurbishment if impact of                                    staff are safe during
and trainees      activities cause potential danger                             reconstruction. Training
                  for staff or students.                                        should be halted if heat/
                  If training is on going during                                ventilation is inadequate,
                  minor construction, ensure that                               toilet facilities or water is
                  area of construction is cordoned                              unavailable (unless
                  off.                                                          alternative facilities are
                                                                                identified in immediate
                                                                                vicinity).




10Lesotho does not currently have a law for disposal of hazardous material. Should material exist in the
construction site, permission to adequately dispose of material in South Africa would likely be needed, or
the PMU would need to ensure disposal (potentially safe burial) of materials to ensure that no one recycles
or otherwise is exposed to such material. Meanwhile, all work related to the disposal would likely have to
happen in South Africa. Handling and disposal procedure should otherwise follow Lesoto ’s Labour Code
Order requirements when handling hazardous material.

                                                                                            Page 14 of 17
HORTICULTURE OUT-GROWER SCHEME


Social issues

Farmer           To participate in the project,      Horticulture manager,         Improve data collection
profile          farmers should provide basic        PMU analysis. Share with      and      understanding   of
                 information to enable the           MTICM.                        project     impact.    Data
                 project to track impact. The                                      include: land ownership,
                 information will be gathered                                      gender, age, education,
                 annually. See 6.2.1. for details.                                 employment & incomes
                                                                                   and health.
Income           Monitor farmer income during        Horticulture pilot manager    Track income and
                 project and set up monitoring                                     employment in community
                 post-project.                                                     to fully understand impact
                                                                                   of project.
                                                     Horticulture pilot manager
                 Monitor number of jobs
                 created and income.
                 See 6.2.1
Community        Work closely with community         Farmer groups, foremen/       Ensure continued
                 leadership and provide              field managers and            community support by
                 pertinent updates and receive       horticulture pilot manager    proactively providing
                 input from community.               to participate regularly in   updates and address
                                                     community meetings.           community concerns.
Grievance/       Complaints may be raised            Horticulture manager will     Ensure that comments,
complaint        verbally in community and/or        report to PMU on issues       grievances or complaints
mechanism        farmer group meetings. All          raised in community or        are adequately addressed
                 potential stakeholders              farmer meetings. PMU to       and use in future project
                 appraised of meetings or            receive formal complaints.    planning.
                 notified where more formal          PMU reflect on how issues
                 comments/ complaints may be         were address in annual
                 submitted. E.g. grievance.          reports.

Environmental issues

Training         Training to ensure sound            PMU/Denmar to identify        Increased awareness of
                 environmental management            and contract private firm     effective use of input in
                 and help capacity building.         to provide training           fruit tree production.
                                                                                   Farmer groups to gain
                                                                                   knowledge and experience,
                                                                                   which will enable them to
                                                                                   train future tree crop
                                                                                   farmers in Lesotho.
Pesticides       The application of fertilizers      Denmar and the                Ensure that pesticide and
and              and pesticides will consider        horticulture manager will     fertilizer utilization follows
fertilizers      soil type and slope to ensure       ensure day-to-day             adequate safeguards.
                 protection of watershed and         compliance. Global Gap        Ensure that production is
                 groundwater. Pesticides and         will provide oversight.       cleared for export.
                 fertilizers application will be
                 based on an Integrated Pest
                 Management (IPM) approach.
Erosion          Ensure appropriate grading of       Horticulture manager to       Minimize and prevent
                 soil and planting. Monitor          regularly inspect and         erosion in project
                 erosion features in the             develop mitigation.           communities.
                 community and immediate
                 surroundings.
Soil nutrition   Sampling and chemical               Denmar, oversight by          Maintain nutritional status,
                 analysis of project soil and leaf   METC (quarterly)              correct deficiencies.
                 tissues
Water            Sampling and chemical               PMU contract with private,    Ensure water quality for
                 analysis of irrigation and          approved lab (quarterly)      human consumption and
                 groundwater                                                       crops.



                                                                                             Page 15 of 17
Severe    Hail nets to be installed to      Denmar, horticulture   Ensure adequate protection
Weather   protect trees. Ensure that nets   manager                against hailstorm damage
          or other fencing used by                                 to trees.
          project does not block
          community access.




                                                                           Page 16 of 17
Appendix 2: Lesotho map




                          Page 17 of 17
