 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14645

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




         1. Project Data:                                     Date Posted: 04/27/2015

               Country: Lesotho
             Project ID: P088544                                                  Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Private Sector                Project Costs (US$M):                    10.10               10.28
                         Competitiveness And
                         Economic
                         Diversification
  L/C Number:            C4275; CH281                  Loan/Credit (US$M):                      8.1                 8.1
      Sector Board:                                    Cofinancing (US$M):

            Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                              03/21/2007
                                                                 Closing Date:           06/30/2012         07/11/2013
           Sector(s):       Central government administration (38%); Other industry (22%); Crops (21%); General
                            industry and trade sector (13%); Vocational training (6%)
           Theme(s):        Other financial and private sector development (29% - P); Micro; Small and Medium
                            Enterprise support (29% - P); Export development and competitiveness (28% - P);
                            Regulation and competition policy (14% - S)

Prepared by:                Reviewed by:           ICR Review                Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Rogerio F. Pinto            Chad Leechor           Lourdes N. Pagaran        IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The objective statements in the Appraisal Document and in the Financing Agreement are essentially the same.
    The latter, however, streamlined the PAD statement by abbreviating it to: “facilitate increased private sector
    investment in the Recipient’s economy by (a) improving the business environment and (b) diversifying sources
    of growth.”

    This review will use the two sub-objectives of improving the business environment and diversifying sources of
    growth as the basis for assessment.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

    1.    Improving Business Environment (estimated cost at appraisal US$ 1.90 million, of which IDA US$ 1.71
          million and Government US$ 0.19). Actual/latest (7/11/2013) disbursed by IDA at closing US$ 1.13 million,
          66.16% of appraisal. Component covering company registration and licensing reform
    2. Supporting Economic Diversification (estimated cost at appraisal US$ 5.01 million, of which IDA US$ 4.07
       million and Government US$ 0.94 million). Actual/latest (7/11/2013) disbursed by IDA at closing US$ 3.84
       million, 94.40% of appraisal. This component covered skills development for garment industry, horticulture
       out-grower scheme, tourism industry support Lesotho Enterprise Assistance Program (LEAP).
    3. Project Implementation Support (estimated cost at appraisal US$1.65 million of which IDA US$1.34 million;
        Government US$0.31). Actual/latest (7/11/2013) disbursed by IDA US$ 2.91 million, 217.11% of appraisal.
        This component covered support for the Project Management Unit PMU), the LEAP Business Advisory Unit,
        training of staff, LEAP Program manager, Business Advisor, Secretary and consultancy services.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   At appraisal IDA Credit Amount was SDR 2.6 (US $3.9 million) and IDA Grant was SDR 2.8 (US$ 4.2 million) and
   Government contribution of US$ 2.0 million for a total of US$ 10.1 million. This amount was raised to US$ 10.5
   million at the 2012 restructuring after the Government increased its counterpart funding by 20% (from US$ 2.0
   million to US$ 2.4 million).

   IDA Credit remained the same at restructuring and actual disbursement at closing was US$ 3.83 million or 98.2
   % of appraisal. The IDA grant remained essentially the same at restructuring and actual disbursement at closing
   was US$ 4.27 million or 101.67% of appraisal.

   Actual project expenditures at closing were US$ 10.281 million (101.8% of appraisal). The difference between
   project costs at appraisal and the actual costs are due to unspent SDR 29.474 from Grant and SDR 111.924 from
   Credit which were refunded to IDA, according to the project team. Additionally, as pointed out by last task
   manager, fluctuations in exchange rates and SDR contributed to the difference.

   The closing date was extended by one year, to June 30, 2013 to allow for the completion of reform measures in
   business registration and licensing, the Public Private Partnership (PPP) transaction for the garment industry
   training centers, and the roll out of the tree crops pilot project at the village level, all suggesting that the project
   scope and timetable of at appraisal was off by one year.

   The objectives were not revised during implementation. Several minor amendments were introduced in January
   of 2012 to (a) reallocate credit and grant funds among components and existing categories - as a result of
   dropping 2 intermediate target indicators - and creation of a new category for goods, (b) extend closing date by
   one year, and (c) correct an error in calculation of fund allocation.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Project objectives were aligned with the Government’s 2006 Poverty Reduction Strategy, which sought rapid job
   creation, establishment of an enabling environment for private-sector-led growth and with the National Strategic
   Development Plan. It was also consistent with:
      The applicable country assistance strategies of the Bank at the time of appraisal (CAS 2006), which
        identifies Bank support for income and employment generation, among others; and
      The CAS Progress Report (2012) current at closing, which includes competitiveness and diversification of
        the economy.

   The project also reflected the consensus among key stakeholders of private and public sectors and donors. The
   top priority of the Minimum Infrastructure Platform developed by these stakeholders included increased private
   sector investment, productivity improvements and economic diversification, all central elements of the project.
   The project also reflected an obvious need of the economy to move forward as expressed in the Private Sector
   Development Strategy, which highlighted retention and attraction of foreign investment, diversification of sources
   of growth and integration of the domestic private sector with the regional economy, especially with South Africa.

   Relevance of objectives is rated High


b. Relevance of Design:

   The results framework shows plausible links between some of project activities and objectives, but the causal
   chains are not fully spelled out. Activities supported by the project aim to: (a). Reduce the cost of doing business;
   and (b). Demonstrate and facilitate new businesses mainly in tourism and horticulture.

   There is a reasonable causal link between the regulatory reforms, new promotional initiatives and the expected
   improvement in administrative efficiency, which would lead ultimately to the first sub-objective of improved
   business environment. However, no plausible causal chain is established for the second sub-objective. With no
   particular outcomes stated for the second sub-objective (diversification of sources of growth), it is not clear where
   the project activities in the second component would lead and whether or not progress is being made.
   The ICR recognizes these weaknesses in the results framework and retroactively creates an “inferred outcome”
   which refers to the demonstration effects of activities under component 2. The inferred outcome, however, is
   neither observable nor measurable.
   The relevance of design is rated modest.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Objective 1: Improving the business environment :

   Outputs

        Leasing regulations in place
        Credit guarantee scheme of Lesotho National Development Corporation (LNDC) established
        Trading Enterprise Regulations amended, approved and published
        The Companies Regulations and Companies Act implemented
        Company Registry digitized and automated
        Strategic Plan for the One Stop Business Facilitation Centre developed
        Company Registration website developed and operational
        Investor Tracking System for LNDC has been developed
        Partial Credit Guarantee for LNDC operational.

   Outcomes:

        Days required to start up a business reduced from 73 days to 24 days, surpassing the original target of 34
         days, but missing the revised target of less than 20 days (Restructuring Paper 2011, Annex 1)
        Days required to register a business reduced from 28 days to 7, compared to the target of 1 day;
        Days required to obtain an industrial license reduced from 35 days to 5 days, compared to the target of less
         than 7 days;
        A significant increase in the number of new companies registered (to 472 from 179) after key legislation and
         facilitation services supported by the project were enacted, based on information provided by management
         after the ICR was published.

   While some of the targets were not met, the progress made is nonetheless significant and the efficacy of this
   sub-objective is rated substantial.

   Objective 2: Diversifying sources of growth

   Outputs:

        Two skills centers established and operational; 1,562 workers trained by two centers and 1,162 placed in
         industry by project end;
        Three pilot farms established in Mahobong, Qoqolosing and Thuathe;
        Four concessions agreements on major tourism sites signed and operational vs. a target of 3;
        Capacity building for tourism agencies provided including training, strategy development, marketing plans
         and IT support;
        A matching grant scheme (Lesotho Enterprise Assistance Program or LEAP) extended financial support to
         193 firms and 17 business associations in tourism, manufacturing, retail and information and communication
         technology.

   Outcomes:

   No specific and measurable outcomes for the achievement of this objective were provided in the project appraisal
   documents (or the ICR). As a result, no indicators were selected and monitored to track the progress made. The
   ICR presented a few intermediate results that may be indicative of new sources of growth, including:
      More exports of horticultural products from pilot areas (with an increase of 50%);
      Increase of tourists from targeted markets (by 63% compared to the target of 50%);
      A rise in the sales of supported firms (by 56% exceeding the target of 10%).
   These results, however, may not be entirely attributable to the project, as the ICR acknowledges.
    While some progress has been made, the achievement of this sub-objective is rated modest due to the absence
    of specific and measurable outcomes.

5. Efficiency:

    The economic rates of returns were estimated to be in the range of 49% to 52%. The underlying assumptions,
    however, were not realistic as recognized by the ICR. In addition, ex-post data on project benefits were available
    only for a small sub-component (horticulture), which may not be representative for the rest of the project.

    Information on project implementation and management shows inefficiency in the use of project resources. The
    project closing date was extended by one year, and the Project Implementation Support component (PMU) had
    considerable cost overruns (217% of appraisal). These overruns are due either to significant financial
    underestimation at appraisal or inefficiency of implementation. The ICR correctly points out that the high
    implementation costs are attributable to the ambitious scope of the project set in a low capacity environment.

    Rating of Efficiency : Modest

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                       Yes                                    50.85%                                    18%
    ICR estimate                    No
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

    The objectives of the project were highly relevant, but the design showed modest relevance due to an inadequate
    results framework. The objective of improving the business environment was substantially achieved. But the
    objective of diversifying the sources of growth is not supported by clear evidence and attribution. In addition, the
    efficiency in the use of project resources was modest. On balance, the outcome is rated moderately satisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    The most significant risk to development outcome is the weak implementation capacity of Lesotho’s public sector.
    Despite some mitigation measures during project implementation, the risk of capture by certain business sectors
    was identified as a moral hazard, constituting a risk going forward.

    The failure to address the visa issuance at the border crossing is also a risk going forward as it will continue to
    represent a barrier to swift flow of workers and businessmen into the country. The planning of a follow up project
    building on the achievements of this project is an important way to minimize future risks and provide continuity.
    With the exception of the inherent implementation and sustainability capacity issues of the Lesotho public sector,
    rated as a significant risk, others are moderate, hence the overall moderate rating.


  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

    From the start of identification and preparation, it was noted that the project would require intense
    implementation support given the weakness of the policy and institutional environment for the reforms and the
    ambitious scope of the project. Complexity of the project was raised at the Quality Enhancement Review and
   at the Decision meeting. An institutional capacity assessment of entities called to implement the project was
   not carried out, which constitutes a weakness at entry. The project was informed by several context studies of
   investment climate and private sector development yet it did not, for example, anticipate the difficulty in
   achieving measurable rates of labor productivity in the garment industry and to carry out the immigration and
   visa reforms. The financial requirements of the implementation support effort of the PMU were also
   underestimated.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                     Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   Supervision missions were carried at planned intervals and were quite thorough, and kept good records, as
   reflected in Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISR). They were also operationally helpful as they
   addressed issues raised in these missions promptly and kept the project moving reasonably on schedule,
   despite considerable delays in disbursement, especially in Component 1 which at project closing had
   disbursed only 66.16% of the appraised amount. Exception to this assessment were (a) the delay in dropping
   the sub-component on Immigration and Visa issuance reforms which had been flagged repeatedly as early as
           rd                                                          th
   in the 3 ISR (implementation supervision report) and again in the 6 ISR, due to under-performance of the
   Ministry of Homeland and Security. According to the last TTL, since this would involve a project restructuring,
   it had to wait for the MTR and also there was Government pressure to keep trying to implement the
   sub-component, (b) the 9 month delay allowed in carrying out the Mid Term Project Review (MTR) - a
   common occurrence in projects in the Region-, according to the last TTL was due to Bank shifts of TTL (c)
   occasional delays in disbursements. The delay in finalizing restructuring the project, 11 months after the MTR
   is an issue which also reflects on Bank supervision. The project had a total of 4 TTL’s suggesting lack of
   supervision continuity on the part of the Bank. On balance, quality of supervision is rated Moderately
   Satisfactory.




  Quality of Supervision Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   Government showed ownership of the project throughout preparation and implementation. This is evidenced
   by the active involvement of the Minister of Trade, Industry, Cooperatives and Marketing and the Minister of
   Agriculture and Food Security. Likewise, it responded promptly to the amendment to the Financing
   Agreement. The participatory approach taken by the Bank at identification, preparation and implementation
   probably accounts for this element of Government performance. The expeditious passing of the new
   company law by Parliament and the adoption of Public-Private Partnership rules were also evidence of this.
   Furthermore, the increase by 20% of Government contribution to the project when it was restructured also
   attests to this level of commitment and performance. Exception to this assessment was the weak
   performance of the Public Private Steering Committee.



  Government Performance Rating                              Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The ICR uses the achievement of components and sub-components as a proxy for the performance of the
   respective responsible agencies. The Ministry of Trade, Industry, Cooperative and Marketing is regarded as
   performing well because of the successful outcomes of sub-components IA and 2A. The same applies to the
   Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security as regards sub-component C2B. This criterion to assess agency
    performance is problematic as it does not factor in the contribution of Bank performance to the success of
    these sub-components. On a more operational level, implementing agencies were affected by the pervasive
    low level of administrative capacity throughout public administration. This weakness was addressed by close
    mentoring by advisory resources provided by the PMU. The ICR does fault the PMU performance which
    came up short when it failed to control costs which led to a significant cost overrun. The 217% cost overrun of
    the PMU, according to the last TTL was mostly due to underestimation of local salaries for the PMU as well as
    the costs of international consultants to manage the LEAP program- a cost item that was also part of this
    component of the Project Management Unit.



  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The project’s M&E Design is pertinent to the component activities and based on standard “doing business”
   indicators. With the exception of the lack of indicators to measure outcome of diversification of economic activity,
   objectives were clearly specified with appropriate indicators. The ICR also points out the attribution issues of
   intermediate indicators of activities of component 2 (economic diversification) on the grounds that training per se
   cannot ensure increase in labor productivity or create jobs. Base line information was not sufficient due to low
   capacity of implementing agencies to maintain information management systems.

b. M&E Implementation:

   According to the PAD, each implementing agency was to assign a staff with responsibility for collecting and
   reporting data relevant for project implementation. The Project Manager in the PMU, with the help of an M&E
   specialist was responsible to oversee the system and deliver reports to IDA. The PAD also points out that the
   M&E system was outsourced to the LNDC. The sharing of responsibilities and tasks with the PMU is not made
   explicit. The ICR limits the discussion of M&E implementation performance to weak data collection due to
   shortcomings in data generation and reporting by implementing agencies, such as statistics on employment and
   private sector investment. Consequently little if any baseline data were available at the outset of the project, a
   major draw-back for project evaluation. In sum, the M & E plans were poorly implemented, insufficient and
   unreliable data collected at the outset and during implementation.

c. M&E Utilization:

   The ICR does not provide evidence of how well the M&E system worked and how the PMU utilized outputs. The
   M&E system does not seem to have monitored the output of activities, a critical determinant of outcomes.
   However, it was able to provide evidence of the achievement or failure to achieve component targets. Neither the
   PAD nor the ICR indicate how the reports of the M&E system were utilized and by whom. It appears that they
   were only inputs to supervision missions and to audits. Other beneficiaries of M&E information are not mentioned
   in the PAD or the ICR. According to the last TTL, however the results of the M&E system were used, not only for
   Bank supervision missions, but by the Project Steering Committee, which reviewed its reports and used them to
   put pressure on the implementing agencies that were falling behind.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:


   Environmental impact . The project falls under Category B which requires only partial assessment, in line with
    OP.4.01, 4.09. An environmental impact assessment of the horticulture demonstration farm was carried out
    focusing on the risks to soil and water from the use of pesticides and other agrochemicals. Regulations and
    institutional capacity to control the distribution and use of pesticides were assessed and found that -with
    adequate management - risks were minimal. Furthermore, an M&E system to follow such management was set
    up. The services of a South African firm were obtained to ensure that these activities would be technically sound.
    The ICR reports that throughout implementation environmental management was adequate as detailed mitigation
    activities planned in the M&E plan were carried out and rated satisfactory for sustainable agricultural
    management.

    No social impact assessment was required and farmers were not affected in adverse ways by the horticulture
    pilot, as participation was voluntary, according to the ICR.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:


    Procurement. Despite a few procurement shortcomings, such as in the acquisition of seedlings, hail nets and
    irrigation equipment, the ICR reports adequate supervision by the Bank project team which carried out post
    procurement reviews. The ICR also reports that there were no serious violations of bank procurement guidelines
    and flaws were corrected promptly which was the basis for a satisfactory rating.

    Financial Management . At appraisal a financial management assessment was carried out to determine whether
    project implementation agencies had acceptable financial management arrangement and standards. It was found
    that there were weaknesses in financial management in government systems in general. External advisors
    funded by donors, including the Bank funded Public Sector Improvement and Reform Program (PSIRP) through
    its Public Financial Management component helped improve the financial management systems of the project.
    These successful measures lead to a satisfactory rating of the function, as performed by the Bank and the
    borrower.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):




d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review               Reason for
                                                                                   Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
         Volume of financial resources is not the crucial factor of project success. In small economies thinly spread
          resources among a large number of project components can sometimes work if technically supported and
          properly supervised by the Bank, as in the case of the horticulture sub-component. Participatory
          identification and preparation pays off in commitment of borrower and increases chances of satisfactory
          implementation, mostly in terms of borrower ownership.

         M&E effectiveness rests on data management capacity. Failure to build it at the outset compromises M
          &E systems.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:



    The ICR by and large provides adequate evidence, focusing on results. It is well researched and written. Its
    assessments are well substantiated. However, its rating on the diversification objective is not adequately
    supported by evidence. Nor does it fully address the efficiency shortcoming of the project, such as providing
    evidence as to whether the project achieved its projected ERR, despite the detailed Economic and Financial
    Efficiency study included in the PAD.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
