E486
August 2001
MONTENEGRO COASTAL URGENT MUNICIPAL ENVIRONMENTAL
INFRASTRUCTURE
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)
0.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The project financed by the World Bank's Grant will comprise two components:
Component I.       Rehabilitation of the environmental infrastructure in the coastal
municipalities:
*  Landfill Rehabilitation. The project will finance the rehabilitation of the multi-
municipal Kotor landfill site to meet sanitary standards, including upgrading of
infrastructure. The landfill, which serves the municipalities of Kotor, Budvar and
Tivak, was in use until 1992, when it was abandoned during Yugoslavia's conflict
with Croatia. In recent years, 3 informal, or "wild", dumps have been put into use in
surrounding municipalities. The project will finance equipment and civil works
needed to permanently close wild dump sites in an environmentally sound manner
and institute long-term environmental monitoring.
*  Solid Waste Equipment. In addition to the rehabilitation of the physical site, the
component will finance needed collection equipment as well as works and equipment
to rehabilitate, maintain and manage the Kotor landfill.
Component II.      Zeta Valley Water Supply
* Water Main Construction. To address the lack of clean water in a suburban area of
the capital Podgoriga (Zeta Valley) caused by industrial source pollution at the nearby
aluminum processing facility, the project will assist the Podgoriga Water Utility to
complete the construction of a water supply pipeline to replace contaminated water
sources in the Zeta Valley with water from the Podgoriga municipal water supply
system.
1.    SOLID WASTE LANDFILLS
1.1   INTRODUCTION
The construction, operation, restoration and aftercare of a sanitary landfill is a large civil
engineering project, which should be conducted to appropriate standards of management
and site operational procedures. Poor standards of site operation and/or inadequate site
management have the potential to cause unacceptable environmental nuisance to, or
significant environmental impacts on, residential, commercial and industrial
FILE COPY


﻿developments in the immediate vicinity of the site, irrespective of the standards of site
engineering and construction undertaken.
This management plan establishes a number of significant operational and management
practices aimed at achieving higher standards of environmental control and protection of
local amenity and compliance with World Bank standards and international good
practice. It also outlines the Environmental Monitoring Plan which will be adopted to
ensure that the mitigation measures and monitoring regime are implemented effectively
and in a timely manner.
1.2   OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
The present section specifies engineering measures and operational practice that will
permit the remediation and/or upgrading of the existing Kotor disposal site to sanitary
landfill status. It is provided a summary of the safe and environmentally sound
operational procedures for dealing with all aspects of the receipt, processing, transfer and
deposition of solid waste on the site.
1.2.1 Site Management
In order to attain the high standards of environmental performance associated with
sanitary landfill it is essential that the landfill is constructed and operated as designed.
The site manager must be fully conversant with all operations of the landfill facility and
know and understand the potential hazards associated with the activities of the site. The
manager will therefore be experienced in sanitary landfill operation or undergo training.
The site will follow a safe system of work and before operation starts, documentation will
be developed describing how management intends to deal with the following key issues:
*  a working plan with principles and procedures for dealing with the key health and
safety and environmental issues;
*  allocation of adequate resources to environmental training, pollution control
equipment and maintenance;
*  adequate environmental awareness training of all site operatives;
*  monitoring and enforcement of operating and quality assurance procedures;
*  compliance with all relevant health and safety regulations and procedures; and
*  procedures to ensure the conformance of site activities with prevailing environmental
legislation.
Site management will incorporate adequate measures regarding the following issues:
* records of all staff and operational matters;
*  staff recruitment and training;
*  visitors' access; and
*  signs and directions.
2


﻿1.2.2 Health and Safety
Hazards are a common attribute of landfill sites, deriving from the presence of:
*  steep and potentially unstable slopes;
*  bodies of standing water;
*  pests carrying and spreading pathogens and communicable diseases;
*  contaminated, putrefying, toxic and/or infective material; and
*  noxious, flammable, toxic and/or hazardous landfill gas.
At the Kotor landfill, site management will implement a Health and Safety policy, drafted
by a competent person, which complies, as a minimum, with the requirements of
occupational health and safety laws in Montenegro. The principles and details of the
Health and Safety policy will be communicated in full to all site operatives, non-staff
contractors and other visitors to the site.
Site management will focus on the following key areas:
Emergency Response
* to maintain clear unobstructed access to the site and site activities for emergency
services at all times;
* to establish a detailed Working Plan for emergency procedures in case of fires,
accidents, injuries, and unacceptable waste;
Medical Screening
* to train staff to recognize the symptoms of key illnesses;
* to carry out periodic medical examinations of health screening for site staff. and to
provide regular health screening for waste-workers.
1.2.3 Waste Reception Procedure
Only waste which has been cleared from the reception area as suitable for disposal and/or
processing will be permitted further into the site.
All waste loads which require special handling and disposal arrangements, will be subject
to a pre-booking system to facilitate the use of efficient and safe check-in and disposal
procedures.
Waste measurement
The arrangement of waste reception facilities proposed for the site will be designed to
facilitate measurement of wastes arriving at the site. All waste delivery vehicles entering
the site will be required to weigh in and out over a weighbridge. Two weighbridges will
3


﻿be available, the "in" weighbridge and "out" weighbridge respectively, to accommodate
the volume of vehicle traffic at maximum levels of site operation.
Waste inspection and clearance
It is the responsibility of site management to satisfy themselves that waste delivered to
the site is acceptable and safe for disposal and/or processing. The types of waste which
will be accepted will stipulated by the licensing authority. No waste will be permitted
access to the tipping face or the topsoil plant unless it is deemed to comply with the
conditions of the site license. All site operatives will be fully conversant with the site
license and specified waste control procedures. Site reception staff will inspect waste
loads visually as a matter of routine and undertake sampling and testing of waste loads,
on both a random and regular basis. Waste requiring detailed inspection will be refused
entry to the tipping area and will, instead, be directed to the designated waste inspection
area.
Unacceptable or non-conforming waste
Any waste considered by site management unacceptable for disposal will be isolated and
segregated from all other waste and stored in a designated, secure quarantine area where
the waste can be held safely. Waste delivered to the site on fire will be taken to the waste
inspection area, discharged and extinguished using water or suitable extinguishers.
1.2.4 Waste Clearance and Transport
Upon clearance at the weighbridge or the waste inspection area, traffic should be directed
to the waste processing/shredding area, commercial/industrial waste area, compost area
and/or other areas of the site, where they should unload in accordance with the
instructions of site operatives.
Where appropriate, one-way traffic systems will be used to avoid unnecessary traffic
conflicts. Drivers of loads of special/difficult wastes should be directed to designated,
pre-prepared, areas for tipping.
1.2.5 Shredding and Waste Conveying
Shredding and waste conveying to the landfill cell should be conducted in accordance
with strict health and safety procedures. Care should be taken to ensure that dust
emissions are limited as much as possible. In order to ensure that waste is not left for
significant periods of time in the waste processing/pre-shredding area in periods of
mechanical failure or routine maintenance of the shredder/conveyor, a Contingency Plan
should be developed providing instructions on alternative arrangements for transferring
waste to the energy cell.
4


﻿1.2.6 Waste Discharge and Emplacement
Waste should be deposited at the tipping face in accordance with the design objectives of
the site and with the minimum of risk to site personnel, the environment surrounding the
site and local amenity. The landfilling process should be carried out to specified and
agreed standards of operation, site management and site safety. All disposal operatives
should be adequately trained and be fully conversant with the specified operating
procedures.
1.2.7 Excavation of Energy Cells
No partially decomposed material should be excavated from the energy cell and placed in
other areas of the site. This control measure is designed to control odor from excavation
and to ensure that decomposing wastes are not placed in uncontained areas of the site.
1.2.8 Communications on Site
It is imperative that efficient, unambiguous and effective systems of communications are
employed at each site and that all employees, contractors and visitors to the site are fully
conversant in the systems and procedures adopted. Effective on-site communications are
vital to ensure:
*  efficient and safe transfer of wastes through the site;
*  implementation of designated inspection and checking procedures;
*  discharge of wastes in the appropriate areas;
*  adoption of appropriate procedures for dealing with special wastes;
*  resourcing and application of appropriate staff and plant; and
*  maintenance of links to emergency services and other parties.
1.2.9 Protection of Local Amenities
Appropriate operational procedures, should be implemented if needed to minimize
address potential nuisance of site activities upon surrounding developments, if indicated
by monitoring programs, site inspections and/or following receipt of public complaints.
1.3   ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL AND MONITORING PLAN
1.3.1 Requirement for Monitoring
Site operations should comply, at all times, with relevant National, Environmental
Legislation and with emissions limits which protect neighbors from potential nuisance
and are indicative of good management. It is unlikely that significantly polluting
5


﻿emissions will result from the proposed landfill site. Good practice, however, requires
that some environmental monitoring be undertaken on a regular basis during all phases of
site development, site restoration and upon completion of site activities. Environmental
monitoring will provide the mechanism for:
*  assessing the overall environmental impacts of site development;
*  identify, at an early stage, pollution emanating from the site;
*  identifying any deviations from acceptable standards of site operation; and
*  formulating proposals for site remediation measures, as necessary.
The purpose of environmental monitoring is therefore not just to meet standards, but to
provide information to allow improved environmental management at the sites.
1.3.2 Emission Standards and Monitoring Requirements
Required Standards
There are no relevant Montenegro's controls regulations applicable to landfill operation,
nor any World Bank standards specific to this kind of development. There are generic
World Bank standards applicable to industrial facilities however, and many European
countries have relevant industry standards.
Emission standards are recommended to be applied in the following key areas:
* water quality;
* landfill gas explosive limit and occupational exposure limits;
* noise.
Water Quality
The landfill site has to be designed to minimize emissions of leachate from the existing
waste mass as far as possible, and to provide a high level of containment of leachate, with
a rate of emission (i.e. liner permeability) of no greater than 1x 10^-9 being specified.
Trigger levels for contaminants should be established during the detailed engineering
study in consultation with the Ministry of Environment.
Leachate should be monitored throughout the lifetime of the site, and further remediation
actions taken in event of a continuing significant release into the environment. The
parameters which should be monitored, and the frequency of monitoring recommended
are given in Table 1.3.1 below.
Table 1.3.1  Leachcate Monitoring Parameters and Frequency
Monitoring Requirement (*)              Monitoring Frequency
Leachate levels in on-site monitoring wells Weekly
PH                                      Weekly
Chloride                                Weekly
6


﻿Conductivity                            Weekly
COD                                     Bi-annually
BOD                                     Bi-annually
Total organic carbon                    Bi-annually
Full range of compositional characteristics  Annually
(organic, salts and heavy metal
compounds)
(*)Unless otherwise indicated, monitoring should be carried out from both on-site and
off-site monitoring wells for all parameters.
A sufficient number of wells have to be established as a monitoring network for the
aquifer. These wells would be used to monitor the relationship between contaminant
concentration and distance from the site.
Landfill Gas Monitoring
The most significant risks associated with landfill gas derive from the potential for
flammable gases, such as methane and hydrogen, to form flammable mixtures in air when
these gases are present within certain concentrations. The critical concentration limits are
known commonly as the "Lower Explosive Limit" (LEL) and the "Upper Explosive
Limit" (UEL). The flammable ranges are:
* 5 % to 15 % by volume for methane; and
* 0 4 % to 74 % by volume for hydrogen.
In the open air, for example at the boundary of the landfill, such relatively high levels of
gas should not occur because of the effects of dilution and dispersion. Gas concentration
should be monitored however to control gas migration from the site.
Two levels of gas concentration should be established that will trigger different courses
of action.
* A threshold level will indicate a potential landfill gas problem and will initiate more
frequent gas monitoring;
* A higher trigger level (action level) will initiate appropriate remedial action to control
gas migration.
The concentrations proposed for these levels are:
* threshold level - 5% of LEL; and
* action level - 20% of LEL.
Noise
7


﻿Noise levels at nearest sensitive receivers should be monitored on a yearly basis, and in
particular during the construction phase, to confirm whether impacts are within
acceptable limits.
World Bank Environmental Guidelines (1988) suggest that a noise limit of Laeq, I hour 70
dB would be acceptable for the unpopulated area around the Kotor site. If noise impacts
are reported by the surrounding population, however, the landfill operator should respond
in accordance with a pre-determined and agreed Noise Action Plan. The actions required
might include repeating monitoring, identifying the source of noise causing the impact,
and taking actions to silence the particular source.
1.4     IMPLEMENTATION OF MITIGATION MEASURES
To ensure that mitigation and environmental enhancement measures are properly
implemented, a plan is attached (Table 1.4.1). It should be revised upon the completion
of detailed engineering designs.
Cost estimates presented in the table 1.4.1 indicate the order of magnitude expected and
will be confirmed during the final design phase. Training for the use of monitoring
equipment will be included as part of the purchase cost of this equipment.
Table 1.4.1     Outline Environmental Management Plan
Measure                  Responsibility    Cost        Timing         Monitoring
(DM)                          Agency
Publish information leaflet to advise workers  Landfill  200-400  Before the start  PEW
and scavengers of the impeding changes to  management             of the
working practices                                                 rehabilitation
program
Develop Restoration and aftercare proposals  PEW          500     Before the start  PEW
of the
rehabilitation
program
Allocate responsibility for public relations to  PEW     None     Immediately     PEW
a manger and make sure that the press and
local population are aware of the
improvement program and progress
Mitigating the effects of taking soil for daily  PEW  50,000/year  Before the start  PEW
cover                                                             of the
rehabilitation
program
Engineering ditches and settlement ponds to  Contractor  20,000-  During the      PEW
collect surface runoff water from the landfill          30,000    construction
site                                                              works
Testing ground water quality in the general  PEW         5,000    During detailed  PEW
area of the project                                               engineering
design
Development and enforcement of a safer  Landfill         None     During detailed  PEW
materials recovery system              management in              engineering
consultation               design
with design
engineers
Routine health checks and vaccinations for  Landfill    5,000-    Yearly          PEW
all those employed at the site         management in     6,000    throughout the
consultation                operational
8


﻿with local                 period of the site
health
authorities
Sinking of landfill gas test wells and routine  Landfill  10,000/year  During the  PEW
monitoring of landfill gas quantity and  management             construction
composition                                                     works
Procedures to limit odor and dust     Landfill       2,000/year  During detailed  PEW
suppression measures included as part of the  management in     engineering
operational management plan           consultation              design
with design
engineers
Regular monitoring of noise and preparation  Landfill  2,000    During detailed  PEW
of a noise management plan            management in             engineering
consultation               design and
with design                monitoring
engineers                 throughout
construction and
operation of the
___________ landfill
Regular maintenance of the waste truck fleet  Landfill  5,000   Throughout the  PEW
and continued upgrading of the fleet  management                operational
period of the
____________  _________ landfill
Preservation of a belt of trees around the site  Landfill  None  During         PEW
to provide visual screening           management in             construction
consultation               activities
with design
engineerseng
2.      WATER SUPPLY PIPELINE
The completed pipelines are usually not visually intrusive objects and thus normally
require minimal mitigation measures if proper attention is taken during the design phase.
The potential problems are protected sites, contaminated land and homes requinng
resettlement of the inhabitants, all of which require mitigation measures. None of this
circumstances are present in the proposed Zeta pipeline, therefore no mitigation measures
are required in this case.
Construction mitigation measures will also be required to minimize inconveniences to the
public and possible negative impacts. Typical measures which can be taken are described
hereafter. Noisy construction activities will be limited to agreed daylight hours. Dust
emission will be avoided by providing appropriate covers. Lorry traffic and congestion
will be limited by an efficient traffic management plan. Dangerous activities in public
areas will be controlled to reduce the risk to the public and trenches will be provided with
railings to control the risk of accidents. Dangerous equipment will be shielded to prevent
unauthorized contact or use.
An  overall Environmental Management Plan to mitigate the minor impacts of the projects
is provided below.
9


﻿2.1      INTRODUCTION
This Chapter considers the environmental management and monitoring that is required to
ensure that the construction of the water supply pipeline in the Zeta Valley follow the
best environmental practices and that the mitigation measures are effective.
The purpose of the Environmental Management Plan is to define feasible, cost effective
measures that will be used to reduce significant potentially negative environmental
impacts to below the nuisance threshold or to more acceptable levels.
2.2      CONSTRUCTION PHASE PLAN
To ensure that the Environmental Management Plan is adequately implemented a suitably
qualified scientist or engineer, as part of the Project Management Unit, will monitor the
implementation of the plan once construction work has commenced. The Environmental
Management Plan is provided in Table 2.2.1.
Table 2.2.1      Construction Phase Environmental Management Plan
Subject/Media        Potential Negative          Management Plan               Responsibility
Impact
Air                   Dust generation         *   Employ dust suppression    Contractor supervised by
measures, such as wetting  Project Management Unit
and dust enclosures
*   Enclose contractor's areas
with embankments
Dust generation -      *    Use traffic routing measures  Contractor supervised by
vehicular access           to avoid built up areas and  Project Management Unit
bottle necks
*   Routine control and
maintenance of all
equipment used for
transportation
*   Employ dust suppression
measures
Vehicle emission       *    Use traffic routing        Contractor supervised by
(mobile)                    arrangements               Project Management Unit
*   Routine control and
maintenance of vehicles
Vehicle and engine     *    Run only when required     Contractor supervised by
emissions (static)     *    Routine control and        Project Management Unit
maintenance of equipment
Water                 Release of suspended    a   Restrict surface runoff from  Contractor supervised by
solids into water           site                       Project Management Unit
courses                *    Construct a surface water
runoff lagoon
*   Discharge water from site
following settlements
Spillage of fuel from  *   All above ground storage    Contractor supervised by
construction sites         tanks and drums to be stored  Project Management Unit
on low permeability bases
able to retain I 10% of the
stored volume
*   Reclaim land as soon as
possible after development
Noise                 Noise generation        *   Construct noise barriers   Contractor supervised by
10


﻿between new works and       Project Management Unit
residential areas during
construction
*   Restrict work to daylight
hours
*   Place noisy operations as far
away as is practicable from
residential areas
*   Use equipment with
appropriate silencers
*   Only run equipments when
required
Waste                  Failure to recycle     0    Minimize the waste         Contractor supervised by
construction waste and      generated during           Project Management Unit
store waste in the          construction, reuse
correct manner              construction waste where
practicable
*   Use appropriate methods for
the storage of waste
materials
*   Dispose of waste to an
appropriate site
Traffic impacts        Congestion capacity    *    Designate traffic routes for  Contractor supervised by
all heavy vehicles          Project Management Unit
Safety                 Public safety          *    Provide pedestrian access  Contractor supervised by
*   Provide safety barriers and  Project Management Unit
signs
Culture and heritage   Damage to              *    Avoid known sites          Contractor supervised by
archeological remains  *    Cease construction on      Project Management Unit
and artifacts               discovery of objects of
cultural value and notify
relevant authorities
Visual                 Visual impact          *    Screen site area wherever
I  I   possible
2.3      OPERATION PHASE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
The operation of the of the water pipeline will not generate any nuisance except when
through unforeseen failure of the construction. There is therefore no need for an
environmental management plant for such extreme circumstances.
2.4      MONITORING REQUIREMENTS
Table 2.4.1 gives the proposed monitoring requirements during the construction phase.
Table 2.4.1      Proposed monitoring during construction
Monitoring Requirement              Monitoring Frequency                   Responsibility
Noise (new activity)               Daily for one month                Contractor
Noise (ongoing activity)           Weekly                              Contractor
Dust (new activity)                Daily for one month                Contractor
Dust (ongoing activity)            Weekly                             Contractor
11


﻿2.5   COST OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION
The cost of the proposed environmental management plan and monitoring for this
component will be small (in the order of 0.5% of the investment cost) and borne by the
Contractors who have to make the necessary provision as part of his contract. The cost
related to the provision of such mitigation plan is normally included in the cost estimates
for works with minor environmental impacts such as pipe-laying.
The cost for monitoring and supervision is also relatively small for such a project and can
be considered to be included as part of the project management unit responsibility.
3.    INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
Monitoring and environmental management reports will be produced on monthly basis by
the implementing agency on the basis of the information provided by the monitoring
system and the contractor. This report together with the records of public participation
will be made accessible to the public through distribution among the implementing
agency office for posting and to the Municipal Libraries. The reports will also be
submitted to the involved municipalities, ministry of Environment and World Bank
supervision mission for review.
12


