Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22623-YU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$2.0 MILLION
TO
CRNOGORSKO PRIMORJE PEW
FROM THE TRUST FUND FOR THE REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR THE
MONTENEGRO ENVIRONMENTAL INFRASTRUCTURE
PROJECT
November 27, 2001
Infrastructure and Energy Sector Unit
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 13, 2001)
Currency Unit = Deutsche Mark (DM)
DM .46 = US$1
US$1 = DM 2.17
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           -      Country Assistance Strategy
CQ            -      Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
EMP           -      Environmental Management Plan
FRY           -      Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
GTZ           -      German Association for Technical Assistance
IBRD          -      Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB           -      Internal Competitive Bidding
IDA           -      International Development Association
IRR           -      Internal Rate of Return
KfW           -      Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LCS           -      Least-Cost Selection
N.B.F.        -      Not Bank-financed
O&M           -      Operational and Management
PAS           -      Procurement Accredited Staff
PEW           -      Public Enterprise for Water Supply, Wastewater Treatment
and Solid Waste Disposal (Cmogorsko Prirnore)
PMF           -      Podgorica Municipal Fund
PMRs          -      Project Management Reports
PVik          -      Javno Preduzede Vodovod i Kanalizacija
QBS           -      Quantity-Based Selection
QCBS          -      Quantity- and Cost-Based Selection
SFB           -      Selection under a Fixed Budget
SIL           -      Specific Investment Loan
SOEs          -      Statement of Expenditures
TOR           -      Terms of Reference
WHO           -      World Health Organization
TSS           -      Transition Support Strategy
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:   Christiaan J. Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Manager/Director:  Hossein Razavi, ECSIE
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Manuel Marifio, ECSIE



YUGOSLAVIA, FED. REP. OF (SERB./MONT.)
MONTENEGRO ENVIRONMENTAL INFRASTRUCTURE
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       6
3. Benefits and target population                                                      7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       7
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        I I
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          12
2. Financial                                                                          12
3. Technical                                                                          13
4. Institutional                                                                      13
5. Environmental                                                                      14
6. Social                                                                             16
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 17
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    18



2. Critical risks                                                                     18
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    19
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           19
2. Other                                                                              20
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         20
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        20
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         21
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   23
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        24
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          25
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   26
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      28
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    37
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  38
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 39
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           40
Annex 11: Description of PEW and PMF                                                    42
MAP(S)
IBRD 31557



YUGOSLAVIA, FED. REP. OF (SERB./MONT.)
Montenegro Environmental Infrastructure
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSIE
Date: November 27, 2001                           Team Leader: Manuel G. Marino
Country Manager/Director: Christiaan J. Poortman  Sector Manager: Motoo Konishi
Project ID: P074618                               Sector(s): VP - Pollution Control / Waste Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investrnent Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Water
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan     [ ] Credit   [X] Grant     [ ] Guarantee    [ Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m):
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                             0.80           0.00          0.80
SPECIAL FINANCING                                              0.00           2.00          2.00
Total:                                                         0.80           2.00           2.80
BorrowerlRecipient: FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Responsible agency: CRNOGORSKO PRIMORJE PEW
Address: TRG Sunca 4 - 85310 Budva, Republic of Montenegro - Yugoslavia
Contact Person: Predrac Bjelobrkovic (Director)
Tel: 381 (86) 452-034 / 381 (86) 451-921       Fax: 381 (86) 451-937 1 381 (86) 451-460
Email: P.Bjelobrkovic@cg.yu / Lovcenko@cg.yu
Other Agency(ies):
Podgorica Muncipal Fund for Urban Land, Real Estate, and Roads (PMF)
Address: PC Krusevac, Cetinjski put b.b., 81000 Podgorica
Contact Person: Voro Vucinic (Director)
Tel: 381 81 234192           Fax: 381 81 234033            Email: pgkabinet@cg.yu
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
FY         2'002      2003
Annual     1.00        1.00
Cumulative    1.00        2.00
Project implementation period: 2 years
OCS PAD Fe- -RF M-, 2?



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Project aims to improve environmental conditions in the coastal region of Montenegro, the
smaller of the two Republics comprising the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY), and to
improve the quality of water supply in the Zeta Valley, near the Republic's capital city, Podgori9a.
The Project Development Objectives will be achieved through: (a) the rehabilitation of key
environmental (solid waste) infrastructure in several coastal municipalities in the region of Kotor
Bay, a prime tourist zone; and (b) the completion of a water supply pipeline to replace
contaminated water sources in the Zeta Valley. The Project will also provide a small amount of
technical assistance for engineering services and auditing.
This grant will be financed by the Trust Fund for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which
allows the Bank to support selected priority activities, consistent with the strategy and objectives
of the Economic Recovery and Transition Program, and likely to receive continued Bank support
under a regular program once membership can be established and arrears resolved. The project
this grant supports is designed to meet near-term needs in a sustainable manner and to be
implemented within the trust fund lifespan, and builds and contributes to the framework of
bilateral donor funding for Montenegro.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key Project performance indicators are: (i) percentage of solid waste produced in the coastal
area that is collected and disposed of in proper facilities; (ii) number of illegal disposal facilities
properly closed; and (iii) percentage of population in Zeta Valley supplied with water complying
with WHO standards.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 22090-YU Date of latest CAS discussion: May 8, 2001
The Transition Support Strategy (TSS) for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and
Montenegro) identifies four priorities: (a) fiscal sustainability; (b) developing the private sector;
(c) enhancing social safety nets; and (d) building institutions. The TSS recognizes that there are
differing needs in the country's two Republics. Specifically, in Montenegro, the potential for
private sector growth, as well as enhanced government fiscal sustainability, hinges to a large
extent upon appropriate use of the Republic's rich natural resources, particularly in the coastal
areas, for the promotion of tourism. The proposed project, an integral part of the TSS, would
provide assistance specifically to the Government of the Republic of Montenegro:
To correct environmental degradation in the Coastal Areas. The pollution that has resulted from
the reduced capacity to operate and maintain sanitary infrastructure has significantly affected
economic prospects for the tourism sector, considered a strategic factor for the economic growth
-2 -



of the region. By improving solid waste management, the Project aims to enhance the economic
potential of tourism and create conditions for private sector investment in the region.
To resolve urgent environmental problems caused by industrial pollution. Available information
indicates that water quality problems, both bacteriological and chemical, are widespread in the
country. Though the majority of the population in the Podgorica area receives water supply
service which generally complies with established standards, a number of sources have been
polluted by industrial discharge, leaving important areas, particularly in the Zeta Valley, without
adequately safe supply. The project will engage the Podgori,a water company in resolving this
urgent need.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main sector issues. Water supply, sanitation and solid waste services were well developed in the
former Yugoslavia. In the recent past, though, the situation has deteriorated considerably due to
limited capital investment over the last ten years, inadequate maintenance, and most importantly,
the lack of a coherent strategy for the sectors. The situation and main challenges can be described
as follows:
Municipal water and sanitation services in larger Serbian cities are in deep financial and
technical crisis. This is preventing utilities from initiating the rehabilitation of works that are
urgently necessary to diminish the threat of collapse of water/wastewater/solid waste services.
The international private sector has shown interest in the management of the large water systems
in Belgrade, Nis and Novi Sad, and their involvement in service delivery will probably be the most
efficient way to address current problems in larger systems in the medium term.
Water companies in medium size cities and rural areas have limited access to financial
resources and are not expected to immediately attract private sector interest (apart from some
specific cases, like the Montenegro's coastal area), and will likely continue to operate under
municipal control. These companies will require support (both technical and economic) to address
urgent needs and avoid an impending crisis, and modernize their management and operations. In
Serbia there is a need to identify a key institution that can lead the sector reform. At present rural
water supply is carried out in a legal and institutional vacuum, completely relying on the tradition
of self-reliance and without any regulatory assurance that the rural population receives an
adequate quantity of water and is not exposed to severe health risks. The priority objective for the
water and solid waste sectors in medium size cities and rural areas should be to create the
required legal and institutional environment to monitor, regulate and support its development.
Rural drinking water systems are facing even more severe problems than urban areas and will
require substantial technical assistance.
Montenegro Urban Systems. Although both Republics have shared common sector development
and institutional arrangements and problems, the situation is different in Montenegro due to the
adoption of some initial sector reforms (including the involvement of the private sector) and
specific infrastructure deficiencies that affect the coastal region. As in Serbia, water and solid
waste infrastructure in Montenegro was in generally good condition, but not in the coastal region,
- 3 -



which presents regular water supply shortages, bad water quality, particularly during the summer
when tourists outnumber local population (total population reaches over 500,000 at its peak), and
deficient wastewater and solid waste disposal facilities.
Montenegro's most critical challenges in the water, sanitation and solid waste sectors as a result of
this situation are:
* The generally poor condition of municipal environmental infrastructure. Although this
challenge is common to both Serbia and Montenegro, in Montenegro the situation is
particularly bad in the coastal areas, which suffer from inadequate services exacerbated during
the summer season. These deficiencies in service and the associated environmental quality
degradation represent an important threat to tourism, the main potential engine for growth in
the country.
* Important health and environmental problems associated with a number of serious cases of
water supply source pollution. In Montenegro this challenge is particularly evident in the Zeta
valley, next to the capital Podgorica, whose water supply sources have been contaminated by
industrial discharges.
Government Strategy. Given the post-conflict situation and the initial focus by the donor
community on addressing the most critical urgent needs of the population, a sector reform is only
now under development. The main elements of the Montengro Govenmment's sector reform for
the short-term (to be addressed before the end of 2002) are:
* Addressing urgent shortages through simple, limited, and well targeted investments, coupled
with adequate policies and demand management, as the core of a short term program for
2001-2002.
* Developing a basic institutional and policy framework for the sector to clarify asset
ownership, regulate the overall functioning of the sector, transition towards economic pricing,
and establish a policy approach which improves govemance, transparency, and accountability.
Such institutional arrangements will establish the foundation for the process of medium- and
long-term reform aimed at sustainable service provision and the further involvement of the
private sector in urban areas.
The proposed operation will serve as the entry point for the Bank's sector dialogue with the
Government, which would form the foundation of a future comprehensive sector strategy.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project addresses the near-term needs in Montenegro by (a) improving existing degraded
infrastructure and (b) addressing urgent environmental and health concerns in the project area.
The key strategic choices made during project preparation were: (i) to focus on Montenegro's
coastal area; and (ii) to address environmental degradation.
Montenegro's sector development has been initiated in the recent years with some
market-oriented reforms, in the coastal area.  The Public Enterprise for Water Supply,
Wastewater Treatment and Solid Waste Disposal (Cmogorsko Primorje - PEW) entered in
- 4 -



August 2000 into a partnership (under the moniker MonteAqua) with a private company (the
German consortium Aquamundo) selected through international competitive bidding in order to
rehabilitate, upgrade, extend, and manage water supply and wastewater services. A detailed
description of the institutional arrangements for MonteAqua is provided in Annex 11.
Montenegro's coastal area already receives financial support from the Austrian and German
Governments for the water supply and wastewater sector. The Bank's support would close a
crucial gap in the ongoing rehabilitation of environmental infrastructure and, by extending the
support to the solid waste sector, allow for a more comprehensive approach to address the severe
environmental problems affecting the development of tourism in the region. By focusing on
Montenegro's coastal area, where water supply and wastewater services are under the
management of the private-public MonteAqua consortium, the project not only (a) addresses
urgent rehabilitation needs and (b) assists in improving environmental conditions critical to the
growth of tourism, but (c) builds upon the ongoing reform process and complements the
Government's efforts in developing a model to guide the sector's institutional and regulatory
framework. The Bank's support for the solid waste sector in the coastal area will prepare the field
for an extension of private sector participation to a new sector (solid waste), an important
innovation for the Republic of Montenegro.
At the same time, the replacement of contaminated sources in the Zeta Valley will address urgent
needs and provide immediate benefits. This project component will remove the reliance of local
populations on unsafe water, and also enables the Bank to initiate a dialog for sector reform with
both the Podgoriqa Water Company, the largest utility in the Republic, and the Ministry of Urban
Planning.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The total project costs will be US$2.8 million, of which US$2.0 million will be Bank financed
through a grant. The project components are summarized below.
Component I. Coastal Environmental Infrastructure
Rehabilitation of the environmental infrastructure in the coastal municipalities will include:
*     Landfill Rehabilitation. The project will finance the rehabilitation of the multi-municipal
Kotor landfill site to meet sanitary standards. The landfill, which serves the municipalities
of Kotor, Budvar and Tivak, was in use until 1992, when it was abandoned during
Yugoslavia's conflict with Croatia. In recent years, 3 informal, or "wild," dumps have
been put into use in surrounding municipalities. The project will finance civil works and
equipment needed to rehabilitate and operate the Kotor landfill and permanently close wild
dump sites in an environmentally sound manner.
*     Solid Waste Equipment. In addition to the rehabilitation of the physical site, the project
will finance collection equipment as well as equipment to maintain and manage the Kotor
- 5 -



landfill and institute long-term environmental monitoring.
Component II. Zeta Valley Water SupPlY
*      Water Main Construction. To address the lack of clean water in a suburban area of the
capital Podgori,a (Zeta Valley) caused by industrial source pollution at the nearby
aluminum processing facility, the project will finance the completion of the construction of
a water supply pipeline to replace contaminated water sources in the Zeta Valley with
water from the Podgori,a municipal water supply system.
ComDonent III. Technical Assistance
*     Engineering Services and Auditing. To support project implementation, the Grant will
provide funding for the completion of engineering services and for the auditing of the
project accounts.
Indicative            Bank-     % of
Component                  Sector        Costs     % of    financing   Bank-
(USSM)    Total     (USSM)   financing
1. Coastal Environmental        Pollution Control /   1.55     55.4      1.25      62.5
Infrastructure                  Waste Management
II. Zeta Valley Water Supply    Other Water Supply    1.10     39.3      0.65      32.5
& Sanitation
III. Technical Assistance       Pollution Control /   0.15       5.4     0.10       5.0
Waste Management
Total Project Costs                  2.80     100.0      2.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                    2.80    100.0      2.00     100.0
Exemption from border taxes is granted by the Ministry of Finance for projects financed by international
donors.
VAT does not exist at present, although it is expected to be introduced soon, projects from international
donors will also be exempt from VAT.
Tax exemptions by the Government of Montnegro's Decree issued on September 28, 2001, were confirned
during Negotiations.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Given the short term priority character of the project it has a limited scope and focus on the
support of policy and institutional reforms. Despite this character, Bank's involvement during
supervision of the investments in the coastal area and in the Zeta valley will be used to support
and consolidate the current reform process, along the lines of the involvement of the private
sector in the consortium MonteAqua.
-6 -



3. Benefits and target population:
The project will have sustantial environmental benefits with a direct impact on the populations of
the project area, including (i) approximately 190,000 permanent residents in the coastal region (in
the municipalities of Budvar, Kotor and Tivat) as well as seasonal tourists which increases
population to 500,000 in the summer months and (ii) 30,000 inhabitants in Zeta Valley.
The rehabilitation of the environmental infrastructure in the coastal area will ensure that project
benefits reach beyond the participating municipalities, as improved environmental conditions will
enhance prospects for the resumption of tourist activities and improve prospects for the
multiplier-effect growth and private sector investment which are expected to accompany the
recovery in the tourism sector.
Further, the operation is expected to have important environmental and sector-wide benefits as
the project will assist local authorities to consolidate their long-term vision for the rehabilitation
and efficient provision of water services by sustainable local utilities.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project is expected to be implemented over a period of two years, with a closing date of
September 30, 2003.
The Grant will be awarded directly to PEW with a guarantee agreement with FRY and the
Republic of Montenegro. PMF will implement the Zeta Valley Water Supply component on
behalf of PEW under a technical Implementation Agreement between both entities acceptable to
the Bank (annex 11 describes the legal, financial and managerial status of PEW and PMF).
Most disbursements are expected to take place as direct payments from the Bank account. Only
small payments by PEW, for small equipment purchases, are foreseeable. A special account in
Euro will be opened by PEW, in a bank in Montenegro, fully owned by a private international
finance institution. A due diligence review of this commercial bank was carried out before
Appraisal by the Project team's FMS.
Implementation arrangements for the different components are as follows:
Component 1: Coastal Environmental Infrastructure
PEW will have full responsibility for implementing this Component, including procurement of
goods, works and services. The capacity of PEW to manage the project component has been
assessed during appraisal and found to be adequate since the company, as part of MonteAqua, is
currently dealing with parallel projects funded by international donors and involving private sector
participation. The enhanced skills gained through the public-private enterprise provide sufficient
guaranties for the adequate implementation of this component of the Bank's project.
- 7 -



Component 2: Zeta Valley Water Supply
PMF will act as the implementing unit of this component with responsibility for the procurement
of goods on behalf of PEW. The capacity of PMF is expected to be sufficient, according to the
procurement assessment carried out during preparation, since it is currently implementing several
projects financed by international donors, particularly the European Agency for Reconstruction,
and the activities under this component are expected to be financed under a maximum of two or
three contracts. Upon completion, assets financed by the project will be tranferred to the
Podgorica Water Company (Javno Preduzede Vodovod i Kanalizacija - PViK) for its operation
and maintenance.
Component 3: Technical Assistance
PEW will be responsible for managing the implementation of the Technical Assistance
Component. The Bank will closely supervise the implementation of the component, and PEW's
capacity to implement the component is sufficient given PEW's experience with other donors
(KfW, Austrian Government) and as part of MonteAqua.
Project Financial Management System and Audit
Both PEW and PMF would engage in procurement for their own components, while PEW (who
will be implementing the major part of the project) will be responsible for the overall project
accounts, project management reports (PMRs), the project audit, and disbursement requests.
PEW will carry out this task in close collaboration with PMF. PMF will implement only two or
three contracts, which will be paid directly from the Grant account by the Bank.
PEW utilizes FoxPro accounting software to keep its accounts. This system is capable of
providing accurate and timely information regarding project resources and expenditures, including
planning, accounting and financial reporting relating to the project. The project accounts will be
based on a Chart of Accounts drawn-up by the appraisal mission with the assistance of the PEW.
The Chart of Accounts will accommodate the proposed project to capture sources and uses of
funds, assets and liabilities in sufficient detail to satisfy PMR-based reporting requirements. The
system will, in addition to producing periodic and cumulative budgeted and actual expenditures,
link the financial data to measures of output and procurement activities of the project. The PMR
formats were discussed and agreed to with the PEW during project appraisal. The PMRs will be
prepared in an Excel-based format, which will extract project related information from the main
accounting system. PMRs will also reflect the sources and uses of funds for the Project.
Disbursement arrangements under the project will be on the basis of traditional disbursement
methods (e.g., direct payments and replenishments of the Special Account on the basis of full
documentation). It is expected that PEW will have the capacity to prepare the first full set of
PMRs by March 31, 2002. Technical support will be provided to PEW as part of the project
supervision activities to strengthen its accounting system. Additionally, PEW agreed to a financial
management strengthening plan to be carried out in parallel with project implementation.
In order to ensure that the Special Account and project accounts (including PMRs) will be audited
- 8 -



in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects
Financed by the World Bank", PEW has been informed on the process for selection and
engagement of auditors. Draft TOR for these assignments were discussed and agreed with PEW.
PEW will provide the Bank within six months of the end of each Government Fiscal Year, with a
full audit report on the project accounts, of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably
request.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Several design alternatives were contemplated during project preparation. These include:
A project dedicated to the improvement of rural areas water supply. Given that both poverty and
lack of water services are most severe in the rural areas, the team considered focusing the project
exclusively on improving the conditions in rural communities throughout Montenegro. This idea
was rejected for several reasons, both pragmatic and strategic. From a practical standpoint, the
complete lack of data and absence of a lead government agency to act as counterpart would have
made implementation of an exclusively rural project highly problematic. From a strategic
perspective, the team recognized the need to design a project which would not only improve
water supply conditions but also foster economic productivity for which purpose the coastal areas
offer better opportunities.
A project focused exclusively on water issues. The team also considered a project aimed at
addressing exclusively water supply or wastewater investments in the urban areas or in the coastal
municipalities. Instead, the team elected to include key investments in solid waste management
because of the importance of such investment on the revitalization of the coastal tourism sector
and its potential contribution to the economic development of Montenegro, as well as the need to
address the most urgent health risks caused by polluted supplies. By tackling the waste disposal
problems, in coordination with the work supported by other donors on water supply and
wastewater, instead of concentrating exclusively on water supply and wastewater disposal, the
project will (i) build upon the work being carried out by the MonteAqua consortium that has
introduced demand management policies and an adequate prioritization of investments, (ii)
according to the recommendations of the report on The Transition Support Strategy for FRY,
address urgent environmental needs in an integrated manner and in coordination with the work
being financed in the coastal area by KfW and GTZ in water supply and the Austrian government
in wastewater disposal, and (iii) facilitate the extension of private sector participation to solid
waste disposal, which would be an innovation for the Republic of Montenegro.
-9-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Kosovo - Pilot Water Supply Project  Assist the recipient to test the  S          S
reform of the water sector in the
Gjakove (Dakovica) - Rahovec
(Orahovac) area
Kosovo - Community Development    To improve the quality and        S             S
Fund Project                      availability of community
infrastructure and services in
poor and conflict-affected
communities, and for vulnerable
groups.
Other development agencies
KfW - Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau, Rehabilitation of Urban Water
Germany                           Supplies and Sanitation in
Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis
KfW - Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau, Rehabilitation of water supply
Germany                           systems in coastal areas of
Montenegro under management
by MonteAqua
Government of Austria             Rehabilitation of sewerage
networks in Montenegro's
coastal area (Kotor, Tivat)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Project design reflects the Bank's experience in the preparation and implementation of other
urgent water supply and sanitation projects, and specifically borrows on the lessons learned from
the implementation of projects of an urgent nature successfully carried out with the Bank's
participation.
Some of the critical lessons learned and applied in this Project's preparation include: (i) a rapid
technical and operational assessment of needs with a well-defined priority strategy and objectives;
(ii) simplicity in design and implementation arrangements; (iii) simplicity in the procurement and
disbursement procedures for efficient and rapid component implementation; (iv) need for strong
supervision and financial controls; (v) institutional autonomy and freedom from political
interference to allow implementation of components quickly and transparently; and (vi) private
sector participation to facilitate execution of the project and management of the extensive
- 10-



resources required for the implementation of reforms. The project includes all these conditions.
The project design also draws from the experience gained in the processing of the Kosovo Pilot
Water Supply project. Simplicity in the implementation arrangements, coupled with sufficient
capacity to manage the project implementation and the infrastructure that will be financed by it
have been key conditions set up from the beginning to ensure proper execution and sustainability.
As an added requirement for sustainability, proper tariff and collection mechanisms were
confirmed in the implementing agencies, together with full stakeholders support to the project
objectives and operation and maintenance costs. Finally, the existence of a partnership among the
main implementing agency (PEW) and a private sector consortium, while not directly involved in
the management of the project, provides additional assurance on the managerial experience and
capacity of PEW, as well as on its investment strategy.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Montenegro authorities are committed to the achievement of sustainable sector development,
and to further reforms needed to provide the incentives required for an efficient delivery of water
supply and sanitation services. Initial steps have already been taken by the involvement of the
private sector in the management of the coastal area water and sanitation services, through an
international competitive bidding process, won by the German consortium Aquamundo.
Additionally, since the Bank's financing will not be sufficient to fully cover the scale of
investments required in this phase, a capital contribution for the completion of the works
envisaged in the project will be made available by the recipient municipalities, indicating their
commitment and ownership for the project.
Podgorica and the coastal area municipalities have already expressed their intent to commit
additional funds for the urgent investments identified under the project. PEW and PMF will be
channeling these resources for the coastal region and the municipality of Podgorina, respectively.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank is uniquely positioned to add value in supporting the project and the broader aspects of
sector reform which it will initiate. Specifically, the Bank brings to the table:
broad international experience, both in private sector participation in the water and
sanitation sector and in the design of development projects in post-conflict areas;
the relationships to mobilize other sources of funds for donor cooperation;
policy development expertise and experience in the design of institutional regimes for
water resources and sanitation management; and
the Bank's extensive experience in development of sustainable mechanisms for disposal
management.



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
l. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit   NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Given the urgent character of the project, the project economic analysis has focused on use of
least cost analysis, and no project internal rate of return (IRR) will be calculated.
Because of the nature of the proposed investments and their impact on both nature conservation
and pollution control it is expected that the project will have significant economic and
environmental benefits based on the situation on the ground and experience with similar projects
in other countries. The benefits the project will generate on nature conservation and rehabilitation
and pollution control include important externalities, that accrue both on the local population as
on the country as a whole because of the multiplying effect of tourism on the Republic's economy
and on its prospects for growth. Based on the large expected externalities that will be generated
through the operation, both in terms of immediate environmental improvements, the pilot nature
of the sector reforms supported under the project, which are expected to yield future benefits in
terms of demonstrating the viability of investments in environmental infrastructure, and the ripple
effect that improved environmental conditions will have on tourism and the Republic's economy,
project funds will be transferred as grants to the implementing agencies.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Financial data presented in Annex 5 indicate that both PEW's and PViK's current tariffs and
collection rates guarantee the financial sustainability of the infrastructure to be financed by the
project.
Data collected during pre-appraisal show that an annual tariff of 15 DEM per person will be
required to achieve cost recovery for the solid waste disposal in the coastal area. For an average
household of four people, that would mean a moderate increase of the current tariff by around 11
percent, which will be approved by the involved municipalities. Conditions were agreed during
appraisal for securing the approval of this tariff increase.
About 8,000 households will be provided with water from the Zeta valley pipeline and
incorporated as customers of PViK. Expected new income from these new consumers would be
about DM330,000 per annum at current tariff rates applicable in Podgori,a (total earnings for
2000 were DM10.1 million, with a tariff of 0.26 DM/m3), well above the expected cost of
operating and maintaining the pipeline and the rest of the water supply system to the Zeta valley.
Fiscal Impact:
As a grant, the Project will have no direct fiscal impact on the budget of the Republic of
Montenegro. In the longer run, the establishment of financially viable water supply and solid
waste utilities and the environmental improvements brought by the project are expected to have a
positive fiscal impact, through better services and economic development associated to growth in
- 12 -



the tourist sector.
3. Technical:
The emergency nature of the project requires that solutions be implemented within a very short
time frame to reach the benefits intended. Even so, all project components will be in line with
optimal long-term solutions.
A detailed assessment of technical inputs, together with the identification of the investment plan
for the urgent repairs was completed prior to Project Appraisal. No issues are expected in this
respect since detailed feasibility studies, and final designs in some cases, such as the Zeta pipeline,
already exist.
4. Institutional:
No issues are expected given the sector's characteristics with already functioning entities, fully
responsible for the management of the infrastructure to be financed by the project.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The proposed project would be implemented during FY 2002-2003 under the overall
responsibility of the Ministry of Urban Planning. With the existing capacity at PEW and PMF the
project can be expected to be satisfactorily implemented.
4.2 Project management:
Responsibility for project execution will be given to the entities responsible for the implementation
of each component as described in section C.4. All goods, works and services funded by the
Grant will be procured in accordance with World Bank guidelines
4.3 Procurement issues:
A Procurement Capacity Assessment of PEW and PMF has been carried out during project
preparation (see annex 6 for details). Although these agencies have implemented projects financed
by several European donors, do not have experience with Bank's procurement practices. Despite
this lack of experience, no issues are expected with regards to procurement since: (i) the project
will have only eight small contracts; (ii) most procurement documentation will be prior reviewed
by the team's PAS;  and (iii) detailed monitoring procedures have been agreed with the
implementing agencies.
Since the experience with Bank procurement practices is limited, it is proposed to provide
assistance to the implementing agencies for the preparation of bidding documents and tendering
and evaluation processes. Procurement for the government financed part of the Zeta valley
component will be carried out by PMF using its own procedures. It is proposed that most
procurement of works be done under International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Procurement of
goods will be done through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, with a threshold
of US$ 100,000. International Shopping (IS) procedures will be used for readily available goods
of standard specifications estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract up to
- 13-



an aggregate amount of US$ 590,000. IS procedure will require quotations from at least three
(3) suppliers from two different countries. IS may be used for a small quantity of goods such as
valves and meters.
4.4 Financial management issues:
A financial management assessment of PEW and PMF has been carried out during project
preparation to ensure compliance with OP 10.02. Although no country financial assessment has
been carried out, from a financial management perspective, the risks associated with the Grant are
limited. The grant amount is relatively small, with a limited number of large contracts paid
directly from the Bank's headquarters in Washington. Financial flows for smaller contracts would
be from the Special Account directly to the consultants or suppliers. PEW has experience in
implementing investment programs of intemational donor agencies (KfW, GTZ). To mitigate any
unforeseen problems, an Operational Manual has been prepared, clearly specifying all fiduciary
responsibilities of PEW, including the responsibilities of the individual staff, and the procedures
and guidelines for approving and authorization of payments. The project's financial management
system will have the relevant safeguards to protect data entry and data integrity. The project
accounts will be audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank.
The team's FMS carried out a due diligence review of the commercial bank during the appraisal
mission. Main results of this review indicate that current internal controls and procedures in Atlas
Bank, selected for the opening of the Special Account, are adequate. This bank is currently
maintaining an special account for PEW for the projects it manages with financing from KfW and
GTZ and has proven experience in the required procedures.
5. Environmental:               Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
A preliminary assessment of potential impacts of the proposed project and the likely significance
of the impacts, and recommended measures to manage and monitor environmental effects has
been carried out. This has been published in the official gazette and available to the public at the
beneficiary's offices and local libraries. As the project proposes to remedy past environmental
degradation, the predicted impacts are positive in terms of the local environment.
Issues/impacts known to occur in landfill development and of most concern to stakeholders were
studied during the pre-appraisal mission, particularly among the following areas: (i) social,
socio-economic and cultural; (ii) hydrogeology, hydrology and water quality; (iii) health and
safety; (iv) air quality; (v) noise; (vi) ecology; (vii) off-site traffic; and (viii) visual/landscape.
The types of likely impacts expected and the mitigation measures that will be applied are
presented in the project's Environmental Management Plan (EMP), which was prepared during
project preparation and adopted by both implementing agencies. The EMP has since been made
public through the agencies offices and local public libraries.
The EMP is a binding document and the commitment for its implementation by the Grant
beneficiaries is part of the project legal agreements.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
- 14 -



Most necessary engineering measures and operational practices to ensure the proper construction
and operation of the landfill have been incorporated in the design of the project. The EMP
includes additional specific measures for ensuring the proper monitoring and control of works and
operation, as well as for the the implementation of the mitigation measures identified. The main
elements covered under the EMP include:
*     Management of the transition regime to minimize effects on the semi-formal workers
*     Publishing of information leaflets to advise workers of the impending changes to working
practices
*     Development of a business plan which includes proposals for building institutional
capacity in environmental management, restoration and aftercare, and liaison with
neighbouring residents
*     Implementing a monitoring program to ensure that facilities are operated as intended and
that no adverse effects result from the continued operation of the site. The program will be
developed in consultation with the Ministry of Environment and include monitoring of
leachate treatment, landfill gas, groundwater quality, and response to any complaints
about noise
*     Development of an operational management plan which includes environmental
management, addresses workers' health and safety, and includes emergency response
procedures
*     Preservation of a belt of trees around the site to provide visual screening
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Consultation was carried out in accordance with World Bank policy and guidelines. Furthermore,
stakeholders were identified during the course of the pre-appraisal mission. Key consultation
activities included:
*      meetings with public authorities and other institutional stakeholders
*      public meetings at which stakeholders were brought together and encouraged to discuss
issues
*      interviews with members of the local community.
In addition, information has been made available to local authorities throughout the development
of the project and will continue to be disseminated during the construction and operation phases.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Site operations should comply, at all times, with relevant National Environmental Legislation and
with emissions limits which protect neighbors from potential nuisance and are indicative of good
management. It is unlikely that significantly polluting emissions will result from the proposed
landfill site. Good practice, however, requires that some environmental monitoring be undertaken
- 15 -



on a regular basis during all phases of site development, site restoration and upon completion of
site activities. Environmental monitoring envisaged under EMP provides the mechanism for:
*      identify, at an early stage, pollution emanating from the site;
*      identifying any deviations from acceptable standards of site operation; and
*      formulating proposals for site remediation measures, as necessary.
The purpose of the environmental monitoring program to be adopted is therefore not just to meet
standards, but to provide information to allow improved environmental management at the sites.
A detailed description of the monitoring procedures is an integral part of the EMP.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Positive social impacts are anticipated as a result of the restoration of solid waste disposal
infrastructure, water supply and wastewater facilities rehabilitation. The project does not involve
any relocation of settlements or changes in the land use plan.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
During project preparation, the Ministry of Urban Planning, PEW, the PViK and the Task Force
under the Ministry of Infrastructure were involved to define the project scope, assess urgent
works, and prioritize actions. Stakeholders meetings were held during preparation at different
administrative levels: This included consultation with the Municipality of Podgorica and with
representatives from local communities in the Zeta Valley Region. At these consultation, the
urgent need for the proposed interventions were confirmed. Consultation with the private sector
(Monte Aqua) were also held, to ensure that the project design will facilitate increased private
sector participation in the future.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The Consultations held with representatives from local communities in the Zeta Valley Region
were joined by representatives from cultural associations and local residents. All expressed
unanimously the urgent need for safe water supply in the region and their support to the Project's
objectives and approach.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
N/A
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
N/A
- 16 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7. 1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                            0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Environmental Assessment. An EMP was prepared and is included in the Project Operational
Manual. This document has been made public before appraisal.
Projects in International Waters. During preparation and appraisal the team verified that the
project does not involve works or actions on international waterways. During appraisal,
confirmation was obtained from the Legal Department that OP 7.50. does not apply to the
Project.
- 17 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project is expected to be fully sustainable. Current tariffs in the coastal area for solid waste
services are sufficient for the proper operation and maintenance of the infrastructure and
equipment to be financed. An additional tariff increase of 10 percent will become effective.
Furthermore, the fact that PEW is in a consortium that includes the participation of the private
sector for the management of the water and sanitation services in the coastal area, its current
performance, and the agreements with the municipalities under which it operates, provide further
confidence for an adequate application of tariffs and the financial viability of PEW. Proper
regulations and enforcement capacity do also exist to guarantee that once the current "wild"
dumps are closed, wastes will be properly directed to the new rehabilitated landfill avoiding the
re-emergence of new "wild" dumps. Uncontrolled dumping is regulated by the "Law of
Communal Inspection" and the "Law of Ecological Inspection", both of which are enforced by
regional inspectors that are in place and can impose a fine in accordance with the laws. Smaller
fines can be imposed and collected directly. This system is already working well for solid waste
disposal outside the wild landfills.  There is no doubt that the inspectors will extend the
enforcement to the wild landfill and demolition material, as soon as the rehabilitated landfill
becomes operational and demolition material can be used to cover the wild landfills.
Podgorica's water company's current good collection rates, coupled with the incorporation of
additional consumers and the low costs of operation of the Zeta pipeline, represent no risk to the
sustainability of the new infrastructure.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Authorities/consumers unwilling/unable to   M         Review during preparation of the proposed
adopt/pay for solid waste and water                  infrastructure confirmed that tariffs required to
services, jeopardizing O&M and the                   secure proper O&M (investments will be grant
sustainability of the financed                       financed) are small and in the order of existing
infrastructure.                                      tariffs (only a 10% increase will be require to be
adopted by the coastal municipalities for solid
waste management). Consultation with
stakeholders was carried out during preparation,
confirming the willingness to support these
tariffs.
Other donor supported programs render       N         Careful selection and design of all project
the investments ineffective or introduce              components and strong coordination with other
conflicting incentives that limit the                 donors during preparation have simplified
achievement of proposed objectives                    design and focused the project objectives within
the overall assistance program
Liability issues regarding the pollution of  M        Agreements between the Aluminium factory an(
current water sources in the Zeta valley              PViK to define service responsibilities have
- 18 -



affect the entering into operation of the             been entered. Clarification on the possible
service with supply from the new Zeta                 liabilities has been obtained form the Ministry of
pipeline                                              Environment.
From Components to Outputs
Weak implementation capacity or lack of     M         Project design has been simplified during
experience in Bank procurment practices               preparation, reducing the number of contracts to
delay project execution                               be procured. Most disbursements would be
made directly from the grant Bank's account to
simplify rpocessing. Larger procurement
packages will be prepared, with Bank's
assistance.
Delays in implementation caused by          N         Project design was simplified during
difficulties of technical nature                      preparation, only including investments for
which either full detailed designs were available
(i.e., the construction of the Zeta ppipeline) or a
complete feasibility analysis was available (i.e.,
the rehabilitation of the Kotor landfill), requiring
only final designs
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There are two possibly controversial aspects of the proposed operation. First, the project is
concentrated in coastal areas and could be seen by some as providing grant resources to those
who are already relatively better off than rural populations. The team believes that focusing on
areas with potential for economic growth is key to demonstrating the importance, viability, and
benefits of sector reform. Second, in the coastal areas the project includes investments in solid
waste instead of focusing on water supply and wastewater. The operation's investments in solid
waste complement the ongoing Government program, financed in part by the intemational
comrnmunity, which is designed to meet short- and medium-termn requirements for water supply.
They provide a comprehensive response to the environmental challenges faced by this region.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The Grant Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the Bank shall have been
furnished that:
(a)    the Implementation Agreement has been executed on behalf of the PEW and PMF and all
conditions to the effectiveness of such agreement have been fulfilled; and
- 19-



(b)    the Operational Manual has been issued in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
The Recipient agrees to implement the Environmental Management Plan as published in the Montenegrian
Official Gazette.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
D 2. The pro.curement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Man6l u. Marino                   MotC?Knishi                 /     Christiaan J. Poortman
Tean Leader                       Sector Manager                    C Country Manager/Director
- 20 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
YUGOSLAVIA, FED. REP. OF (SERB.IMONT.): Montenegro Environmental Infrastructure
More information on Logframes
Key Performnance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
The Transition Support        * Environmental quality * Environmental reports  *    Environmental
Strategy for Montenegro       indicators                                       degradation of coastal areas
(which takes the place of a                          * Water supply quality    are a priority problem for the
CAS) identifies priority goals:  * Population served with assessments          country
(i) correct environmental     water of adequate quality
degradation; (ii) address                                                      *    Pollution of water
health risks associated to                                                     supply sources in the Zeta
growing pollution of sources                                                   valley represent a health risk
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Rehabilitation of           * percentage of solid waste  * Regular progress reports  * Political and economic
environmental infrastructure  produced that is collected                           stability
in the affected coastal       and disposed in proper  * Supervision Mission
municipalities of Montenegro  facilities                 reports                 * Project implementation
does not reduce
* number of illegal disposal  * Implementation         incentives to the
Completion of the Zeta        facilities properly closed  Completion Report        government and the
pipeline to replace                                                                municipalities to continue
contaminated sources in the  * percentage of population                            solid waste and water
Zeta Valley                   in Zeta Valley supplied                              sector reform by solving
with water complying                                 urgent needs
with WHO standards
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Coastal Environmental     Number of closed illegal   Quarterly management status  Cost recovery mechanisms
Infrastructure            dumb        s              reports and independent   provide financing for
Rehabilitation             umps                      audits                    operation and maintenance
*  Improved Solid Waste   Repairs of Kotor's landfill                          Austrian financed
Disposal                  successfully completed                               rehabilitation of the sewerage
system completed
Zeta Valley Water Supply   Construction of 7.5 km    Quarterly management status  Cost recovery mechanisms
remaining of the Zeta pipeline reports and independent  provide financing for
*  Contaminated sources   completed                  audits                    operation and maintenance
replaced through the
completion of the new Zeta
pipeline
- 21 -



Project Components l     Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                        Outputs)
Coastal Environmental    US$1.35 Million          Quarterly reports
Infrastructure:
* Landfill Rehabilitation
Zeta Valley Water Supply:  US$0.65 Million        Quarterly reports
* Water Main Construction
- 22 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
YUGOSLAVIA, FED. REP. OF (SERB./MONT.): Montenegro Environmental Infrastructure
US$ 2.8 million
By Component:
Project Component I - US$1.55 million
*      Landfill Rehabilitation. The project will finance the rehabilitation of the multi-municipal Kotor
landfill site to meet sanitary standards. The landfill, which serves the municipalities of Kotor, Budvar and
Tivat, was in use until 1992, when it was abandoned during Yugoslavia's conflict with Croatia. The
rehabilitation of the landfill will comprise a new fence and gate, groundwater monitoring system, leachate
treatment, and gas collecting system. The entrance zone will be equipped with a scale and the existing
building at the entrance will be rehabilitated to provide adequate office space and sanitary rooms. A new
compactor and bulldozer will be provided under the project to allow proper operation of the landfill.
In recent years, three informal, or "wild," dumps have been put into use in surrounding municipalities. The
project will finance equipment and civil works needed to permanently close wild dump sites in an
environmentally sound manner. In a first step, waste will be moved to establish a proper profile at the
landfills. A drainage system, as well as a gas collecting system, will be installed to provide controlled
drainage and degassing. The landfills will be secured with a fence and will be used for the disposal of
demolition material, that at present is deposed of uncontrolled. After a stabilization period of two to three
years, a permanent soil cover including planting is foreseen at these landfills.
*      Solid Waste Equipment. In addition to the rehabilitation of the physical site, the component will
finance needed collection equipment (solid waste containers and waste collection trucks) as well as works
and equipment to rehabilitate, maintain and manage the Kotor landfill and institute long-term environmental
monitoring.
Project Component 2 - US$1.10 million
*      Water Main Construction. To address the lack of clean water in a suburban area of the capital
Podgorica (Zeta Valley) caused by industrial source pollution at the nearby aluminum processing facility,
the project will finance the completion of the construction of a water supply pipeline to replace
contaminated water sources in the Zeta Valley with water from the Podgorica municipal water supply
system. The project will finance the completion of the remaining 7.5 km of pipeline, and the acquisition of
valves and meters.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.15 million
*      Engineering Services and Auditing. To support project implementation, the Grant will provide
funding for the completion of engineering services and for the auditing of the project accounts
- 23 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
YUGOSLAVIA, FED. REP. OF (SERB./MONT.): Montenegro Environmental Infrastructure
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                  US Smillion   US $million  US $million
1. Coastal Environmental Infrastructure                      0.30          1.15         1.45
11. Zeta Valley Water Supply                                 0.45          0.60         1.05
III. Technical Assistance                                    0.05         0.10          0.15
Total Baseline Cost                                          0.80          1.85         2.65
Physical Contingencies                                                                 0.00
Price Contingencies                                        0.00          0.15          0.15
Total Project Costs'               0.80          2.00          2.80
Total Financing Required                0.80          2.00          2.80
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                 US $million   US $million   US $million
Goods                                                         0.12           0.90          1.02
Works                                                         0.32           0.85          1.17
Services                                                      0.05           0.10          0.15
Other                                                         0.31           0.15          0.46
Total Project Costs       0.80           2.00          2.80
Total Financing Required        0.80          2.00          2.80
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (USrm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 2.8 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 71.43% of total
project cost net of taxes.
- 24 -



Annex 4
YUGOSLAVIA, FED. REP. OF (SERBJMONT.): Montenegro Environmental Infrastructure
Please refer to Item No. 2 "Financial" under "E. Summary Project Analysis."
- 25 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
YUGOSLAVIA, FED. REP. OF (SERB./MONT.): Montenegro Environmental Infrastructure
Years Ending
| Year 1| Year 2     | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5   | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           1.4       1.4        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          1.4       1.4        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0
Total Financing              1.4       1.4        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  1.0        1.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Government                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Central                0.2        0.2       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.2        0.2       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     1.0        1.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
I Year 1| Year 2     | Year 3  | Year 4   | Year 5| Year 6    | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         1.4        1.4       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs          0.0        0.0       0.4        0.4        0.4      0.4        0.4
Total Project Costs         1.4        1.4       0.4       0.4        0.4       0.4       0.4
Total Financing             1.4        1.4       0.4       0.4        0.4       0.4       0.4
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  1.0       1.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Government               0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Central               0.2        0.2       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.2        0.2        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers            0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries  0.0        0.0        0.4       0.4        0.4      0.4        0.4
Others                   0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    1.0        1.0       0.4        0.4       0.4       0.4       0.4
(figures in constant US$)
- 26 -



Main assumptions:
Full O&M cost recovery through tariffs for solid waste services in the coastal areas and water supply
in the Zeta valley. A 10 percent increase in solid waste tariffs in the costal areas has been adopted by
the corresponding Municipalities to cover yearly estimated recurrent costs (including depreciation) of
about US$220,000 for solid waste disposal in the rehabilitated Kotor landfill. Current tariff levels in
Podgorica (0.26 DM per cubic meter) will be applied to new incorporated consumers in the Zeta
valley. Revenues from these consumers, at this tariff level and assuming similar collection rates (80
percent) as for the rest of the area served by PViK, will fully cover the estimated yearly recurrent
costs (including depreciation, of about DM150,000) of providing water supply in the Zeta valley.
Detailed cost estimates for both the rehabilitated landfill and the Zeta valley pipeline can be found in
the project files.
- 27 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
YUGOSLAVIA, FED. REP. OF (SERB./MONT.): Montenegro Environmental Infrastructure
Procurement
The components of the proposed project, their estimated cost and procurement methods are summarized in
Table A of this annex. The procurement methods and prior review thresholds are presented in Table B of
this annex. Table B1 summarizes the capacity of the PEW and PMF in procurement and the proposed
arrangements for procurement and monitoring. Table B2 presents a procurement plan for the packaging
and estimated schedule of the major procurement actions. The project will be financed from the proceeds of
the proposed US$2million grant and the local expenditure contributions from the Government (US$0.8
million). The total cost of the project would be US$2.80 million.
Goods and works wholly or partially financed by IBRD will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995 and revised in January
and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Consultant's services wholly or partly financed by
IBRD will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers published in January 1997 and revised in January 1999. Standard documents
published by the World Bank will be used PEW and PMF for the preparation of bidding documents and
request for consultant's proposals.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement of Works. Civil works contract for Landfill Rehabilitation and closure of wild landfill
estimated at (US$0.85 million) will be procured by International Competitive Bidding (ICB) with post
qualification based on the Bank Standard Small Civil Works Document.
Procurement of Goods. Pipes for the Zeta Valley pipeline, estimated to cost approximately US$ 0.46
million, will be procured by ICB in accordance with the Bank Standard Goods Procurement Documents.
IS procedures will be used for readily available goods of standard specifications estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount of US$590,000. IS procedure will require
quotations from at least three (3) suppliers from two different countries. IS may be used for a small
quantity of goods such as valves and meters.
Selection Procedures for Consulting Services. Procurement of local consultant firm for the landfill
detailed design and supervision contract estimated to cost US$20,000 and auditing contract estimated to
cost US$30,000 will be procured through CQ procedures. Individual Consultants services estimated cost
of US$50,000 will be procured in accordance with the procedures set up in Section V of the Guidelines.
The individual consultants will advise the local consultant firm with respect to the international practice in
the design and supervision of the landfill rehabilitation and the closure of wild landfills.
- 28 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category              ICB             NCB           Other         N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                              0.85             0.00           0.00          0.32        1.17
(0.85)           (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.85)
2. Goods                              0.46             0.00           0.59          0.12         1.17
(0.46)           (0.00)         (0.59)        (0.00)      (1.05)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00           0.10          0.05        0.15
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.10)       (0.00)       (0.10)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.00             0.00           0.00          0.31        0.31
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                              1.31             0.00           0.69          0.80        2.80
(1.31)           (0.00)         (0.69)       (0.00)       (2.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.
2. Includes goods to be procured through international shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training. technical assistance services, and incremental operating
costs related to managing the project.
- 29 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QCBS .as-       SFB     LCS      CQ     Other   N.B.F. Total Cost
A. Firms              0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.05    0.00    0.05     0.10
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.05)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.05)
B. Individuals        0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.05    0.00     0.05
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.05)  (0.00)    (0.05)
Total  0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.05    0.05     0.05     0.15
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.05)  (0.05)  (0.00)   (0. I 0)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All contracts wholly or partially financed by IBRD will be prior reviewed, since both PEW and PMF have
no practical experience about the World Bank procurement, therefore, Both PEW and PMF are rated as
high risk. (See Table B 1: capacity Assessment)
Table B: Thresholds for Proc'urement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value   Aggr                      Contracts Subject to
Threshold        Value      Prourement
Expenditure    (US$ thousands)  Threshold       Method        Prior Review
Category                         (USS                       (US$ millions)
thousand)
1. Works               >500           N/A            ICB              All
2. Goods               >100            N/A           ICB              All
<100           <590           IS
3. Services            <100           <100           CQ               All
N/A            <50           IND
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$2,000,000
- 30 -



Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Table B1: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance Requirements
The Public Enterprise for Water Supply, Waste Water, Drainage and Solid Waste Disposal "Crnogorsko Primorje" Budva
(PEW) was established in 1977 and is in charge of implementation of the landfill rehabilitation component under the
project. PEW consists of 22 staff out of which 5 staff are working for procurement. These procurement staff have gained
international procurement experience through KfW financed project for water supply network rehabilitation, and through
Austrian Government financed project for sewerage network and ocean outfall rehabilitation. Total amount procured by
PEW in the last five years is about US$4.5 million. However, PEW has no Bank procurement experience.
The Podogorica Municipal Fund for Urban Land, Real Estate and Roads (PMF) was established in 1999 by the
Municipality Council of Podgorica. PMF is responsible for financing and implementing infrastructure investment in the
municipality. PMF will be responsible for procurement of the Zeta Valley Water Supply component. PMF owns 45 staff
out of which 12 civil engineers are engaged in procurement and supervision activities. PMF has been implementing several
projects financed by European donors. PMF has procured about US$26 million in the past three years. However, PMF has
no experience of Bank procurement. In view of above both PEW and PMF are rated as high risk. It is recommended,
therefore, all the following contracts should be prior reviewed:
Landfill Rehabilitation: PEW will procure: (i) civil works contract (US$ 850,000) through ICB; (ii) goods
contract for waste handling equipment (US$ 300,000) through ICB (iii) individual consultant contract (US$
50,000); (iv) local consultant firm (US$ 20,000); and (v) auditing firm (US$ 30,000).
Zeta Valley Water Supply: PMF will procure: (i) goods contract for pipes (US$ 460,000) through ICB and (ii)
valves and meters (US$ 140,000) through IS. The pipe installation work will be financed by local fund and will be
procured by PMF.
No CPAR exists for Montenegro
Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions for the firstyear ready by negotiations: YES
Training Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated Date of Project Launch Workshop: December 2001
Date of publication of General Procurement Notice: August 31, 2001
Indicate if there is procurement subject to mandatory SPN in Development Business: Yes
Domestic Preference for Goods: N.A.
Domestic Preference for Works, if applicable: N.A.
Retroactive Financing: No                     Advance Procurement:      Yes
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: PEW and PMF will have the responsibility for all
procurement activities and for installation and management of the procurement monitoring system for its respective
component described above. All procurement documentation will be prior reviewed by a PAS and the relevant technical
staff. Procurement information will be collected and recorded by PEW and submitted to the Bank in the quarterly progress
reports. This information would include (a) revised cost estimates for individual contracts; (b) revised timing of
procurement actions including advertising, bidding, contract award and completion time for individual contracts; and (c)
compliance with aggregate limits on specific methods of procurement. Procurement training is not envisaged under the
project, since there are only eight small contracts and all contracts will be prior reviewed.
Co-financing. Explain briefly the Procurement arrangements under co-financing: No Co-financing is planned.
Procurement Staffing: Takao Ikegami, 202-473-2334, H11-135
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement:
No procurement service support is currently envisioned from the Resident Mission.
- 31 -



Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Once every six months (includes spccial
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation"
and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 32 -



Yugoslavia, Fed. Rep. of (SerbJMont.)
Montenegro Municipal Environmental Infrastructure
Table B2 - Procurement Plan (1/2)
1         2        3         4           5                             6. Estimated dates
Description   Type   Number    Estimated  Procurement     Pre-      (BD/RFP)        Bid       Contract   Contract
of        cost      Method      qual/SL    I.Preparation  1. RFP/ITB   signing  Completion
packages    (US$)                 I PQ/Short                2. Opening
List                       3.
2. Opening               Eval&Recom
3.Eval
&Recom
Coastal Municipal Environmental Infrastructure
Landfill       CW        1          850       ICB      I N/A          Feb/02     I Mar/02      Jun/02     Jun/03
rehabilitation                                         2                        2 May/02
and closure of                                         3                        3 May/02
wild landfills
Waste           G        1          300       ICB                     Feb/02     I Mar/02      Jun/02     Dec/02
handling                                                                        2 May/02
bulldozer and                                                                   3 May/02
compactor
Technical      CS        1           50      IND       I Sep/01                  I N/A         Oct/01     Jun/03
Advisor                                                2 Oct/0 1                2
(International)                                        3 Oct/01                 3
Consultant     CS        I           20       CQ       I Aug/01      Sept/01     I Sep/01      Oct/01     Jun/03
Services                                               2 Sep/01                 2 Oct/01
(local)                                                3 Sep/01                  3 Oct/0 1
Auditing       CS        1           30       CQ       I Oct/01      Nov/01      INov/0 1      Jan/02     Dec/03
2 Nov/01                 2 Dec/01
3 Nov/01                 3 Dec/01
Sum 1                           1,250
- 33 -



Yugoslavia, Fed. Rep. of (SerblMont)
Montenegro Environmental Infrastructure
Table B2 - Procurement Plan (2/2
1         2       3         4            5                             6. Estimated dates
Desciption   Type   Number    Estimated  Prcurement      Pre-      (BD/RFP)        Bid       Contract   Contract
of        cost      Method       qual/SL   I.Preparation  1. RFP/ITB   signing  Completion
packages    (US$)                 I.PQ/Short                 2. Opening
List                       3.
2. Opening                Eval&Recom
3.Eval
&Recom
Zeta Valley Pipeline
Pipe and      G        1           460      ICB       I N/A         Sep/01     I Oct/01       Dec/01     Jun/02
Fittings                                              2                        2 Nov/01
3                         3 Dec/01
Valves and    G        2           140       IS       To be procured under different schedules between January 2002 and
Meters                                                                         June 2003
Sum 2                           600
Unallocated                        150
TOTAL                          2,000
-34 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million        Financing Percentage
Consultant Services                        0.10                   100% net of taxes
Goods                                      0.90                   100% net of taxes
Works                                     0.85                    100% net of taxes
Unallocated                                0.15
Total Project Costs                       2.00
Total                                      2.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
All contracts will require the Bank's prior review.  Therefore, all disbursements will require full
documentation.
Special account:
To facilitate timely Project implementation, PEW will establish, maintain and operate, under conditions
acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in Euro in a commercial bank. The authorized allocation of the
Special Account will be 200,000 Euro, representing approximately four months of eligible expenditures.
Upon effectiveness of the Grant Agreement, PEW may withdraw 100,000 Euro. When the funds withdrawn
from the Grant Account and any outstanding Special Commitments amount to US$180,000 equivalent,
PEW may ask to increase the Special Account to 200,000 Euro -by submitting the relevant Application.
Replenishment applications are to be submitted at least every three months, preferably on a monthly basis,
and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
Project Financial Management:
PEW utilizes Fox-Pro accounting software to keep its accounts. This system is capable of providing
accurate and timely information regarding project resources and expenditures, including planning,
accounting and financial reporting relating to the project. The project accounts will be based on a Chart of
Accounts drawn-up by the appraisal mission with the assistance of PEW. The Chart of Accounts will
accommodate the proposed project to capture sources and uses of funds, assets and liabilities in sufficient
detail to satisfy Project Management Reporting (PMR) based reporting requirements. The system will, in
addition to producing periodic and cumulative budgeted and actual expenditures, link the financial data to
measures of output and procurement activities of the project. PMRs formats were discussed and agreed to
with PEW during project appraisal. The PMRs will be prepared in an XL-based format, which will extract
project related information from the main accounting system. Disbursement arrangements under the
project will be on the basis of traditional disbursement methods (e.g., direct payments and replenishments
of the Special Account on the basis of full documentation). It is expected that PEW will have the capacity
to prepare the first full set of PMRs by March 31, 2002.
- 35 -



Internal Controls
Operational procedures and guidelines for overall project management, including financial management will
be documented in an Operational Manual, encompassing all levels of project management and
administration. A draft of this Manual has been prepared by PEW. The Manual includes, apart from other
administrative procedures, financial management procedures and staffing, identification of accounting and
auditing standards and procedures used for the project, project reporting and monitoring, procurement
procedures, procedures for cash management and formats of project management reports. Further actions
to strengthen project financial management is listed below.
Action Plan
I . PEW sent to the Bank for approval the draft Operational Manual by August 15th, 2001.
2.  PEW will produce Report IA (Sources and Used of Funds), lB (Uses of Funds by Detail), IE
(Special Account), Report 2 (Project Progress), and Report 3 (Procurement) by December 31, 2001.
3.  PEW will select an auditor to audit the project accounts by December 31, 2001.
4.  PEW will prepare full PMRs by March 31, 2002.
- 36 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
YUGOSLAVIA, FED. REP. OF (SERB./MONT.): Montenegro Environmental Infrastructure
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      4
First Bank mission (identification)             06/13/2001                  06/13/2001
Appraisal mission departure                     08/27/2001                  07/20/2001
Negotiations                                    09/10/2001                  10/17/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   10/01/2001
Prepared by:
Manuel Marinlo, Andreas Rohde and Takao Ikegami
Preparation assistance:
Maria Teresa Lim
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Manuel Marifio                    Team Leader. Engineer
Andreas Rohde                     Co-Team Leader. Sanitary Engineer
Claudio Purificato                Engineer
Takao Ikegami                     Sanitary Engineer (PAS)
David Sislen                      Economist
Hiran Herat                       Financial Management
Gennady Pilch                     Legal Advisor
Daria Golstein                    Legal Advisor
- 37 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
YUGOSLAVIA, FED. REP. OF (SERB.IMONT.): Montenegro Environmental Infrastructure
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan
Project Procurement Plan
Financial Management Improvement Plan
Environmental Management Plan
Technical Agreements between PEW and PMF for the implementation of the Zeta Valley Water
Supply Component
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Financial Management Assessment
Procurement Capacity Assessment
Financial sustainability assessment for the new infrastructure. Cost distribution and revenues
estimates
C. Other
Tariff schedules for Kotor, Tivak and Budva solid waste systems
Tariff schedule for Podgori,a water supply
Report from the Ministry of Environment on the Pollution of Water Sources in the Zeta Valley
and the associated environmental liabilities
*Including electronic files
- 38 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
YUGOSLAVIA, FED. REP. OF (SERB.IMONT.): Montenegro Environmental Infrastructure
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                disbursements
Project ID  FY  Purpose                            IBRD      IDA                   Cancel.  Undisb.   Orig Frm Rev'd
Total:     0.00    0.00                     000      0.00    0.00    0.00
YUGOSLAVIA, FED. REP. OF (SERB./MONT.)
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval         Company                         Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi    Partic
1982/87             Igalo                           2.57     0.00     0.00    0.00     2.57    0.00     0.00     0.00
1985                Jugobanka                       4.06     0.00     0.00    0.84     4.06    0.00     0.00     0.84
1980                Monte Hotels                    2.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     2.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1930                Radoje                          1.17     0.00     0.00    0.00     1.17    0.00     0.00     0.00
1980                SMSIE Yugo                       1.08    0.00     0.00    0.00     1.08    0.00     0.00     0.00
1987/89             VB                             20.75     0.00     0.00    5.92    20.75    0.00     0.00     5.92
Total Portfolio:         31.63     0.00     0.00     6.76    31.63    0.00     0.00     6.76
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                            Loan    Equity     Quasi      Partic
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
- 39 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
YUGOSLAVIA, FED. REP. OF (SERB./MONT.): Montenegro Environmental Infrastructure
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                              Yugoslavia,   Central  middle-
Fed. Rep.      Asia   Income      Development diamond
1999
Population, mid-vear (millions)                       10.6       475     2,094                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method. US$)                       ..     2,150     1,200
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                        ..      1,022    2,513
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population f%)                                         0.2        0.1       1.1
Labor force (%1                                        0.6        0.6       1.2     GNP          ,              I   Gross
per                   .        primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                               capita                      enrollment
Povertl (% of population below national Povertv line)
Urban population (% of total population)                52        67        43
lMfe exfpeoanc* at birth (years)                        72        63       P.
Infant mortality (ler 1,000 live births)                13        22        33
Child malnutrition f% of children under 5)               2         8        15                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of Population)       ..         ..       86
IlliteracV (% of population aqe IS-)                               3        16
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   69       100       114              Yugoslavia, FR (Serb IMont.)
Male                                                  69       101       114              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                70        99       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
Economic ratlos*
GDP (USs billions)                             ..       ..         .
Gross domestic investmenUGOP                                                                       Trade
Exports of qoods and services/GDP
Gross domestic savings/GDP
Gross national savinrqs/GDP
Current account balance/GDP                                                         Domestic
Interest pavments/GDP                                                               S                           Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                                      Savings 
Total debt service/exports
Present value of debt/GDP
Present value of debt/exports
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
faveraqe annual growth)
GDP     annul qrwt                                                                     -     Yugoslavia, FR (Serb.lMont.)
GNP per capita                                                                               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of qoods and services
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998     1999
(% of GDP)
Aqgrculture                                    ..
Industrv
Manufacturinq
Serv,ces                                       .         ..       ..         .
Private consumption
General qovernment consumption
mrorts of qoods and services
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999
/averaqe annual qrowthi
Agriculture
industry
Manufacturinq
Services
Private consumption
General government consumption
Gross domestic investment
mports of qoods and services
Gross national product
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was produced from the Develooment Economics central database.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrV (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
- 40 -



Yugoslavia, FR (Serb./Mont.)
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998     1999
Domestic Prices
(% chance)
Consumer prices                               ..
Implicit GDP deflator                          ,.      ..
Government finance
C% of GDP, includes current orants)
Current revenue
Current budoet balance
Overall surplus/deficit
TRADE
1979     1989      1998     1999
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)
n .a .
n.a.
Manufactures
Total imports (cif)
Food
Fuel and enerqy
Capital qoods
Export Price index (1995=100)
Import price index (1995=100i                 ..
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989      1998     1999
(US$ millions)
Exports of qoods and services                 ..       ..        ..        .
Imoorts of qoods and services
Resource balance
Net income
Net current transfers
Current account balance
Financinq items (net)                         ..        .
Chanqes in net reserves                        .
Memo:
Reserves includinq qold (US$ millions)        ..        .
Conversion rate (DEC. IocallUS$)          1.9E-3      2.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998     1999
(USS millions)                                                                    Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ mililons)
Total debt outstandinq and disbursed      15,970   19,072    13.742
IBRD                                     1.143    2.395     1.148    1.132                        A: 1,148
IDA                                         0        0         0         0                              C 79
Total debt service                         3,313    3,808        57        ..
IBRD                                      142      570         0         0
IDA                                         0        0         0         0                                    PE2,990
Composition of net resource flows
Official qrants                            -3        6        182       -.
Official creditors                        252      -119        0
Private creditors                        1,405     -418        0         .
Foreiqn direct investment                   0        9          0
Portfolio equitV                            0        0          0                        F 6,889
World Bank proqram
Commitments                               284        0         0         0     A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             294      121         0         0     t - IDA   D - Other mult,lateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                       49      365         0         0     C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                 245     -244         0         0
Interest pavments                          93      205         0         0
Net transfers                             152     -449         0         0
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
- 41 -



Additional
Annex 11
Description of the Public Enterprise for Water Supply, Wastewater and Solid Waste (PEW) and the
Podgorica Municipal Funf (PMF)
The "Public Enterprise for Water Supply, Wastewater Treatment and Solid Waste
Disposal, Crnogorsko Primorje" (PEW)
The Republic of Montenegro created the "Public Enterprise for Water Supply, Wastewater
Treatment and Solid Waste Disposal, Crnogorsko Primorje" (PEW), fully government owned, to
improve these services in the coastal region and the municipality of Cetinje. This regional
company will in a first step integrate the municipal water and wastewater companies (six out of
seven municipalities have already signed letters of intent) and implement a Program for the
improvement of water supply and sanitation services.
To execute the law that also ask for handing over the responsibility for solid waste disposal, three
of the municipalities (Budva, Kotor, Tivat) have agreed to transfer the municipal rights and duties
related to solid waste disposal to PEW. It has further been agreed to use only the Kotor landfill,
that will be rehabilitated under this project, for solid waste disposal. The existing of wild dumps
that proliferated in recent years because of lack of operation and maintenance of the existing
sanitary landfill, will be closed. The final agreement between PEW and the three municipalities
that will establish PEW has a full service provider for solid waste disposal in the three
municipalities is expected to be signed in August 2001.
As part of the institutional reform, the Program for the water sector included the involvement of
the private sector. For water services, PEW will become a shareholder of a mix-capital company,
with majority shares corresponding to the private partner, although reserving a "blocking"
minority of 25.1 percent of shares for the public shareholders. The first phase of this process
-selection of the private partner- was done through international competitive bidding carried out
between June and August 2000. The consortium AQUAMUNDO (now AquaMundo GmbH),
formed by MVV Energie AG, ABB Utility Automation GmbH and Bilfinger Berger BOT GmbH,
was selected and is currently operating the system in cooperation with PEW under the form of a
Consortium (MonteAqua). A similar process is envisaged for the delivery of solid waste services,
whose responsibility has been transferred to PEW by the corresponding municipalities.
Initial investment plans for water supply and sanitation, which included a regional system to
supply all municipalities with water conveyed from the vicinity of lake Skadarsko, inland, part of
which had already been constructed have been reviewed, and PEW, in cooperation with
Aquamundo, adopted a simpler less expensive solution instead to be developed in the short term.
The adopted approach will optimize the use of ground water from existing and new sources. In
the first phase of the Program, investments have been redirected to improve and expand current
sources in the coast, introduce demand management and control losses, delaying the construction
of the regional system (estimated budget to complete: 90 million DM). With this approach the
consortium expect to reduce the impact on tariffs and keep them affordable, while at the same
time improve service quality substantially. Funding for the first phase has been approved by KfW
-42 -



(2 million DM grant for technical assistance and a 10 million DM loan approved on December
2000) and GTZ (2.5 million DM grant for equipment). Phase two contemplates further
investments to be financed through a combination of borrowing (20 million DM) and equity
contributions from shareholders (20 million DM from the private shareholders and 10 million DM
from local partners).
As part of the reform process a new regulatory framework is being developed under the
leadership of the Ministry of Urban Planning and Construction. This regulatory framework
contemplates the creation of a National Authority to regulate the systems, assets, that currently
belong to the Republic and water resources. The reform is intended to be applicable to the entire
Republic, using the coastal region as a model.
Main current characteristics of the water and sewerage system managed by AquaMundo and
PEW under the Consortium MonteAqua are:
Population served
Winter                                   180,000
Summer                                   500,000
Water production                           49 miion m3:
Water billed                               17 million m3 (34%)
Collection efficiency                      83%
Expected turnover                          12 milion DM
Employees                                 612
Main characteristics of the solid waste services managed by PEW for the municipalities of Kotor,
Tivat and Budva are summarized in the attached table below:
Population served
Winter                                  48,000
Summer                                   150,000
Solid waste production                     19,500 tomes per year
Revenues (2000)
Kotor                                17 milion DM
Tivat                   .            1.2 million DM
Budva                                1.8 million DM
The Podgorica Municipal Fund for Urban Land, Real Estate and Roads (PMF)
PMF was founded by the Municipality Council of Podgorica in 1990 and has developed
into the premier agency in Podgorica for financing and implementing infrastructure investments in
the Municipality. Projects implemented since 1990 are covering a wide area of infrastructure
investments like e.g., bridges, main streets and roads, pedestrian zone, water supply systems etc.
- 43 -



PMF has different ways to generate resources for the infrastructure investment: It collects
fees and communal taxes for the use of Municipality owned land and real estate, including rent for
office space owned by the Municipality, income from toll roads etc. In addition PMF can also
generate revenues by selling municipal land and real estate, and it can raise money for the
Municipality of Podgorica from International Finance Institutions. The resources generated in the
years 1998, 1999 and 2000 were respectively DEM 13.5 million, DEM 14.65 million, and 28
million. This includes funds of DEM 4 million provided by the European Commission for the
airport road and the Union Bridge.
PMF offers financial, legal and technical services. At present it workforces comprises 45
employees of which twelve are civil engineers, seven are lawyers and three are
economists/financial experts. It is governed by a board comprised of seven members which are
selected by the Municipal Council of Podgorica. The board of PMF is responsible for investment
decisions in accordance with a priority investment plan, that is approved by the mayor of
Podgorica each year.
PMF not only finances, but also implements the infrastructure investments. It carries out
the procurement and the supervision with its own staff. However, supervision is mostly carried
out jointly with the entity responsible for operation and maintenance of the investment.
-44 -



- 45 -






IBRD 31557
:35  r'a'                                                          P ROC TARE1                                FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
ZveRora  eRIC                  PBO4ECTA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REHABIIATDMONTENEGRO                     PRJC
0                ,A O LANDFILS TO BE CLOSED               . -  -     ENVIRONMENTAL INFRASTRUCTURE
, ,  O i  Ubli                   R ;;iciPi-n   9  Lani Do
,  Drenovac          OR Ri_ni4;                        f        -  MAOR HIGHWAYS      - A      ,  s                         20
-            '~~~~~~~~~ -. ~~~~~~~~OThER ROADS 
42 30'  d   i    e       _    _    rMT  E                             R'  R  0  _aLROADS  -     _
0PIoZo   Bsnovki    B  .I   F.IL.-t                        - jI           -yr  .          ,                      t
* 6 ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                      *, b   ,   s r ,
[42 _  o          - J    c                   -    T       - L,         - *SLC  !SB
PIc; C , O   II o     ,,.     I,, 
| \ \ ? j | | F 1 ' < *;S, ^ cdgC -.....----.. n -  /  ..                         I             |N' ,
.4'rr  -  SDbleviok
H.%,:.-,3~~~~~~~~~                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~ N,-.,..VAr  r d r   RA  O VDa   RRssOt
/  BOSNIA AND                        Tara                ;
tL ~~  Oe"c'c  I."  B~~~.-~.\N>\           HERZEGDOVINA 
1~~~~~                  ~~ ~  ~~~~~ssmpo er' v,,  _.'f l   %   IL
.. 8 "  "od   .:. "      ,    .'  b.;.  !  ,     ;                          .        .  R  b             -_ v43'  I3 I
_._ ., ..... ,,.r. ,, .... , . - | .. | .11 srTr; I,ll: nr , > .............. F , , A10NTENEGR0 . Pr!$lmu _ok  .o )ovac  T
-&~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y / 
;I~                              ~   ~     :    g r. rolx,^4 i1 -                              n Lr ' '"  o1ngra
TI VAT                /                - _OB..
I  -  -'~~~~~~~sJ"~~~~"  .k'   I :'~~~~-rakovo  M d e  nrjvc
Acdr6atic                      '   NK''''I,I
Sea                                                                           . ~'~,'N  '
----  HUN         ~~~~~~~~FEDERAL REPUBLIC
/                 ~~~~~~~~~OF YUGOSLAVIA
.9 ZETA  ~~~~~~~~~  CROATA  AOjL0INDS
~~VALLEY  /  ~~ALBAN IA  45  "\ i   .45
see map or left  ~ 't  
AcI: '0IIC   BUD VA 
VICINITY OF KOTOR                                                     S                                                      RH IA
N.     A'
FYR MACEDONIA>
A o' /
ALUGAS  2001



