Report No. PID10584
Project Name                     Yugoslavia-Montenegro Environmental (@)
Infrastructure Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Pollution Control / Waste Management
Project ID                       YFPE74618
Borrower(s)                      FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Implementing Agency
Address CRNOGORSKO PRIMORJE PEW
Address: TRG Sunca b.b. - 85310 Budva,
Republic of Montenegro - Yugoslavia
Contact Person: Predrac Bjelobrkovic (Director)
Tel: 381 (86) 452-034 / 381 (86) 451-921
Fax: 381 (86) 451-937 / 381 (86) 451-460
Email: P.Bjelobrkovic@cg.yu / Lovcenko@cg.yu
PodgoriOa Muncipal Fund for Urban Land, Real Estate,
and Roads (PMF)
Address: PC Krusevac, Cetinjski put b.b., 81000
PodgoriOa
Contact Person: Voro Vucinic (Director)
Tel: 381 81 234192
Fax: 381 81 234033
Email: pgkabinet@cg.yu
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                September 18, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         August 22, 2001
Projected Board Date             September 28, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Main sector issues. Water supply, sanitation and solid waste services were
well developed in the former Yugoslavia. In the recent past, though, the
situation has deteriorated considerably due to limited capital investment
over the last ten years, inadequate maintenance, and most importantly, the
lack of a coherent strategy for the sectors. The situation and main
challenges can be described as follows:Municipal water and sanitation
services in larger Serbian cities are in deep financial and technical
crisis. This is preventing utilities from initiating the rehabilitation of
works that are urgently necessary to diminish the threat of collapse of
water/wastewater/solid waste services. The international private sector
has shown interest in the management of the large water systems in
Belgrade, Nis and Novi Sad, and their involvement in service delivery will
probably be the most efficient way to address current problems in larger
systems in the medium term.Water companies in medium size cities and rural
areas have limited access to financial resources and are not expected to
immediately attract private sector interest (apart from some specific
cases, like the Montenegro's coastal area), and will likely continue to
operate under municipal control. These companies will require support



(both technical and economic) to address urgent needs and avoid an
impending crisis, and modernize their management and operations. In Serbia
there is a need to identify a key institution that can lead the sector
reform. At present rural water supply is carried out in a legal and
institutional vacuum, completely relying on the tradition of self-reliance
and without any regulatory assurance that the rural population receives an
adequate quantity of water and is not exposed to severe health risks. The
priority objective for the water and solid waste sectors in medium size
cities and rural areas should be to create the required legal and
institutional environment to monitor, regulate and support its
development. Rural drinking water systems are facing even more severe
problems than urban areas and will require substantial technical
assistance.Montenegro Urban Systems. Although both Republics have shared
common sector development and institutional arrangements and problems, the
situation is different in Montenegro due to the adoption of some initial
sector reforms (including the involvement of the private sector) and
specific infrastructure deficiencies that affect the coastal region. As in
Serbia, water and solid waste infrastructure in Montenegro was in
generally good condition, but not in the coastal region, which presents
regular water supply shortages, bad water quality, particularly during the
summer when tourists outnumber local population (total population reaches
over 500,000 at its peak), and deficient wastewater and solid waste
disposal facilities. Montenegro most critical challenges in the water,
sanitation and solid waste sectors as a result of this situation are:The
generally poor condition of municipal environmental infrastructure.
Although this challenge is common to both Serbia and Montenegro, in
Montenegro the situation is particularly bad in the coastal areas, which
suffer from inadequate services exacerbated during the summer season.
These deficiencies in service and the associated environmental quality
degradation represent an important threat to tourism, the main potential
engine for growth in the country.Important health and environmental
problems associated with a number of serious cases of water supply source
pollution. In Montenegro this challenge is particularly evident in the
Zeta valley, next to the capital Podgori6a, whose water supply sources
have been contaminated by industrial discharges.Government Strategy. Given
the post-conflict situation and the initial focus by the donor community
on addressing the most critical urgent needs of the population, a sector
reform is only now under development. The main elements of the Montengro
Government's sector reform for the short-term (to be addressed before the
end of 2002) are:Addressing urgent shortages through simple, limited, and
well targeted investments, coupled with adequate policies and demand
management, as the core of a short term program for 2001-2002.Developing a
basic institutional and policy framework for the sector to clarify asset
ownership, regulate the overall functioning of the sector, transition
towards economic pricing, and establish a policy approach which improves
governance, transparency, and accountability. Such institutional
arrangements will establish the foundation for the process of medium- and
long-term reform aimed at sustainable service provision and the further
involvement of the private sector in urban areas.The proposed operation
will serve as the entry point for the Bank's sector dialogue with the
Government, which would form the foundation of a future comprehensive
sector strategy.
2. Objectives
The Project aims to improve environmental conditions in the coastal region
-2 -



of Montenegro, the smaller of the two Republics comprising the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY), and to improve the quality of water supply
in the Zeta Valley, near the Republic's capital city, PodgoriOa. The
Project Development Objective will be achieved through: (a) the
rehabilitation of key environmental (solid waste) infrastructure in
several coastal municipalities in the region of Kotor Bay, a prime tourist
zone; and (b) the completion of a water supply pipeline to replace
contaminated water sources in the Zeta Valley. The Project will also
provide a small amount of technical assistance for engineering services
and auditing.This grant will be financed by the Trust Fund for the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia, which allows the Bank to support selected priority
activities, consistent with the strategy and objectives of the Economic
Recovery and Transition Program, and likely to receive continued Bank
support under a regular program once membership can be established and
arrears resolved. The project this grant supports is designed to meet
near-term needs in a sustainable manner and to be implemented within the
trust fund life span, and builds and contributes to the framework of
bilateral donor funding for Montenegro.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank is uniquely positioned to add value in supporting the project and
the broader aspects of sector reform which it will initiate. Specifically,
the Bank brings to the table:fn broad international experience, both in
private sector participation in the water and sanitation sector and in the
design of development projects in post-conflict areas;f the relationships
to mobilize other sources of funds for donor cooperation;f policy
development expertise and experience in the design of institutional
regimes for water resources and sanitation management; andn the Bank's
extensive experience in development of sustainable mechanisms for disposal
management.
4. Description
The total project costs will be US$2.8 million, of which US$2.0 million
will be Bank financed through a grant. The project components are
summarized below.Component I. Coastal Environmental
InfrastructureRehabilitation of the environmental infrastructure in the
coastal municipalities will include:fn Landfill Rehabilitation. The project
will finance the rehabilitation of the multi-municipal Kotor landfill site
to meet sanitary standards. The landfill, which serves the municipalities
of Kotor, Budvar and Tivak, was in use until 1992, when it was abandoned
during Yugoslavia's conflict with Croatia. In recent years, 3 informal, or
"wild," dumps have been put into use in surrounding municipalities. The
project will finance civil works and equipment needed to rehabilitate and
operate the Kotor landfill and permanently close wild dump sites in an
environmentally sound manner.fn Solid Waste Equipment. In addition to the
rehabilitation of the physical site, the project will finance collection
equipment as well as equipment to maintain and manage the Kotor landfill
and institute long-term environmental monitoring.Component II. Zeta
Valley Water Supplyn Water Main Construction. To address the lack of clean
water in a suburban area of the capital PodgoriOa (Zeta Valley) caused by
industrial source pollution at the nearby aluminum processing facility,
the project will assist the PodgoriOa Water Utility to complete the
construction of a water supply pipeline to replace contaminated water
sources in the Zeta Valley with water from the PodgoriOa municipal water
supply system.Component III. Technical Assistancen Engineering Services
- 3 -



and Auditing. To support project implementation, the Grant will provide
funding for the completion of engineering services and for the auditing of
the project accounts.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER 0.8
SPECIAL FINANCING 2.0
Total Project Cost 2.8
6. Implementation
The project is expected to be implemented over a period of two years, with
a closing date of September 30, 2003. The Ministry of Urban Planning of
the Republic of Montenegro will have overall responsibility for project
coordination.The Grant will be awarded directly to PEW with two guarantee
agreements with FRY and Republic of Montenegro respectively. PMF will
implement the Zeta Valley Water Supply component on behalf of PEW under a
technical agreement between both entities acceptable to the Bank (annex 11
describes the legal, financial and managerial status of PEW and PMF).Most
disbursements are expected to take place as direct payments from the Bank
account. Only small payments by PEW, for small repairs and equipment
purchases, are foreseeable. A special account will be opened by the
Ministry of Urban Planning in a bank in Montenegro, fully owned by a
private international finance institution. A due diligence review of this
commercial bank was carried out before Appraisal by the FMS.Implementation
arrangements for the different components are as follows:Component 1:
Coastal Environmental InfrastructurePEW will have responsibility for
managing this Component, including procurement of goods, works and
services. The capacity of PEW to manage the project component will be
assessed during appraisal, but is expected to be adequate since the
company, as part of MonteAqua, is currently dealing with parallel projects
funded by international donors and involving private sector participation.
The enhanced skills gained through the public-private enterprise provide
sufficient guaranties for the adequate implementation of this component of
the Bank's project.Component 2: Zeta Valley Water SupplyPMF will act as
the implementing unit of this component with responsibility for the
procurement of goods on behalf of PEW. The capacity of PMF is expected to
be sufficient, according to the procurement assessment carried out during
preparation, since it is currently implementing several projects financed
by international donors, particularly the European Agency for
Reconstruction, and the activities under this component are expected to be
financed under a maximum of two or three contracts. Upon completion,
assets financed by the project will be transferred to the PodgoriOa Water
Company (Javno Preduzede Vodovod i Kanalizacija - PViK) for its operation
and maintenance.Component 3: Technical AssistancePEW will be responsible
for managing the implementation of the Technical Assistance Component. The
Bank will closely supervise the implementation of the component, and PEW's
capacity to implement the component is sufficient given PEW's experience
with other donors (KfW, Austrian Government) and as part of
MonteAqua.Project Financial Management System and AuditAs indicated, the
Ministry of Urban Planning of the Republic of Montenegro will have overall
responsibility for project coordination, while the Coastal Environmental
Infrastructure component will be implemented by PEW, and the Zeta Valley
Water Supply component will be implemented by PMF on behalf of PEW, under
the terms of a technical agreement between both entities acceptable to the
-4 -



Bank. Both Entities would engage in procurement for their own components,
while PEW (who will be implementing the major part of the project) will be
responsible for the overall project accounts, project management reports
(PMRs), including the project audit, and disbursement requests. PEW will
carry out this task in close collaboration with PMF. PMF will implement
only one or two contracts, which will be paid directly from the Grant
account by the Bank.PEW utilizes FoxPro accounting software to keep its
accounts. This system is capable of providing accurate and timely
information regarding project resources and expenditures, including
planning, accounting and financial reporting relating to the project. The
project accounts will be based on a Chart of Accounts drawn-up by the
appraisal mission with the assistance of the PEW. The Chart of Accounts
will accommodate the proposed project to capture sources and uses of
funds, assets and liabilities in sufficient detail to satisfy PMR-based
reporting requirements. The system will, in addition to producing
periodic and cumulative budgeted and actual expenditures, link the
financial data to measures of output and procurement activities of the
project. The PMR formats were discussed and agreed to with the PEW during
project appraisal. The PMRs will be prepared in an Excel-based format,
which will extract project related information from the main accounting
system. Disbursement arrangements under the project will be on the basis
of traditional disbursement methods (e.g., direct payments, replenishments
of the Special Account on the basis of SOEs and full documentation). It is
expected that PEW will have the capacity to prepare the first full set of
PMRs by December 31, 2001.In order to ensure that the Special Account,
project accounts and institutional accounts would be audited in accordance
with the Bank Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects
Financed by the World Bank, PEW has been informed on the process for
selection and engagement of auditors. Draft TOR for these assignments
were discussed and agreed with PEW. PEW will provide the Bank within six
months of the end of each Government Fiscal Year, with a full audit report
on the project accounts, of such scope and detail as the Bank may
reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the independent
auditor on disbursement against certified SOEs.
7. Sustainability
The project is expected to be fully sustainable. Current tariffs in the
coastal area for solid waste services are sufficient for the proper
operation and maintenance of the infrastructure and equipment to be
financed. An additional tariff increase of 10 percent will become
effective. Furthermore, the fact that PEW is in a consortium that
includes the participation of the private sector for the management of the
water and sanitation services in the coastal area, its current
performance, and the agreements with the municipalities under which it
operates, provide further confidence for an adequate application of
tariffs and the financial viability of PEW. Proper regulations and
enforcement capacity do also exist to guarantee that once the current
"wild" dumps are closed, wastes will be properly directed to the new
rehabilitated landfill avoiding the re-emergence of new "wild" dumps.
Uncontrolled dumping is regulated by the "Law of Communal Inspection" and
the "Law of Ecological Inspection", both of which are enforced by regional
inspectors that are in place and can impose a fine in accordance with the
laws. Smaller fines can be imposed and collected directly. This system
is already working well for solid waste disposal outside the wild
landfills. There is no doubt that the inspectors will extend the
- 5 -



enforcement to the wild landfill and demolition material, as soon as the
rehabilitated landfill becomes operational and demolition material can be
used to cover the wild landfills. Podgori6a's water company's current
good collection rates, coupled with the incorporation of additional
consumers and the low costs of operation of the Zeta pipeline, represent
no risk to the sustainability of the new infrastructure.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Project design reflects the Bank's experience in the preparation and
implementation of other urgent water supply and sanitation projects, and
specifically borrows on the lessons learned from the implementation of
projects of an urgent nature successfully carried out with the Bank's
participation. Some of the critical lessons learned and applied in this
Project's preparation include: (i) a rapid technical and operational
assessment of needs with a well-defined priority strategy and objectives;
(ii) simplicity in design and implementation arrangements; (iii)
simplicity in the procurement and disbursement procedures for efficient
and rapid component implementation; (iv) need for strong supervision and
financial controls; (v) institutional autonomy and freedom from political
interference to allow implementation of components quickly and
transparently; and (vi) private sector participation to facilitate
execution of the project and management of the extensive resources
required for the implementation of reforms. The project includes all
these conditions.The project design also draws from the experience gained
in the processing of the Kosovo Pilot Water Supply project. Simplicity in
the implementation arrangements, coupled with sufficient capacity to
manage the project implementation and the infrastructure that will be
financed by it have been key conditions set up from the beginning to
ensure proper execution and sustainability. As an added requirement for
sustainability, proper tariff and collection mechanisms were confirmed in
the implementing agencies, together with full stakeholders support to the
project objectives and operation and maintenance costs. Finally, the
existence of a partnership among the main implementing agency (PEW) and a
private sector consortium, while not directly involved in the management
of the project, provides additional assurance on the managerial experience
and capacity of PEW, as well as on its investment strategy.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  A preliminary assessment of potential impacts of
the proposed project and the likely significance of the impacts, and
recommended measures to manage and monitor environmental effects has been
carried out. As the project proposes to remedy past environmental
degradation, the predicted impacts are positive in terms of the local
environment. Issues/impacts known to occur in landfill development and of
most concern to stakeholders were studied during the pre-appraisal
mission, particularly among the following areas: (i) social,
socio-economic and cultural; (ii) hydrogeology, hydrology and water
quality; (iii) health and safety; (iv) air quality; (v) noise; (vi)
ecology; (vii) off-site traffic; and (viii) visual/landscape. The types
of likely impacts expected and the mitigation measures that will be
applied are presented in the project's Environmental Management Plan
(EMP), which was prepared during project preparation and adopted by both
implementing agencies. The EMP has since been made public through the
- 6 -



agencies offices and local public libraries.The EMP is a binding document
and the commitment for its implementation by the Grant beneficiaries is
part of the project legal agreements.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Manuel G. Marito
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473 6692
Fax: 202 614 0902
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending September 21, 2001.
- 7 -



