                                                                                                  92565
Clean drinking water returns to Montenegro's Zeta Valley                                          May 26, 2004
Montenegro Environmental Infrastructure Project

It used to be so bad that we had to have tanker trucks bring water in, ” Deputy Headmaster

Aluminium plant contaminates drinking water in the valley

Till recently, Biljana Krkotic never knew what "surprise"
her taps would deliver. Would the water come with
pebbles? Would it be full of foam? Or would it be mixed
with red mud? Since November 2003, this resident of
Zeta valley near Montenegro's capital, hasn't had to
worry. The water has been consistently clean and healthy,
and it tastes good too.

“Everything is great now. The new system has helped us
a lot,” says Biljana. The kids in nearby Milan Vukotic
elementary school are also happy, now that their drinking water is no longer polluted by the
local aluminum plant. “It used to be so bad that we had to have tanker trucks bring water in,"
says the school's deputy headmaster. "We are sure now that our children will not get
poisoned when drinking tap water.”

Before the World Bank-supported project, residents got their water either from local wells or
from Moraca, the biggest river in the Republic of Montenegro, the smaller partner in the
union of Serbia and Montenegro. But an aluminum plant had contaminated the soil, air, and
spring water in and around the Zeta Valley, home to 30,000 people.

World Bank grant helps residents to build a new water supply system

The situation spurred Montenegro's authorities to decide to build a new water system, one
that would connect the valley with the capital, Podgorica.The price tag was US$ 1.35 million.
The World Bank financed the purchase of pipes and other equipment through a US$ 668,000
grant. The Government of Montenegro and municipal agencies contributed funds as well.
This was the first World Bank project in Montenegro, after Serbia and Montenegro (then the
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia) rejoined the Bank on May 8, 2001.

Today the people of Zeta Valley are happy—they even joke about the water they drink. They
say it is difficult to decide which one is of better quality: the “new” water or loza, a famous
local brandy.
