Report No. 1630-BT
Botswana Second Livestock Development
Project Appraisal Report
October 31, 1977
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Southern Agriculture Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units                 Pula (P) 1/
US$1.00                 =      P 0.83
P 1.00                  =      US$1.2075
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                              British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                  =      3.3 feet
1 hectare (ha)               =      2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2            0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )    =       0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 kilogram (kg)              =      2.2 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                  =      0.26 U.S. gallon (gal)
0.22 British gallon (imp. gal.)
1 metric ton (m ton)         =      2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
ACP       = African, Carribean and Pacific countries of the EEC
AU        = Animal Unit
APRU      =  Animal Production Research Unit
BAC       =  Botswana Agricultural College
BLDC      =  Botswana Livestock Development Corporation
BMC       =  Botswana Meat Commission
CDC       =  Commonwealth Development Corporation
CDW       =  Cold Dressed Weight
EDF       =  European Development Fund
EEC       =  European Economic Community
FMD       =  Foot-and-Mouth Disease
ILCA      =  International Livestock Center for Africa
LPMU      =  Livestock Project Management Unit
NDB       =  National Development Bank
ODM       =  Overseas Development Ministry (UK)
SIDA      =  Swedish International Development Agency
TGLP      =  Tribal Grazing Land Policy
UBS       =  University of Botswana and Swaziland
USAID     =  United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
1/   Until 1976, when the Pula was introduced, the legal currency
was the Rand (R); the Pula was initially tied to the Rand,
but is no longer.



POE O X'IAL U    ONLY
BOTSWANA
APPRAISAL OF SECONI, LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......             ..................   i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION ...... .........................................    I
II.   BACKGROUND ....... .........................................    I
A.   General ..............................................    1
B. The Agricultural Sector.                                               2
C.  Government Services and Training.                                     6
D. Agricultural Credit.                                                   7
E.   Land Tenure and the Tribal Grazing Land Policy.                     8
F.   On-going and Planned Livestock Development Programs                  9
III.   THE FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 325-BT)                   10
IV.   THE PROJECT ...............................................   11
A.   General Description ..................................   11
B.   Detailed Features ....................................   12
C.   Project Costs ........................................   14
D.   Financing ............................................   15
E.   Procurement ..........................................   16
F.   Disbursement .........................................   16
G.   Accounts and Audit ...................................   17
H.   Environmental Impact .................................   17
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...............................   18
VI.    PRODUCTION, MARKETING, AND PRODUCER AND GOVERNMENT
BENEFITS ..................................................   22
VII.    ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .......................   24
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONMENDATION .....................   26
Schedule 1  -  Annual Review of Project Progress
This report is based on the findings of an IBRD appraisal mission to Botswana
in January-February, 1977, composed of K. Marshall, F.M. Patorni, R. Khouri
and D. Gianola, and a further visit in July, 1977 by K. Marshall and N.T.
Clark (RHEA).
This document has a retricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oficial duties. Its contents nmy not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   The Livestock Sub-Sector
Table  1  -  Annual Rainfall of Selected Stations 1965-66 to 1975-76
Table  2   -  Botwana's National Cattle Herd, 1965-76
Table  3   -  Sheep and Goat Population
Table  4   -  Structure of the Traditional and Freehold Cattle Herds: 1972
Table  5   -  Trek Route Present and Projected Usage
Table  6   -  BMC Slaughter Statistics
Table  7  -  Prices Paid by BMC for Cattle, 1975-77
Table  8   -  BMC Disposition of Cattle and Carcasses, 1962-75
2.   Livestock Research Programs
Table  I  -  Current Research Projects Being Undertaken by APRU
Table  2   -  Research Stations and Breeds Maintained by APRU, 1975
Table  3   -  Productivity of Cattle Maintained Under Cattle Post
and Ranch Conditions
3.   The Banking System and Agricultural Credit
Table  I  -  National Development Bank - Balance Sheets
Table  2   -  National Development Bank - Income Statements
Table  3   -  NDB Summary of Changes in Financial Position Statements
Table  4   -  NDB Loan Applications Approved
4.   Land Tenure and Sociological Issues
Appendix I - Draft Lease Agreement for Commercial Areas
Table  1  -  Area, Population, and Cattle by District
Table  2   -  Distribution of Cattle owned by Rural Households
The First Livestock Development Project
Table  I   - Appraisal Estimates of LPMU's Work Program and Actual
Performance
Table  2   -  Progression of LPMU's Work Program to December, 1976
Table  3   -  BLDC's Work Program:  Appraisal Estimates and
Actual Performance
b.  Ranch Development in TGLP Commercial Areas
Table  1  -  Herd Projection:  With Project - Ranch, 475 Animal Units
Table  2   -  Herd Projection:  Without Project - Cattle Post
Table  3   -  Summary of Technical and Financial Outputs:
Cattle Post Versus a Ranch System - Degraded Ranch



-3-
7.   Communal Grazing Units
8.   Development Projections
(a) Ranch Development
Table I - Ranch Model - Investment Costs
Table 2 - Ranch Model - Operating Expenses
Table 3 - Ranch Model - Revenue from Sales
(b) Communal Grazing Units
Table 4 - Investment Costs
(c) NDB Credit Division
Table 5 - Investment Costs
(d) Marketing Infrastructure
Table 6 - Investment Costs
(e) Technical Services
Table 7 - Ranch Management Training Center
Table 8 - Technical Services - Summary of Investment Costs
9. Summary of Project Costs and Financing
Table I - Summary of Annual Project Costs
Table 2 - Financing Plan
10. Ranch Management Training Center
11. Monitoring and Evaluation
Table I - Monitoring and Evaluation Costs
12. Project Implementation
Table 1 - Project Implementation Plan
13. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
14. Financial Analysis
15. Project-Related Cash Flow



4-
16. Economic Analysis
Table 1 - Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Table 2 - Sensitivity Analysis
17. List of Project - Related Documents
CHARTS
Gha_.- I - Ministry of Agriculture Organization
Chart 2 - NDB Organization Chart
Chart 3 - Proposed Project Organization
MAPS
IBRD 12824    -  Botswana - Soils, Rainfall and Transportation Network
IBRD 12825R   -  The Second Livestock Development Project



BOTSWANA.
SECOND J VEU`TOCK D_VEWOPMENT PROJECT
S. -MARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1.        Livestock is vital to Botswana's economy; beef constitutes over a
third of exports and cattle are a major source of rural wealth and income.
The rangelands which cover most of Botswana can be used economically only for
livestock production.  The Government recently launched an important new
policy designed to develop the country's livestock potential, while protecting
the range from permanent damage from over-stocking and poor herd management.
This Tribal Grazing Land Policy (TGLP) forms part of a comprehensive strategy
for rural development and is based on a reform of land tenure. As part of the
TGLP, farmers in areas zoned commercial will be granted 50-year leases to
land, and will be able to develop ranches; in areas zoned communal, the
Government will assist livestock development based on traditional grazing and
husbandry patterns.
ii.       The proposed Project would form part of the Botswana Government's
program for livestock development, and particularly the TGLP. It would,
over five years, assist in developing ranches, seek new technologies to
benefit small livestock owners, promote more efficient marketing of live-
stock, and assist in developing institutions to serve livestock development
programs. The Project would specifically include development by farmers of
about 100 ranches on land designated as commercial under the TGLP, develop-
ment of 14 communal grazing units in areas designated as communal land in
order to test different grazing systems, extension of credit for small
communal schemes, support to a new agricultural credit division of the
National Development Bank (NDB), development of livestock marketing infrast-
ructure including trek routes, railway handling facilities, and small
stock holding grounds, technical services, including studies and experimental
work, a ranch training center, monitoring and evaluation of Project progress,
and preparation of future projects.
iii.      The Ministry of Agriculture would have principal responsibility
for coordinating Project activities, acting through a high level Steering
Committee and a broader-based Coordinating Committee. The NDB would implement
credit components of the Project; the Animal Production Research Unit (APRU)
of the Ministry of Agriculture would develop communal grazing units; the
Ministry of Agriculture would be responsible for marketing infrastructure
development and technical services.
iv.       Total Project costs are estimated at P 11.1 million (US$13.4 mil-
lion), of which US$7.3 million or 54% represent foreign exchange costs. The
proposed IBRD loan of US$6.5 million would be to the Government of Botswana;
it would carry interest at [7.9%] a year, and would be repayable over 20 years
including 5 years of grace. The loan would finance about 53% of net Project
costs. The European Development Fund (EDF) has agreed to finance capital costs
of the ranch management center, representing about 2% of net Project costs.
ILCA has agreed to assist the Government with Project monitoring and evaluation.



- ii -
Financing of Project components would be on a parallel basis; the co-finan-
cing partners have agreed to cooperate closely during Project implementation.
Local ranchers would finance about 7% of total Project costs, principally
through sales of stock at the outset to finance down payments for ranch loans.
The Government of Botswana would finance about 28% of net Project costs.
Contracts for the supply of vehicles and equipment exceeding US$50,000 would
be awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines. Contracts for vehicles, equipment and supplies costing less than
US$50,000 would be awarded following Government procurement procedures, which
are satisfactory. Civil works for development of communal grazing units and
marketing infrastructure would be carried out by the APRU and the Ministry of
Agriculture by force account or by local contractors following competitive
bidding based on local advertisement. Individual ranchers would procure
needed inputs and equipment for ranch development and carry out civil works
(including fencing) directly; they would handle developments themselves,
employ local contractors, or organize supply and works through cooperative
arrangements.
v.        Increased output resulting from ranch development is estimated at
about 5,000 cattle (1,350 in tons of carcass meat) by year 8, and by full
development in 1990 it would be about 8,000 head (2,400 tons of meat); this
would represent an estimated 1.5% increase in the total projected cattle
production for Botswana in year 8. Further, the communal grazing unit
program would result in increased production for the villages involved. The
marketing component should result in an increase in marketed offtake and
reduction in losses incurred in trekking on inadequate routes and through poor
handling on the railway, as well as an improvement in quality. Smallstock
marketed offtake should be increased by development of smallstock holding
holding grounds.
vi.       The economic rate of return from the directly productive elements
of the Project is estimated at about 15% over 20 years. It would be most
sensitive to changes in beef prices. The principal risks would be delays
in Project implementation, resulting in delays in loan disbursement; slow
implementation of TGLP, reluctance of farmers to borrow, or weakness of Proj-
e t institutions could cause these delays. The Project includes measures
I,o minimize these risks including annual reviews of the Project aimed to
facilitate modifications in light of experience gained.
vii.      An estimated 200 families, or about 1,000 individuals, would be
exDected to benefit from ranch development. A much larger number of people
would benefit from the communal grazing units and from development of market-
ing infrastructure. The Project is likely to benefit principally many of
Botswana's wealthiest farmers, as cattle ownership is highly skewed, and
owners of larger herds are most likely to obtain the first leases to
land.  Cattle ranching under Botswana's semi-arid conditions is essentially
extensive, and profitable only on a relatively large scale; no feasible
solutions have yet emerged for promoting smallholder livestock production,



- iii -
although the Project includes an important program designed to seek alterna-
tive systems for smaller farmers in communally held land. Action is urgently
required to protect and improve the range. The TGLP represents an important
and courageous, albeit imperfect, effort to begin that process.
viii.     This would be the second Bank Group supported Project for agricul-
ture in Botswana. A first Livestock Development Project (Cr. 325-BT) was
approved in 1972; it has encountered serious problems, which have been taken
into account in the preparation of this Project.
ix.       The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for a loan of
US$6.5 million at [7.9%] interest repayable over 20 years including
5 years grace.






BOTSWANA
_S3ECOND-1 _SIUCK DE.VLLOPKENT PROJECT
INTRODUCTION
1.01      1. ;estock is vital to Botswana's economy; beef constitutes over a
third of exports, a-ad cattle are a major source of rural wealth and iaicome.
The rangelands which cover most of Botswana can be used economically only for
extensive livestock production. The Botswana Government recently launched an
important new policy designed to develop the country's livestock potential,
while protecting the range from permanent damage from over-stocking and poor
herd management. This Tribal Grazing Land Policy (TGLP) forms part of a com-
prehensive strategy for rural development and is based on a ref,:m of land
tenure; it is described in paras. 2.23-2.24. The proposed Project would
represent the first major investment program in support of the TGLP.
1.02      This would be the second Bank Group project in the agricultural
sector. A first livestock project (Credit 325-BT of June, 1972), with Swedish
co-financing, aimed to develop breeding and fattening ranches for cattle and
sheep farrs, and provided for management services, borehole maintenance, and
stock routes. The project has encountered serious problems during implemen-
tation; these are discussed in paras. 3.01-3.03.
1.03      The proposed project was prepared by the Government of Botswana,
with assistance from the IBRD Resident Mission in Eastern Africa (RMEA) and
from an Agriculturai Development Service staff member seconded to the Govern-
ment.  Preparation was financed by funds provided in the First Livestock
Project (para 1.02).  Some modifications to the Project were introduced during
the appraisal in order to simplify it, to reduce somewhat its scope, and to
facilitate implementation. This report is based on the findings of an IBRD
appraisal mission in January-February, 1977, composed of K. Marshall, F.M.
Patorni, R. Khouri and D. Gianola. Technoserve, Inc. (a private aid agency),
the European Development Fund (EDF) and the International Livestock Center for
Africa (ILCA) participated in the appraisal. K. Marshall and N. T. Clark
(RMEA) visited Botswana in July, 1977, to complete the appraisal.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The Republic of Botswana, with 582,000 km , is land-locked, bounded
by the Republic of South Africa, Namibia, Rhodesia, and Zambia. Access to
the sea is through South Africa or Rhodesia and Mozambique. The 1976 popu-
lation was estimated at about 725,000 (of which 6% worked in South Africa),
and is increasing at aboVt 3% a year; population density is very low, aver-
aging 1.2 persons per km . About 86% of the population lives in rural areas,
mostly concentrated in the eastern part of the country; the urban population
is small, but expanding rapidly (from 8% in 1971 to 14% in 1976).



2
2.02      Botswana lies in the center of the Southern African Plateau, mostly
at about 1,000 m altitude. The climate is continental and semi-arid. Rain-
fall averages 475 mm, with 90% of the rain between November and April.  Maximum
- mperatures rise to 31 C in December-January and frosts are common in the
south and east. There are three broad ecological zones: (a) an eastern
-elt, where soils are relatively good and riinfall averages 550-650 mm, (b)
the Okavango swamp, covering over 15,000 km in the northwest, and (c) the
Kalahari sandveld, a vast, semi-arid to arid savanna (250-500 mm rainfall a
year) stretching over the remainder of the country. Botswana's most important
physical constraint is water; "Pula", meaning "let it rain", is the national
motto. Except in the Okavango region, water must be obtained from groundwater
sources (boreholes, wells or sand riverbeds) for domestic uses and cattle.
Botswana is very vulnerable to drought, which has occured an average of seven
years in ten; a catastrophic drought has afflicted Botswana every ten years.
2.03      Since achieving independence in 1966, Botswana has experienced a
period of rapid economic growth; GDP increased at an annual rate of about 20%
between 1967 and 1974, and at about 8% a year thereafter. Per capita GDP in
1975 was estimated at US$330. This growth spurt was mainly due to development
of diamond production and other mining activities; mining and construction's
share of GDP increased from 1% to 21% from 1967 to 1974, while the share of
agriculture declined from 45% to 37%. Botswana has benefitted from revenue
resulting from membership in the Southern African Customs Union.  Despite
this rapid growth, Botswana's economy remains small, underdeveloped and
-vulnerable. Half its skilled labor force works abroad, and Botswana relies
heavily on external sources for skilled manpower. Political uncertainties
affecting the region have exacerbated Botswana's problems.
2.04      Early in 1977 the Parliament approved a new National Development
Dlan for 1976-81 which, like the previous one, attaches the highest priority
to rural development.  The strategy for 1976-81 involves an incomes policy to
curb disparities between urban and rural areas, employment creation, augment-
ing social infrastructure for education, health, and domestic water supplies,
development of rural roads, power supplies, and industrial infrastructure,
-nd eaii-iasis on development of agriculture. The TGLP is seen as an impor-
it element, both as a stimulus to development and to assist in preserving
.tswana's land resources.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.05      Although mining and associated services have expanded dramatically
in recent years (para. 2.03), Botswana is likely to remain heavily dependent
on agriculture for the foreseeable future. Agriculture contributed about 37%
of GDP in 1973-74, and represented about 36% of total exports in 1974-75.
About 80% of rural households are directly involved in agriculture, and
agricultural production contributes an estimated 45% of total rural incomes.
Botswana's agriculture is dominated by a tradition of livestock and cattle
rearing, and in much of the country, no other agricultural activity is pos-
sible. Botswana imports significant quantities of maize and maize meal from



-3-
South Africa, valued at US$3.0 and 4.0 million in 1974 and 1975 respectively.
The agricultural sector is distinguished between relatively modern, European
style farming in the freehold land areas (para. 2.23), and traditional agri-
culture in tribal areas, where modern farming methods are seldom employed.
2.06      Most crops are grown in the east and around the Okavango Swamp,
almost exclusively for subsistence. The principal crops are maize, sorghum,
millet, beans and cowpeas; limited surpluses are marketed for urban consumption.
Production of maize and sorghum was 106,000 tons and 63,000 tons in 1974 and
1975 respectively. Cultivation techniques are rudimentary, with 90% of farm-
ers depending on work oxen for land preparation. Yields are low and crop
failure common, due largely to low and irregular rainfall, shortages of labor,
lack of inputs, and poor storage facilities. The Government aims to attain
national self-sufficiency in food, through extension efforts focused on im-
proved seed varieties, agricultural implements and cultivation techniques
and improvement of marketing systems.
Livestock (Annex 1)
2.07      Botswana's national cattle herd has increased rapidly over the past
10 years, and was estimated at about 2.7 million in 1975; most cattle are of the
Tswana breed. Cattle are produced under three production systems: (a)
traditional system: about one half of the national herd is grazed around
villages and in arable farming areas. Water sources are owned or utilized
by the community, animals graze unrestricted with herds mingling, and pasture
is commonly degraded; (b) "cattle posts": 1/ owners of larger herds have in-
creasingly moved away from populated areas to establish cattle posts; most
are in the Kalahari region, where animals can be kept only if water is pro-
vided by a borehole. Although these individuals do not own the land and
cannot develop it, they have an effective control of land around the bore-
hole through operation of the water source. Most cattle posts are owned by
prosperous absentee Batswana farmers, and are operated by paid family labor.
Estimates of total existing boreholes range between 4,000 and 7,000; average
herd size is about 400 animal units (A.U.); and (c) freehold land ranches:
some farmers, most of them expatriates, have developed relatively modern,
fenced, and apparently profitable ranches throughout the freehold farming
blocks (para 2.23). An estimated 370,000 cattle are in these areas.
2.08      Ownership of cattle is concentrated in a relatively small proportion
of the population. An estimated 45% of rural households own no cattle at all,
and the median number of cattle owned by all rural households is 3. About 5%
of rural households own about 50% of the cattle herd. Cattle provide the most
important source of income for wealthiest households (about 65%), but are of
minor importance for the poorest half of the population (Annex 5). Cattle
ownership confers prestige, and accumulation of cattle is a widely held goal.
Modern ranching methods are uncommon; partly due to the traditional land
tenure system, with communal rights to grazing lands, the range remains
1/   A cattle post is a place where a household's cattle and small stock are
kept, usually separate from a village.



undeveloped (except for boreholes). In villages and cattle posts, cattle
graze unherded, coming in by themselves to water. They are kraaled only for
milking and if predators are seen. Breeding is uncontrolled, and animal
health care minimal. Most cattlemen consider water, vaccination and castration
the only necessary inputs, and an increase in cattle numbers the best insurance
against losses from drought and disease. The results have been a rapid
increase in cattle numbers, severe overstocking of pastures in many areas, and
a national herd performing below its genetic potential: extraction rates of
about 9% instead of 15 or 16%, weaning rate 45% instead of 70%, and steer
selli. ;, age of 5-7 years instead of 3-4 years. Research in Botswana (para
2.16) and experience on freehold farms has demonstrated that significant
increases in productivity can be achieved - doubling output and incomes - if
proper stocking rates are maintained and management is improved. The manage-
ment package recommended involves: (a) fencing of land into three paddocks;
(b) rotational grazing; (c) vaccination against disease; (d) regular feeding
of bonemeal and salt; (e) seasonal breeding; and (f) early weaning of calves.
2
2.09      About 441,000 km  are classified as rangeland; natural vegetation
varies considerably, principally with rainfall, but in most areas it provides
reasonably good grazing, partly because the sandy soils retain water in upper
surface layers. Grasses in the eastern zone are generally of higher nutri-
tious value than those of the Kalahari. Rainfall largely determines potential
carrying capacity of the range; it varies from about 8 ha per A.U. in the
northeast to 27 ha per A.U. in the south and the average carrying capacity is
16-21 ha per A.U. Most of the better and more accessible grasslands with
proven underground water are currently utilized; some areas remain to be
exploited but elsewhere groundwater salinity problems impede their develop-
ment. Overstocking and poor management has resulted in serious damage to
range and reduction1 of carrying capacity in many areas, as grass disappears
and weeds and bush encroach; indications are that deterioration will continue
and may be irreversible if effective action is not taken to control stock
numbers and improve management. Widespread uncontrolled burning of grasslands
is also an important problem.
2.10      Small stock (sheep and goats) are more widely owned than cattle, and
provide an important source of milk and meat. The sheep and goat populations
were estimated at 0.5 and 1.4 million, respectively, in 1975. There is good
potential for expanding production if marketing channels were improved, and
small stock could provide an important means of increasing rural incomes on a
broader scale. Donkeys are a widespread means of rural transport.
2.11      Animal Health.  Botswana enjoys a relatively favorable position
regarding animal health. It is free of Rinderpest and East Coast Fever and
has l low incidence of tick-borne diseases in general; dipping or spraying
is necessary in only part of the country. The most serious disease problems
are Foo.-and-Mouth Disease (FMD) and beef measles, which affect the accept-
ability of beef in foreign markets; national control programs are in effect
for both. For FMD, a system of double cordon fences and quarantine camps
isolate the north-w st where the disease is endemic and divide Botswana
into four veterinar-- regions; livestock movement between them is restricted,
and should an FMD outbreak occur, it could thus be isolated. The Government



-5-
proposes to extend this network along the Rhodesian border to prevent the
spread of disease from there. Botswana has experienced no FMD outbreak since
1968. Carcasses are inspected for measles at slaughter, and a campaign is
underway to eradicate tape worm in the human population. Other less signifi-
cant diseases, notably anthrax, blackleg, and contagious abortion, are con-
trolled through a system of free and compulsory vaccinations. A serious
disease problem is aphosphorosis; livestock producers are being encouraged to
feed bonemeal and salt, with some success.
Livestock Marketing and Processing
2.12      Marketed offtake varies considerably, principally with rainfall,
but has averaged about 9-10% in the past. Of this, an estimated 80% is
exported and 20% is consumed locally. Trade in immature stock is also impor-
tant, with young animals sold to freehold farmers for finishing. The Botswana
Meat Commission (BMC), a Government-owned statutory corporation, has a mono-
poly of exports; it dominates marketing channels, which converge on BMC's
Lobatse abattoir in the south-east.
2.13      Cattle marketing is rendered difficult by Botswana's great dis-
tances and poor communications, but the system is relatively well organized,
and most producers have reasonably good opportunities to sell cattle through-
out the year. The main marketing channels are: (a) BMC in 1976 purchased
212,000 animals at Lobatse, 50% from freehold farms and the remainder from
traditional farmers; (b) cattle traders and "speculators", who remain the
most important marketing vehicle for many traditional producers; (c) market-
ing cooperatives, which transport cattle to BMC on behalf of members and
supplied about 15% of BMC's total supplies in 1976; (d) the Botswana Live-
stock Development Corporation (BLDC), which trades in cattle (para. 3.02);
and (e) 22 auction yards, operated by the Ministry of Agriculture, principally
for sales of immature stock. Transport of cattle is oriented towards the
south-east. About 65-70% of BMC's cattle supplies arrive by rail. The
Rhodesian Railroad line links Francistown in the northeast with Lobatse, where
it connects with the South African rail system; cattle are loaded at 15
points. While rail transport is generally cheap and reliable, it currently
presents a bottleneck to marketing, as inadequate wagons are available and
handling facilities are poor. Trekking remains very important, particularly
from western Botswana; there are three principal trek routes, with poorly
maintained and inadequate facilities. Many freehold farmers truck cattle to
BMC, and BLDC has begun to use road transport.
2.14      BMC's Lobatse abattoir is Botswana's sole meat processing plant;
animals destined for local consumption are slaughtered in small town abat-
toirs or on the farm. The plant is modern and well-managed; it meets EEC
veterinary requirements for export of fresh meat. The highest actual through-
put was achieved in 1976, 212,000 head of cattle, of which 85% went for de-
boning. The plant processes a full range of by-products, most for export.
BMC officers believe that capacity is fully adequate, and that no expansion or
construction of a new plant are required at present. Government officials
however, argue that increasing output, transportation difficulties, and the
risk of sharp increases in marketed output, particularly during droughts,
justify a new plant, and provision for its construction has been included in
the new development plan.



-6-
C. Government Services and Training
2.15      The Ministry of Agriculture has primary responsibility for poli-
cies and programs for livestock development (Chart I). Reorganized in 1975,
it comprises three major departments: Agricultural Research, Agricultural
Field Services, and Veterinary Services; a Chief Agricultural Economist is
responsible for project preparation and investment planning. A Livestock
Project Management Unit (LPMU) was established to implement the first Live-
stock Project (para. 3.01). The Botswana Agricultural College (BAC) and
rural training centers are run by the Ministry, which also supervises para-
statal organizations involved in the agricultural sector; the most important
is the BMC (para. 2.12). The Agricultural Resources Board, responsible for
all conservation activities, also works under the aegis of the Ministry.
There is a severe shortage of Batswana staff at senior and intermediate
levels, and many positions are held by expatriates; a localization plan has
been prepared, but it will take many years to implement.
2.16      The Department of Agricultural Field Services directs field exten-
sion services; they are organized in five regions and 16 districts, and employ
about 200 certificate level extension workers (known as agricultural demon-
strators). Extension staff have focused most attention on crop activities,
but the Government intends to strengthen programs for livestock. The Divi-
sion of Animal Production which employs specialists in various fields supports
extension agents; staff provided under the USAID-financed Livestock and Range
Management Project work with this division (para. 2.25). A range management
section was recently established to assist with ranch development, and to
develop systems for enforcing range use regulations. The Department of
Veterinary Services is responsible for disease prevention and control pro-
grams, meat inspection and grading, tse-tse fly eradication (efforts are
concentrated in the Okavango region), administration of livestock advisory
services, trek routes supervision, operation of a diagnostic laboratory, and
veterinary research. It has a full complement of veterinarians and veterinary
assistants. The Department also manages a network of 21 Livestock Advisory
Centers, whose primary role is to sell veterinary products, bone-meal and
salt, and feedstuffs; this network is being considerably expanded. The
Department of Agricultural Research includes an Animal Production Research
Unit (APRU), established in 1970 (Annex 2), responsible for research relating
to the livestock sub-sector. APRU has conducted research on: (a) development
of management systems for livestock production under Botswana conditions; (b)
investigation of production parameters under the traditional system, mainly on
cattle posts; (c) breed evaluation experiments and cross-breeding; and (d)
other areas, notably range productivity and cow fertility. APRU is conducting
research on the impact of ranching on range condition in conjunction with the
IDA and SIDA-financed first livestock development project (para. 3.05).
2.17      The BAC trains staff for agricultural agencies.  It offers a two-
year course culminating in a certificate; capacity is about 75 students a
year. Very limited training in range ecology and ranch management is pro-
vided. Diploma-level training is offered at the University of Botswana and
Swaziland (UBS), in Swaziland. University level training in agriculture is
abroad, principally at UBS in Swaziland or in Nigeria, the US and the UK.
Farmer training is offered at rural training centers and short-course centers.



-7-
2.18      Other agencies with responsibilities for aspects of livestock
development include: (a) BMC (para. 2.12); its efficient operations have
played an important role in recent development of the livestock industry;
(b) BLDC, which plays a role in marketing (para. 3.01); (c) the Division of
Cooperatives in the Ministry of Agriculture which supports cattle marketing
cooperatives; (d) the Department of Water Affairs, responsible for borehole
siting, drilling and maintenance; its record is of mixed success; (e) the
Central Transport Organization, responsible for procuring and servicing Gov-
ernment vehicles; and (f) the Ministry of Local Government and Lands which
plays an important role in local affairs (district councils, taxation), and
is responsible for assistance to land boards which control borehole alloca-
tion and leases to land (para. 2.23). Many services are seldom available
to livestock producers, particularly in the more remote areas of Botswana.
Borehole maintenance remains a serious problem despite a Government-subsidized
borehole preventive maintenance scheme; broken down boreholes are common and
aggravate problems of overstocking of rangeland. Fencing contractors are few,
and Botswana producers rely heavily on South African entrepreneurs. Transport
of goods to the interior of Botswana is expensive and unreliable. The Govern-
ment is considering ways to promote development of a company to provide such
services, and to assist livestock producers in organizing them for themselves.
D. Agricultural Credit (Annex 3)
2.19      Institutional credit for agriculture in Botswana is principally
geared towards the needs of freehold farmers and wealthier cattle owners.
Farmers can obtain credit from: (i) the National Development Bank (NDB);
(ii) the commercial banks; (iii) cooperatives; and (iv) through BMC, for pur-
chase of feeder steers. Availability of unorganized credit is very limited.
Lending for agriculture has increased rapidly during recent years. During
the 1973-1976 period, total advance-, y commercial banks for agriculture
rose from about US$5.3 million to US$15.8 million.
2.20      NDB was established in 1963 as a statutory corporation to promote
Botswana's economic development. Based in Gaborone with a small field office
in Francistown, NDB remains a small institution, with a total staff of 23;
the senior staff are all expatriates. NDB is the principal source of credit
for traditional agriculture because it can secure loans against moveable
security (cattle). It provides short and medium term loans for agricultural
machinery, water development (borehole drilling), purchase of breeding stock,
and small enterprises such as poultry. In 1976, 90% of loans made by NDB,
representing about 70% of value (US$1.1 million) were for agriculture: the
greatest share of value (66%) was for agricultural machinery, then breeding
stock (22%); about 50% of loans were for less than US$1,130. NDB serves as
the Government's agent for the administration of loans made under the first
livestock project (para. 3.01). NDB loans above US$2,300 carry interest at
12%, 1 tns between US$1,205 and US$2,300 at 8%, and less than US$1,200 at 6%.
Milnir cash deposits of 10% are required for loans up to US$600, 15% for
loans from US$600 to US$1,808 and 20% for loans above US$1,808. NDB's finan-
cial position is sound. Its repayment record has been excellent, although a
serious drought year could rapidly alter this situation. NDB plans call for
significant expansion of its operations in the coming years.



- 8 -
2.21      Two commercial banks operate in Botswana:  the Standard Bank
(Botswara}) Ltd,, and Barclays Bank of Botswana Ltd. Both were originally
branches of UK banks, but in 1975 they were locally incorporated and are now
wholly owned subsidiaries of UK commercial banks. Both banks maintain perma-
nent offices in Gaborone, Francistown, and other urban centers, and provide
mobile harkThg services to some rural communities; together they have 16
branches and 50 agencies. The commercial banks are the largest source of
credit to the agricultural sector. They are well staffed and operate with
efficient and flexible procedures. Total advances in the agricultural sector
totalled US$12.3 million in 1975 and US$15.8 million in 1976. Most commercial
bank loans are seasonal fluctuiating overdrafts, principally because of the
unavailability of long-term credit. Interest rates very between 9 and 13% per
annum. Both banks lend extensively against the security of freehold farms for
farm purchases and for various agricultural requirements throughout the coun-
try.  Lending to the traditional sector is limited by lack of pledgable secur-
ity. A Hypothecations Act enabling commercial banks to take moveable security
was approved by the Parliament in August, 1977. The Barclays Development
Fund, an aid agency funded by Barclays Bank International, finances a program
of credit insurance for development loans.
2.22      The Graziers Scheme has been operated by BMC since 1969 to assist
farmers in acquiring cattle for fattening.   Farmers identify cattle and nego-
tiate the price with the selle. ., ommercial bank finances the transaction.
Cattle are fattened on the farmer'Y       * but remain legally BMC's property.
The nImber of animals placed during t p past years has been fairly static:
10,700 animals placed with 78 farmer. in 1973, 10,600 with 156 farmers in
1974, and 12,000 cattle with 187 farmers in 1975. The main criteria for BMC's
approval of a grazier are satisfactory management and stock handling facili-
ties; the grazier scheme has therefore primarily benefitted freehold farmers.
In order to increase the number of benef .c aries and to avoid the monopoliza-
tion of the scheme's funds by a few wea!Lih,f farmers, the number of cattle per
grazier has been limited since 1973 to 3C00.
E. Land Tenure and the Tribal Grazing Land Policy (Annex 4)
2.23      In the past, there were three distinct legal categories for land
tenure in Botswana: state land, tribal land, and freehold land. State lands
were principally national parks or reserved areas, controlled by the Govern-
ment. Tribal lands covered most inhabited areas; here, tradition has allowed
individuals to cultivate land and graze cattle and small stock, without permit-
ting fixed tenure of land; since 1968 land boards have controlled land use in
tribal areas. Freehold land comprises abotit six b.locks of land, covering
about 33,000 km2 or 3% of Botswana, where modern law titles w7ere granted,
mostly late in the 19th century; most farms are still owned by non-Africac.s.
The TGLP (para. 1.01) will change tenure patterns on tribal grazing (bl. -;t
arable) lands, which cover about 70% of Botswana. The TGLP proposes t;e
subdivision of tribal grazing land into ",commercial"  "communal", and "reserve`



-9-
zones. In '"commercial" zones, individuals or groups of individuals can obtain
50-year leases to land and will pay rents to land boards. The community will
retain collective rights to land in "communal" zones, but new programs and
legislation are planned to promote their development. "Reserve" zones are
intended to be a reserve for development by future generations; measures will
be taken to protect wildlife and areas of unique ecological interest.
2.24      The TGLP was approved by the Cabinet and Parliament in 1975 and dur-
ing 1976, the Government conducted an intensive campaign of consultation with
the population on the policy. In July 1977, the status of implementation
was as follows: (a) results of the consultation were being analyzed and were
to be considered by the Cabinet shortly; (b) preliminary zoning plans for each
district were being prepared to designate various categories of land; this has
required a vast data collection exercise; (c) land boards had begun to formu-
late policies for allocation of leases; (d) The Ministry of Local Government
and Lands was reviewing draft lease agreements and considering appropriate
rents; (e) legislation necessary to implement the TGLP was being prepared;
(f) wildlife management areas were being planned; (g) programs were underway
to train and strengthen land boards; and (h) additional projects to implement
aspects of the TGLP were being prepared. The preparation of plans and policies
to implement the TGLP will be a lengthy process, and many questions remain
unresolved, including how long it will take to zone land and allocate leases.
Meanwhile, "preliminary development areas" in probable commercial zones have
been designated, and it is hoped that leases can be allocated there in the
near future.
F. On-going and Planned Livestock Development Programs
2.25      Several livestock development projects are underway, and the Govern-
ment plans additional ones for the future. The IDA and SIDA financed first
livestock development project is discussed below (para. 3.01). USAID has
financed a range management project designed to test different management
systems suitable for traditional producers; this project has encountered
many problems, and is currently being revised. SIDA has financed a village
areas development project, also designed to provide assistance to producers
in traditional environments. A bull subsidy scheme and an artificial insemina-
tion program aim to improve breeding stock available to traditional producers.
Under the Ministry of Education "farmers brigades" are working to train young
farmers in ranching and in small livestock enterprises. UNDP is providing
technical assistance, principally to the APRU and the BAC. The European
Development Fund (EDF) has committed about US$4.7 million for livestock
development over the next three years; part of this amount is likely to be
utilized for a project to assist livestock development by strengthening basic
services in communal areas, and a further small stock development project
is being prepared. USAID is exploring future projects, including the
development of a diploma-level agricultural institution. ODM provides
technical assistance for livestock, and is considering financing new cordon
fences and other infrastructure aimed to improve disease control systems
(para 2.11).



- 10 -
III. THE FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CR. 325-BT) (Annex 5)
3.01      The first livestock development project, approved in June, 1972,
was principally a land development scheme for remote, uninhabited and un-
utilized land. It aimed to develop 30 breeding ranches, five cattle fatten-
ing ranches, and 24 Karakul sheep farms in western Botswana, nine fattening
ranches in eastern Botswana, and a fattening ranch at Makalamabedi in the
north. Borehole maintenance services, stock route development, and a series
of studies for, inter alia, monitoring the effects of fencing and ranching
on wildlife migration and range condition were also included. A Livestock
Project Management Unit (LPMU) within the Ministry of Agriculture was to
develop the western breeding and sheep ranches, then lease them to farmers,
and to develop and operate fattening ranches. The Botswana Livestock Devel-
opment Corporation (BLDC), a subsidiary of BMC, was established to develop
and operate the eastern fattening ranches and the Makalamabedi ranch. Total
project costs were estimated at US$5.4 million, with a foreign exchange
component of US$2.4 million. The project was financed jointly by IDA and
SIDA, with credits of US$1.65 million each; together, they were to finance
61% of total project costs. The project's economic rate of return was esti-
mated at about 21%; the principal benefits were expected to be beef and sheep
pelts. Benefits were expected to accrue principally to the 100 individuals
who obtained leases to the breeding and sheep ranches; about 4,000 families
were to benefit from fattening ranches.
3.02      The project has not yet been completed (the closing date is now set
at December 31, 1978) and it is too early to assess completely the project's
impact. Nevertheless, it has clearly experienced serious problems, and will
not yield the benefits expected at appraisal. Serious delays were encountered
in the initial years of implementation, particularly in establishing project
entities and appointing personnel. Ranch development was slow and expensive,
with substantial cost overruns for all components. LPMU has developed about
13 breeding ranches and 7 sheep farms, at costs well in excess of those
planned; only eight breeding ranches are occupied, and no formal lease or loan
agreements have yet been signed. Some fattening ranches in the east and west
were developed, but farmers have proved unwilling to graze cattle there for a
fee. The Makalamabedi ranch is operating well, buying cattle from Ngamiland
producers and selling them to BMC. BLDC has, however, encountered serious
financial problems; as a result, the Government has acted to redefine its scope
of operations, remphasizing its marketing functions. BLDC's statutes are being
revised accordingly. The reasons for the project's problems are complex, but
appear to relate principally to poor management, exacerbated by logistic diffi-
culties. The Government has taken positive steps in the past year to resolve
the most serious problems. However, two immediate problems remain: (a) As a
result of poor management, LPMU lacks proper accounts. An audit is now underway
to determine how funds have been spent, and to assist in determining LPMU's
future. A preliminary report should be received by the Bank in early November;
and (b) Although LPMU has developed about 13 ranches, tenants and prospective
occupants are resisting signing lease and loan agreements, and extension ser-
vices and management support are weak. Ranches already developed have been
damaged by fire, and also by migratory animals, and must be repaired. Under
these circumstances, the new rangeland opened up by ranch development, far from
serving as a model for proper livestock management, stands a good chance of



- 11 -
being rapidly degraded through overstocking in the traditional pattern. The
Government is preparing a full report on the situation for the Bank's review.
3.03      Although the proposed second livestock project differs from the
first in approach and in the institutions involved, deliberate efforts were
made to avoid recurrence of similar problems. Because management arrangements
for the first project proved unsatisfactory, responsibilities for execution and
coordination of the second Project have been more clearly defined. Management
problems are, however, likely to persist, given coordination problems within
the Ministry of Agriculture and the lack of trained Batswana staff; management
and staffing arrangements will require continuing attention during supervi-
sion. Other problems affecting the first project are more difficult to re-
solve. Logistic difficulties for ranch development in Botswana are enormous,
because of rudimentary road networks and inadequate supply systems for mate-
rials and services; these are unlikely to diminish significantly in the near
future. Their likely impact was considered in establishing implementation
schedules and cost estimates. During appraisal of the first livestock proj-
ect, concern was expressed about the environmental impact of ranch develop-
ment on wildlife migration patterns and on range condition, the impact of
ranch development on rural income distribution, and prospects for providing
assistance to village livestock owners grazing cattle in communal grazing
areas. The project included studies and surveys to monitor these areas.
These are underway, and pilot programs are being carried out to assist village
producers, but it is too early to draw any significant conclusions. Since the
first project was approved, the Government of Botswana has acted to resolve some
of these sociological and ecological problems; the principal measure is the
TGLP, but complementary research and development are also underway. The pro-
posed project has therefore been evaluated in the context of the Government's
overall strategy for resolving the complex problems of protecting the range
and promoting rural development.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The Project would form part of the Botswana Government's program
for livestock development, and particularly of the TGLP. It would, over five
years, assist in developing ranches, seek new technologies to benefit small
livestock owners, promote more efficient marketing of livestock, and assist
in developing institutions to serve livestock development programs. The
Project would specifically include:
(a) Development by farmers of about 100 ranches on land designated as
"commercial" under the TGLP;
(b) Development by APRU of about 14 communal grazing units aimed to test
different grazing systems in areas designated as communal land;



- 12 -
(c) Small-scale loans for livestock developments by communal manage-
ment associations on communal land;
(d) Support to a new agricultural credit division of the NDB;
(e) Development of livestock marketing infrastructure including trek
routes, railway handling facilities, and small stock holding
grounds; and
Technical services, including studies and experimental work, estab-
lishment of a ranch training center, monitoring and evaluation of
Project progress, and preparation of future projects.
4.02      The Ministry of Agriculture would have principal responsibility
for coordinating Project activities, acting through a high level Steering
Committee and a broader-based Coordination Committee. NDB would imple-
ment credit components. APRU would develop communal grazing units and
Ministry of Agriculture departments would oversee marketing infrastructure
development and technical services.
B. Detailed Features
Ranch Development (Annex 6)
4.03      Individuals or groups of individuals who obtain leases to land in
commercial zones (para. 2.23) will be able, for the first time, to develop
ranches from existing cattle posts (para. 2.07). They are expected to seek
loans to finance investments. The pattern of ranch development will vary
significantly from region to region, with the condition of existing range,
and the sophistication and means of farmers. However, a model of development
and management has been devised and demonstrated by APRU and should provide
the basis for extension efforts and assessment of individual loan applica-
tions. It involves perimeter fencing of the ranch and division into three
paddocks, provision of fire breaks and ranch roads, and improvement of
internal water distribution systems. It requires improved management of the
herd, notably controlled, seasonal breeding, early weaning of calves, system-
atic culling, regular feeding of bonemeal and salt, and maintenance of correct
stocking rates. Ranchers will also have to maintain ranch facilities and keep
records adequate to facilitate analysis of herd development and financial
returns. The level of demand for development loans is uncertain, since no
leases have yet been allocated and no loan applications received. Based on
NDr s likely capability and on preliminary development zones already desig-
nateC, an estimated 100 ranchers could secure development loans over a 3-4
yea< Ser 4. Each ranch would have about 6,400 ha, and carry about 475 animal
units. The main investment items would include: fencing, fire breaks and
roads, water facilities, simple ranch buildings, and working capital for the
development period (f-.nex 8, Table 1).
Communal Grazing Units (Annex 7)
4.04      Animal production research in Botswana has failed to date to
develop any system of livestock management that promises to assist the many
small cattle owners concentrated around villages, or to rehabilitate rangeland



- 13 -
that has been overgrazed and degraded. The problems involved are technical
and sociological; rehabilitation of pasture has not been demonstrated, and it
is not known how producers will work in cooperative management arrangements.
In order to provide systematic data concerning these problems, an experimental
program would be undertaken in areas zoned as communal land. Twelve grazing
units will be developed under different ecological conditions to test differ-
ent grazing systems; these will utilize village cattle in an effort to assess
the technical as well as social impact of the different systems. A further
two units will be established under research conditions for control purposes.
Grazing systems tested would range from continuous grazing through 16 paddocks
per herd and several simpler systems. Each unit will have about 300 animals.
The main investment items would include: fencing, fire breaks, water develop-
ment, and simple housing for technical and support staff (Annex 8, Table 4).
Credit for Communal Associations' Schemes
4.05      A line of credit would be made available to NDB to finance smail
scale projects proposed by communal management associations; these would be
groups of livestock owners in communal areas operating under provisions of
recent legislation, as part of the TGLP effort to assist small scale farmers.
Schemes would include drift fences, improvement of watering facilities, market-
ing infrastructure, and other efforts to increase productivity of traditional
livestock husbandry.
NDB Agricultural Credit Division
4.06      NDB would establish an agricultural credit division to strengthen
and diversify its lending for agriculture. The division would assist
potential borrowers for ranch development in preparing ranch investment
plans and completing loan applications; it would supervise NDB loans for ranch
development and for communal schemes, providing assistance where required.
The division would thus serve a development function during the first stage of
implementation of the TGLP. The main investment items would include equipment
and materials for the division and incremental operating costs (Annex 8, Table
5).
Livestock Marketing Infrastructure
4.07      Three existing trek routes would be improved and 12 new trek routes
developed, in order to assist farmers in marketing cattle. Physical improve-
ments would include simple housing, kraals to rest and restrain cattle, and
improved watering facilities along the trek routes, at intervals of roughly
20 km; investment items would include civil works and operating costs.
Facilities at railway loading stations would be improved to make transport
of cattle more efficient and to reduce losses due to poor handling; invest-
ment items would include cattle handling pens and materials. Although sheep
and goats are owned by a large majority of Botswana farmers, offtake remains
very low and variable, largely because of poorly organized marketing chan-
nels and the lack of adequate facilities. In order to assist cooperatives
in improving marketing, and to hold animals for periods long enough to col-
lect shipments to BMC, holding grounds for small stock would be developed.
Details are shown in Annex 8, Table 6.



- 14 -
Technical Services
4.08      Technical services would include:  (a)  Studies and experimental
work arising from Project operating problems; (b) Monitoring and evaluation
of Project progress, including assessment of the impact of Project develop-
ments on range condition; (c) Preparation of future projects for rural
development; and (d) Establishment of a ranch management training center at
Ramatlabama (Annex 10). Further details on investments are given in Annex 8,
Table 7.
C. Project Costs
4.09      Total Project costs are estimated at P 11.1 million (US$13.4 mil-
lion), of which US$7.3 million or 54% represent foreign exchange costs.
Details are summarized in the following table:
% of
Project Component             Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Total Costs
--------P'000-----   -US$ '000    -- (excluding
contingencies)
Ranch Development              552  1,658   2,210   667  2,002  2,669        28
Communal Grazing Units         665    562   1,227   803    679  1,482        16
Credit for Communal Schemes  225    225        450   272    272    544        6
NDB Agricultural Credit        758    486   1,244   915    587  1,502        16
Division
Marketing Infrastructure       264    397      661   319    479    798        9
Technical Services           1,093    828   1,921 1,320  1,000  2,320        25
Total                  3,557  4,156   7,713 4,296  5,018  9,314    100
Contingency Allowances:
Physical                     384    499      883   464    602  1,066
Price                     1,166  1,362   2,528 1,408  1,645  3,053
Total Contingencies          1.550  1,861        3,411 1,872   ,247  4,119.
Total Project Costs          5,107  6,017  11,124 6,168  7,265 13,433
Project costs were estimated at prices as of September, 1977. A physical
contingency of 10% was applied to all Project items except ranch development
to reflect general uncertainty on the cost of Project investments; a 15%
contingency reflects the greater uncertainty in ranch development. Price
contingencies were applied following Bank/IDA guidelines on a cumulative basis
at the rate of 9.6% for 1977, 8.2% for 1978, 8% for 1979, and 7.2% for 1980-
82. Taxes and import duties on Project goods are estimated at P 1.0 million
(US$1.2 million); this amount represents an estimate of Botswana's share of
revenue from the South African Customs Union attributable to Project-related
imports. The phasing of investments and details of Project costs are sum-
marized in Annex 9, Table 1.



- 15 -
D. Financing
4.10       The financing of Project costs would be shared as follows:
P              US$ -_Z
million         million
Government of Botswana                           2.74             3.31           28
Ranchers                                         0.67             0.81            7
European Development Fund                        0.25            0.30             2
ILCA                                             1.04             1.26 /1        10
IBRD                                             5.38            6.50            53
Total Costs (excluding taxes)                   10.08           12.18           100
Taxes                                      1.04             1.26
Total Project Costs                       11.12            13.43
/I   The ILCA contribution to the project represents an estimate of the value
of a monitoring and evaluation program ILCA has tentatively agreed to
provide. This activity forms part of ILCA's overall research program.
4.11       The proposed IBRD loan of US$6.5 million would be to the Government
of Botswana; it would carry interest at [7.9%] a year, and would be repayable
over 20 years including 5 years of grace. The loan would finance about 53%
of net Project costs, including about 82% of foreign costs and 11% of local
costs. The European Development Fund (EDF) has agreed to finance capital
costs of the ranch management center, representing about 2% of total Project
costs. ILCA has agreed to provide Project monitoring and evaluation services.
Financing of Project components would be on a parallel basis; the co-financing
partners have agreed to cooperate closely during Project implementation.
Local ranchers would finance about 7% of total Project costs, principally
through sales of stock to provide a down payment for loans for ranch develop-
ment. The Government of Botswana would finance about 28% of net Project
costs. Financing details are shown in Annex 9, Table 2.
4.12       Funds for ranch development would be onlent by the Government to
NDB. NDB would onlend part of these funds directly to farmers; the remainder
would be passed on to commercial banks, which, in turn, would onlend to farmers.
The Government would onlend funds to NDB at 8% a year interest; this is in
line with general Government policy on on-lending to parastatal institutions.
NDB would onlend funds to farmers at 12%; precise terms would vary according
to individual requirements, but the maximum term would be repayment over 15
years, including five years grace. This also is in line with prevailing
interest rates; the spread of 4% should be adequate to cover NDB's basic
administrative costs and risk.   NDB would pass on funds to commercial banks
at 8% interest; they would also lend to farmers at 12%; the spread of 4%
should be adequate to cover administrative costs and provide for risk. Funds
for the initial establishment of NDB's agricultural credit division, including
costs of officers who would serve a development function, would be passed on



- 16 -
to NDB as a grant by the Government, since these functions would normally be
handled by Government services without payment of fees by beneficiaries. For
both NDB and the commercial banks, repayment terms to the Government would be
determined by repayment schedules for sub-loans. The Government would under-
take to consider sympathetically requests for loan rescheduling in the event
that a major drought, FMD outbreak, or sharp decrease in beef price obliged
the banks to -es;hedule a significant share of outstanding sub-loans. It would
be a condition of loan effectiveness that a subsidiary loan agreement satis-
factor- to IBRD had been signed between the Government and NDB. It would also
be a     ition of loan effectiveness that agreements satisfactory to IBRD had
been ei. ered into between NDB and the two commercial banks. It would be a
condition of disbursement against ranch loans by NDB and the commercial banks
that IBRD had approved a model loan agreement between the Banks and their
customers, and had agreed on loan procedures. Funds for communal grazing
units would be passed on as a grant to the APRU. Details of financing for
communal association schemes would be finalized when formal proposals are
reviewed by IBRD. Part of such schemes would be financed as a grant, the
remainder through loans from NDB carrying interest at rates appropriate to the
scheme but probably in the vicinity of 12X a year. Funds for marketing infra-
structure and technical services would be passed on by the Government to the
Ministry of Agriculture. Assurances were obtained during negotiations regard-
ing these arrangements. Retroactive financing of about US$250,000 would be
provided for start-up costs, notably for NDB's credit division.
E. Procurement
4.13      Contracts for the supply of vehicles and equipment (US$0.9 million)
exceeding US$50,000 would be awarded after international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank/ IDA guidelines. Contracts for vehicles, equipment
and supplies costing less than US$50,000 would be awarded following Government
procurement procedures which are satisfactory. In the case of ranch development
and communal schemes, individual ranchers would procure needed inputs and
equipment and carry out civil works (including fencing) directly; they would
handle developments themselves, employ local contractors, or organize supply and
works through service associations. Civil works for development of communal
grazing units, marketing infrastructure, and NDB facilities (US$1.2 million)
would be at scattered locations, and developed over a 3-year period. The APRU
and the Ministry of Agriculture would determine on an annual basis, in consulta-
tion with IBRD, whether these works would be carried out by force account or by
local contractors selected following government procedures. Draft tender
documents for all contracts exceeding US$100,000 would be submitted to IBRD for
ap: c  l nefore signature.  Assurances as to the above procedures were obtained
at ;ic,tijaLions.
F. Disbursement (Annex 13)
4.14      Funds from Lhe loan account would be disbursed over five years on
the follo-.ng basis:



- 17 -
US$ million
(a) 75% of amounts disbursed on sub-loans for ranch development
and grants and sub-loans for communal management association
schemes;                                                             2.5
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures or 75% of total expenditures
for vehicles, equipment and materials;                               0.8
(c) 75% of total expenditures for civil works;                           1.3
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures or 80X of total expenditures
for technical services including technical assistance
for NDB;                                                             0.9
(e) An unallocated amount representing a part of price
contingencies on the above categories and transferable
to them as appropriate                                               1.0
Total IBRD Loan                                             6.5
Disbursements against (b), (d), and (c) (when works are carried out by cont-
ractors) would be fully documented. Disbursements against (a) would be against
certificates of expenditure submitted by NDB, and (c) for civil works carried
out by force account, against certificates of expenditure, the documentation for
which would not be submitted for review, but would be retained by the Borrower
and made available for inspection by the Bank during Project supervision missions.
G. Accounts and Audit
4.15      NDB and the Ministry of Agriculture would maintain separate records
and accounts adequate to explain all Project activities. NDB's accounts are
satisfactory, and have been satisfactorily audited by suitable auditors in
the past. The Ministry's accounts are satisfactory except for LPMU (para.
3.04); they are normally audited by the Government's auditor general, which
has proved a satisfactory arrangement under previous projects. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that (i) separate accounts for the Project
would be maintained by NDB and the Ministry of Agriculture, all consistent
with accepted accounting practice; (ii) independent accountants, selected by
the Government and acceptable to IBRD, would audit Project accounts annually;
and (iii) the Government would make available audited accounts and reports on
them to IBRD within six months after the close of each fiscal year for NDB,
and nine months after the close of the fiscal year for the Ministry of Agri-
culture. Several good audit firms are based in or represented in Botswana.
H. Environmental Impact
4.16      Poorly managed, over-stocked cattle posts and ranches can seriously
damage range condition and the ecological situation; range degradation has
already occurred in many areas of Botswana (para. 2.09). The Project would



- 18 -
form part of a long-term, wide-ranging Government program aimed at protecting
Botswana's natural resources; a central objective of the Project, as part of
the TGLP, is to protect rangeland and arrest its deterioration by promoting
improved ranch management and controlling stock numbers; protection of wildlife
is a further TGLP objective. The impact of Project developments on range
condition would be carefully monitored during Project implementation, and
assurances were obtained at negotiations to this effect. IBRD will continue
to monitor on-going surveys undertaken under the First Livestock Development
Project (para. 3.03).
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Coordination and Management
5.01      A Project Steering Committee, comprising the Deputy Permanent Secre-
tary, Ministry of Agriculture (Chairman), the Director of Economic Affairs,
Ministry of Finance and Development Planning, and the General Manager, NDB,
has been established to assume overall responsibility for policy direction and
Project coordination. Each member would act on behalf of his department. The
Committee would meet as often as required, but at least twice a year. A Live-
stock II Coordinating Committee has also been created, comprising all offi-
cials with responsibilities for Project implementation (Annex 12). It would
meet at least once a month to resolve any issues arising from the Project.
To provide a permanent coordinating unit within the Ministry of Agriculture,
a Livestock Project Development Officer has been designated to serve as Secre-
tary to the Steering Committee, and Chairman of the Coordinating Committee.
He would organize the work of the Committees, ensure that decisions are im-
plemented, monitor the provision of funds, prepare periodic reports on Proj-
ect progress, and oversee preparation and audit of accounts. He will also
assume responsibility for overseeing continuing developments under the first
livestock project.
5.02      Each Project component would be implemented by the department or
agency normally responsible for such activities. NDB would be responsible
for provision of credit for ranch development in collaboration with the
commercial banks, and for communal credit schemes. The APRU would organize and
supervise the communal grazing unit research program; it would also oversee
Project monitoring and evaluation. The Department of Veterinary Services
would develop, operate and maintain trek routes. The Agriculture Field
Services Department would develop smallstock holding grounds and railway
handling facilities, and would direct the Ranch Management Training Center.
It would also be responsible for related activities involving agricultural
extension work in support of the TGLP, including assistance to communal
management associations and to service companies or associations.
5.03      Annual Project Review.  The Steering Committee would be responsi-
ble for submitting an annual report on the Project, covering several specific
topics relating to implementation experience with the project and to subjects
requiring annual consultation with the Bank, and recommending a work program
for the following year. This should be submitted to IBRD by August 31 of each
year, and would be reviewed during supervision missions. This review is



- 19 -
required because the Project involves a number of uncertainties and investment
programs should be modified and adapted during implementation in the light of
experience. Report content and topics to be discussed are summarized in
Schedule 1. Assurances regarding arrangements for the annual report and
review were obtained during negotiations.
5.04      NDB Agricultural Credit Division:  An agricultural division is
being established in the NDB to implement the Project and to assist NDB in
expanding and broadening its agricultural lending activities; this will
involve a considerable expansion of NDB and a change in its current focus of
activity (Annex 4); the current staff of about 30 is likely to increase by
about 50% over five years as a result of project developments. The Manager of
the Division would be responsible directly to the General Manager of the Bank.
Staff of the Division would include loan supervisors and development officers,
as well as supporting staff; two loan supervisors and five to eight loan/
development officers would be necessary, at full development, for the Division
will be required to play an active role in assisting farmers in ranch planning
and preparation of loan applications. NDB staff will supervise sub-loans made
by NDB closely during their implementation to ensure that the agreed management
program is followed. NDB would also have primary responsibility for loans to
communal management associations.  The Government has agreed to second to NDB
sufficient qualified staff, including agricultural demonstrators from the
Ministry of Agriculture to serve as loan officers; NDB staff would train them,
following a short course at the ranch management training center. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the Government would provide sufficient
qualified staff to NDB, and it would be a condition of disbursement for ranch
loans that key staff were in post; the permanent appointment of the division
manager should be made within six months of loan signature.  IBRD should
approve terms of reference, including qualifications, of the manager, and
would be consulted on his appointment. Staffing requirements and training
programs would be discussed during the annual Project review (para. 5.03).
NDB will require more explicit policies for agricultural lending activities,
and must develop procedures appropriate to serve smaller-scale farmers,
including those seeking assistance with crops and small-stock; NDB's agricul-
tural lending program and strategies for assisting smaller farmers would also
be discussed during the review.
Management of Project Components
5.05      Ranch Development:  The NDB Agricultural Division (para. 5.04) would
have overall responsibility for the design and management of the credit
program for ranch development. The commercial banks would work closely with
NDB, and follow similar procedures; they would have full responsibility for
supervising sub-loans made by them. The Credit Division would develop operat-
ing procedures for the ranch program, and elaborate procedures for selection
of borrowers and evaluation of loan applications (para. 4.13). All borrowers
would have obtained leases to land in areas zoned "commercial", and ranches
should have identifiable and recorded boundaries. Selection criteria would
aim to favor groups of livestock owners or syndicates; these farmers would
have a greater need for assistance and their involvement would broaden the
Project's impact. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
Most applicants would require considerable assistance in preparing ranch
development plans; NDB development officers would work with ranchers to



- 20 -
develop plans adapted to their land and cattle herd, working from basic devel-
opment models (Annex 6). Provision of services would be carefully reviewed,
and owners of contiguous ranches would be encouraged to cooperate to reduce
fencing costs and promote shared services. Loan agreements embodying the
development plan would be signed (para. 4.13), including simple but clear
conditIons, notably on maintenance of stock numbers. Loans would be approved
by the Bank concerned; loans by the commercial banks would also be approved by
NDB's Board. It is expected that about 20% of loans would be made by NDB
directly and 80% by the two commercial banks. Assurances as to these pro-
cedures were obtained during negotiations. NDB ranch lending operations would
be discussed during the annual review (para 5.03), including demand for loans,
performance of borrowers, and the suitability of ranch models; it is expected
that procedures and models would be modified during Project implementation.
5.06      Communal Grazing Units:  APRU would implement the research program
for testing grazing systems in communal areas; APRU has considerable experi-
ence in similar activities, and has the staff and organization to support the
program. Detailed proposals for the program are being prepared; final approval
by IBRD would be a condition of disbursement for this component. APRU would
require an additional pasture agronomist to direct the program, who may be
provided under an ongoing FAQ project, and new posts for technical officers
must be created. Assurances as to APRU staffing, including IBRD approval of
terms of reference for the pasture agronomist, were obtained during negotia-
tions. APRU would work with the Ministry of Local Government and Lands and
the Agricultural Field Services Department in selecting sites for units;
willingness of villagers to participate in the program would be an important
criterion.  Progress would be discussed during the annual review; a complete
report on the program would be prepared on Project completion (Annex 7).
5.07      Communal Management Associations  Credit Scheme:  Because final
details of this component require further detailed analysis prior to imple-
mentation, it would be a condition of disbursement that IBRD had approved
detailed proposals.  The schemes would be designed to support communal manage-
ment associations that will be registered under the Communal Management
Associations Bill, which was recently approved by the Cabinet. Small, viable
projects put forward by communities would be considered by NDB; funds would be
made available to the associations only on a step-by-step basis (gradualist
extension approach). Eligibility for applying for funds would be determined
by the Commissioner of Communal Management, with loans and grants (para.
4.12) approved by the Board of NDB.
5.08      Marketing Infrastructure:  The Veterinary Services Department man-
ages trek routes, including boreholes and facilities. It would manage trek
route developments and maintain trek routes. The Department of Field Services
would improve and manage railway handling facilities, working in cooperation
with Rhodesian Railways, and develop small-stock holding grounds; sites would
be designated and plans and leases prepared in cooperation with the marketing
cooperatives involved.
5.09      Ranch Management Training Center (Annex 10):  A principal (who has
been designated) would develop and run the center, under the supervision of
the Director of Agricultural Field Services. NDB and other concerned agen-
cies would participate in development and evaluation of curricula, through



- 21 -
the Project Coordination Committee. The center would train owners or man-
agers of new TGLP ranches, NDB staff, and extension workers.
5.10      Monitoring and Evaluation (Annex 11):  APRU would have general re-
sponsibility for monitoring Project progress, reporting regularly to the
Project Steering and Coordinating Committees. ILCA has agreed, as part of
its research program, to provide an experienced livestock economist who would
serve as monitoring specialist during Project implementation. Based at APRU, he
would r -duct appropriate surveys and undertake special studies, with back-up
from ._ , Addis Ababa.  Botswana would form part of a five-country monitoring
network .eing developed by ILCA, which should facilitate cross-country ex-
change of experience in Project implementation. ILCA expects to focus moni-
toring efforts on the impact of developments on range condition. The monitor-
ing manager would assist in other APRU activities such as strengthening their
economics research capability. Assurances were obtained regarding monitor-
ing arrangements, and that the Government would prepare a completion report on
the Project and furnish it to IBRD no later than three months following the
closing date.
5.11      Studies and Future Project Preparation:  The Steering Committee
would allocate responsibility for studies, Project-related investigational
research, and future project preparation as appropriate, to APRU, the office
of the Chief Agricultural Economist, or other suitable agencies. Assurances
were obtained that proposals for such activities would be submitted to
IBRD for prior approval.
The TGLP (para. 2.23)
5.12       Implementation of the proposed Project and of the TGLP will be
integrally related. Project execution depends on planning of aspects of
TGLP (notably lease allocation, rents, and legislation affecting communal
areas); ranch development cannot begin until farmers have signed leases to
land. The pace of TGLP's progress will largely determine the speed of Proj-
ect implementation. IBRD should therefore maintain a continuing dialogue
with the Government on the TGLP, its objectives, and progress and problems
in its implementation. Progress with other projects forming part of the TGLP,
notably those affecting communal areas, and mechanisms for coordination of
these activities will also require continuing review. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that Government would provide relevant reports on TGLP
implementation to the Bank and discuss them periodically. Because the TGLP
involves important issues of equity in income distribution, assurances were
obtained that the Government would prepare and implement a study designed to
monitor the impact of TGLP activities on income distribution, and would
dis 13  the design and results of this study with IBRD.
Liv.  jc.  xtension Services
5.13      Ministry of Agriculture field services for livestock (para. 2.16)
are currently weak, a I the Government recognizes the need to reorganize and
strengthen them to pr 7ide support promised under the TGLP. A range man-
agement section has recently been established within the Department of
Agricultural Field Services, to provide extension support for cattle ranching,
communal area livestock schemes and small stock development projects, and to



- 22 -
develop regulations and control mechanisms to promote better range management
and conservation. Supervision missions would regularly review the work of
this section.
Project Implementation Plan and Period Reporting (Annex 12)
5.14      Project implementation procedures were discussed during negotia-
tions, and a Project implementation plan was agreed on. The Project Steering
Committee would submit quarterly reports on Project progress to IBRD, includ-
ing full financial information, discussion of principal achievements and
problems, and progress with Project monitoring and evaluation.
Training and Technical Assistance
5.15      Additional expatriate technical assistance personnel for the Proj-
ect would be limited to the Manager of NDB's Agricultural Credit Division,
APRU's pasture agronomist, and the ILCA monitoring specialist. However, the
Botswana Government continues to rely heavily on expatriate staff who hold
many positions of direct relevance to the Project (para. 2.15). The Project
ranch management center would supplement existing training facilities; it
would aim principally at training ranch managers. NDB would develop a train-
ing program designed to train Batswana staff for credit operations. Locali-
zation of key government posts and training programs would be reviewed during
Project implementation, as part of the annual Project review.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRODUCER AND GOVERNMENT BENEFITS
Incremental Production
6.01      Annual incremental production from ranch development by Year 8 is
estimated at about 5,000 cattle (1,350 in tons of carcass meat), and by full
development in 1990 at about 8,000 head (2,400 tons of meat); this would rep-
resent an estimated 1.5% increase in the total projected cattle production
for Botswana in year 8. Further, the APRU communal grazing unit program
and communal association schemes would result in increased production for the
villages involved. The marketing component should increase marketed offtake,
reduce losses incurred in trekking on iSnadequate routes and through poor
handling on the railway, and improve quality. Smallstock marketed offtake
should be increased by development of holding grounds.
Marketing, Prices and Exports
6.02      Cattle would be marketed through existing channels (para. 2.13), as
improved under the Project; about 80% of incremental cattle produced would be
sold to BMC and processed for export. The Government plans to increase BMC's
slaughter capacity during the next plan period; except in the event of a
catastrophic drought (para. 2.14), slaughter facilities should be adequate to
handle increased output. Marketing difficulties would arise if service of
Rhodesian Railways were interrupted; the Government is preparing contingency



- 23 -
plans for this eventuality, including possible direct operation of the rail-
road or substitution of truck for rail transport.
6.03      Producer cattle prices are directly linked to prices Botswana
obtains for beef exports (para. 6.04) and are currently high for all grades of
meat relative to other African countries (about US$914 average per ton CDW in
1976). Farmgate prices vary with marketing channels and distance from market,
and may be as much as 50% lower than the Lobatse price. However, knowledge of
BMC prices and improvements in marketing channels have resulted in a narrowing
in the variation in producer prices; the increasing role of cooperatives and
emergence of BLDC have increased prices in many areas. Marketing improvements
under the Project should further improve producer prices.
6.04      Botswana has historically marketed most beef in the UK and South
Africa, obtaining favorable prices relative to prevailing world prices,
particularly in recent years. These markets are now quite uncertain. The
1975 Lome Convention included agreement that the four beef-exporting ACP
countries (Botswana, Madagascar, Swaziland and Kenya) could continue exports
to EEC on a quota basis, duty free; imports are, however, subject to a
variable levy which has been as high as US$1.00 per kg of beef (the levy
represents the difference between the world market price and the EEC guide
price). This levy makes sales to EEC uneconomic. Botswana has since
engaged with other affected countries in negotiations to remove or rebate
the levy; EEC has agreed since July, 1975 to a 90% rebate of the levy, the
current agreement extending until December, 1977. Future prospects for levy
rebatement remain highly uncertain. Beef imports to South Africa are
controlled by the South African Meat Board, which licenses imports and sets
quotas. Negotiations to lift restrictions have been underway since 1975,
but have not been concluded and future sales prospects on the South African
market remain uncertain. Botswana also exports to other markets, including
Greece, Zaire, Zambia, Gabon, and Mauritius, at world market prices. BMC's
1976 sales were 55% of value to the UK, 27% to South Africa, 8% to La
Reunion, and 10% elsewhere. In summary, Botswana should have no difficulty
marketing beef, but an unsual degree of uncertainty exists on future sales
prices.
Producer Benefits (Annex 15)
6.05      For a cattle owner who develops a ranch following the proposed model
(Annex 8) from an existing cattle post, the financial rate of return at con-
stant 1977 prices is estimated at about 15%; under varying assumptions it could be
as low as 9%. Without the Project, estimated net income would decrease from
about P 3,000 to 4,000 (US$3,600 to $4,800) before development to about P
1,500 (US$1,807) in Year 20 (because of range degradation); with the Project,
net income would increase to about P 7,500 (US$9,100). The financial attrac-
tiveness of proposed ranch developments for cattle owners is somewhat uncertain,
largely because many cattle owners now derive quite high returns from their
cattle posts with minimal inputs, and the proposed investments are unlikely to
increase their incomes rapidly. However, unless such management improvements
are introduced, production on these cattle posts will almost certainly decline,



- 24 -
and permanent damage to the rac~.eland would ensue.  The task of extension
services ane *,~   i,- ronvinc -g cattle !Wr9 of this position will thus be
critical. .h positive aspec: is that many cattle owners appear keen to develop
land following the TGLP, whicL. promnses them security of tenure. The Govern-
ment hopes they will have the inlcentive and the means to protect and develop
land which they have not had in the past.  An additional i-centive would be
the ability to control stock incursions from neighboring properties.
6.06      The benefits of rhe communal graz,iag unit, progQ  m !ould ,te princi-
pally the development of grazing systems for iEucute projects; however, v I-
lage cattle owners whose cattle were used in trials would benefit from in-
creased growth rates and improved quality. The same applies to communal
management association schemes. The marketing infrastructure developed under
the Project -would benefit large numbers of produt'ers throughlou0t Botswana,
reducing losses now incurred in trekkiJ.ng Otr inadequate routes and from poor
handling at railway facilities.
Government Benefits and Recovery of Proiec't Costs
6.07      For ranch development, farmers woul- pay the lull cost of invest-
ments, and proposed interest rates are adequate in view of prevailing market
levels. However, given the pilot nature of this initial ranch development
program (as many as 3,000-5,000 ranches might be developed in the future),
the cost of providing credit would be high, and the Government would subsi-
dize the operation by financing NDB's agricultural credit division develop-
ment costs as a grant (para. 4.12). Producers involved in communal grazing
unit trials would not be expected to pay the development cost of these units,
given the experimental nature of the program. Costs of marketing infc asLructure
would not be recovered directly from beneficiaries, since the cost of operat-
ing a revenue collection system would probably be higher than the financial
benefits derived from it; instead, costs would be recovered through taxation
on the cattle industry as a whole. At present, taxation levels appear to
be adequate with taxes levied on live cattle at the locai level and at slaughter
at BMC, and on BMC receipts. The issue of cost recovery as it affects livestock
producers would be discussed during the annual Project review (para. 
6.08      Cash flows for the Project for NDB and the Government are preser-ed
in Annex 15.  The Government's cash flow reflects the need to subsIdize NDB's
initial operations, as well as other operations for which costs are not
directly recovered. The annual incremental operating costs to the Governmernt
from the Project are estimated at about US$50,000 from Year 6, principally for
maintenance of marketing infrastructure. The continuing need for subsidies
for NDB beyond the Project period cannot be computed accurately at this time,
since they will depend on the volume of future lending.
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The Project's benefits would consist of increased production and
improved quality of beef, increased offtake of cattle and smallstock, and
reduction in transport losses.  The Project has an important institution-
building role, as it would support the development of NDB's agricultural



- 25 -
credit capability, and the Ministry of Agriculture's departments responsible
for livescock development. It would represent an important pilot program
designed to lead to larger development programs for the livestock sub-sector.
An important Project benefit should be the protection of rangeland, and the
prevention of further range degradation. Most incremental Project production
would be exported, increasing foreign exchange earnings.
7.02      The economic rate of return from directly productive elements of the
Project is estimated at about 15% over 20 years (Annex 16). Project invest-
ment costs which relate directly to expected increases in production were
included in the analysis. Costs of the communal grazing units, communal asso-
ciation schemes, part of the ranch management training center, studies and
future Project preparation, and part of monitoring and evaluation were ex-
cluded from the analysis because the benefits from these activities would be
expected to accrue largely in future projects. The cost of labor for ranch
development and operation was included in the analysis; prevailing wage rates
were assumed to reflect reasonably accurately the cost of labor to the economy.
Foreign exchange costs and benefits were valued at the prevailing exchange
rate. Prices used in calculations were average producer prices prevailing in
1977, adjusted to September, 1977 prices. These prices were adjusted to
reflect expected shifts in world market prices. It was assumed alternatively
that Botswana would continue to have favored access to the EEC market, and that
such access terminated from 1978. With preferential access the rate of return
would be about 17%; without preferential access the rate of return would be
about 12%. For the economic rate of return calculation, an intermediate
situa-tion was assumed. The rates of return were tested for sensitivity,
which indicated that they are most sensitive to major shifts in relationships
between production costs and prices.
Risk
7.03      The problems most likely to affect the Project would be delays in
implementation arising from slower than expected progress with the TGLP, a
reluctance on the part of farmers to borrow funds for development along the
lines proposed, and limitations of the institutions responsible for implemen-
tation. If these problems materialize, disbursements would be slower than
expected. Development projections presented represent a relatively conserva-
tive estimate of likely progress. Delays in investment beyond the timing now
expected would have a limited effect on the rate of return as most expendi-
tures would be delayed to approximately the same extent as benefits. Simi-
larly, a failure of ranchers to borrow for investment would not result in a
significant rate of return fall, since while benefits would not accrue,
related expenditures would not be incurred. The success of the Project will
depend also on adequate control of ranch stocking levels; without this,
overgrazing could reduce benefits. IBRD would carefully review lease and loan
agreements in an effort to avert this problem. Other problems affect Botswana's
livestock industry more generally. A major drought could seriously impair
ranch development, making it difficult for ranchers to service loans; Project
ranches should be better able to withstand drought because of improved, more
responsive management. NDB's financial position could be adversely affected
by serious drought, and due provision for losses and the likely need to
reschedule loans would be made. If an FMD outbreak occurred, exports would



- 26 -
halt temporarily, and cattle sales from the affected areas would be severely
restricted. The Government's animal health program is well designed and
managed, and has effectively controlled the disease in the past decade. If
Botswana were obliged to sell a substantial part of its beef at world market
prices, producer revenues could drop sharply, by as much as 50%; the financial
position of borrowers for ranches would be adversely affected if this occurred
abruptly. Offsetting this risk is the generally upward trend of world market
beef prices. A worsening of the security situation in neighboring countries
could interrupt vital rail service, impede marketing of beef, and increase the
risk of disease outbreaks. Despite these risks, the Project offers good
prospects for assisting Botswana in developing its livestock industry, and
should help to develop an effective long-term strategy for range protection.
Employment and Income Distribution
7.04      An estimated 200 families (about 1,000 individuals) would be ex-
pected to benefit from ranch development in commercial areas and about 700
households (3,500 individuals) would be reached by the communal grazing com-
ponent. A large number of people would be expected to benefit through the
development of marketing infrastructure and through the communal associations
credit schemes. The Project is likely to benefit principally many of
Botswana's wealthiest farmers, in its short term impact; cattle ownership is
highly skewed, and owners of larger herds are most likely to obtain the first
leases to land. Cattle ranching under Botswana's semi-arid conditions is
essentially extensive, and profitable only on a relatively large scale; no
feasible solutions have yet emerged for promoting smallholder livestock
production, although the Project would help to develop alternative systems for
smaller farmers. Meanwhile, range condition is steadily deteriorating, with
the threat of permanent destruction looming larger every year; action is
urgently required to protect the range. The TGLP represents an important and
courageous, albeit imperfect, effort to begin that process. Troubling ques-
tions about the future role of medium and smaller-scale livestock owners
persist, but development of the livestock sector should not await their
solution, as a significantly more egalitarian production system scarcely seems
a probable outcome. The Project should be evaluated in the light of the
entire TGLP and the Government's active rural development program, which has
involved a wide-ranging series of projects aimed to assist the rural poor. The
Project's income distribution implications would be carefully monitored
throughout the life of the Project (para. 5.12).
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following points:
(a) Financing arrangements for the Project (para. 4.11 and 4.12);
(b) Procurement arrangements for the Project (para. 4.13);



- 27 -
(c)  That:  (i) separate accounts for the Project would be maintained
by NDB and the Ministry of Agriculture, all consistent with ac-
cepted accounting practice; (ii) independent accountants, selected
by the Government and acceptable to IBRD, would audit Project
accounts annually; and (iii) the Government would make available
audited accounts and reports on them to IBRD within six months (for
NDB) and nine months (for the Ministry of Agriculture) after the
close of each fiscal year (para. 4.15);
(d) That the impact of Project developments on range condition would be
carefully monitored during Project implementation (para. 4.16);
(e) That the Government would submit an annual report on the Project
for review with IBRD (para. 5.03, Schedule 1);
(f) That the Government would provide sufficient qualified staff to
NDB, that IBRD would approve the terms of reference of the agricul-
tural division manager, and that IBRD would be consulted on his
appointment (para. 5.04);
(g) That borrowers for ranch development would have obtained leases
in commercial zones, and that NDB would develop criteria for
selection of borrowers that would favor groups of livestock
owners over individuals owning larger herds (para. 5.05);
(h) That required posts for APRU for the communal grazing units program
would be established and that IBRD would approve the Terms of
Reference of the pasture agronomist (para. 5.06);
(i) That the Government would prepare a completion report on the Proj-
ect no later than three months following the closing date (para.
5.10);
(j) That proposals for studies, research, and future project preparation
work would be submitted to IBRD for approval (para. 5.11);
(k) That the Government would provide relevant reports and documentation
on TGLP implementation to the Bank and discuss them periodcially,
would prepare and implement a study designed to monitor the impact
of the TGLP on income distribution, and would report on and discuss
the results from time to time (para. 5.12);
8.02      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that:
(a)  A subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to IBRD had been
signed between the Government and NDB (para. 4.12); and
(b)  Agreements satisfactory to IBRD had been entered into between NDB
and the commercial banks (para. 4.12).



- 28 -
8.03      Conditions of disbursemc-.i wuuld be:
(a)  For ranch loans by NDB and the commercial banks, that IBRD
had approved a model loan agreement between the Banks and
their customers and agreement had been reached on loan
procedures (para. 4.12);
(b)  Fo: ranch development loans, that NDB had adequate staff in
post to undertake lending operations (para. 5.04);
(t   For the Communal Grazing Unit Program, that IBRD had approved
detailed proposals (para. 5.06);
(d) For small-scale credit for communal management association schemes,
that IBRD had approved detailed proposals (para 5.07).
8.04      The proposed Project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$6.5
million to the Government of Botswana at [7.91% interest a year for a term of
20 years including 5 years grace period.
October 31, 1977



BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule I
Annual Review of Project Progress (para. 5.03)
1.        The annual Program Report should incorporate the following material:
(a) Reasonably detailed description of physical and financial
results of previous year's operations;
(b) Summary of principal operating problems arising during pre-
vious year's operations;
(c) Proposed Project budget for next fiscal year, including capital
and recurrent expenditures, staffing requirements for involved
Government agencies, and forecast demand for loans and grants;
(d) Background information on subjects requiring annual consultation
between the Borrower and the Bank.
2.        The following subjects would be discussed between the Government
of Botswana and IBRD during the annual review of Project progress:
(a) Use of force account for project civil works during the succeed-
ing year (para. 4.13);
(b) Staffing requirements for NDB's agricultural division and related
training programs (para. 5.04);
(c) NDB agricultural lending programs, including measures taken or
proposed for extending lending operation for small-scale farmers and
for arable agriculture (para. 5.04);
(d) NDB ranch lending operations, including progress in the previous
year and proposals for future programs; ranch plans, models,
criteria for selection of borrowers, and the loan supervision
program would be reviewed (para. 5.05);
(e) Progress in implemeting the Communal Grazing Unit Program (para.
5.06), and trek route development and marketing infrastructure;
(f) Recovery of costs of ranch credit and livestock services provided
under the Project from beneficiaries (para. 6.07);
(g) Role of the Livestock Coordination Unit of the Ministry of Agri-
culture including terms of reference and staffing requirements.






ANNEX I
Page 1
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Livestock Sub-Sector
1.        Botswana's national cattle herd increased rapidly over the past 10
years and is presently estimated at about 2.7 million head (Table 2). Sheep
and goat numbers tripled during the same period and now total about 0.5
million and 1.4 million head respectively (Table 3). This rapid increase
is largely due to unusually high rainfall and better than normal grazing
conditions. The greater relative increase in sheep and goat numbers over
cattle numbers probably reflects their better ability to utilize coarser
feeds. Sheep and goats are traditional sources of milk and meat in rural
communities; only token numbers are marketed for urban consumption or for
export, but export potential is good and Government is seeking to exploit
it.
2.        Freehold Farms.  About 14% of the national cattle herd, some 370,000
animals, is found on freehold farms, mainly owned by Europeans. These farmers
usually maintain a small nucleus breeding herd and rely mainly on the purchase
of immature fattening stock from traditional Botswana graziers. They can thus
tailor the number of animals on their properties to the availability of feed
during any particular year. Because they purchase feeder steers and adjust
herd size to range carrying capacity, the freehold farmers, while owning only
14% of the national herd, supplied 55% of animals killed by BMC in 1971 and
50% in 1975. They have been able to continue their ranching operations for
several decades with limited damage to the range.
The Traditional Cattle Industry
3.        Botswana's cattle industry remains largely traditional, with 86% of
the herd, (about 2.3 million animals) owned by Botswana farmers, and grazed on
Tribal land. The emphasis is on the retention of females and on the accumula-
tion of animals, which are normally sold to meet immediate cash needs. Sales
are usually limited to steers, old cows and old bulls, although during
periods of severe drought there is a tendency to sell much greater numbers of
animals to avoid high death losses.
4.        Cattle were historically confined to the grazing lands of the east
and the fringes of the Okavango Swamp and for many years these areas have been
overstocked and overgrazed. Larger cattle owners, often the richer and more
enterprising members of the rural community, have therefore tended to move
their animals to virgin areas in the Sandveld region, establishing "cattle
posts" by drilling a borehole, thus giving the individual effective control of
land around the source of water. Despite regulations requiring that boreholes
to be spaced no closer than 8 km apart, many have been drilled without authori-
zation. Many boreholes are too close to one another and the situation has
become rather chaotic with current estimates of borehole numbers in the
country ranging from 3,000 to 7,000.



ANNEX I
Page 2
5.        The typical cattle post in the sandveld is owned by one or more
individuals who hold other jobs elsewhere. It normally consists of a bore-
hole, two or three simple abodes and a few hundred cattle, usually between
200-700 but sometimes running to over a 1,000 plus small stock and donkeys.
The carrying capacity of virgin Sandveld ranges from 16 - 21 ha of land
per animal unit which means that a cattle post would, under proper manage-
ment, support no more than 300 to 400 animal units. The general pattern
is one of over stocked cattle posts with animals traditionally in the care of
relatives who are paid for their services either in cash or in kind. The
primary responsibility of these attendants is to ensure that the borehole pump
and engine are functioning and to move animals to adjoining boreholes if they
are not. Except in emergencies animals are allowed to graze at will. Cattle
are accorded the minimum amount of care and attention and are normally treated
as scavengers; they graze unherded and are seen only when they come in to
water. The average cattleman considers water, vaccination and castration
as the only necessary inputs and an increase in cattle numbers as the best
insurance against losses from drought and disease. Other management inputs,
which would be an exception rather than the rule, include dehorning, purchase
of improved bulls, supplementary feeding of bonemeal and salt, and herding and
enclosing at night in the vicinity of cultivated crops. The end result is a
national herd performing well below its genetic potential namely: extraction
rate of about 9% instead of 15% or 16%; weaning rate of about 45% instead of
about 70%; live weight production at 18 months/cow/year of about 86 kg instead
of 188 kg; and steer selling age of 5-7 years instead of 3-4 years. The
average cattleman normally attributes the low productivity of his animals to
shortages of feed and water and to the presence of neighbors' cattle on his
property. Many recognize that overstocking causes range deterioration but
fail to appreciate that nutrition is a serious problem. Few realize that
degenerated pastures can carry a smaller number of animals than undegraded
range.
6.        Information on the herd structure of traditional herd cattle is
poor. A limited survey of a few cattle posts conducted during project
preparation indicated an average herd size of 483 animals consisting of 172
breeding cows, 7 bulls, 81 calves, 107 hiefers between the ages of 1 - 4
years, and 116 steers between the ages of I - 6 years, plus small stock and
donkeys (Table 4).
Cattle Breeds
7.        Tswana cattle account for close to 80% of the national herd.  This
breed was developed in Botswana from Sanga and lateral-horned Zebu-type cattle
and compares very favorably with other indigenous African breeds in size,
conformation, fertility, growth rate, heat tolerance, grazing ability and
particularly hardiness to adverse, arid environmental conditions and droughts.
An improved variety of Tswana cattle known as the Tuli Breed was introduced
from Rhodesia and accounts for about 10% of the national herd. The per-
formance of the Tswana, Tuli, Africander, Brahman and Simmintaler cattle
has been compared by APRU both as pure breds and crossbreds during the past
six years (Annex 2). These trials clearly demonstrate the superiority of the
Tulis, Tswanas and crossbred Brahmans over other breeds and crosses examined.
Prior to these findings the Government had promoted the Africander breed and
as a result these animals are presently preferred by the traditional sector.



A-NNEX I
Page  3
Rangelands
8.        Most grasses in botswarna are "sweet" veld, aLnd ;o.  the heavier soils
in the east they are generally of higher nutritious vals 'han those ets
predominate on Kalahari sand.  Potential carrying capachl.y of range largejy
coincides with the amount of rainfall and ranges from about 8 ha/AM  in the
north east where annual precipitation exceeds 600 mm per year ro 2xha/ i>
the dry south west where rainfall is less t`an 300 sm annuallv. Th e cocn tr,
lying in between has a potential carrying capacity of 16 - 21 ha/AU and
accounts for more than three quarters of Botswana's land area. Most of the
better and the more accessible parts of this vast area with proven sources of
underground water are being utilized and are presently in varying stages of
deterioration depending on stocking intensity and the period of exploitation;
the actual present carrying capacities of these areas are therefore well beloc
their estimated potential and the indications are that deterioration will
continue if they are not drastically destocked. Experience elsewhere in the
world suggests that destocking will slow down or arrest the process of range
destruction but no evidence presently available promises that the sensitive a.ad
badly degraded sandveld rangelands of Botswana could be rehabilitated by de-
stocking only witthout recourse to land clearing and reestablishment of pastures.
9.        Range damage is marked by the disappearance first of perennial and
then of annual grasses, followed by the dominance of weed and the encroacn-
ment of bush. The general pattern is one of near complete devastation within
an area of 2-4 km from permanent sources of water with damage decreasing
progressively until natural range is reached about 10-12 km away.  From a
chronological point of view range degeneration in Botswana started in rhe
Hardvelt and then spread to the Saadvelt as cattle posts were established, in
areas where boreholes have been drilled too close together range destructicn
is continuous and overlapping.
10.       The Botswana Government is keenly aware of the destruction taking
place on the country's rangelands.  Steps taken to remedy the situation in-
clude the Agricultural Resources Act of 1972 which provides the Agricultural
Resources Board with powers to pass orders and regulations aimed at cons-.7r-
ing natural resources and the TGLP which calls for the introduction of cor-
rect stocking rates and improved management of rangelands. The Agricultural
Resources Board is enpowered to establish area based conservation committees
and subordinate conservation committees and these are in turn responsible for
issuing regulations and stock orders limiting the number of animals which can
be grazed by any owner or which may be watered at any particular watering
point. Offenders can be prosecuted, with fines up to P 1000, jail for a
period up to a year and confiscation of stock. The Board has yet to exercise
these powers, mainly because it lacks the manpower, expertise and resources to
enforce socially and politically unpopular destocking regulations. Despite
rampant overgrazing and range destruction no offender has yet been convicted
for overstocking. Government however envisages that the Board will p1.ay a
more active role in preventing overstocking and range destruction in the
future under the TGLP.   Outstanding issues include:  (a)  the need to pre-
scribe appropriate stocking rates for particular areas; (b) definition of



ANNEX I
Page 4
what constitutes good and bad management of rangelands; (c) establishment of
a technical and administrative organizational structure responsible for
implementing Government policy regarding rangelarnds; and (d) creation of a
legal process for controlling the proper use or rangelands.
Animal Health
L1.       The Botswana national cattle herd is remarkably healthy and free of
disease. Rinderpest and East-Coast Fever, the scourges of the cattle industry
in countries further north, are unknown now in Botswana. The only disease
problems affecting the acceptability of beef on foreign markets are Foot and
Mouth Disease (FMD) and measles and both are being controlled on a national
scale, measles by programs to eradicate tape worms in humans and inspection of
carcasses at the time of slaughter.
12.       FMD Control.  Although Botswana has had no FMD outbreak since 1968,
subclinical FMD is endemic in wild buffalo herds in northern Botswana and poses
a continuing threat of spreading to cattle. Since almost all of Botswana's
traditional and likely future importers of uncooked beef have strict veterinary
regulations prohibiting the import of such products from countries where FMD
is endemic, the Department of Animal Health's program of disease control aims
to protect animals against the disease by compulsory twice a year free vaccina-
tion of all cattle in the northern part of the country, and to prevent the spread
of disease by restricting the movement of animals within the country through
veterinary cordon fences and quarantine areas. Animals moving from one of the
four veterinary region to another are routinely subjected to a 2-3 week period
of quarrantine coupled with close veterinary inspection to ensure that they
are not carrying or suffering from the disease. Emergency measures have been
agreed upon with British veterinary authorities for dealing with an outbreak
of FMD should it occur. These measures are likely to be acceptable to other
EEC countries and include:
(a) immediate quarrantine of the affected region with tented
patrols at 5 mile intervals along the veterinary cordon
fences to stop the movement of animals in and out of the
region:
(b) immediate closure of the Lobatse abattoir;
(c) vaccination of all animals in the affected region after
the extent of the outbreak is determined;
(d) immediate closure of beef exports from the affected re-
gion for a period of a year;
(e) immediate notification of authorities in the countries
importing Botswana beef of the outbreak and of the mea-
sures being taken to control it; and
(f) prior approval of authorities in the countries importing
Botswana beef to reopen the Lobatse abattoir and to ex-
port beef from regions unaffected by the outbreak.



ANNEX I
Page 5
13.       Ehe Director of Animal Health believes that the department could
bring an outbreak of FMD rapidly under control and that the Lobatse abattoir
would be closed for no more than 2 - 3 weeks in such an eventuality. Measures
taken to control FMD have so far proved to be very effective. Despite this
success there is evidence that U.K. manufactured vaccine is losing its efficacy
against some strains of FMD virus found in Botswana and there are fears of the
disease moving in from neighbouring Rhodesia with the recent political unrest
in that country. Therefore the Department of Animal Health now plans to expand
the FMD Control Program by building a laboratory in Botswana for the produc-
tion of FMD vaccine, constructing a boundary fence along the Rhodesian border
to prevent the entry of the disease from that country, constructing another
veterinary cordon fence in the eastern part of Botswana thereby increasing the
number of veterinary regions from 4 to 6, and double fencing existing cordon
fences to make them better barriers against cattle and small stock.
14.       The Department of Animal Health provides free vaccination against
anthrax, quarter evil and rabies and proposes to initiate a vaccination
program against brucellosis next year to eradicate the disease. The depart-
ment is also investigating possible tsetse control programs in the Okavango
Swamp. Although external parasites are generally not a problem, internal
parasites are becoming increasingly so, particularly in young animals. More
important is a countrywide deficiency of phosphorus in native pastures which
greatly impairs animal performance and increases the incidence of botulism
poisoning. These conditions are being combatted through the sale of vermi-
fuges and bone meal to rural communities from a network of livestock advisory
centers, and storage depots belonging to rural cooperatives.
Cattle Marketing, Meat Processing, and Exports
15.       The Botswana Meat Commission (BMC):  BMC is the dominant institution
in cattle marketing and slaughter, and enjoys a statutory monopoly over exports
of meat and live cattle from Botswana. A government-controlled statutory
corporation, it was formed in 1966 when the 50% equity holding of the Common-
wealth (then Colonial) Development Corporation (CDC) in the Bechuanaland
Protectorate Abattoirs Ltd. was purchased; assets of the Bechuanaland Live-
stock Producers Trust were transferred to BMC. BMC is governed by a Board of
Directors; the majority of its members, including the Chairman, are appointed by
the President.
16.       Live Cattle Marketing:  Numbers of cattle marketed vary widely,
principally with rainfall conditions. Marketing channels are dominated by
export demand, for BMC purchases a substantial proportion of cattle offered
for sale. Cattle thus converge to BMC's single export abattoir, located at
Lobatse in the extreme south-east. BMC controls the flow of cattle to the
plant and set prices. BMC purchased 189,000 cattle in 1975 and 212,000 in
1976, amounting to about 7% of the total national herd. Cattle are also sold
for local consumption, but data on such sales are very poor; estimates of
purchases by butchers range from 6,000 to 18,000 a year. There is an im-
portant trade in live cattle, and particularly immature steers (known as
tollies) between traditional cattle owners and freehold farmers; the pattern
is of sales of stock bred in the north and west for finishing in the south and



ANNEX I
Page 6
east. Traditional farmers also buy cattle to build up their herds. Finally,
cattle owners consume an unknown number of animals themselves. Estimates of
extraction rates from the national herd indicate an offtake (for slaughter) of
about 9% from the traditional herd and 14% from the freehold farms. These
figures do not, however, indicate accurately total cattle marketed (which is
not known) nor total offtake including mortality and local consumption; data
on hide and skins exports suggest that these figures are significant-exports
of cattle hides were estimated at about 244,500 in 1974 and 328,000 in 1975.
17.       Cattle marketing is rendered difficult by Botswana's great distances
and poor communications, and by the location of the BMC plant at Lobatse, as
cattle must move up to 1,120 km on the hoof for slaughter. Nevertheless,
Botswana's cattle marketing system is well organized, and most producers have
reasonably good opportunities to sell cattle, for cash, throughout the year.
The main marketing channels are: (a) Direct to BMC: BMC purchases cattle
(and other stock) directly at the Lobatse plant; most freehold farmers and the
cooperatives deliver animals there (about 50% of BMC's total cattle purchases
were from the freehold farms). BMC operates a quota system to regulate sup-
plies of cattle to the plant. Sellers must obtain quotas from BMC about a
month in advance of the delivery date. The system appears to work well, al-
though there are problems with shortfalls in meeting quotas; (b) Cattle
Traders and "Speculators": remain the most important marketing vehicle in
traditional cattle producing areas. About 55 traders are registered as sup-
pliers of cattle to BMC; some are large businesses, others small stores in
villages; the possession of a trading license allows and requires the pro-
prietor to purchase cattle at his store. Some traders hold cattle for a
time, thus becoming "speculators"; (c) Cooperatives: Marketing cooperatives
are increasing in importance; in 1976, about 75 societies were principally
concerned with cattle marketing, and supplied 35,400 herd of cattle to BMC
(compared with 28,000 in 1975 and 10,000 head in 1971). Cooperatives normally
sell cattle on behalf of their owners, collecting a percentage fee (normally
2-1/2% of purchase price plus transport costs); (d) Botswana Livestock
Development Corporation (BLDC) purchases cattle from producers for further
finishing and sale to BMC; (e) Auctions: The Ministry of Agriculture
organizes auctions for cattle, and a network of 22 auction saleyards has
been established, each with a weighbridge. An estimated 12,400 cattle were
sold at auctions in 1975; the average price was P 92 per animal. Auctions
are increasing in importance, and are principally for immature cattle. The
breakdown of cattle sold to BMC may be summarized as follows:
Supplier                    1971                1975
'000 head   %      '000 head   %
-reehold farms                 92        55         94      50
Tribal producers                37       22         47      25
Traders and speculators         28       17         19      10
Cooperative                     10        6         28      15
167      100        188     100



ANNEX 1
Page 7
18.       Cattle sales are controlled by law (Control of Livestock Industry
Act) and by tradition, both aimed principally at reducing cattle theft. A
seller must have a chief's permit or that of a district officer, and cattle
buyers must be licenced. Taxes are collected for licence fees, permits, and
on sales. Livestock agents play an important role in Lobatse. They look after
producers' interests at the abattoir, checking grading and making payments.
Their commission is about 2%.
19.       Transportation:  Cattle move to freehold ranches for finishing and
to BMC by trek, rail or truck. Rail Transport: Botswana has one railway
line, owned and operated by Rhodesian Railways: it enters Botswana from
Rhodesia about 80 km north of Francistown and runs about 560 km to the South
African border just south of Lobatse. It provides the only relatively cheap
and rapid transport for cattle - Rhodesian Railways now subsidizes Botswana's
transport considerably. Railing costs are about Pula 20 per head of cattle
from Francistown to Lobatse, and less for intermediate stations. The problems
of rail transport are poor handling facilities and the risks arising from the
present political situation. In 1975, 70% of BMC's throughput arrived by
train, (130,000 head of cattle), from 15 loading points. About 80 railway
trucks are available for transporting cattle to the BMC. Trek Routes: In
areas not served by rail or passable roads, cattle are trekked to the rail
line, BMC, or freehold farms. There are three established trek routes: (i)
Maun-Francistown; (ii) Ghanzi-Lobatse; and (iii) Werda-Lobatse. Facilities on
all three routes are poor, with boreholes poorly maintained, and distances
between boreholes too long. Losses from trekking cattle at present are con-
sidered high, but cannot be properly verified; Table 5 summarizes current
and project trek rate usage. Road Transport remains limited. Freehold
farmers transport cattle to BMC or the rail line by truck, and BLDC has begun
to truck cattle from Makalamabedi ranch to Francistown.
20.       Meat Processing:  The BMC abattoir at Lobatse is Botswana's sole
important meat plant. About 80% of offtake is slaughtered there, the remain-
ing 20% in very simple small town slaughterhouses or on farms. BMC's plant is
modern and unusually well-managed, and includes subsidiary plants for produc-
tion of carcass meal, bone meal, blood meal and other by-products. To date,
it has met EEC veterinary regulations for imports of uncooked meat, although
in 1974 application of stricter regulations reduced maximum daily kill from
1,200 to 750 head. Following extensive modernization of the abattoir the
maximum daily kill has again been increased to 1,200, which on a 5-day week
and 49-week year gives a theoretical annual slaughter of 294,000; this could
probably not be achieved however, given seasonality of supply and transport
difficulties. Table 6 gives slaughter statistics. Table 7 shows producer
prices for cattle.
21.       Cattle and Meat Exports:  BMC is Botswana's only exporter of meat
and live cattle. Table 8 summarizes disposition of carcasses since 1962.
Exports of live animals have decreased to almost insignificant levels. Beef
is exported as carcasses (20%) (principally to South Africa) or deboned and
further processed, principally for the UK market (85% of 1976 throughput, 76%
of 1975 throughput, 62% of 1974 throughput). Boneless beef sales may be
summarized as follows:



ANNEX I
Page 8
Destination        1973             1974              1975                1976
m tons      %   m tons       %    m tons       %    m tons    Z
United Kingdom   17,710    76.9   5,337    30.6   11,694    51.5  16,143    62.3
South Africa         588     2.5   7,638    43.7    8,658    38.1   6,589    25.4
Other African
markets          3,167    13.8   3,171    18.2    1,087       4.8     591      2.3
Other markets      1,568     6.8   1,314      7.5    1,279      5.6   2,582      9.9
TOTAL       23,033   100    17,460   100       22,718   100    25,905   100.0
Export Prices are described in para. 6.04.
Ongoing Livestock Development Projects and Programs
22.       A number of livestock development projects and programs have been
launched by Government during the past few years. These include:
(a) USAID Livestock and Range Management Project: was started in
1974 and was aimed at exploring ways of developing communal
grazing areas. Many difficulties were encountered and so far
only one ranch has been constructed. As a result the project
was recently reviewed in depth and is currently being redesigned.
(b) BMC Graziers Scheme: is operated jointly by BMC and Barclays
Bank and provides credit for the purchase of fattening feeder
steers to farmers having a surplus of available grazing, usually
owners of freehold farms (Annex 3).
(c) Bull Subsidy Scheme: aims at providing farmers with improved
bulls of the Brahman, Tswana, Tuli, Africander and Simmentaler
breeds. Plans call for the distribution of 400 bulls annually
by 1981.
(d) Artificial Insemination Scheme. is operated by the Ministry of
Agriculture out of one main bull station and ten artificial in-
semination centers. Farmers are charged a servicing fee of
P 3.00 with return privileges if the animals do not conceive.
Results have so far been encouraging. The number of animals
inseminated annually has risen from about 1,300 in 1967/68 to
5,300 in 1974/75 with conception rates consistently in the
region of 80%.
(e) The Government is also encouraging the development of the
poultry, pig and dairy industries. Efforts will be exerted
under the 1976-81 Development Plan to commercialize the goat
and sheep populations of the country.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
Livestock Development Policies: Problems and Prospects
23.       The 1976-81 Development Plan aims at increasing and diversifying
livestock production by: (a) destocking rangelands and improving the manage-
ment of animals and pastures; (b) expanding veterinary services to reduce
losses from disease; (c) raising off-take from the national herd through the
improvement and expansion of livestock marketing infrastructure; (d) embarking
on research programs to formulate new management and disease control systems;
and (e) developing secondary industries to utilize livestockby-products.
Provisions for destocking rangelands and improving the management of animals
and pastures are embodied in the Tribal Grazing Land Policy (TGLP) (Annex 4).
In the final analysis the success of the TGLP will, to a large degree, be
dependent on Government's ability to enforce destocking, induce farmers to
band into groups in communal areas, and develop a technology for rehabilitat-
ing degraded rangelands.
24.       Several factors work for Botswana's livestock industry.  The
indigenous cattle breeds, the Tswana and Tuli, have proved superior not only
to other African breeds but to exotic introductions as well (Annex 2). Range-
lands are suitable for livestock production with appropriate stocking rates
and good management. The Division of Animal Health has proved very effective
in controlling endemic livestock diseases and in maintaining sanitary control
at the Lobatse export abattoir. The BMC is effective in processing and export-
ing beef and pays the best producer prices for cattle in Africa. Finally, the
Animal Production Research Unit has shown that production levels of the
national cattle herd can be doubled under appropriate stocking rates and with
"reasonably acceptable" levels of management.  Botswana's livestock industry
faces several problems, however. Many areas of the rangeland are overstocked
and fast deteriorating and the reserves of unexploited range with proven
reserves of underground water are livited.  The improvement of production
parameters in the national herd depends on initial destocking and subsequent
control of livestock numbers - measures that may prove socially unacceptable,
politically sensitive and difficult to enforce. The rehabilitation of de-
graded rangelands and particularly of sandveld still defies a technological
solution apart from possible drastic destocking for a period of several
years. Difficulties and high costs of marketing livestock brought about by
poor communications remain a problem. Further, services available both from
Government and the private sector for drilling, equipping and maintaining
boreholes and for the construction of fences are limited. Finally, the
paucity of trained technicians in ranch and range management and agricultural
credit is a serious problem that will require many years to resolve.
October 5, 1977



ANNEX 1
Table 1
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rainfall of Selected Stations 1965-66 to 1975-76
1100 F
1000 H
900                                                           I
S oo -
.-~~~                         I                             I.P\.
700             *                                                                 Gaborone
6t 7S70 0                                                    II40 j              Ghanzi'
Long-term annual
Maunaverun
300    /
200
100
I      I               iI  I                   I      -   I          I
1965  1966   1967   1968   1969   1970  1971   1972   1973   1974  1975   1976
Source: 8otswana Weather Bureau
World Bank-17430



ANN  1
Tab1e 2
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DET ELOPM'= PRCJECT
National Cattle Herd 1965-76
Estimated
Cattle Numbers            Number                Extraction
Year (I July)               ('000 head)               Marketed                 _a;e
1965                           1,481                    161                     1
1966                           1,237                    153                     12
1967                           1,492                    140
1968                           1,688                    119                      7
1969                           1,945                    133                      7
1970                           2,017                    173                      5
1971                           2,092                    193
1972                           2,177                    223                     10
1973                           2,117                    232
1974                           2,316                    225                     10
1975                           2,564                    231                      
1976                           2,855
Source: Central Statistics Office ard Ministry of Agriculture
October 14, 1977



11
Table 
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVTESTOCK D=0OPMINT PROECT
Sheer and Goat Pozulat ion
Year                 Sheer Nos.                 Goat Nos.
1960                  88,476                   251,179
1961                  96,160                   273,85)4
1962                 111,524                   314,721
1963                 127,5C0                   359,614
1964                 136,847                  378,489
1965               125,335                  335,124
1966                 151,133                  398,458
1967                 211,764                   646,842
1968                 231,336                  703,254
1969                 278,830                  846,509
1970                 350,000                  875,000
1971                 376,c00                1,015,COO
1972                 380,000                  765,^0C
1973                 4o0,ooo                1,200,000
1974                 420,000                1,350,000
Source: MJinistry cf Agriculture, Smalistock Unit
May 9, 1977



MAE 1.
Table 4
BOTSW-NA
SECOND L-IESTOCK DEVELOPMET PROJECT
Structure of the Traditional and Freehold Cattle Herds: 1972
TRADITIONAL    FREEHOLD             TOTAL
Category       Thousand  %    Thousand   %         Thousand  %
Bulls            39       2.1        3     1.1        42      1.9
Oxen            251      13.3       34    11.9       285    13.1
Tollies         196      10.4       65    22.8       261    12.0
Male Calves    169        8.9       26     9.1       195      9.0
Female Calves  168        8.8       91     9.2       259    11.9
Heifers         310      16.4       40    14.0       350    16.1
Cows            758      40.1       26    31.9       784    36.0
TOTAL         1,891    100.0      285   100.0    2,176   100.0
Source: G. C. Bond, 1975 "A Report on Livestock Marketing",
Ministry of Agriculture, Gaborone, Botswana.
may 9, 1977



ANNEX 1
BOTSWANA                         Table
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Trek Route Present and Projected Usage
Cattle Numbers
Present  To a/       Tok!         Projected
Annual   Slaughter  Fattening  Increase
Traffic                           over 10
years
Ghanzi - Lobatse
including spurs from
Kalfontein, Nojane,
Tshane and cattle
joining the route from
Kiveneng and Ngwaketse    27 000   15 400        1:1 600      5000
Boksplits-Tshaboing-Molopo
Lobatse including cattle
joining the route from
Southern Kgalagadi,
Molopo farms and South-
ern Ngwaketse              24 000   23 500          500      3003
Letlhakeng-Lobatse         10 500    9 500        1 50       4503
Northern trek route
iAain-Prancistown inc-
ludiing Tutume-Nata        17 000   15 500        1 500      4000
Rakops-Makoba-Palapye    13 500   12 700            800      2500
Shoshonig-MahaJapye         7 600    6 100        1 500      1400
Machaneng-Mlahalapye       20 500   15 500        5 000      3500
Martins Drift - Palapye   6 700    6 200            500      1300
Bobonong and Tsetsebjwe-
Selebe Pikwe                8 500    7 500        1 000      4000
a/ Irrci ides local as well as B.M.C. slaughter
b/  includes seas.nal cattle movements as well as actual trek
in immatures-
Source: Project Preparation Report.
May 26, 1977.



BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DVELOPMET PROJECT
lBlC - S;laughter St-ati-st-icls
FloorcPile. In Rand          Pereantages of Throughput
Ne. of Read         Average Kg COW          per 100 Kg COW            By Number                  By Kg
1075       1974        1975       1974        1975       1t74         1975        1074        1975        1374
BEEF
S,.;er                         1 272      1 70B         227        211)      80,00       80,00         0,7         0.9         0.7           0
Prne                         13 710     13 408         218        214        77,00      76.93         7,3         7,2         7,6         ; b
Gr.sQe 1 A                    19 173     15 447         196        191        75,00      73,10        10,2         E,3         9.5         7 9
G,ride 1B                     31 188     32 206         258        244        72,00      70,29        16,5        17,3        20,3        25) 3
G!aae 2                       44 968     39 768         210        205        70,00      69,12        23.9        2'.A,       24.0        2, 6
G& ide 3                      52 406     54 341         192        18S3       66,00      63,96        27,8        29,2        25,5        27 1
Gr,,de 41                      9162      13 139         157         154       63,00      61,12         4,8         7,1         3,6         S 4
Dt,taintd                     13 950     13 130         209         199       56,29      54,99          7.4        7.0         7A4         z n
185829     183 148         210        202       69,19       67,54        98,6        98,4        98,6        98.5
Condemned                      2 611'      2 893        210         198       35,48       36,51         1,4         1,6         1,4         1,5
188440    186041           210        20'?       68,72      67.10       100,0       100,0       100,0       10U,0
MUTTON
Gr.4de 1                         81         242          17          16       90,54      86,92          1,5        1,6         1,6         1 7
Glt.de?                       3860       11612           17         16       81,54       79,S0        69,6        77.5        75.6        83,0
G(r,de:1                       1 007      1 234          13          12       72.32      10,16        1g.2         8,2        15,1         6,2
L.,r'b                          547       1 686          11          11      86,46       88,39          ,         1 ,3         7,1         a.2
5 495     14 774          16                  80,64,      60,06        99,1        98,6        99,4        99.1
Conder,lned                      49         215          1 1,        10         -           --         0,9         1,4         0,6         0.9
5 544     14 989          16         15       80,15       79,32       100,0       100,C       100,0       1DC,0
GOATS
Grade 1                        1 783       9 619         21          20       70,07       69.65        11,1       22,0        15,0        28 5
Grade 2                        7632       23 938         17          15       65,01       64,17        47,7       64,7        50,2        53 4
Grade3                         6355        8831          13.         12       50.00       49.19        39,7       20,2        33,6        1SF
15 770     42 386          16         16       60,67       63,35        98,5        96.9        98,8        97 7
Condemned                       240        1 370         13          12         -           -           1,5        3,1         1,2         2 3
16010      43 756          16         1i        59,95      619 0       100,0      ,1 100.0                 1GG I
rV
Source: BMC 19T5 Annual Report                                                                                                                      G\l



AM1  1
Table 7
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DVELOPMET PROJECT
Prices Paid by BMC for Cattle. 1975-77
(Pula per 100 kg CDW)
Grade              1975                        1976                             1977
January-December   Jan-June   July-Sept.  Oct-Dec.            January-June
Super               80               80          83          87                  87
Prime               77               77          79          84                  84
Grade 1A            75               75          79          84                  84
Grade 1B            72               72          76          80                  80
Grade 2             70               70          73          79                  79
Grade 3             66               66          67          72                  72
Grade 4             63               63          67          72                  72
Detained            56.29            56.29       57.29       57.29               57.29
Average -/          69.19            69.19       71.78       76.43               _
Condemned           35.48            35.48       36.48       36.48               36.48
Average             68.72            68.72       71.29       75.87
1/   Averages calculated on basis of proportion of 1975 kill at each grade
Source: Botswana Meat Commission
May 11, 1977



801S*WAM
SU CNID t IVEST(1 tCVEDWIIEWtt h110JIIC!
5I8. - Dtlom.ttto   of CaSh.l *and Cucosbose Iff2-75
1967           1 1.3          Iq64            1965            1966           1967            1968            1969            (970           t973            (972           1393             1974             1975
S-,lh Afti-                         40,975          39,677        '(4,086        31 940          17 465         37,671         5  0'4          40,17            40,1llJ         40,679         I9,II5          39391          6S 330             36,248
OtOoc Afeleon MoeLr  .              11,787          14,486        15,032          17,995         13,813         14,567           19,219         26,551           16,306          19,264         11,654           2,023                             4,766
To Sonic., lot ond CaxnIng
(flonIy I., UK)                 31.122          46,593        59,172          86,624          97.287        34,639          311,47          25.156           69,848         105,708        103,162         174,262         114,818           142,815
Cond-_ntlm-                          2,972           2,700         2.88b           5,177          3,667          1,457            1,5716         1.217            1,11            1,511          1,159           J,170          2,793              2,611
T-t.1 SI-0t,                        93r 93106       01406        111736         142 736         132,323         8.8535         103.776          51jj 4          12,257          167,180        1SjS10         204             I" .  16.440
Li. Cattle Sol,#
Zablo                               18 2211         27.346        (3.045         19.561          II,f2           WE                               - _                               2750          -                                f                 102
T.ol Ixpt ofIt-.k Ifo,
Cottlo (odnory                  111 534        1              377.40126      162J4           1466354  14110            5     031771          9,9U1k          128 199         167,430        15 10          20 W            1a21              UL8,42
A-..&.e Corc., wil6ac  (!K)            227            .             0.n.             184            184            213              227            227              208           1.,74            207             194            7232              210
Soot. * AIC An.o.01 71po.tO
M.y 4, 197 
ID 



ANNEX 2
Page 1
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Research Programs
A. Background
1.        Virtually no information on the most important traits of range beef
cattle was available in Botswana prior to 1970, when the Ministry of Agricul-
ture was reorganized and a Division of Animal Production assumed responsibility
for all animal production work except artifical insemination. An Animal Pro-
duction Research Unit (APRU) was created which initiated a beef cattle re-
search program. APRU commenced operations in two main areas: (1) evaluation
under a range of environments of the Africander, Brahman, Simmental, Tswana
and Tuli breeds, and (2) evaluation of crossbred types produced by mating
Africander, Brahman, Simmental and Tuli bulls with Tswana cows.
2.        During 1970, cattle herds involving over 1,200 breeding cows on
14 stations were redistributed to allow valid comparisons to be made over
the range of environments represented by this network of stations. Since
then, evaluations carried out by using suitable statistical models have made
it possible to establish definite recommendations on bred types for parti-
cular environments and to estimate increases in output expected to accrue
from proven technologies. Research results have been analyzed with a view to
pinpoint areas where management improvements could be of economic importance,
e.g. optimum feeding of breeding cows and early weaning. Production coeffi-
cient estimates determined for the guidance and use of economists have already
been incorporated in the context of livestock development projects. A data
recording system for the performance of herds on research stations, and
cooperating ranches and cattle posts, has been successfully implemented. Data
are centrally handled, processed and analyzed with the view of generating
information on production levels under different environments and management
regimes (cattle posts, fenced ranches and research stations). The data
system is already having an impact at the industry level through the operation
of the bull subsidy and artificial insemination schemes.
3.        In recent years, the original Beef Cattle Breeding program has been
complemented by research work in animal nutrition, pasture management and range
ecology. Animal performance data has been tied in with evaluations of the
status of the pasture found in the research stations. Research programs
appear to be well coordinated, probably as a result of integrating the dif-
ferent disciplines within the framework of an interdisciplinary and systematic
approach; programs are outlined in Table 1.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
B.  APRU:  Research Facilities, Staffing and Training
4.        A network of 16 beef cattle stations stretches from Maun in the
Northwest to Molopo in the Southwest (Table 2), ranging in size from 500 to
about 7,000 ha. The total land involved in 40,000 ha with 5,500 head of
cattle maintained under "reasonably acceptable" 1/ management, i.e. some
fencing, separation of stock categories, attention to disease control,
mineral supplementation and availability of adequate water supplies within
a reasonable distance. Management has been standardized in all stations and
a guide-handbook is used by trained personnel engaged in cattle management
and data collection. This network offers facilities for research on all
aspects of cattle productivity under improved management conditions, and
allows for the delivery of improved technology through the sale of superior
breeding stock, demonstration of husbandry methods and organization of short
courses. Two mobile units - equipped with vehicle, trailer and weighbridge --
operate in three main areas of Botswana collecting information on production
under field conditions. Adequate computing services are available at the
APRU, including minicomputers, keypunches and verifiers. There is unrestricted
access to the central government computer located at Gaborone. The headquarters
laboratory can carry out proximate and mineral analyses, the latter through an
atomic absorption spectrophotometer. Library facilities are also adequate.
5.        Most senior research positions have been staffed with expatriate
scientists supported by UNDP, IBRD/SIDA and UK development agencies. Emphasis
has been placed on staff training at all levels: (i) Research Staff - Quali-
fied certificate holders of Botswana Agricultural College have been sent over-
seas for short courses, undergraduate and graduate degrees. Currently, ade-
quate number of fellowships are available through FAO and UNDP. (ii) Field
Staff - Certificate holders are given a week of intensive training at a Rural
Training Center to familiarize them with findings and implementation problems
of current research programs. (iii) In-service Training - is provided on
the operation of the data system; capable technical assistants are also
encouraged to undertake further education in animal sciences. (iv) Farmer-
Training - Close liaison is maintained with the Department of Agricultural.
Field Services and the facilities of the APRU are used for extension staff,
farm employees (mainly in artificial insemination) and farmer training.
6.        Contacts are maintained with the Artificial Insemination (A.I.)
unit of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Department of Animal Health (veteri-
nary advice and assistance) and with the Division of Land Utilization for
measuring range trends. The APRU has liaised with the Department of Agri-
cultural Field Services for extension-related matters. The APRU has maintained
informal technical contacts with the International Livestock Center for ALrica
(ILCA) particularly in relation to the analysis of animal breeding data.
1/   This is a term frequently used in APRUts technical reports.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
C.  APRU:  Current Research Programs
(i) Animal Productivity under Natural Pasture
7.        Production Levels under "reasonably acceptable" Management:
Standardized management practices have been introduced in APRU's stations.
Some fencing is provided to control breeding herds, separate young stock
and to allow for the conservation of forage for the dry season. Routine
vaccinations (brucellosis, anthrax, botulism and quarter evil) are applied
and the development of internal parasitisms is continuously monitored.
Water is made available to the animal daily, within a reasonable to counter-
act a widespread phosphate deficiency. Seasonal breeding is practiced and
calves are weaned at about 7 months of age. An effort is made to maintain
adequate stocking rates, but because of the variability in rainfall among
and within stations, optimal stocking rates have yet to be determined.
8.        APRU stations practice a three-month breeding season (January 1 -
March 31). On the basis of bout 7,000 cows exposed to breeding between
1971 and 1975, year-station calving rates varied between 55 and 95%. Varia-
tion among stations (64 to 86%) was higher than that among years (66 to 81%).
With the exception of Tsetseku, near Maun, most of the stations are located
in hardveld areas parallel to the Eastern border; hence, calving rates may
be somewhat higher than those to be expected in less fertile and drier
sandveld areas. Calving rates steadily increased from 1971 to 1975 (3-4%
per year); this is probably a result of the combined effects of improved
management and the culling of infertile cows.
9.        For all stations, average calf mortality (0-1 years) was 8.5
(ranging from 3 to 16%) with a further 2.2% (1-6%) from one to two years.
Main causes of calf mortality were stillbirths (23%) and predators (40%)
with about 40% of thedeaths due to unknown sources. Pre-weaning daily
weight gain (birth - 210 days of age) averaged .7 kg across stations
(.65-.78); these levels of growth are acceptable. On the other hand,
210-545 day-weight gain averaged .35 (.30-.40), indicating that post-
weaning growth under Botswana's extensive conditions proceeds somewhat
slowly. It is likely that local breeds, under still further improved
management systems, improve their post-weaning growth rates by at least
25%. The present situation furnishes no justification for a delayed calf
weaning; the importance of an earlier weaning in enhancing reproductive
performance cannot be overemphasized. Productivity is currently estimated
by kg of 18-month animal per cow per year; "productivity" averaged 196 kg/
cow/year ranging between 154 and 253 kg/cow/year. In a herd of 2000 breed-
ing cows, the difference in "productivity" between the two extreme stations
would represent about 7,000 P per year.
10.       Characterization of Production Levels in the Cattle Post System:
Production data from cattle posts have been collected through four field
projects situated in the Kweneng and Ngwaketse Districts (South) and the



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Serule and Makoba areas of the Central District. Comparisons with production
levels of ranch managed cows in the same areas have been also undertaken.
Calving percentage for cattle posts (based on 1,700 cow-years) and ranches
(980 cow-years) were 47.3% and 74.8%, respectively. The mean difference of
27.5% would represent about 290,000 extra calves per year in terms of the
national herd. Although the surveys carried out by the Field Investigations
Unit were not large enough to arrive at accurate estimates of calf mortality
(0-1 years) under extensive management systems, they tended to support the
findings of the 1973 Agricultural Survey, namely 10.2%. A series of compari-
sons of pre and post-weaning growth under cattle post and ranch conditions
included data on animals weaned at cattle posts but reared under ranch condi-
tions. Ranch managed calves were heavier at weaning (56 kg) and grew faster
at post-weaning (20 kg) than their cattle post counterparts. Wholly ranch-
maintained calves were 76 kg heavier at 18 months of age. While animals moved
from cattle posts to ranches exhibited compensatory growth at post-weaning,
the extra gain was not sufficient to balance pre-weaning differences. Results
indicate that levels of "productivity" - as measured through reproductive
performance, growth and viability, - could be about doubled when the management
systems is changed from the cattle post operation to another including some
fencing, supplementation and veterinary care (Table 3).
11.       Factors Affecting Cow Reproductive Performance:  Under the tradi-
tional management system, the low calving rate of 47% constitutes a major con-
straint on production. APRU has undertaken a study - based on data obtained
in its stations - of factors believed to affect calving percentage:
(a) Cow Age: Calving percentages were 75% (3-year old),
65% (4-year old), and 80% (6-year and above). The
majority of heifers produce their first calf at 4 years;
(b) Cow Parous State: Heifers and non-parous cows had
satisfactory calving rates (83 and 84% respectively)
compared with 68% for those that calved in the pre-
vious years. Cows which produced their calves early
in the calving season had a 20% higher calving rate
than those calving at the end of the period. As
would be expected, early calving cows took a longer
period of time to recover from the stress of parturi-
tion and early lactation.
(c) Cow Bodyweight: Under "reasonably acceptable"
management, cows below 300 kg bodyweight had a 69%
calving rate, while those around 450 kg reached
about 80%. Cows in poor body condition at the
beginning of the breeding season are likely to
have a poor subsequent calving performance.
(d) Cow Weight Change: Cow bodyweight change reflects
the animal's nutritional status, which has an



ANNEX 2
Page 5
important effect on reproductive performance. The
choice of the breeding season should ensure that
favorable grazing conditions are available when cows are
lactating. Data from APRU's ranches indicated that cows
losing or maintaining weight had a calving rate of 67%.
On the other hand, gains of 50 kg raised this figure
to 80%.
(ii) I sreasing Production Through Improved Breeding
12.       The beef cattle types which have been evaluated in several areas
of Botswana are the Tswana and Africander breeds as well as two introduced
breeds - Brahman and Tuli - which are apparently suited to extensive areas.
The Government has encouraged the use of Africander, Brahman, Simmental and
Tuli sires on Tswana cows through the sale of subsidized bulls and through
the operation of an A.I. scheme; hence, these four crossbred types were also
evaluated.
13.       Purebred Comparisons:  On the basis of 1972-1975 data, the Tuli,
Tswana and Africander breeds showed significant differences in calving per-
centage: Tuli, 85%; Tswana, 76% and Africander, 67%. While the Tswana and
Tuli breeds did not differ significantly in mortality (8.5% and 7.5%, respec-
tively) they performed better than the Africander breed (10.5%). At birth
and weaning, Tswana calves were significantly heavier than Tuli or Africander
calves; Brahman calves were significantly lighter at birth than the other
three breeds but at weaning there was no significant difference between
Tswana and Brahman calves. At 18 months, Brahman calves were significantly
heavier than Tswana aad Tuli calves which were in turn significantly heavier
than Africander calves. When calving rate, viability and growth were com-
bined to calculate weight of weaner calf per cow per year, the ranking was:
Tuli (136 kg), Tswana (123 kg) and Africander (102 kg). The result for 18-
month weight/cow/year was: Tuli (223 kg), Tswana (198 kg) and Africander
(162 kg). For both indexes of productivity, the three breeds differed sig-
nificantly from each other. In terms of the 18-month index, the Tuli breed -
derived from the Tswana - was 13% superior to the Tswana and the latter 22%
above the Africander. Consequently, the encouragement for disseminating
Africander germ-plasm has been discontinued.
14.       Crossbred Comparisons:  Comparisons were made of crosses resulting
from breeding either Simmental (large European breed), Brahman (best repre-
sentaLive of Zebu breeds), Bonsmara (a recently developed breed) or Tuli sires
to Ts-ane cows. Information is available to allow meaningful comparisons in
grc 1- oi0ly.  Under reasonably acceptable management levels, Simmental x
TswPrD, art Brahman x Tswana crossbreds out-performed pure Tswana cattle and
Bonsaara   Tswana and Tuli x Tswana crosses.  These trials have been repli-
cated under cattle post conditions; the results have been essentially the
same.  I, would seem 'esirable to examine the results of Simmental x Tuli
and 1rahman x Tuli ci .sses before making definitive assessments of "optimal"
combinations, at leas within the range of breeds tested. Reproductive per-
formance of crossbred females will be evaluated before recommendations on
crossing systems are advanced.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
15.        rLifcilal Inserination and OeFttrus Synchronzation:  Before it
can be justified on a wider commercial scale, more information on the rela-
tive efficiency of A.I. versus natural service is requiced. Preliminary
results are still statistically unreliable but suggest low conception rates in
prostaglandin synchronized cows served by A.I.
(iii) Increasiag Production through Improved Nutrition
16.       Supplementary Feeding of Breeding Cows:  With supplementary feed-
ing of high protein (26-40%) licks (cows had access to the licks from the
onset of the breeding season for a period of 2.5-4 months), cows with calves
at foot at the start of the breeding season dramatically increased their re-
productive efficiency. However, the differences among treatments were signif-
icant for the conception rate but not for the calving rate. Unstressed cows
did not respond to protein supplementation since the control group (bonemeal
and salt) had already achieved a high level of reproductive efficiency.
The feeding of suckling cows seemed to increase conception rate without
decreasing embryonic loss. These investigations will be repeated for a
number of years to accumulate more data and analyze year to year variation.
17.       Supplementation of Growing Stock:  Results of trials from 1973
through 1975 indicated that while high-protein supplementary feeds increased
weight gain of growing stock by up to 20%, the economics of their use were
unfavorable. Compensatory growth in the wet season tended to remove the
beneficial effects of the supplement in maintaining liveweight in the drv
season.
18.       Feedlot Finishing:  In Botswana, locally grown high-energy needs
are not readily available; feedlot operations must rely on imported feeds.
A comparison of feedlot with pasture finishing was carried out from 1973 ro
1975; commercially available feedlot rations were used. Pasture finished
animals were slaughtered 6-18 months after the feedlot group, were about
100 kg heavier and, basically, there were no differences in carcass grade.
The results of these trials provided the parameters necessary for econ.avi.-
analysis of the two finishing methods; feedlot finishing was discontinlede
19.       Effects of Chemical Implants on Animal Growth:  Under feedlot con-
ditions, implantation of Zeranol resulted in a 18% increase in liveweight
gain of steers from implantation to slaughter compared with their controls;
there were no differences in grade at slaughter between implanted and control
groups. In 1975 and 1976, Zeranol increased the liveweight gain of steers
under grazing conditions by 25% and 12% respectively.
(iv) Productivity of Natural Pasture
20.       Factors Limiting productivity of Natural Pasture:  Although some
pasture research had been undertaken in Botswana prior to AFRU's establisrhmeent 
the results were of limited value due to lack of replication and small numbers



ANNEX 2
Page 7
of cattle involved in the trials. In 1972, collection of data on range produc-
tion was commenced in APRU's beef cattle stations. Information was obtained
.n each of nine stations on rainfall, monthly estimates of herbage dry matter
and protein content and in vitro digestibility. In both the wet and dry
seasons, crude protein explained a greater portion of the variability of
monthly liveweight gain than dry-matter digestibility. In general, it appears
that, under Botswana's conditions, crude protein content of the herbage is a
major limiting factor. APRU's results tend to confirm South African findings
that the feeding of energy-rich but protein deficient pasture would elicit a
limited response in animal performance. The feeding of non-protein nitrogen
licks could be a possible method to circumvent this problem as well as encourag-
ing grasses having above average levels of crude protein. Grazing trials have
been initiated to determine if the encouragement of better species leads to
increased animal output.
21.       Evaluation of Grass Species:  Grass species are being evaluated for
crude protein and digestibility in thirteen ranches. Although levels are low
by temperate standards, variation among species in crude protein content has
been found; differences between species tended to be greater in the dry season
than in the wet season. In the sandveld, the better species are: Brachiaria
nigropedata, Digitaria eriantha and Anthephora pubescens while in the hard-
veld they are Panicum maximum, Urochloa trichopus, Brachiaria nigropedata
and Bothriochloa insculpta.
22.       Evaluation of Bush clearing Techniques:  On six APRU ranches, 100 ha
sites were selected; 50 ha have been bush cleared and 50 remain untouched,
with the objective of determining the effect of bush removal on dry matter
yield, chemical composition of the herbage and botanical structure of the
lower layer. Bushes were cut about 30 cm above the ground with axes or power
saws and stumps treated with a mixture of Tordon 155 and diesel (ratio of
1:3). The present cost of this technique is about P 40/ha varying with the
density of the bush. The effect of clearing varied: on some ranches higher
yields were obtained on cleared than on uncleared areas, in others there was
no difference. On two ranches, yields obtained from beneath large bushes and
-ees were higher than yields from open areas. On all ranches, grazing
stimulated greater yields both in clear and uncleared areas and clearing had a
beneficial effect on botanical composition after one year. In general, in the
sandveld stations there were indications that clearing was beneficial both in
increasing yields and improving botanical composition. In hardveld area, it
appeared that yields are higher beneath trees and shrubs and that partial
clearing may give the best results. It remains to be seen whether the opera-
tion can be made economically feasible.
23.       Evaluation of Grazing Systems:  Facilities have been established
to operate four grazing systems, namely: (1) continuous grazing; 2) 3 pad-
docks per herd; 3) 9 paddocks per herd (4-day graze and 32-day rest); and
4) 9 paddocks per herd (7-day graze and 56-day rest). There are 42 Brahman x
Tswana and Simmental x Tswana bulls (12-15 months of age at the start of the
trial) in each group which are replaced annually by animals of a similar age.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Evaluations of Dotanical composition, dry-matter yields and liveweight gains
are made. As grazing systems can only be assessed over the long-term, no
conclusive results are expected for a number of years. Results to date indi-
cate the following: 1) between November, 1974 and September 1976, there were
no significant differences in liveweight gains among treatments; 2) continuous
grazing produced the highest yield of dry-matter followed by the 4/32 system.
Tlie 7/56 and 3 paddock systems did not differ significantly from each other;
3) not enough data are yet available to assess differences in botanical
composition; 4) dry-matter yields from grazed areas were significantly higher
than those from ungrazed protected areas. Since the experiment used a stocking
rate of 1 L.U. per 6 ha and there were significant differences among treatments
in dry-matter yield without affecting liveweight gain, it would appear that
more intensive stocking should be entertained before definite conclusions are
drawn. Finally, the fact that yields from grazed areas were higher than those
from protected areas, would indicate that closing up paddocks for dry season
use has no apparent advantage over continuous grazing.
(v) Range and Livestock Monitoring
24.       In 1973, the Division of Land Utilization adopted the following
criteria co measure detrimental changes in the condition of the veld:
1) increase in bare ground; 2) encroachment of woody shrubs or trees, and
3) changes in botanical composition of the lower layer. Sites were established
on eight research stations to represent guidelines against which measurements
from other sites set up throughout the country might be compared; sites were
selected to represent the main vegetation types of Botswana; 14 additional
sites covering further ecological areas of Botswana were established shortly
thereafter. A computerized data system for monitoring range trends has also
been implemented. Two years of data collected at Masama (ranch maintained
under "reasonably acceptable" management) have indicated that: a) grass cover
is increasing and herb and weed cover are decreasing; b) the proportion of
desirable species and the basal cover provided by them have increased. Range
monitoring is a long-term exercise but it should make it possible to relate
range trends and changes to known management practices and climatic conditions.
25.       Monitoring the Western State Lands:  The IDA/SIDA Livestock Project
(Cr. 325-BT) included a research and monitoring component, to determine the
levels of animal productivity which can be obtained without deterioration of
the habitat. In two finishing ranches (Nojane and Kalkfontein), the following
research facilities have been set up: 1) a paddock at a stocking rate of 18
ha/animal (62.5 ha grazed by 30 animals for six weeks a year; 2) a moderately
grazed paddock at 18-19 ha/animal (125 ha grazed by 10 animals for two months
out of three; 3) a heavily grazed paddock at 8 ha/animal (62.5 ha grazed by 16
animals for two months out of three) and 4) an ungrazed paddock. Estimates of
grass growth, crude protein, digestibility and mineral content are routinely
made. Micro climatological variables, occurrence of woody species and nutri-
tional composition of shrubs are also under evaluation. Since the weakening
of root systems due to intensive defoliation is thought to be a main reason
for vegetation changes - for example bush encroachment - studies on root
development will be carried out for the most important species.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
26.       APRU started a livestock monitoring program in the Western State
Lands in July 1976. Three levels of management will be contrasted: 1) APRU's
"oreasonably acceptable" level of management at Xanagas ranch; 2) LPMU's man-
agement at breeding ranches in Nojane and Kalkfontein where fencing, primary
paddocking and water reticulation are provided but the tenants are free to
accept or reject further improved management practices; and 3) cattle posts
in the areas around Nojane and Kalkfontein. In all cases, reproductive per-
forman-   mortality and growth will be observed.  A total of 1,775 animals
(931 ob. of 9 cattle posts and 844 from a breeding ranch) at Nojane have been
identified (date of birth, sex, weight, and breed) and the data will be ana-
lyzed shortly; the exercise is being replicated at Kalkfontein. Participating
ranch numbers will be increased as LPMU's development proceeds.
D. Research Programs in Goat and Sheep Production
27.       Past efforts to characterize current sheep and goat production
systems or to develop improved ones have been limited. A knowledge of the
production levels achieved under traditional production systems is required
and the effects of imposing certain "reasonable levels of management" - along
the lines of the beef cattle research program - need to be evaluated. In
1975, a Smallstock Unit was created within the Division of Animal Production
to initiate such activities.
28.       In 1976, a large survey - a sample comprising about 3-4% of all
smallstock holders - was carried out by field extension staff. Information
was collected on farm background, breeding and husbandry practices, mortality
and health, access to input and product markets, and their production con-
straints. Results of the survey are being analyzed. A flock recording scheme
has been devised to compare traditional production levels, as represented by
cooperating farmers with those of flocks maintained on the Ministry of Agricul-
ture ranches (where "reasonably acceptable" levels of management have been
standardized). Comparisons will be carried out over a range of investigational
areas and repeated for several years. The recording of cooperating flocks is
carried out by a resident field recorder who regularly updates records on
monthly visits to flocks; each field recorder is responsible for about 30 35
flocks. In the Ministry of Agriculture breeding flocks, comparisons between
indigenous and improved breeds maintained under similar conditions will also
be carried out. Rams will be performance tested and those above average will
be offered for sale. Special efforts will be made to integrate smallstock and
cat 1 illto production systems which maximize overall returns. In 1975, the
MiuLi ry vf Agriculture started a carcass evaluation project to be conducted
al- I T itse abbatoir. Indigenous sheep and goats were purchased from
several producers scattered over Eastern Botswana and classified by type, age
and sex. The analysis of the data - yield, grade, fat: lean: bone ratio,
proportion of princical cut joints and trim loss - will provide a baseline to
be compared with carnass analyses of animals under improved management condi-
tions or with those . improved breeds under both management techniques.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
E.  Future Research Priorities ar^d Conclusions
29.       Areas to which APRU is likely to give attention in Lhe near future
are:  1) Evaluation of grazing systems - Current trials should continue for
some years and expand to other areas in which no data on animal response are
yet available. It is critical that efforts are made to develop
technologies suitable for the recuperation of degraded pasture. 2) Economic
Analysis of Technical Program Results - APRU has accumulated data on systems
of animal production which are ready for economic analysis. UNDP is likely
to provide a Farm Economist for this purpose and lLCA's contribution to the
proposed project will considerably strengthen APRU's capability for carrying
out economic analyses. 3) Evaluation of dam breeds - The Tuli breed will
likely play an increased role in Botswana as indicated by purebred compari-
sons. It will be necessary to evaluate gains accruing from crossbreeding
Brahman and Simmental (the two most promising sire breeds) bulls with Tuli
cows.
30.       Botswana has developed an animal production research capability
in a relatively short period of time. In general, research results have
been prepared for extension purposes and are meaningful in the context of
the baseline information which they provide for designing livestock develop-
ment programs. Current research programs have liaised with cattlemen and
they seem effective in generating and monitoring new technology. So far,
the balance among these activities has been satisfactory. However, in view
of intensive efforts by Government in further developing the livestock sub-
sector, increased demands have been imposed on APRU vis-a-vis monitoring
exercises. Wlile APRU could - with appropriate strengthening - absorb addi-
tional monitoring responsibilities, it is critical that this does not occur at
the expense of the technology generating effort. Coordination of current and
incoming monitoring endeavors is essential.
31.       An area of concern is APRU's staffing:  most senior research posi-
tions have been staffed with expatriates provided by donor agencies in the
context of specific projects. Interdisciplinary cooperation among these
scientists has been effectively achieved but there seems to be a lack of
global policy regarding the long-term objectives of the research effort and
the ways to implement them. Discontinuities or undesirable changes of direc-
tion and staffing might occur as new projects come and old ones are terminated.
In the medium term, research positions are unlikely to be filled by suitably
trained Botswana nationals. The lack of skilled man power cannot be over-
emphasized and the Government is fully aware of this constraint. Fellowships
and opportunities for overseas training in agricultural research are available
but the problem seems to find suitable candidates. It is clear that the
Government will have to strengthen its university level agricultural training
urgently. The demand for agriculturalists is likely to increase in the near
future as Government proceeds with development efforts in this sector.
August 1, 1977



ANNEX 2
TabLe 1
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Current Research Projects Being Undertaken By APRU
I.    ANIMAL PRODUCTIVITY UNDER NATURAL  PASTURE
A.   Production Levels under "reasonably acceptable" management
The management system consists in some fencing
Tor stock and grazing control, disease control, mineral
supplementation and access to adequate water supplies.
B.   Characterization of Production Levels in the Cattle Post System.
C.   Factors Affecting Cow Reproductive Performance
II.   INCREASING PRODUCTION THROUGH IMPROVED BREEDING
A.   Purebred Comparisons (Tuli, Tswana and Africander)
B.   Crosbred Comparison under ranch and cattle post conditions.
C.   Artificial Insemination and Oestrus Synchronization.
III,  INCREASING PRODUCTION THROUGH IMPROVED NUTRITION
A.   Supplementation of Breeding Cows
S.   Supplementation of Growing Stock
C.   Feedlot Finishing
D.   Effect of Chemical Implants on Animal Growth.
IV.   PRODUCTIVITY OF NATURAL PASTURE
A.   Factors Liimiting Productivity of NaturaL Pasture
B.   Evaluation of Grass Species
C.   Evaluation of Bush Clearing Techniques
D.   Grazing Systems
V.    RANGE AND LIVESTOCK MONITORING
May 9, 1977



ANNEX   2
BOTSWANA                                 Table   2
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Research Stations and Breeds Maintained by the Apru, 1975
Approximate Size        Current Stocking rates
Station                  (ha)                 (ha/livestock Unit)        Breeding Herds
______ ------ --- - ---  ----------------------_-_--_____  _
Masama                    4,050                    10.7 - 11.2           Afr:ander, TuliVj
Leupane                   3,000                    14.9 - 20.9           Africander, Tswana1l
Sunnyside                 1,600                    10.0 - 10.2           Africander, Brahman
Impala                    1,600)
9.2 -  9.7           Africander, Brahman,
Tu Llj/
Good Hope                 2,300                     7.4 - 10.6           Africander, TuliA'
BosweLatlou               1,620                        n.a.              Young stock from
Sunnyside
Sedibeng                  1,620                        n.a.              Tswana, crossbred
females from net-
Musi                      6,600                    9.5 - 10.8)           work of stationsiV
DikatLhong                2,600                   13.5 - 14.4            Africander, Tswana6/
Masiatilodi               2,200                    15.4 - 16.4           Tswana3/
MatLolokgang              2,100                    10.8 - 11.8           Tswana3/
MoraLe                    1,800                    12.5 - 15.2           Tswana3/
Seleka                    2,300                   23.5 - 28.3            Tswanal/
Lesego                    3,700                   19.0 - 22.5            Africander, Tswana3/
Tsetseku                  1,900                    14.5 - 16.5           Tswana7/
Mantswabese                 486                        n.a.              BuLl performance
testing
.1/ Africander, Brahman and Tuli sires
2/  Brahman and Simmental sires
-/  Brahman and Tuli sires
.1- Africander, Bonsmara and Brahman sires
5/  Brahman, SimmentaL,beefalo, Tswana, Chianina, Marchigiana and
Romagnola sires
6/  Brahman sires
7/  Brahman and Tswana sires
n.a. Not available
May 9, 1977



ANN= 2
Table 3
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK-DEVELOPPIENT PROJECT
Productivity of Cattle Maintained
-;.'er Cattle Post and Ranch Conditions
Trait                             Cattle Post       Ranch
Calving rate Cx)                     47.3            74.8
CaLf Mortality (%)                   10.2             8.5
Weaning rate (%)                     42.5            68.4
Weaning weight (kg)                 124.0           180.0
7-18 month-weight gain (kg)          91.0          111.0
18-month weight (kg)                215.0            291.0
Weaner cadL  weight/cow/year (kg)   52.7            123.2
18-month weight/cow/year (kg)        91.3          199.2
Yay 9, 197



ANNEX 3
Page 1
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Banking System and Agricultural Credit
General
1.        The Bank of Botswana Act and the Financial Institutions Act of 1975
passed in 1975, gave extensive regulatory powers over banks and financial
institutions to the Bank of Botswana and the Minister of Finance and Develop-
ment Planning. The Bank of Botswana (operational since mid-1976) is empowered,
inter alia, to require that banks and financial institutions hold a certain
proportion of their liabilities in cash or non-interest-bearing deposits with
the Bank, to set a liquid assets ratio, and to regulate the interest rates and
conditions of loans extended by any credit-granting institution. The Financial
Institutions Act includes provisions for licensing and inspection of banks and
financial institutions as well as minimum operating standards and accounting
requirements; in addition, the Act makes available to either the Bank of
Botswana (with Ministerial approval), or to the Minister himself, a set of
regulatory instruments which include minimum capital requirements and a
minimum local assets to total liabilities ratio. The Minister can require the
financial institutions to maintain a certain proportion of their assets in
prescribed investments, such as government securities or bonds issued by
parastatal bodies. While is at present in Botswana no active government or
commercial paper market, legislation has been introduced to allow the Govern-
ment to issue Treasury bills, which will provide the means to influence
domestic credit conditions and the money supply on a short-term basis. The
commercial banks could be required to hold a certain amount of Treasury bills,
and to buy and sell to each other and the Bank to adjust for fluctuations in
trading activity.
2.        Two commercial banks operate in Botswana, the Standard Bank
(Botswana), Ltd., and Barclays Bank of Botswana, Ltd., which are wholly
owned subsidiaries of United Kingdom commercial banks. Both banks maintain
permanent offices in Gaborone, Francistown, and other urban centers, and also
provide mobile banking services to some rural communities. These banks were
originally branches of United Kingdom banks, but in 1975 they were locally
incorporated. The Standard Bank, Ltd., has customarily been the Botswana
Government's banker, but in recent years government deposits have also been
placed with Barclays. The National Development Bank (NDB) was established in
1963 to promote economic development, and lends mainly to agriculture. Other
financial institutions include the Cooperative Bank, the Post Office Savings
Bank, a few foreign agencies of insurance and finance companies, a hire-
purchase company, the United Building Society and the Botswana Development
Corporation.
3.        Domestic lending has risen rapidly during recent years, in both
the industrial and agricultural sectors. During the 1973-1976 period, total
advances by commercial banks for agriculture rose by about 180% from US$5.3



ANNEX 3
Page 2
million to US$15.0 million. NDB lending rose by about 51% from US$1.6 million
to US$2.4 million. The prime lending rate in Botswana was 11% in February
1977. On short-term loans and advances to the private sector commercial bank
rates vary between 9% and 13%. NDB rates (medium and long-term loans up to
8 years) vary between 6% and 12%. Loans by the Cooperative Bank are at 10%.
Loans to the traditional sector have been constrained by lack of pledgeable
security. A "Hypothecations Act" and revisions to associated legislation were
recently approved by Parliament, and should enable the commercial banks to
increase their lending to the traditional sector.
The National Development Bank (NDB)
4.        Background:  The NDB was established in 1963 1/ as a statutory corpo-
ration. NDB's mandates are to provide financial assistance to new or existing
undertakings by means of: (i) the granting of loans; (ii) the selling of goods,
and the taking over of sellers' rights, under hire purchase or installment sale
agreements; and (iii) with the approval of the President of the Republic, the
taking up of share and loan capital and the underwriting of issues or i.ares and
debentures. These undertakings are specified in the Act and include most of the
country's economic activities. If it appears necessary, the President of the
Republic may add to the classes of undertakings specified in the Act, by order
published in the Gazette.
5.        Board of Directors, Management and Staff:  Members of the Board of
Directors are appointed by the President of the Republic. Board members
have usually numbered eight and have been drawn equally from Government
officers and the private sector. The President also appoints the General Man-
ager and approves appointments of other senior officers. NDB's staff numbers
23, but is expected to increase to about 32 by the end of 1977 as a result of
the Bank's business expansion. This does not take into account any expansion
relative to implementation of the Second Livestock Development Project. At
present, the staff includes three expatriates: the General Manager, the
Assistant General Manager and the Personal Assistant to the General Manager.
A staff localization plan for the entire staff of NDB with Botswana nationals
has been submitted to, and accepted by, the Government recently. At present,
all staff is based in Gaborone, with the exception of a field officer and a
clerk in Francistown. The expected expansion of NDB would permit the opening
of 4 new field offices in Ghanzi, Serowe, Kanye and Tshabong.
6.        Lending Activities:  NDB must comply with Government policies and
development priorities, and is one of the main institutions, with the BDC,
through which Government may encourage and attract investment and guide devel-
opment. NDB has sought to increase its assistance to traditional agriculture,
in addition to stimulating development by providing short/medium term loans
for, inter alia, agricultural machinery, water development, good quality
breeding stock, the poultry industry and the promotion of small, productive
1/ Under Chapter 74.05 of the Laws of Botswana - the National Development
Bank Act.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
businesses which create employment. NDB is, at present, with BDC, the only
credit agency, which effectively supplements the facilities provided by the
two commercial banks operating in Botswana. NDB has a share (30%) in the
Financial Services Company of Botswana, a leasing and hire-purchase company,
together with BDC and the two commercial banks. NDB's other mandates under
the Development Plan are to work closely with and to extend credit to the
Cooperative Movement and to act as the agent of the Government for the admin-
istration of individual loans to be made under the First Livestock Project
(Annex 5).  NDB also administers the surplus funds of the Botswana Post Office
Savings Bank and of the Mine Workers' Voluntary Stop-Order Savings Scheme 1/.
Since 1975, NDB has intensified its efforts to become better known to the
community, through the press, the radio and its field service staff who
regularly address public meetings. In 1975, 126 meetings were held, reaching
an estimated 7,000 people.
7.        Lending Policies and Procedures:  NDB's basic lending policy is to
ensure that its available funds reach as many customers with viable develop-
ment projects as possible and that its interest rate is held to as low a
figure as is feasible, consistent with the Bank not incurring a trading loss.
Apart from very small loans for rural agricultural inputs made out of special
grant funds placed with NDB by the Freedom from Hunger Campaign and the
USA Government (which carry a 6% per annum interest rate and benefit small
farmers lacking conventional security), the bulk of the Bank's other lend-
ings were, up till 1975 at 8% per annum. At present, loans over P 2,000 (about
US$2,300) are at 12% per annum, while loans between P 1,000 and 2,000 bear 8%
per annum interest. Rates are applied on diminishing loan balances and most
loans are thus repayable in equated annual repayments of principal and inter-
est. All customers are required to put up minimum cash deposits of 10% for
loans up to P 500, 15% for loans from P 500 to P 1,500, and 20% for loans
above P 1,500. All agricultural lendings are secured by charges under the
Agricultural Charges Act. There are ao statistics on the distribution of
loans between freehold farmers and the traditional sector; NDB believes
that beneficiaries represent a cross section of Botswana farmers, with no bias
in favor of freehold farms. NDB's procedures for processing loan applications
in the various agricultural, business and industrial sectors vary, but all
proposals, however small, are finally examined and decided upon by the NDB
Board in full meeting. In the agricultural sector, the farmer fills out a
"Farmer's Assistance Application", with assistance from NDB's field officer or
an extension officer of the Ministry of Agriculture, which shows the farmer's
assets and liabilities, sources of income and other information to assess his
credit worthiness. It is supplemented by a recommendation from the district
Agricultural or Livestock Officer). When an application is approved, a "Memo-
randum of Agreement" is entered into between NDB and the farmer, and a
1/   Voluntary deferred pay of Botswana miners working in the South African
,ld mines.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
"Certificate of Indebtedness" is certified by NDB and the farmer, in accord-
ance with the Agricultural Charges Act, 1967. Goods financed under loans
are purchased for the farmer by NDB and delivered in kind.
8.        Lending Operations:  Table 4 shows loan applications approved from
1972 to 1976, by sector. In 1976 about 90% of loans in number were made for
agricultural development, representing about 70% of the value (about US$1.1
million) of the loans approved. Loans approved in 1976 for agricultural
development were distributed as follows: (a) Agricultural machinery: 65
loans above P 1,000 each, for an average amount of US$7,500, to finance
tractors, plows, planters, etc. Average period of repayment - 4 to 5 years,
at 12% interest per annum. These loans represented 18% of agricultural loans
in number and 66% in value; (b) Breeding stock: most loans assist the pur-
chase of breeding heifers. 124 loans were approved, for an average amount
of US$1,350. Average period of repayment - 3 years; loans of P 1,000 to P
2,000 bear 8% per annum interest, over P 2,000 12% per annum. No loans are
granted for "stocking up', as the object is to upgrade the herd. These loans
represented 35% of agricultural loans in number, and 22% in value; (c) Poultry
projects (wire, chicken house): Four loans were approved totalling about
US$7,500; and (d) Small agricultural inputs: 161 loans under P 1,000 each
were approved for an average of US$500 each. The average repayment period is
3 years, at 6% per annum interest. These loans represented 45% of agricul-
tural loans in number and 11% in value.
9.        Financial Position and Performance:  Table 1 summarizes NDB's
Balance Sheets for 1971-76. As of December 31, 1976, net available assets
amounted to P 3.7 million. Over the four-year period between 1972 and 1976,
net available assets increased by about 70%. At the end of 1976 the loan
portfolio accounted for 75% of the total assets; the investment portfolio
accounted for 2% and current assets for 21%. Of the total assets as of
December 31, 1976, 54% were financed by equity and the balance by long and
short-term liabilities. Table 2 shows NDB's summarized income statements of
the years 1972-1976. Over the past five years, profitability has been modest,
averaging 1.0% of total assets or 2.0% of unrecallable capital. In 1976,
NDB's profitability declined by about 50%, mainly because interest paid
(chiefly on Loan Funds provided by the Government of Botswana) increased by
180% since 1975, while interest received increased by only 54%. This resulted
mainly from the build up of undrawn loan commitments on the part of NDB in
respect of approved lendings, the goods relative to which have not been
available from the suppliers in the case of agricultural machinery and because
of the lack of drillers in the case of water development. NDB can only invest
the funds in question short-term (at about 6-6 1/2% p.a.) because it does not
know exactly when they may be required. NDB does not aim to realize large
surpluses as it is essentially a development institution without a profit
maximization function. However, NDB is watching this situation closely since
it is required by law to conduct its business so that revenue exceeds expendi-
tures. In 1975, NDB applied for, and obtained, a grant from the United
Kingdom of about US$500,000 equivalent to augment its unrecallable capital and
to be used in 1976. NDB's 1977 annual plan had not been finalized in February,
1977; NDB's activities will be constrained by the quantity of new unrecallable



ANNEX 3
Page 5
and/or loan capital whiciu can be made available during 77/78. NDB anticipated
that applications received would follow the lines of 1976, with perhaps a
modest increase, and that the types of borrowing would be similar (wi-thout:
considering the proposed Project).
10.       Doubtful Debts:  NDB makes provision for doubtful loans on the basis
of about 3% of the amount of loans outstanding. This provision is adequate;
at December 31, 1975, loan repayments totalling about P 24,000 were three
months or more overdue, representing less than 1% of the total loans outstand-
ing. These figures compare well with those of similar development Banks else-
where. However, because of its very close connection to agriculture, seasonal
climatic conditions are of great importance to NDB since they affect the
repayment of outstanding lendings, and a single really unfavorable climatic
season could result in a very different repayment ratio.
11.       Audit and Accounts:  In accordance with the NDB Act, NDB's books
are audited annually by an external auditor appointed by the President (Geo.
Mackenzie and Co.); the auditor has given an unqualified report every year.
Commercial Banks
12.       Barclays and Standard are the largest source of credit to the agri-
cultural sector. Together they have about 16 branches and 50 agencies (of
which some are part-time and some mobile agencies). The two banks are coiipeti-
tors, particularly in the main centers, but some smaller centers have insuf-
ficient business to support two agencies. The progression of total advances
by commercial banks in the agricultural sector has been as follows:
At December 31                          P. Million
1972                                  3.2
1973                                  4.6
1974                                  6.6
1975                                 10.2
1976                                 13.1
Most Commercial Banks' lendings are by way of seasonal fluctuating overdrafts:
long-term capital is not available. Figures are weighted by a limited number
of very large borrowers operating particularly in the cattle ranching sector.
Both banks lend extensively against the security of freehold farms for assist-
ing farm purchases and for various agricultural requirements throughout the
country. The commercial banks occupy a dominant position for the channeling
of credit, because of their geographical coverage, their staffing which is of
good quality and sufficient in number to handle more activities, and the
flexibility of their operating procedures.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
13.       The Barclays Development Fund (BDF) is an aid agency funded by
Barclays Bank International Ltd. in London. BDF offers credit insurance which
guarantees to agencies that in the event of default on a loan, BDF would
refund to the agency a certain percentage of the losses. Under the scheme
which is in operation in Botswana, BDF guarantees to refund 50% of any losses.
which may be incurred by Barclays Botsvana as a result of lending to projects
which meet the following criteria: long term commercial and financial viabil-
ity, production orientated, employment creating, import substitution/export
promoting, and locally owned. Other agencies, government or nongovernment,
are encouraged by Barclays to join in this guarantee scheme, known as the
"Partnership Plan." Since the plan was introduced into Botswana in April
1976, however, Barclays Botswana is the only participant.
The Botswana Cooperative Union
14.       The Botswana Cooperative Union (BCU) was established in 1964 to
promote the development of cooperatives in Botswana. In 1975, there were 110
registered cooperative societies, of which about 75 engaged in marketing and
supply, the remaining 35 being Thrift and Loan Societies or Credit Societies.
Total BCU staff is about 50, and includes four ILO/UN/FAO advisers and several
U.S. Peace Corps volunteers. BCU is organized into five main branches: (i)
consumer, (ii) credit and banking, (iii) audit, (iv) marketing and (v) educa-
tion. The consumer branch overlooks the consumer cooperatives. Although the
financial position of the consumer societies is sound, BCU has identified man-
agement problems and considers that consumer cooperatives' profitability could
be improved with training. The credit and banking branch overlooks coopera-
tive activities related to credit and banking. The Botswana Cooperative
Bank Ltd. (BCB) was registered December 31, 1974 as a cooperative society,
with the main purpose of encouraging better management of cooperative socie-
ties by sound lending. BCB assets were about US$400,000 at December 31,
1975. BCB has a Management Training Scheme, to train managers and bookkeepers
of cooperatives. The audits branch audits every cooperative society at least
once a year. Weak societies are visited once every three months, strong ones
once o. twice a year. To date, no society is able to prepare its final
-counts up to Balance Sheet, which is carried out by the audits branch. The
_carketing branch coordinates cattle marketing for all the cooperatives in the
country. This includes applying for quotas, off-loading railway trucks,
forewarding cattle to BMC, checking killing sheets, making payments, keeping
records and many other duties. BCU employs a manager, an assistant manager,
twc clerks, a secretary, and six stock receivers. The education branch is
responsible for planning and organization of BCU education and training
activities. Actual teaching is carried out by the four branches described
above; the teaching program aims at members of cooperative societies, but also
the general public, and employees of cooperative societies and Government
extension agencies. Most 5-day courses are held in villages. They are
complemented by general meetings to explain the year's results to the members,
discussion groups in villages, and radio programs and the TGLP consultation
program (Annex 5).



ANNEX 3
Page 7
15.       Since the BCU Marketing Branch's formation in 1972 cooperative
societies have steadily increased in importance. In 1971, 30 cooperatives
supplied 10,000 head of cattle or 6% of BMC's total throughput; by the end of
1975 this had increased to 48 societies sending 28,000 head of cattle or 15%
BMC's total throughput. Cooperative figures for the five years 1971-1975 are
as follows:
1971      1972       1973       1974      1975
BMC Kill             167,000   157,000   210,000   186,000   188,000
Coop Kill             10,000    12,000    21,000    24,000    28,000
Coop as % of BMC        6%        7.5%       10%       13Z        15%
These statistics include cattle sold by freehold farmers. BCU estimates that
in 1975 it handled over 20% of the cattle sold by non-freehold farmers. Most
marketing and supply cooperatives are also engaged in the sale of bonemeal and
salt, vaccines, seed, grain bags, building materials and other materials.
The Botswana Development Corporation
16.       The BDC was established in 1970 as a Government-owned company to
promote and facilitate economic development, to identify opportunities for
development of new and existing industrial, commercial and agricultural
business undertakings, and to establish and provide such undertakings with
appropriate assistance including financial and managerial support. BDC
differs from many other Development Finance Companies in that it performs a
basic entrepreneurial role in conceiving and developing projects. BDC bene-
fited from an IBRD loan of US$4 million in 1974 (Loan 1019-BT) and its per-
formance has been good. BDC is involved in every sector of Botswana's
economy, except the mining industry. In the agricultural sector, BDC has
interests in (i) Farm Development Company (Pty) Ltd., a company operating a
100 hectare irrigation scheme near Gabarone, (ii) Talana Farms (Pty) Ltd., a
group of farms involved in growing cotton and food crops and in experimental
cattle fattening, (iii) the Kgatleng Development Association, for the develop-
ment of a tool bar and (iv) Sefalana sa Botswana. In the services sector, BDC
fully owns, inter alia, the BDC Service Corporation (Pty) Ltd., which provides
a range of vehicle and building maintenance services and trains technicians
and artisans in these fields; it also has a 20% interest in Mancom (Pty) Ltd.,
a company providing management assistance and accounting and secretarial
services. In other sectors, BDC has interests in manufacturing, trade, real
estate development, hotels, marketing, transportation and financial services.
The Graziers' Scheme
17.       BMC has operated the Graziers Scheme since 1969 to assist producers
to raise the quality and the quantity of stock delivered to BMC. The scheme
is aimed at farmers wishing to acquire cattle for fattening with a view to



ANNEX 3
Page 8
subsequent direct sale to BMC. The sequence of the transactions involved is
as follows: (i) the farmer identifies cattle and negotiates the price with
the seller, (ii) an agent from BMC approves the deal, (iii) commercial bank
pays the seller on behalf of BMC, (iv) cattle are fattened on the farmer's
land, but are 7.eg11yC BNC's property, (v) when BMC estimates they are ready
for slaughte: cattle are delivered by the farmer direct to the meat plant,
(vi) Ki' rerays the commercial bank and sends the balance to the farmer. The
numbeh- animals placed during the past years has been fairly static:
1972       1973        1974       1975
No. of cattle placed
during year                 18,000      10,700      10,600    12,000
No. of Graziers                    131          78        156        187
The main criteria for BMC's approval of a grazier are satisfactory management
and stock handling facilities. This, and the fact that fattened animals must
be sold directly to BMC, has the effect of concentrating the grazier scheme
mainly on freehold farmers. However, in order to increase the number of
beneficiaries and to avoid the monopolization of the scheme's funds by a few
wealthy farmers, the number of cattle per grazier has been limited since 1973
to 300 and approval is only given to applications for more than 100 head if
the applicant's own cattle on the farm exceed the total number of animals
placed and applied for. Although the scheme benefits mostly freehold farmers,
cattlepost producers are not excluded, and their increased commercialization
following the implementation of the TGLP should increase the scope of the
grazier scheme and the zange of its beneficiaries.
Se-   11- .9, 177



AN'NEX 3
Table 1
Page 1
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOP,ENT PROJECT
National Development Bank
Balance Sheets as at December 31ste-
(P'O00)                                              bi
1972         1973        1974          1975         1976
ASSETS
1. Licuid Assets
Cash and Balances with BanksJ         836        1,342       1,549           600          689
Other Liquid Assets e'                  1            -           5           259            86
Tocal Liquid Assets             837        1,342        1,554           859          775
2. Investments                                   5 3          3          78            78           78
3. Loans
(a) Loans from Capital Funds &
Sundry Loan Funds:
Agricultural                          142          263         379           911           890
Business                              204          176         133           201          361
Farm Impleents                          1            i           1           637             -
Housing                               184          179         173           167           166
Farm Property                          91          116         219           342           375
Drilled and Equipment Boreboles        98           60          78           106           135
Water Supply - Ofam Scheme             30           30          30             30           30
Electricity Supply                      3            2           3              1            -
American Revolving Loan f/             34           33          36            27            26
UK Freedom  from Hunger Campaign f/  36             37          '0             71           63
UK Capital Aid for Development          -            -           -             -           201
Small Loan Fumd Debtors                 -           _            -             -            27
Sub-Total                       823           897       1,093         1,856        2,273
Interest accrued on the above  33              27          39            66            -
Total (a)                        856          924       1,132         1,922        2,273
(b) Loans from Special Funds: j
Low Cost Housing hi                   175          170         165           158           358
Water Supply                          132          129         122           120           122
Breeding Stock and General Agr.        32           39          51           109           184
Development of Gabarone Malls          88           86          82             80           81
Hogobane Irrigation (Pty) Ltd.         37           35          28             26           21
Sub-Total (b)                   464           459         447           493          567
Interest accrued on the above  20              25          25            27            -
Total  (b)                      484           484         .72           520          567
Total Loans                         1,340        1,409       1,604         2,442        2,840
Less: Provision for double debts    26              36          40             70           70
Net Iotal Loans                     1,314        1,373       1,56L         2,372        2,770
4. Bank Premises, Furniture & Equipment         36           37          45            45           45
TOTAL ASSETS                                2,190         2,755       3,241         3,354        3,668
a/ Figures may not exactly add up due to rounding
b/ Unaudited
C/ Until and including 1974, NDB showed amongst its Loan Funds these amounts which it administers
under the direction of the Minister of Finance and Development Planning. In 1975 and thereafter,
these funds are aecountei for separately from the NOB's own resources.
_/ Sundry debtors and prepayments, and a short term loan of P 250,000 in 1975
e/ P 2,550 in Botawana Furniture Manufacturers (Fty) Ltd. in 1972 and 1975, plus
P 75,000 in Financial Services Company of the Botswana (Pty) Ltd. in 1974 and thereafter
f/ Available for small agricultural loans only
y/ U.K. Exchequer Loans - See Liabilities section, foot note d/
h/ In Gaberone&, Francistown and Lobatse
Source:National Developoeat Bonk Anmuel Reports from 1972 to 1975, and unaudited accounts for 1976.
'lay 25, 1977



ANNEX 3
Table 1
Page 2
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Development Bank
Balance Sheets as at December 31st
(P '000)
1972         1973         i974          1975         1976
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
1. Sundry Provisions and Creditors                4           15           56            73            8
2. Borrowed Funds
(a) General Loans:
Botswana Government c                   380          873        1,250         1,286        1,186
Interest Accrued                         17           25           40            20            -
Sub-Total                         397          898         1,290        1,306        1,186
(b) Special Loans:
1LK Exchequer Loans d'                  562          543          521           501          502
Interest Accrued                         25           25           24            23           -
Sub-Total                         587          568           545          524          502
Total Borrowed Funds                    984        1,466        1,835         1,830        1,688
3. Unrecallable Capital
(a) Received from Botswana Government:
General Funds                           604          627          627           627          627
Proceeds ex State Land Amendment
Act Fund           230          280           335          345          432
Small Loans Fundf/                        -            -             -           50           50
UK Capital Aid for Development            -            -             -            -          418
Total from Botswana Govt.        834           907          962        1,021         1,528
(b) Received from Overseas:
American Revolving Loan Fund             92           92            92           92            92
UK Freedom from Hunger Campaign          92           76            76           76           76
Ox-fam - Water Supply Development
Scheme        30            30           30           30            30
UK Commercial and Industrial Credit  28               28            2e           28           28
Total from Overseas             242          226           226          226          226
(c) Revenue Reserves:
Accumulated from Bank's Surplus          85          i00          110           140          140
Unappropriated Surplus                   41           41           52            64           78
Total Revenue Reserves          126          141           162          204          218
Total Unrecallable Capital                1,202        1,274         1,350        1,451        1,972
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL             2,190        2,755         3,241        3,354        3,668
a! Figures may not exactly add up due to rounding
b/ Staff gratuities, audit fees, sundry creditors and interest payable
c/ 10 years term at rates of interest varying from 5% to 6 1/4% p.a.
d/ 25 years, 6 1/8% and 6 5/8% for the purpose of granting the loans listed in the Assets Section, item 3(b)
e/ Fund established under section 7 of the State Land Act 1966 to Finance changes of ownership of
freehold farms
f/ Founded from State Land Proceeds - See footnote 5/
Source: National Development Bank Annual Reports from 1972 to 1975, and
unaudited accounts for 1976.
May 25, 1977



ANNEX 3
Table 2
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Development Bank
Statements for Income for the Years Ended December 31st a/
(P 000)
1972         1973         1974         1975         1976b/
INCOHE
Interest Earned:
Loans                                     87            97         111           157          215
Fixed and Special Deposits                48           54          102            87          162
Total Interest Earned                    135          151          213           244          377
Discounts on Purchases                           6            7            1            *            A
Agency Fees and Income from Investments-    11               11            9           11           17
Loan Application Fees                            *            1            *            *            *
Rents Received - Staff Houses                    1            2            3            6            8
Bad Debts Recovered                              4            2            -            1            1
Total Income                             158          173          226           262          403
Expenditure
Interest Paid                                  55            65          106           83          233
Fees and Salaries                               31           37           54           68           96
General Administration                          18           45           41           39           59
Provision for Doubtful Debts                    11           10            4           30            -
Bad Debts Written Off                            *            1            *            *            1
Total Expenditure                        115          158          205           220          3S9
Excess of Income Over Expenditure               43           15           21           42           14
Balance at December 31 of Previous Year         1S           41           41           52           64
Sub-Total                                 61           56           62           94           78
Less: Transfer to General Reserve               20           15           10           30           _
Balance of Unappropriated Surplus               41           41           52           64           78
a/  Figures may not exactly add up due to rounding
b,'  Unaudited
cr,  AFv>.cV fees correspond to the administration of the American Revolving Fund Loan,
Freedom from Hunger Campaign Grant, loans of the Botswana Enterprises Development Unit.
Note;    - equals less than P 500.  Items between P 500 and P 1,000 are shown as P 1,000.
Source:  National Development Bank Annual Reports from 1972 to 1975, and unaudited accounts for 1976.
May 25, 1977



ANNEX 3
BOTSIWANA                                      Table 3
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Development Bank
Su=marized Changes in Financial Position Statements
(P' 000)
1973         1974         1975         1976
SOTRCES OF FU'NS
'et ITcome                                          15            21           42           14
Add:  Non-Cash Charges                              10             4           30           -
Net Increase (Decrease) in Borrowed Funds          482          369            (5)        (142)
Increase in Capital Funds Other Than Reserves   57               55           59           507
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                             564          449           126          379
DISPOSITION OF FUNDS
'.e. Disbursements of Loans                         69          195           838          398
Investments                                         -            75            -            -
Increase in Property and Equipment                   1            8           -             -
'7et Increase (Decrease) in WTorking Capital       494          171          (712)         (19)
TOTAL DISPOSITION OF FUNDS                         564          449           126          379
Source: Tables 1 and 2.
May 25, 1977



ANNEX 3
Table 4
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
National Development Bank
Loan Applications Approved
(P)
YEAR EIMED 31ST DECEMBER           1972         1973        1974         1975         1976
Agricultural Development
Number                           346           278         495          451          354
Amount                       240,789      369,908      816,748      761,176     651,032
Water Development
Number                            15            56          29           16           21
Amount                        35,930       146,769     117,201       63,068      18,556
Purchase of Improvement of
Farm Land a/
Number                             9             6           7           10           -
Amount                       118,101       140,680     297,090      255,250           -
Cooperatives
Number                            -             -            1           -             1
Amount                            -             -       45,000           -      161,500
Commercial and Industrial
Development
Number                             7             4          13           19           15
Amount                        46,302         9,600      32,830       98,707      53,906
TOTAL LOANS APPROVED                  377           344          545         496          391
TOTAL AMOUNTT                     441,122       666,957   1,308,869   1,178,201       964,994
a/ Funds to finance changes of ownership of Freehold Farms which have been exhausted in 1975.
Source: National Development Bank, Annual Report 1975 and unaudited accounts for 1976.
May 25, 1977



ANNEX 4
Page 1
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Tenure and Sociological Issues
A. Land Tenure
1.        Botswana's land is noy held under three classifications:  (a)
Freehold land - about 33,000 km which were accorded a separate legal status
and allocated to European farmers in the late 19th and early 20th century.
Four blocks are along Botswana's eastern frontier with South Africa (Tati,
Tuli, Gaborone, and Lobatse), one is in the south (Molopo) and one in the west
on a limestone outcropping near the Namibia border (Ghanzi). Freehold land
comprises about 300 farms, most still owned by European farmers, although
Botswana nationals are being encouraged to purchase farms through a differ-
ential transfer tax in their favor. The regime of land tenure is comparable
to European systems, with full rights to develop, sell and use land. Most
land is used for cattle ranching although some arable farming is practired.
Most farms are fenced and developed; (b) Tribal land - about 415,000 km
classified as tribal lands comprise most inhabited areas of Botswana out-
side the freehold blocks; rights to land follow Botswana tribal tradition;
(c) State land - about 134,000 km are owned and regulated by the State; most
areas are uninhabited, and include Botswana's major game parks and reserves.
The State can lease land to individuals. Since 1972, large areas of state
lands have been redesignated as tribal land, (including areas of the Western
State Lands included in the first livestock development project).
2.        Customary land law has largely determined land tenure patterns in
tribal areas in the past, with authority over land tenure vested in tribal
authorities. Individual families were theoretically entitled to an allocation
of arable land sufficient to feed the family, and enjoyed considerable
security of tenure, including the right to pass land on to heirs and to fence
it. No individual rights were recognized for grazing areas; rights to use
were shared by the community. In practice, individuals who have developed
cattle posts effectively control the land around the borehole, but this right
has been de facto and individuals were not entitled to develop land.
3.        The Tribal Land Act of 1968 modified traditional land tenure pat-
terns. Land Boards were established to regulate land matters, and in theory
took over all powers formerly vested in the Chiefs. There are 12 land boards
for Botswana; in general, land Boards include two members appointed by the
Minister for Local Government and Lands, two district councillors, elected by
the district council, the chief or tribal authority, and a nominee of the
chief. The Minister appoints a secretary for each land board; they have no
other staff. Land boards began to function in 1970. In order to lessen the
administrative burden, subordinate land boards were established from 1973 in



ANNEX 4
Page 2
the more populated districts. They have the power to grant sites to indivi-
duals for residential, agricultural or grazing purposes; they must refer
borehole applications to the land board. Individuals seeking to use tribal
land for any purpose (residence, arable farming, drilling boreholes, etc.)
must obtain permission from the local land board. Land boards are empowered
to grant the right to use land, cancel the right, adjudicate disputes, and
impose restrictions on use of land. Land boards formerly gave permission for
drilling of boreholes, on payment of a fee; the land board, however, retained
ownership of the borehole casing, as well as the land. Land boards can grant
leases to land, with written consent of the Minister. A 1976 amendment to the
Tribal Land Act simplified procedures for allocating leases to land. Land
boards have controlled limited funds in the past, principally revenues such as
borehole fees. Existing Land Boards are as follows:
Tribal Territory                   Tribal Land Board               Subordinate
Land Boards
1.  Bamangwato                   Ngwato Land Board                Sebina S.L.B.
Tonota
Mmadinare
Maunatlala
Palapye
Bobonong
Serowe
Mahalapye
Shoshong
Letlhakane
Rakops
2.  Bakwena                       Kweneng Land Board              Molepolole "
Letlhakeng
Motokwe
Lephepe
Thamaga
3.  Bangwaketse                   Ngwaketse Land Board            Kanye
Phitsane-Molopo
Moshupa
Mabutsane
Mmathethe
4.  Batawane                      Tawana Land Board              Maun
Sehitwa
Gomare
Yangwa
Seronga
Shakawe
5.  Bakgatla                      Kgatleng Land Board



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Tribal Territory                  Tribal Land Board               Subordinate
Land Boards
6.  Bamalete                     Malete Land Board
7.  Batlokwa                     Tlokweng Land Board
8.  Barolong Farms               Rolong Land Board
9. A part of North
East District                Tati Land Board
10. A part of Kgalagadi
District                     Kgalagadi Land Board
11.  A part of Ghanzi District   Ghanzi Land Board
12.  A part of Chobe District    Chobe Land Board
The Tribal Grazing Land Policy
4.        Compelling evidence of serious, increasing, and possibly irre-
versible damage to Botswana's grasslands resulting from uncontrolled graz-
ing of livestock led the Government to institute in 1975 a Tribal Grazing
Land Policy (TGLP). Issued as a Presidential Directive (No. CAB 22/75) in
June, 1975 then a government paper in July, 1975 it involves principally a
reform of lang tenure for grazing lands under tribal jurisdictions - estimated
at 415,000 km , or 70X of Botswana. It also includes measures to develop and
protect land following the tenure reform. Finally, the policy addresses the
increasingly serious problem of skewed income distribution in rural areas,
which is particularly marked for livestock. The TGLP seeks to protect the
rights of owners of small numbers of livestock and to afford them better
opportunities for development. When the TGLP was promulgated, the Government
ordered a freeze on applications for new boreholes, to assist in averting a
land grab and allow the reform to proceed in a deliberate and orderly manner;
this remains in force.
5.        Under TGLP, tribal grazing lands will be sub-divided into three
categories or "zones," where different land tenure regimes will apply.
The traditional prohibition on individual tenure for grazing lands will
be changed in some areas, principally where existing cattle posts are
located; individuals or groups of individuals will secure leases to land
from land boards; normally, leases will be for 50 years. Rents for land
will be payable to the land board. Those who obtain leases should have
the right and the incentive to invest in development of the land. Areas
where land can be divided into ranches and leased to individuals will be
known as "commercial" zones. Individual tenure will not be permitted in
other areas, where "communal" tenure will be retained. A third category
of land will be "reserve" areas, where for the present no development will
be allowed, except for wildlife management schemes.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
6.        ror ccnmerciai .reas, the policy relies primarily On the granting
of leases to provide the inr-cntive to farmers to protect and develop the
range. Leases will in theory provide a vehicle for controlling use of land,
and preventing abuses (notably overstocking), since they can be revoked.
Positive incentives will be a program of credit for ranch development, accom-
panied by Government extension efforts for improving ranch management. A
major problem, clearly recognized in Government policy documents, is equity,
since it is primarily large cattle owners who control land and are likely to
obtain leases. The policy therefore anticipates controls on the number of
leases an individual can obtain, and incentives to encourage allocation of
leases to livestock owners who form partnerships, syndicates or other groups.
7.        Development of communal zones is more complex, largely because no
technical "package" has been developed to rehabilitate damaged rangeland, or
increase productivity where grazing is uncontrolled. No effort to group small
herds and manage them collectively on communal pastures has succeeded in
Botswana, despite several attempts. The TGLP involves efforts to assist
livestock owners on communal land, notably by developing a new format for
formation of groups or associations; land can be fenced and developed in
communal areas if the community agrees, and new legislation should make it
possible to obtain credit for such developments.
8.        Consultation:  After the TGLP was introduced, the Government under-
took an elaborate public "consultation" on it, both to obtain the views of
the population, and as a public information campaign. The consultation was
handled by an inter-ministerial Committee. It involved: (a) a national
speaking tour by the President and ministers in July, 1975; (b) briefings,
and seminars for civil servants, local councillors, land boards, tribal
authorities, etc., from July, 1975 to February, 1976; (c) a radio learning
campaign, formation of rural learning groups and administration of detailed
questionnaires to these groups, throughout 1976; and (d) an analysis of the
consultation response. It is estimated that one adult in 100 was trained as
a "rural learning group" leader (3,510), and one in six was a member; through
this and other means it is estimated that at least one in two adults in rural
areas was reached during the campaign. Results of the consultation are still
being analyzed; some preliminary findings are as follows:
(i) Although farmers recognize range degradation, the
need for conservation is not fully appreciated;
(ii) The response to suggestions that farmers form groups
was unenthusiastic and many questions were raised;
(iii) The proposal to grant exclusive rights to grazing
land was supported, but with some uneasiness about
the consequences;
(iv) Interest in methods of allocation was considerable,
with support for giving preference to those from
overgrazed areas and those who had no boreholes;



ANNEX 4
Page 5
(v) The need for better herd management is recognized
in theory, but the need for more extension efforts
was apparcent; groups sought Government support in
fencing and water development;
(vi) The concept of zoning land was not opposed; there
was support for grazing reserves;
(vii) There was opposition to the idea of limiting stock
numbers an individual could hold;
(viii) Lack of finance was seen as a major constraint;
(ix) There was serious concern about how the poor would
benefit from the TGLP.
9.        Present Status:  The TGLP has been approved by the Cabinet, and is
official &overnment policy; however, some elements of it may be modified
following analysis of results of the public consultation. Meanwhile: (a) the
preliminary and complex task of zoning land into commercial, communal and
reserve areas has begun. This exercise is being handled principally at the
district level, with preliminary plans prepared by land use planning advisory
groups (LUPAGS), composed of civil servants, on behalf of the land boards, who
retain ultimate control for zoning, planning, and lease allocation. The
process has necessitated a major data collection exercise, which is being
carried out by a variety of groups, including "sandvelt survey teams" who
assess land and water resources in each area. In general, the zoning exercise
has highlighted the lack of data available - for example, location and numbers
of boreholes in most areas are not known with any precision. The Ministry of
Local Government and Lands is supervising the exercise, under the aegis of a
Land Development Committee of the Cabinet. Approval procedures for zoning
plans have not yet been fully elaborated, but will require consultation with
distri-- councils, approval by the Minister of Local Government and Lands, and
final approval by Land Boards; (b) Land Boards have begun to formulate policies
,r allocation of leases; in some areas, they have agreed to limit leases to
cne per family anid to give priority to groups of individuals; in others, it
appears that Land Boards favor greater flexibility, and would allow individuals
to obtain a number of leases; (c) The Land Development Committee and the
Mtinistry of Local Government and Lands are considering draft lease agreements
and r--viewing how much rent should be charged; a draft lease is attached as
Appendix 1; (d) Legislation necessary to implement TGLP is being prepared.
Most significant is a Communal Management Associations Act, necessary to
facilitate development by groups in communal areas; it would detail regulations
for organization and management of associations; it shoud be presented to
Parliament in late 1977. (e) Wildlife management areas are being planned in
some areas; this is both for conservation purposes and to allow for those who
live by gathering and hunting; (f) Programs are underway to strengthen land
boards and train members and staff. An inspectorate of land boards may be
created, since responsibilities of land boards will be significantly increased
under the TGLP. Training of Land Board members is underway, a project for
development of facilities is being prepared, and general procedures elaborated;



ANNEX 4
Page 6
and (g) development projects forming part of the TGLP are being prepared;
these include this Project and a project for development of basic services
in communal areas, being prepared for EDF.
10.       The preparation of plans and policies to implement the TGLP will be
a protracted process, and many questions remain unresolved. The Cabinet must
act on a number of proposals, including rental fees, etc. Zoning plans will
require extensive discussion and analysis. A preliminary guess of how land
will be allocated is: 20% commercial, 20% reserve and wildlife management
areas, and 60% communal, but little is known definitely at this stage, as
the process of preparing detailed zoning plans is a complex one, requiring
collection of large amounts of data, and detailed consultation with those
involved.
11.       In order to speed implementation, "preliminary development areas"
have been delimited, where it appears to be incontestible that commercial
zoning will be appropriate. The Government hoped in July, 1977, that
some leases to land in these areas could be allocated late in 1977. These
leases will require approval of the Land Board, but also by the Minister
of Local Government and Lands. Further delays might be anticipated in demar-
cating ranch boundaries, and agreeing on terms of leases, including rents.
A further concern is the need to define rights of non-stockowners in commer-
cial areas. It seems probable that, allowing for some delays in finalizing
lease arrangements, development in "preliminary development areas" could
begin quite soon, although the pace of development and numbers of leases
cannot be forecasted at this time. Development of communal areas is likely
to lag behind these developments.
12.       Important issues for the zoning exercise include:  How much land
should be zoned communal? Where should the boundary between communal and
commercial land be fixed? and How much land should be reserved for future
uses? It is not yet clear how much land will be available for commercial
ranching, including land already developed and used, and undeveloped areas
where new boreholes can be drilled. Another unresolved issue is how individ-
uals with boreholes in areas zoned communal or where land is allocated to
someone else will be compensated, and where the money will come from. There
is general agreement that priority in allocation should be given to groups of
individuals, but it is not clear how this will be carried out.
13.       A TGLP coordinator is based in the Ministry of Finance and works
with the three ministries most directly concerned: Finance, Agriculture,
and Local Government and Lands. A number of Committees have been constituted
to direct aspects of TGLP.
14.       Tribal Arable Areas:  The Government intends to formulate a parallel
policy for Tribal Arable Areas over the next two years. Arable areas will be
excluded from the current zoning and planning exercise.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
B. Sociological Issues and Rural Development
Population
15.       Botswana's estimated 1976 population was 750,000 (de jure); of
the de facto population (680,000) about 85% was rural (the urban population
comprises the four large towns: Francistown, Gaborone, Lobatse, and Selebi-
Pikwe). Population is concentrated in the eastern strip, leaving vast
arid areas in the south and west virtually uninhabited. Even in the east,
the population is relatively sparse. The low population density reflects,
however, the poverty of Botswana's agricultural endowments, and the country
is not under-populated in relation to its resources. Table 1 shows population
and area by district. Rural poverty is responsible for a long tradition of
emigration from the rural areas. For generations, men have sought temporary
or permanent employment in the mines or farms of South Africa; an estimated
46,000 people, mostly younger men in the 20-34 age bracket, are absentees.
One consequence is that about 40% of rural households are temporarily or per-
manently without adult men. Since women and men traditionally have distinct
agricultural roles, this has a significant impact. In particular, men tra-
ditionally tend cattle; female-headed households must borrow oxen for plowing,
and it may for that reason be done late. The projected 1991 population
(assuming a population growth rate of 3.3%) is 1,180,000, of which 26% would
be urban. Thus, despite a remarkable pace of urbanization (towns constituted
only 2.4% of the population in 1964, and 16% in 1976), the rural population is
expected to continue to increase, increasing the burden on the rural sector as
a source of jobs and food.
16.       Botswana's population is predominantly of the Tswana group,
a division of the Sotho group of the Bantu family; the Tswana language is
widely spoken in Southern Africa, and, although there are dialectical varia-
tions, the language is generally quite uniform. There are eight principal
tribal groups in Botswana. The oldest race in Botswana are the Bushmen; many
live in Kgalagadi, in small groups as hunters and gatherers.
17.       The Tswana live by tradition in towns; this pattern goes back well
before the early nineteenth century. Each tribal group has a principal town
(commonly termed village), where the chief lives; Serowe, Botswana's largest
village, has an estimated population of over 18,000. There are also sub-
sidiary settlements in each area. Towns are normally collections of small
villages. Botswana has an important tradition of village democracy, within
the tribal structure. Each village has a kgotla, a place where men meet to
discuss local affairs; matters affecting the community must be discussed
in Kgotla. In the past, tribal groups quite frequently moved the site of
towns, possibly when pastures became so overgrazed that it was necessary to
shift. One consequence of the Tswana's concentrated settlement pattern
is that much of the population moves significant distances to cultivate,
graze cattle, and seek employment. As land and grazing near towns became
exhausted, people moved further afield. A family may have arable fields 20 to



ANNEX 4
Page 8
40 kilometers from the village, and a cattle post even further away. Culti-
vated areas are normally in blocks or zones, in which families have fields
close together. No one may live permanently there, or keep cattle except for
plowing. Many Tswana therefore move about quite frequently, leaving towns
almost deserted during
some periods of the year. Distribution of the rural population is estimated
as follows:
Location                      % of Population
Major Villages                            15%
Other Villages                            39%
Cattle Posts                              14%
Freehold Farms                             4%
Arable areas                              27%
Source: National Development Plan.
Rural Income Distribution
18.       Results of a 1974-75 rural income distribution survey (financed
in part by IBRD) have recently become available; they document that rural
wealth and income are significantly skewed. Distribution of rural incomes
is highly unequal; about 40% of rural households, containing 35% of the rural
population subsisted below the rural poverty line. In 1974, the annual income
of the poorest 5% of households was less than P 182 (US$219), taking into
account both cash income and subsistence activities; annual incomes of the
richest 5% of rural households were above P 3,163 (US$3,811), and a few of the
wealthiest households had after-tax incomes of over P 50,000. The median
household income was P 630:



ANNEX 4
Page 9
Annual Household                   Proportion of Households
after-tax income                     with less than this
(Pula)                                income
182                                      5%
233                                     10%
325                                     20%
402                                     30%
507                                     40%
630 (median)                            50%
798                                     60%
954                                     70%
1,068 (mean)                              74,5%
1,335                                     80%
2,094                                     90%
3,163                                     95%
3,959                                     97%
5,096                                     98%
7,100                                     99%
8,944                                     99,5%
12,410                                     99,7%
17,191                                     99,8%
22,787                                     99,9%
31,487                                     99,95%
43,714                                     99,97%
Source: Rural Income Distribution Survey, 1974.
Rural poverty is accentuated by the economy's vulnerability to extraneous
events, notably drought.
19.       The Rural Income Survey highlights the importance of stimulating
rural employment. The employment on which poorer people rely for a signif-
icant part of their total income, and for an even greater share of their
cash income, is mostly informal, normally casually arranged work, often at
low rates of pay. Informal self-employment is also important: for exam-
ple, brewing traditional beer is a major source of cash income for many
unsupported rural women. A further barrier to development of the rural
economy is the gulf between opportunities in the rural sector and in the
towns and mines. The returns to arable agriculture are meager and are worth-
while only if there is no alternative. It would take an almost unimaginable
transformation of agriculture to make it as attractive as the lowest paid
Government employment.
20.       Income from Cattle.  Despite the dominance of the cattle industry in
Botswana's economy, in terms of value added and exports, and notwithstanding
the traditional image of Botswana as a nation of cattle owners and ranchers,



ANNEX 4
Page 10
it appears from recent studies that only a small proportion of the population
derive a substantial part of their income from cattle. Arable agriculture,
small stock, hunting and gathering, working for other people, and income
transfers from the towns, mines, and South Africa are more important than
cattle for most rural households. The Rural Income Distribution Survey
indicates the following profile of source of rural incomes:
(a) Poorest segment of the population (0.5 to 10 percentiles);
average income P 161 a year; transfers into the household
provide most income, followed by gathering of firewood
and wild food. Employment is third, while farming (crops
and livestock) ranks fourth; livestock accounts for an
estimated 5% of income;
(b) Intermediate Group (15 through 50 percentiles); average
income is P 430; employment provides about 36% of income,
crops 9%, livestock 7%, and transfers to the household 14%;
(c) Intermediate Group (60 through 95 percentiles); aver-
age income P 1,669; employment is the most important
source of income (36%), followed by livestock (32%),
income from property (10%) and farming (4%);
(d) Richest Group (97 through 99.7 percentiles); average
income P 9,143; livestock is by far the most important
source of income (64%), followed by trade (22%), and
employment (9%).
In summary, it is clear that cattle production provides the principal source
of livelihood for the wealthiest segment of Botswana's population, while it
is of limited importance for the lowest income groups.
21.       Distribution of Cattle Ownership:  The Rural Income Survey also
addressed the issue of cattle ownership. The question is complicated by the
prevalence of the traditional "mafisa" system, where cattle are given on a
long loan to another individual; the owner retains the power of sale and
right to calves; the holder is entitled to the benefits of milk and draft
power and may be given some calves. Data is also problematic given the sen-
sitivity of questions about cattle ownership. Excluding cattle owned by
urban residents, non-citizens, freehold farm employees, and farmiag com-
panies, the survey concluded as follows (Table 2):
(a) About 45% of rural households own no cattle at all;
(b) The median number of cattle owned by all rural house-
holds is 3: i.e. 50% of households own 3 or less ca,tle;
(c) The median number of cattle owned among cattle-owning
households is 16;
(d) About 5% of rural households owned about 50% of the
cattle herd.



ANNEX 4
Page 11
In summary, the survey indicates that cattle ownership is highly skewed -
still more so than rural incomes.  The implications of this situation, which
are recognized by the Government, are that it will be exceptionally difficult
to spread the benefits of the TGLP to lower income groups. The estimated 200
non-freehold households owning more than 400 head of cattle will be in a
favored position to embark on ranch development. The majority of cattle
owners will have to group together to obtain ranches, while those who own
no cattle are likely to remain largely unaffected.
Traditional Livestock Production
22.       About one half of the national cattle herd and a large, but un-
quantified part of the sheep and goat population are concentrated around
villages. Large herds (up to 1,000) mingle with small herds or single ani-
mals in and around the settlement. One or more water sources for cattle
are located in the immediate vicinity of the village; they may be owned by
individuals who charge a fee for watering, or by the community. With rare
exceptions, pastures around villages are badly overgrazed, the result of
overstocking and poor or non-existent herd management.
23.       Enterprising individuals, normally owners of larger herds, obtain
approval from the chief, now the Land Board, to establish a "cattle post" 1/
outside the village. Cattle posts are located at some distance from vil-
lages, normally at least 10 km. Cattle posts focus on a water source, most
frequently a borehole, and consist of thorn-built enclosures and a few crude
huts. The cattle post is normally attended by one or more employees, very
often relatives of the owner, who live permanently at the post. Their labor
is minimal, as is their remuneration (5 Pula a month is normal); most effort
is focused on maintenance of the borehole pump. Herds are not separated by
age or sex, breeding is uncontrolled and no supplementary feed is provided.
Botswana's animal health situation is fortunate in that no care (vaccination,
dipping or drenching) is required in many areas. Elsewhere, only annual vac-
cinations are needed. Animals go out freely to graze, and return on their
own to the borehole. Kraaling at night is rare, and is done only when pred-
ators have been spotted (lions). Herding is not traditional in Botswana,
and herd-boys do not follow cattle as they graze. Not surprisingly, cattle
often stray out of their area, returning to a neighboring borehole to water.
Sorting out herds and settling ownership disputes is a continuing problem.
A further difficulty is pump breakdowns, which are frequent. Cattle are
then watered, normally with the owners' consent, at neighboring boreholes;
such cooperation is common.
24.       Cattle ownership is highly regarded in Tswana society.  As in
many societies, it confers prestige, and is the source of rural wealth.
Accumulation of cattle is an important goal for most adults, particularly
since alternative investment opportunities are limited. Sales are normally
1/   A cattle post is defined as a place where a household's cattle and
small stock are kept, usually separate from a village.



ANNEX 4
Page 12
made when the owner needs cash. Under these conditions, a "commercial" spirit
is difficult to foster, particularly since an essential requisite for increas-
ing productivity is destocking, a most unpopular proposition in Botswana.
However, there is evidence that many cattle owners are profit-motivated and
receptive to possibilities for raising output, although it is likely to take
some time before a fully commercial ranching system develops.
Rural Development Programs
25.       Although data are poor, it is apparent that rural population of
Botswana has lost ground relative to the urban dwellers in recent years. By
far the most significant activity in terms of Government effort and expendi-
ture aimed to overcome this problem has been the Accelerated Rural Develop-
ment Programme (ARDP). Tnitiated in late 1973, ARDP involved an intensive
effoi.L to ove:come bottlenecks in providing new physical assets in the rural
areas; it was accorded priority from the highest level and in two years
expenditure of P 21 million (current prices) was achieved. To speed implemen-
tation, projects from various Ministries were combined. In the larger villages,
packages covering a variety of items such as schools, housing and clinics were
contracted to private firms. Construction in smaller villages was carried out
by District Councils, either directly or through small local contractors.
Contracts for the supply of school furniture were, for the first time, let to
local producers, and production was coordinated by the Botswana Enterprises
Development Unit. The ARDP succeeded in providin.g rural facilities at P much
more rapid rate than before. Tile admiilistrativn capacity of the District
Councils proved to be greater than had been realized, and construction work by
them and by small local contractors was more economical than the major-village
work by the large construction firms.  On the other hand, both central and
local administration was pushed to the limit; in particular, the quality of
District financial administration suffered. The program was almost certainly
more costly than the previous piecemeal approach because it created a sellers'
markeL: tenders for construction in major villages were much higher than
expected. A detailed evaluation of the ARDP is planned.
August 1, 1977



ANNEX 4
Appendix I
Page 1
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Lease Agreement for Commercial Areas 1/
Memorandum of Agreement of Lease
made and entered into by and between
The                                                                  Land Board
(hereinafter referred to as the Grantor)
represented by
in his capacity as
and duly authorised thereto by resolution of the Land Board hereto annexed
marked 'A'
AND
(hereinafter referred to as the Grantee)
WHEREBY it is agreed as follows:-
1.   LEASE AREA
The Grantor hereby lets to the Grantee who hereby hires certain a piece
of land, being Farm No.                                and approximately
hectares in extent, edged in red on Plan No.                      annexed hereto
marked 'B' and initialled by the parties for identification.
2.   PURPOSE
(a) The leased land shall be used for farming purposes and all things in-
cidental thereto and may not be used for any other purpose without the
written consent of the Grantor.
(b) The Grantee accepts that the Grantor hereby reserves and excludes from
this leae the following rights:
3.   DURATION
This lease shall commence/be deemed to have commenced on          day of
19_ and shall continue for a period of 50 years.
1/   This is a fourth version of the draft lease; it was submittea in
September 1977 for review by land boards and local authorities.



ANNEX 4
Appendix I
Page 2
4.   RENEWAL
The Grantee shall have a right to renew this lease upon such terms and
conditions as the parties may agree by giving the Grantor at any time within
the last three (3) years of the term, at least six months written notice of
his intention to do so, provided however that the Grantee is not in breach of
any of the terms and conditions of this lease.
5.   RENTAL
The Grantee shall pay renlal as provided in Schedule 'C' hereto attat hee.
The said rental shall be payable yearly in advance, free of exchange and
without deduction at the Offices of the Grantor or at such other place as the
Grantor may determine.
The Grantor shall subject to an Appeal to the Minister of Local Goveri-
ment and Lands have a right to review that rental after every five (5) years
of the lease.
6.   DEVELOPMENT AND DUTIES OF GRANTEE
(a) The Grantee shall within 3 months of the commencement of this lease
demarcate the boundaries of the leased area to the satisfaction of
the Grantor.
(b) The Grantee shall maintain the said boundaries.
(c)  The Grantee shall within five (5) years of the commencement of this leape
make and maintain adequate firebreaks along the perimeter of the lease ares.
(d) The Grantee agrees that the maximum number of livestock that he will keep
on the lease area is                     livestock units.  The Grantor hereby
agrees that this number may be revised on application to him, in writing.
(e) The Grantee shall provide adequate watering facilities for the
livestock on the leased land.
(f) The Grantee shall at all tin.es keep the leased land in a clean and
tidy condition.
(g) The Grantee shall farm the land in accordance with the principles of
good husbandry and, in particular the Grantee shall comply
with the provisions of any laws concerning the conservation of
natural resources and good husbandry.
7.   RiGHT OF THE GRANTOR
(a) The Grantor shall at all times have the right to grant a way of necj, -
sity through the lease area to any other person.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 3
(b) The Grantor or any other person authorised thereto by the Grantor
shall at all times have a right to construct on or through any
part of the lease area pipelines, electric transmission lines,
roads, drains railways, telegraphic and telephone lines required
for public purposes, and of taking materials for the purposes of
such works.
(c) No compensation shall be paid by the Grantor or any authority
aforesaid in the exercise of any of its rights under this section
except in respect of the value of any direct damage to improvements
actually sustained by reason of the exercise of these rights.
(d) The Grantor shall at all reasonable times, upon giving notice of
intent, have the right to enter and inspect the lease area.
8.   MORTGAGE HYPOTHECATION AND PLEDGE
(a) The Grantee shall not cede, assign, transfer, make over, mortgage,
hypothecate of pledge whether directly or indirectly in any manner
whatsoever any of the rights in terms of this lease nor sublet,
nor part possession with the leased land or any part thereof,
without the prior written consent of the Grantor which consent
shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(b) Any mortgage hypothecation or pledge made in accordance with the
provisions of Section 26 of the Tribal Land Act, CAP 32.02 shall be
endorsed by the Grantor and the Registrar of Deeds on the Schedule
annexed to the Land Board and Deeds Registry copies of the lease.
(c) Upon the redemption of any mortgage, hypothecation on pledge the
Grantor and the Registrar of Deeds shall be notified within 30
(thirty) days for the cancellation of the endorsement.
(d) A sale in execution of the Grantees rights under this lease in
satisfaction of any debt due by the Grantee shall be subject to
the condition that the purchaser of such rights shall have the
prior written approval of the Grantor.
(e) Any such Sale shall be notified to the Grantor and the Registrar
of Deeds within 30 (thirty) days thereafter for endorsement on
the Lease.
9.   DEATH OF GRANTEE
This lease shall not determine by reason of the death of the Grantee
but shall determine 6 months after the death of the Grantee if no successor
or heir to the Grantee applies to the Grantor that he be substituted as
grantee. The Grantor shall however not be obliged to substitute the heir
as Grantee but until the Grantor rejects in writing the application of the
heir, this lease shall continue and the heir shall for all purposes relating
to this lease be regarded as the Grantee.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 4
10. TERMINATION OF LEASE
(a) The Grantee may terminate this lease by giving six (6) months written
notice, in which case all immovable improvements made by the Grantee
on the lease land shall become the property of the Grantor free of
compensation. On the termination of this lease in terms of this sub-
paragraph, the Grantee shall forthwith vacate the immovable improve-
ments thereon and give possession thereof to the Grantor.
(b) The Grantor may terminate this lease on (six) 6 months written notice
and on payment of prompt and adequate compensation. On payment of
compensation following the issue of such notice, the Grantee shall
forthwith vacate the lease area and all improvements thereon and give
possession thereof to the Grantor.
(c) On termination of this lease by effluxion of time the Grantee shall
re-deliver the lease area and all immovable improvements thereon
to the Grantor who shall as soon as is reasonably possible cause a
valuation of such improvements to be made. Thereafter the Grantor
shall on letting or selling these improvements to a 3rd party com-
pensate the Grantee in a manner to be agreed between the Grantee
and the Grantor. Should the parties not agree on the method and
manner of compensation, the matter shall be referred to the Minister
of Local Government and Lands who shall determine the method and
manner of compensation taking into account the financial ability
of the Grantor.
11. BREACH
(a) Should the rent or any other amounts due under this lease not be
paid on the due date or within thirty (30) days thereafter;
OR
(b) Should the Grantee commit or permit the Commission of a breach of
any of the conditions of this 'Lease and fail to remedy such breach
within thirty (30) days after written notice by the Grantor to the
Grantee requiring the Grantee to remedy such breach;
OR
(c) Should an application be made to place the Grantee in liquidation
and/or sequestration, or should the Grantee give notice of his/her/
its estate as insolvent or make such application or should an appli-
cation be made for the sequestration of the Grantee's estate (which-
ever is applicable) or should such an application be granted (whether
provisional or final) or should judgement be entered against the
Grantee and should the Grantee fail within thirty (30) days after the
entry of such judgement to satisfy the same: then the Grantor shall
be entitled, not withstanding any previous waiver or anything to the



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 5
contrary herein contained, but not obliged, to cancel this lease
forthwith and to retake possession of the lease area without preju-
dice to its claim for any arrear of rental or for any damage which it
may suffer or sustain by reason of such breach and cancellation and
in that event the Grantee shall have no claim whatsoever for any
damage or otherwise against the Grantor.
12. MISCELLANEOUS
(a)  APPEAL TO MINISTER
In the event of the Grantee being aggrieved by a decision of the
Grantor made in terms of this Agreement, the Grantee shall have
the right to appeal to the Minister of Local Government and Lands.
(b) GOVERNING LAWS
This agreement shall be deemed to be a Contract made under the
laws of Botswana and to be considered in accordance with the
said laws of Botswana.
(c) NOTICES
Any communication or written notices shall be given or made and
delivered in writing to the party on whom it is made or to whom
it is given at its address specified herein. The parties choose
for the purposes of this Agreement the following addresses:
The Grantor its offices at
The Grantee
(d) DECLARATION
The Grantor hereby agrees with the Grantee that the Grantee duly
paying the said rent and performing the several stipulations on
his/her/its part herein contained shall peaceably hold the said
land during the said period of 50 years.
(e) It is hereby recorded that the Grantor shall not be obliged to
provide services of any nature whatsoever to the Grantee.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page 6
(f) COSTS
All costs incidental to this lease including Stamp Duty shall be
borne by the Grantee.
(g) HEADINGS
"Section Headings" used in this Agreement are for convenience only
and shall not affect the construction of this Agreement.
(h) AMENDMENTS
Any amendments, modifications or waivers of any of the provisions
of this Agreement shall not be effective unless they have been
reduced to writing and signed by the parties.
THUS DONE AND SIGNED on behalf of the Grantor at
on this                               day of
____________________i 19_ in the presence of the undersigned:
AS WITNESSES
2 .
(for the Grantor)
THUS DONE AND SIGNED on behalf of the Grantee at            _
on this              day of
19_ in the presence of the undersigned:
AS WITNESSES
1.
2.
GRANTEE



ANNL,c 4
Table I
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Area, Population, and Cattle by District
District                     Area (kmf2)         Park's Reserves         Freehold       Rural Popu- a/   Cattle PoDU-b/
SwampC M2U             Land         lation (No.)         tio  No.1-
Tribal         Total
Chobe                          20,750                 10,720                               5,097                6,000         6,000
North East                      5,400                                      3,070          25,806              63,000        112,000
Central                       145,750                 10,450               6,050        216,058            1,045,000    1,108,000
Kgatleng                        7,650                                                    31,150              174,000       174,0()()
Kweneng                        36,800                  2,900                             65,251              224,000       224,000
South East                      1,800                                        980         20,090               67,000        93,000
Southern                       27,000                                                    81,531              268,000       268,000
Kgalagadi                     106,000                 25,550               6,490          15,137              76,000        182,000
Ghanzi                        115,000                 52,000              11,010         11,835               64,000       192,000
Ngamiland                     109,850                 26,630                -            47,723              308,000       308,000
576,000               128,250               27,600        529,670            2,295,000    2,667,000
a/ 1971 Census; Urban population 44,416
b/ 1975 Estimate
May 18, 1977



BQTSWANA                            A       4
SECOIND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT             Table 2
Distribution of Cattle Owned by Rurtal Households
No. of     Estimated   Accumulated  Accumulated  Thousands of        Accumulated
cattle      no. of       % of all    % of cattle  cattle owned        % of all
owned per     run!al        rural         owning    by all the        the cattle
household   households  households    rural HHs   HHs in the         owned by these
owning                                  group            households
this no.
of cattle
0         40,454        45.0%           -             0               0.0%
1          1,209        46.4%          2.5%           1                0.1%
2          2,217        48.9%          7.1%          4 1/2            0.4%
3-4          5,120        54.6%         17.5%         18 1/2            1,5%
5-7          4,874        6o.o%         27.3%         29                3.4%
8-lo         4,921        65.5%         37.3%          44                6.2%
11-15         5,541        71.6%         48.4%          73              10.9%
16-20         7,458        79.9%         63.5%         132 1/2          19.4%
21-25         3,480        83.8%         70.5%          80               24.5%
26-30         3,082        87.2%         76.7%          85               30.0o%
31-35         1,990        89.5%         80.9%          65 1/2          34.2%
36-40           873        90.4%         82.5%          33 1/2          36.4%
41-45         1,446        92.0%         85.5%          61              40.3%
46-50           448        92.5%         86.4%          22              41.7%
51-60         2,080        94.8%         90.5%        115 1/2           49.1%
61-70           724        95.7%         92.2%          47 1/2          52.1%
71-80           702        96.4%         93.5%          53               55.5%
81-100          758        97.2%         94.9%          68 1/2           59.9%
101-125           696       98.1%         96.5%          77               64.9%
126-150           414       98.5%         97.3%          55 1/2           68.4%
151-175          113        98.6%         97.5%          19               69 7
176-200          188        98.9%         98.0%          36              72.0%
201-250          372        99.3%         98.7%          84              77.3%
251-300          116        99.4%         98.9%          31 1/2          79.4%
301-4oo          181        99.6%         99.3%          58              83.1%
401-500          136        99.7%         99.5%          61              87.0%
501-750          142        99.9%         99.8%          89 1/2          92,8%
751-1,000          46       99.96%        99.93%         4o 1/2           95.4%
1,001-1,500          15       99!98%        99!96%         16               96.4%
1,501+               22      100.0%        100.0%          56              100.0%
Total         89,818 (*)                              1.557
(*) Excluding freehold farm employees
Source: The Rural Income Distribution Survey in Botswana
May 18, 1977



ANNEX 5
Page 1
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The First Livestock Development Project (Credit 325-BT)
Project Identification and Preparation
1.        A possible livestock project was first discussed with the Botswana
Government in May 1968; a reconnaissance mission from the Bank's Nairobi
office visited Botswana in August, 1968 and recommended investigation of
possibilities for settling progressive farmers (Africans and non Africans)
on ranches in unoccupied State Lands, establishment of holding grounds in
tribal areas, and further development of existing ranches in high potential
areas. Discussions were-pursued during project preparation missions in April,
1969 and in December 1969.
2.        The Botswana Government submitted a loan request to IDA dated July
30, 1970, comprising:
(a) Establishment of 18 breeding/finishing settlement
ranches in the Western State Lands (Kuli/Nojane area);
(b) Establishment of 18 breeding/finishing settlement
ranches in the Northern State Lands (Bushman Pits
area);
(c) Development of 24 existing Karakul sheep farms in the
Southern State Lands (Bokspits area),
'd) Establishment of 9 cattle finishing ranches in the
Eastern Tribal Lands;
(e) Improvements to existing and construction of new stock
routes and cattle markets; and
(f) Investigations and research for preparing a second
phase livestock project.
The Government proposed to vest the responsibility for ranch and farm devel-
opment in a self-contained unit within the Ministry of Agriculture, with
provisions to call on other Government ministries and departments for services
as and when needed. Government strategy for livestock development was aimed
at reducing animal numbers on overgrazed communal tribal pastures by; (a)
establishing breeding/finishing settlement ranches in unoccupied and unutilized
State Lands onto which the larger cattle owners were to be moved, and (b) by
establishing finishing ranches to fatten cattle belonging to village communi-
ties on a grazing fee basis.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Project Appraisal
3.        The Swedish International Development Agency agreed in December,
1970 to participate in appraisal. The Project was appraised jointly by IDA
and SIDA in March/April, 1971. The appraisal mission endorsed the strategy
proposed by Government and recommended a project comprising of the following
components:-
(a) Development of ranches and farms: 30 settlement
ranches in the Western State Lands, 5 finishing
ranches in the Western State Lands, 9 finishing
ranches in the Eastern Tribal Lands, a large finish-
ing ranch at Makalamabedi in the Northern State
Lands, and 24 Karakul sheep farms in the South-
western State Lands;
(b) Development of Government services: borehole main-
tenance units, stock routes and surveys of Project
ranches, farms and village communal grazing areas; and
(c) Technical studies: on the rehabilitation of village
communal areas, marketing of cattle, effects of fencing
on wildlife migrations, and accumulation of metereological
and range data, to be used in the preparation of a second
phase livestock project.
4.        The appraisal mission introduced two important changes to the gov-
ernment prepared project: (a) the exclusion of settlement ranches in the
Bushman Pits area because the site was severely degraded from continuous
overgrazing by cattle traders and the selection instead of the Makalamabedi
area for the establishment of a large finishing ranch to fatten cattle from
adjoining Ngamiland on a grazing fee basis; and (b) the inclusion of five
additional finishing ranches in the Western State Lands. The mission consi-
dered that none of the existing organizations associated with the livestock
industry in Botswana had the capability to implement the range of ranch and
farm developments called for, and recommended that a semi-autonomous Livestock
Development Corporation (LDC) be established for the purpose. LDC would
develop the ranches and farms, hand them over to approved beneficiaries, and
collect from them the costs of development plus interest over a period of 18
years. The research, technical studies and services components of the project
were to be implemented by Government departments.
5.        A draft appraisal report was transmitted to SIDA in June 1971.  In
August, 1971, SIDA expressed reservations on: (a) the ecological consequences
of establishing ranches on the range and migrations of wildlife; (b) the need
for rehabilitating degraded village communal grazing areas; (c) the need for
firmer provisions to control stock numbers to prevent further destruction of
range; and (d) The sociopolitical implications of using the terms "settlement
ranches" and "syndicates" of farmers becaused they inferred that the Project
aimed at benefiting the more affluent segment of the rural community. A revised
appraisal report included stipulations that studies would be initiated during



ANNEX 5
Page 3
the first year of project implementation to monitor ecological changes and to
rehabilitate communal village pastures, and assurances on the A revised
appraisal report included stipulations that studies would be initiated during
the first year of project implementation to monitor ecological changes and to
rehabilitate communal village pastures, and assurances on the part of Govern-
ment to control overstocking on the communal pastures of villages from which
cattle would be taken to stock the ranches. The terms "settlement ranches"
and "syndicates of farmers" were changed to "breeding ranches" and "groups of
farmers" respectively to indicate that the project did not aim only to benefit
the more affluent segment of the rural community. Despite these changes SIDA
continued to express reservations about the ecological consequences of the
project, which also became the theme of an "International Conference on
Sustained Production from Semi-Arid Areas with Particular Reference to Bots-
wana" held in Gaborone in October, 1971. Another IDA mission visited Botswana
in November 1971 and was advised by Government that no substantial changes
need be made to the Livestock Development Project as a result of the recom-
mendations made by the conference. The Swedish Cabinet and SIDA agreed in
April, 1972 to participate in project negotiations.
6.        A further problem emerged during this period; the Ministry of Fi-
nance and Development Planning proposed new arrangements for project organi-
zation and management. This was first mooted during IDA's November 1971
mission to Botswana; the Government's revised proposals were officially
transmitted to IDA in January, 1972.  They were prompted by the Government's
desire to prevent the proliferation of semi-autonomous parastatal organiza-
tions. They provided that the Project be implemented by existing Government
ministries and departments: ranch and farm development on State Lands by a
Livestock Project Management Unit (LPMU) -- to be established within the Min-
istry of Agriculture, with credit channelled through the NDB, and supporting
services provided by other Government ministries and departments (Geological
Surveys, Water Affairs); and Finishing ranches in the Eastern Tribal Lands and
the Makalamabedi Finishing Ranch in the Northern State Lands, by the Botswana
Livestock Development Company (BLDC) to be established as a subsidiary of the
Botswana Meat Commission (BMC).
7.        A further IDA mission visited Botswana in February, 1972 to discuss
the revised organization and management proposals, and concluded that although
the appraisal recommendations were the most effective way of carrying out the
project, the Government's new proposals would be acceptable if the BMC par-
ticipated in project implementation and if all parties involved reached
agreement on their respective roles. In April, 1972, IDA received from the
Government draft agreements between Government and the BMC for the establish-
ment of the BLDC and between Government and the NDB covering ranch and farm
credit. Despite BMC's initial reluctance to participate in the project and
the reservations expressed by IDA's preparation and appraisal missions on the
possibility of implementing the project through existing Government institu-
tions, project organization and management arrangements along the lines
proposed by the Ministry of Finance and Development Planning were finally
accepted by IDA.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Credit Negotiations and Effectiveness
8.        The Project was negotiated in May, 1972.  Total project costs were
estimated at US$5.4 million; IDA and SIDA each provided a credit of US$1.65
million, and agreed to administer the project jointly. The project's rate of
return was estimated at 21%. The legal documents were signed on June 30, 1972
and the date of credit effectiveness was set for December 31, 1972. This was,
however, twice postponed-first to March 31, 1973 and then to April 30, 1973.
The delays resulted from difficulties in fulfilling all conditions of credit
effectiveness, especially the formation and incorporation of BLDC as a sub-
sidiary of BMC and the recruitment of a Project Manager for LPMU. The Gov-
ernment-nominated candidate for this post was approved by IDA in March, 1973,
although concern had been expressed about the candidate's managerial and
organizational abilities. In summary, the protracted period of two years
between project appraisal and credit effectiveness was due to: (a) The
reservations of SIDA on ecological and sociological issues; (b) The sub-
mission of new proposals by Government for Project organization and manage-
ment; and (c) Delays in fulfilling all conditions of credit effectiveness.
Project Implementation
9.        Except for the Makalamabedi Ranch, project implementation was
delayed about two years, and is still far behind schedule. Despite initial
stockpiling of large amounts of ranch and farm supplies and equipment, dis-
bursements to end of July, 1977 totalled about US$1.2 million out of the
US$1.65 million IDA credit. The Government recently requested a year exten-
sion to the June 30, 1977 closing date of the project.
10.       LPMU Activities:  LPMU is responsible under the project for develop-
ing 30 breeding ranches and 5 finishing ranches in the Western State Lands and
24 Karakul sheep farms in the Southwestern State Lands. During the course of
project implementation, the Government requested that LPMU also assume respon-
sibility for the stock route component. A summary of LPMU activities is
presented in Tables I and 2, which show that:
(a) LPMU had developed 8 breeding ranches, 4 finishing
ranches, and 5 sheep farms as of December, 1976 com-
pared with the appraisal estimates of 30, 5, and 24
respectively;
(b) LPMU expects to complete another 15 breeding ranches
and 7 sheep farms by the end of December, 1977 bring-
ing the total to 23 breeding ranches, 4 finishing
ranches and 12 sheep farms compared with 30, 5 and 24,
respectively, envisaged at appraisal;
(c) LPMU was one year behind the appraisal estimate in de-
veloping the first breeding ranch, two years behind in
developing the first finishing ranch and three years
behind in developing the first sheep farm;



ANNEX 5
Page 5
(d) The LPMU's costs of ranch and farm development were
50-80% higher than appraisal estimates despite initial
bulk buying of supplies and equipment. With costs
listed merely as expenditures, with many ranches and
farms still in various stages of development and with
no audit and inventory on the nature and extent of
ranch and farm development, it is virtually impossible
to assess the actual situation at this stage;
(e) The LPMU had so far allocated only 4 ranches on tem-
porary leases to cattlemen owning a total of 2000 cattle
compared with the appraisal estimate of 30 and 8000
respectively;
(f) The LPMU had not been successful in fully stocking the
finishing ranches with either fee paying cattle or with
purchased cattle bought under the Grazier Scheme; and
(g) The Government had not finalized legal arrangements for
providing Project beneficiaries with leases to land and
ranch/farm credit through NDB.
With the exception of the expatriate field service supervisor who served for
one and half years from mid 1974 to late 1975 before submitting his resigna-
tion, LPMU recruited and retained virtually the same complement of staff
recommended at appraisal (Table 3).
11.       The Government attributes delays in project implementation to
logistic problems and poor project design, administration, and management.
The project manager, on the other hand, attributes delays to the ineffi-
ciency and red tape of the Government ministries and departments involved.
The Project Manager experienced personal problems soon after his appointment
which interfered with the execution of his duties. In retrospect, there is
validity in all these explanations. Logistic problems and poor management of
LPMU caused many delays; some delays appeared to result from insufficient
government attention and support, notably in speeding drilling and equipping
of boreholes, selecting fencing contractors, drawing up legal documents for
leases to land, providing credit to beneficiaries of developed ranches, and
establishing grazing fees on finishing ranches. Some boreholes were drilled
outside the designated project area, with a high incidence of failures;
contracts for borehole drilling and fence construction took a long time
to finalize and were frequently awarded to incompetent contractors.
12.       Although the First Livestock Project Credit Agreement stipulated
that cattle on breeding ranches would be managed as a single herd and that
prescribed stocking rates would be maintained, it appears that neither of
these two conditions have been adequately met. Two ranches observed during
the appraisal mission had been occupied for less than a year and yet there
was considerable range destruction around the borehole suggesting overstock-
ing. The occupants of the ranches also kept their individual herds separated
in different paddocks giving little chance for the range to recuperate and
leaving little reserve feed in case of drought. Further, no attempt has been



ANNEX 5
Page 6
made by LPMU to abide with the appraisal proposal of stocking the finishing
ranches with purchased cattle bought under the Grazier Scheme when fee pay-
ing cattle from nearby villages did not come forward in the numbers required.
Despite the presence of two extension agents in the area there was little
evidence to indicate that they were having much impact in improving the
level of ranch management. Fences and water and mineral troughs were broken
down and in disrepair; one of the boreholes engines had stopped functioning
two weeks earlier, and piping had been stockpiled unshaded in the sun to the
point of cracking and becoming useless. In summary, the ranches were being
operated in virtually the same fashion as the traditional cattle posts.
Despite these problems, the ranches developed by LPMU could be operated
profitably if recommended stocking rates are maintained, if ranch cattle
are managed as a single herd, and if proper management, servicing, exten-
sion and supervision are provided. These preconditions are unlikely to mate-
rialize without close, constructive and concerted cooperation and effort be-
tween Government and LPMU. Unless changes are made, the objective of using
the ranches as a demonstration of proper management cannot be achieved.
13.       Karakul sheep farm development poses no particular problem although
fewer farms are being developed than were planned. Pelt prices have risen to
about R 15.00 each compared to the appraisal estimate of R 6.60 which should
be more than sufficient to compensate for the -ncrease in development costs.
The number of farms to be developed will, however, be reduced from 24 to 12
because test drillings have demonstrated the absence of subterranean water in
the area concerned.
14.       Finishing ranches cannot be operated along the lines envisaged by
appraisal, i.e., to fatten village cattle on a grazing fee basis, since it is
clear that villagers are unwilling to pay grazing fees, no matter how small,
when communal pastures offer sufficr- it feed and their animals are not threat-
ened with starvation. Therefore, the Xie ranches promise to remain understocked
and unprofitable in the future; under these circumstances, LPMU could opt for
one of three solutions: either to hand them over to owners of large herds of
cattle as breeding ranches, to operate them as finishing ranches with cattle
purchased under the Grazier Scheme, or to dispose of them. The second alter-
native might help to improve producer cattle prices and reduce cattle losses
during periods of drought.
15.       BLDC Operations:  BLDC is responsible for developing and operating
nine finishing ranches in the Eastern Tribal Lands and a large finishing
ranch near Makalamabedi in the Northern State Lands. BLDC has completed
four of the nine finishing ranches plus the Makalamabedi Ranch (Table
3). Development of the BLDC finishing ranches suffered similar afflic-
tions to those besetting the breeding and finishing ranches in the Western
State Lands: delays in obtaining leases to land, drilling and equipping
boreholes, purchasing ranch supplies and equipment, and recruiting fencing
contractors. In February, 1977, BLDC had completed four ranches (two years
behind schedule), at a total cost of about R 158,000 for fencing, water
supply and buildings, compared with the appraisal estimate of around R
126,000. The ranches have never been fully stocked and in October 1976
carried less than a third the number of animals projected at appraisal (621
compared with 2200), indicating that BLDC, like LPMU, had been unsucces3sful



ANNEX 5
Page 7
either in attracting sufficient numbers of fee paying village cattle or in
purchasing cattle under the Grazier Scheme. The ranches were, therefore,
operated at a loss. The current grazing fee of R 2.40/beast/month is barely
sufficient to cover ranch operating costs and even if fully stocked the
ranches are unlikely to generate sufficient income to repay development
costs and interest together with their share of past and future BLDC over-
head headquarters costs.
16.       The Makalamabedi ranch was completely developed and fully opera-
tional more than a year ahead of schedule. Development costs of fencing,
water supply and buildings, however, totalled around R 443,000 compared
with about R 233,000 estimated at appraisal, thereby utilizing funds desig-
nated for finishing ranches. Despite the high costs incurred, the Makalama-
bedi Ranch appears to have been successful in increasing the flow of cattle
from Ngamiland to the export abattoir at Lobatse and in increasing producer
cattle prices in Ngamiland by two fold over the past three years. The ranch
appears to be financially viable and capable of repaying its development
costs. Development of the Makalamabedi Ranch was relatively successful
because: (a) the ranch was sited on unoccupied land adjacent to the Botletle
River and Government granted BLDC title to the land and rights to the use of
river water before the credit was negotiated, and without recourse to the
Tribal Land Board concerned; (b) the ranch water reticulation contract was
awarded to a private firm and involvement of the Departments of Geological
Surveys and Water Affairs in the execution of the work program was minimal;
and (c) capable ranch managers were recruited.
17.       BLDC was established as a subsidiary of BMC; BMC was responsible for
providing BLDC with guidance and services and appointing three of its five
board members, including the Chairman. In fact BMC has provided its subsid-
iary with minimal guidance and services. Distressed by BLDC's disastrous
financial position, BMC's Board voted in February, 1977 to liquidate BLDC.
This prompted discussions among the various departments of Government
concerned regarding appropriate remedial action. The Government has
decided to change the role of BLDC from fattening cattle for villagers
to marketing and trading in cattle and possibly to fattening purchased
animals on ranches already developed. Proposals for reconstituting BLDC
have been submitted for IDA review; they involve reconstituting BLDC as a
government-owned company, independent of BMC.
Conclusions
18.       The project was three years late in getting underway; one year
was lost between appraisal and effectiveness and two years during the
initial stages of implementation. The project will be at least one year
late in being completed and, largely because of initial delays in implemen-
tation and cost escalation, only half the work program initially prescribed
is likely to be completed. The project has encountered serious problems,
and is considered by the Government to be a failure, and an example of how
not to proceed in future. This experience has demonstrated difficulties
in implementing a complicated national livestock development program.
October 3, 1977



ANNEX 5
'I'able 1
BOTSWANA
SECOND LTVESTOCK DEVELOPMET PROJECT
First Livestock Development Project!
Appraisal Estimates of LPMU's Work Program and Actual Performance
Appraisal          Actual               Expected
Category                          Estimate!       Performance:          Performance:
June 30, 1977    Dece. 30, 1976         Dec. 30, 1977
Breeding Ranches
Ranches developed                      30                8                     23
Boreholes drilled (no.)                30                8                     23
Boreholes equipped (no.)               30               13                     23
Water Reticulation, on ranches         30               11                     23
Fencing (km)                       1,248               464                    814
Ranches settled (no.)                  30                4                     23
Cattle on ranches (no.)            7,904             2,000                11,136
Finishing Ranches
Ranches developed                       5                44                     4
Boreholes drilled (no.)                 5                3/                     3-a
Boreholes equipped (no.)                5                3                      33a/
Water reticulation, on ranches          5                4                      4
Fencing (km)                         165               125                    125
Grazing fee - Paying cattle
no ./                            650               239                   760
Grazier scheme cattle held (no.) 1,350                  -                      -
Karakul Sheep Farms
Farms developed                        24                5                     12
Boreholes drilled (no.)                24               -
Boreholes equipped (no.)               24               --
Water reticulation                     24                5                     12
Fencing perimeter (km)                576               n.a.                  n.a.
Fencing internal (km)                 460               n.a.                  n.a.
Sheep purchases (no.)              7,800             2,400                  2,400
Pelts sold (no.)                  11,768                n.a.               15,554
Stockroutes
Equipped boreholes (no.)                1                5                      7
Sand extraction plants (no.)            3                -                      -
Water distribution systems (no.)        9                -                      7
Night paddocks                          9                6                     13
a/ One borehole large enough for two ranches
b/ Grazing fee of P 1.50/beast/month
Source; LPMTU
May 10, 1977



AMN= 
Table 2
BOTSWANA
SECOST LIVESTOCK DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
Progression of LPMU's Work Program to December, 1976
comnleted                      to be completed
Category            1973/74  1974/75   1975/76        1976/77    1977/78    Total
Breeding Ranches
Apprraisa_ estimate of
ranches developed (no.)        -         8        12            10         -          30
Ranches actually developed                          a2
(no.                                     -          2            6        15a/        23,-
Ranches actually occupied
(nc-)                          _                   2             2         -           4
Appraisal estimate of
development costs/ranch
(R)                        15,240        -         -        17,5260/       -    525,780
Actual estimate of
development costs/ranch
(R)                            -         -    25,000        30,0000i
Total expenditure incurred
(R)                        16,583    148,437  90,144       154,366         -    49,5~/
Fattening Ranches
Appraisal estimate of ranches
developed (no.)                          2         2              -         -          5
Ranches actually developed
(no.)                           -        -         2              2        -           1
Appraisal estimate of develop-
ment costs/Ranch (R)       26,357        -         -          30,3l0!       _     151,550
Total expenditure incurred   12,989     61,751  46,136         34,102         -     154,978W
Karakul Sheet Farms
Aprraisal estimate of farms
comnleted (no.)                 -        6        10              8        -           24
Farms .ctually developed (no.)    -        -         -               5        7          12L!
Appraisai estimate of develop-
ment costs/Farm (R)        18,790        -         -           21,608-L/    -     518,592
Total expenditure incurred
(R)                         7,718    202,643   9,215          46,472       -     226,048:/
Equipment and supplied to
farms (R)                       -        -         -         186,981              186,981
Total expended by LPMU on
ranch and farm develop-                                                           790,526
ment
a! Five ranches in process of development and 10 more expected to be developed next year.
b/ Cost increases because of 15% price contingency,
c/ Fencing costs during five-year period following negotiations rose from R 190 to R 325/mile
and equipped boreholes from R 4,600 to F 10,000 each. Also includes R 4,000 for service
conriany share carital.
d/ Large portion spent on bulk purchase of ranch and farm supplies and equipment. Also
includes expenditures on yet incompleted ranches.
e/ Work program now calls for complete development of 23 breeding ranches, 4 finishing
ranches and 12 sheep farms.
f/ Cost of developing each finishing ranch is about F 38,700
May 12, 1977



ANNEX 5
Table 3
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPME=  PROJECT
First Livestock Development TProject:
BLDC's Work Program: Appraisal Estimates and Actual Performance
Appraisal Estimate        Actual Performance
Category                                is June 30, 1977         to October 30, 1976
Tribal Land Finishing Ranches
Ranches developed (no.)                         9                           4
Boreholes drilled (no.)                        18                           8
Boreholes equipped (no.)                       18                           8
Fencing (km)                                  648                         195
Cattle handling yards (no.)                     9                           4
Managers houses (no.)                           9                           4
Managers in post (no.)                          9                           4
Fee paying cattle (no.)                     4,200                         130
Grazier cattle (no.)                        1,950                         491
Makalamabedi Ranch
Pumping units (no.)                             1                           2
Water reticulation (% complete)               100                         100
Fencing (kin)                                 272                         371a/
Roads (km)                                     32                          42
Cattle yards (no.)                              3                           4
Managers House (no.)                            1                           1
Assistant Managersf house (no.)                                             2
Other houses (no.)                             20                          28
Cattle purchased in 1976 (no.)              3,900                      5,199
Cattle sold in 1976 (no.)                   3,419                      3,750
Cattle on ranch (no.)                       5772                       4,985
a/ More than appraisal estimate because of large ranch area and double
fencing for veterinary purposes.
Source: BLDC
May 11, 1977



AnNE X6
Tabl.. I
BOTSWANA
SECOND L1VESOCKDIrVEWP:4ENT PROJECT
Herd Projection: With Project
(Ranch 475 Animal Units)
HCRO DEVELOPMENT PROJECTTON
END OF YEAR
2         3         4         S          6         7         8          9        t0        iI 1t                13    14
NE4R C0hPOS3T1ON
04EtD1'oG COWS                           IT8           ..  203         207        2D7       20b       207        206       207       207       207        207       207  go?
BJLLS                                      7         7          S         a         8          8         B         *         6          S         4         6          6     6
CALVES                                   to0        AA       t00        III       124       124        134       134       145       145        145       145       IiS   14
924  4J%TI  MCItE4S                       44        46       4*          47        12        i6         I6        L2        63         67        67        6?        .7    67
9-24  MONTm STEERS                        44        06         41        47        12        go         56        68        63        67         67        6?        67   87
24-1L6 KONT   NEIFERS                    OR        40         42        37        44        46         14        1t        is        so         63        .0         iS   as
24-06  MONTe  MM1245                      44        40        42         37        44        48         54        54        iS        is         63       6*          63   63
3b.46 MOTN   HEIFERS                      2S        32         Li         *         0          0         a         0          0         0         0         0          0     o
36-48 MONTH STEERS                        2?        24         to                   a          0              0 0  0         0          0
*A-eO MONT" STEERS                         0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0                0
A0-72 MONTH  STEERS                                             0         0               0         0              0          0         0                   0          0    a
TUTAL   NCMER                            420       421       406       400        406       426       436 3      447       46        466        475       472       475  475
(TOTAL  ANtMAS)                          521 S2     10       509       511       lst        550       S72       tSI        601       611       L20       417       6*0  616
TUTAL AhIAL UWNTS                       420       421       406       400        406       42,       436       447        406       466       415       *72        *7S  470
MORTALITY
BRECEDNG CUP$                             Id        lo        1t         16        14         14        14        14        14         14        14        la        IA   14
SUL6S                                      I          I         1         I         1          I         I         I          I         I         I         I          I    I
NEA*EQS                                    9         9          7    8              a          9         9    *              9        10         10        1          00    1 0
9-24  mONTN MESEMS                         6         4          4         3         3          4         4         4         4          4         *         5          5    5
9-.4 MON4TSTEERS                           4         4          4         3         3          4         4         4         4          4         0         S         s    5
2436 MONTH W       FIZERS                  3         0          3         3         3          3         1         4         4          a         4         a          4    4
2436   ONTASTEERS                          3         4          3         3         3          3         5         4          4         4         4         4          4    4
36-48 MONTH HIERS                          2         2          3         1         1          0         0         0          0         0         0         0          O    O
3L.46  NONh STEERS                         2         2          2         1         1          0         0         0         4          0         a         0          o    o
48-60 MONTM StCeRS                         2         0                    0                    0         0         a         0          a         0         0          0 
*0-72 MONTN STERES                         2         0          0         0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0    a
TOTAL  _/                                 43        S         34         32        26        26         30         l        31        S2         33        5S        33   11
PUR CHtASES
BULL3                                      2         3          3         3         3         2          3         3         3         3          3         3         1    1
,. ........................ .................. -............  .................
TOTAL                                      2         3          3         3         3         2          3    3              3         3          3         3         3    B
3ALE5
DuLLS                                      2         2          1 2                 2          2         2         2         2         2          2         8         2    8
24.36 MONT!I NESPESS
CULL                                      0         0          a         0         0         0                   0         0         0          0         3         0 
24-36 MONTO 4tBeRS                         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0    a
36.46 RoNTO MEIPERS
CULL                                      0         0         5          0         3         4         4          *         '                    I 0                 6    6
36.46  MONTNM  IIpeRS                      a         0          0         4         0          0         a         I         0                    7        11              it
36.46 MONTh 4T1R1                          0        106       22         31        39        41        45         so        so        54        94         so        so   is
4~6.60  MONTO HEIFERS
CL2                                                                                0         0         0          4         0 O                 0 e  0  o
4B.605001'IIMEIPER6   0         0          0         8        ~~         ~~        ~~        ~~        ~~ ~ ~~             ~     ~ ~       ~ ~~~~~~~~~~3  0  0  00         
46.6OM    T 1 Mm StleRS                   17        20        22         13         7         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0    o
c0072 KONTM SItERS                        36         0          0         0         0         0                   0                   o          e 0                 e 0
'ATTENIN0 CULL FIM                        ?7       1          17        21        21        23        as         as        as        27                             my 87  87   8?
*9Ce'.7    .. ..                          ...CC ....Iq ..
Her prrJ.ection  onoociated  with a ranch in which Che potential carrying capacity of 475 A.U. has bee. degraded due to over.tocking by about 202.  The
ntr.duction of Cmproved -nanageme-t gradually recuperates the range (See Model 2C. Annex 20 of Volume II).
1/ Totals are subject to rounding error.
7/  Not includ!n       *rr.
1977



L261 'S 4-N'9"
Vo.S;p...o   3096al  92j/
2        62         6 ?        01         9           1         *91                 *el .....    ....    ... 1.    9 1        91        11         l 26       9if       9         Os         It        2L
0l        o;1        it         II         II         li         9  21    *                    El' 11 19           1!         9         91         61         61        Li         61         St        VI                    wij 1-,n0  1*41N2119
it        9         if         91e        61         bi        ti?      0?         19         22        ii         22         22        E?         2         92        is         22         II1       91                    192219  6190W 22-09
*1        9          0          0          6)         a                  0          c          9         9          9          9         v          0          0 1       9a20                  9         2                     6A93'6s
I                                                                          1 9   I                   I          I         I         I 9                                                         
.1  9  1   I          9          I         I        9          9         1          9          9          1         I          I         I          9          9         9         9                                       9111*9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tI    I    II    oin
Cgjsvoolsns                                                                                                                                        9299vw1O9n
92        w9         9          92         62'        DE         II      22         E9         91        S1         91         91        21   91E99                      '          Or        1*         40,                                 ,    90
o                          0          0         9          o        0         9          9          9                                                                                                                          39   90    92  HOIIINOW ZL-09
2    2         ~~         ~     ~ ~       ~~         ~~~2  2  2  2      2     E                     1         1          1.         1         1          1         E          1*                  126t   CI I;H HIN906v-91E
2  2  2    9          2          *1         2    2             2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                       ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E             E9  5    S 63o3 461W0 99-9
2         2                                           E                             E                    E          I         E          E          I1        I          9          *         9,         S                     199319  61N9W 9I-6
2         2                                                    I                    1I                                        1          E          I         1          E1                   9 6        1*J913H1**LNOW 't-s
9         9          9          1*         9          *          9       I                    I                                          I                     9         I          I         *          I                                      sln
99 11                2*         2K         ii        El           :      11         99   hi 9I            1         h1        Si         91         91        II         11        91        LSI        02                            MV9919
992       992        112        192        662       9o2        *17E    211        621        ee         90.1      11         66        991         LIf      291        966       611*      69*9*      911                    ClIIwn 191799  19101i
192?      992        Ste        162        662       962       't1    211 z        021        979        951       201        61        b99,      O21        /91        961       699        SIt',     96"                          2b*'l    90
9         i    0                9         *1                   0         I          7o        a          1          0         9          9          9         9          9          0         0         Q                      193319: 69 2-q
91        61I        61         92   02               *2le       l   12 22          2         62         De         52        62         622 I91                         11 IE                ti        Li                     6113Afl1  610    9
02        92         I2         I2         72         I2        12      1, 2        91        Se         92         2        2         2        2         le         IE        61         61        2                     193111  *1w9-1
1*2       92         12         12         e 22       1         E 41?    92         22        62         92         2.       L    L      e 12     12         12                    SE 61     26        21                    29j9361   9069
*2        22         12         12         62         92        Si       92         92        2         92        62         91         91        91         01         DE        Li         61        it?                    2933J19 696 1-*
22        22         12         12         *2e        92        se       92         92        22         92         62        91         O1        91         01         91        i1         61        V."                   9934136   196 11
S.2       De         9?         62?        91         92         e      92          ? 2      C          at 91      e1                   L 1        96        "1         II        '1         9*,       11 2,C.13311 01900  92-6
t9?       92?        1*2        62         91        92        L2       92        6z         b          Os 62  9. 91         21         Ili             "     E. 9      IE        91         it,       It,                    993111*.  01(69
01.       is*        S.*        1*         96         ,         69      99         29        19         19        99         99         Li        9         ;16                   4          1        9                                      23Al90
9y        9i         S          6          S .                 S                    9         9    9          9               9          9         9                               L           1                                                 19
999        III       99 I1      19        929        1         'Le2    01         oI7 L     919        lo        7, 199,"tI  **        I5.       Os,        699        991       999        199       991                          1*    9129
409111q0d2n9  J916                                                                                                                                 9011920dw00   0929
62  6?       6!        ~~~        ~~~        ~~~       ~~~~LI  9*  S,  S I   I1 2     19         0         6          9          2         9          9*        *          1          2         I
I'   0913220s6  1N921012212011 OftH   01~                                                                                                                  1`3209   19360,1292A0  3969H
3*.9OlIr  110 0N21  1004119 W *'L 130 UNbA 92
13996I91MYII S* *i. 0-OOU 1904
I'l J,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~99.0
/ LII'



AhRNE 6
Table 3
10730004
SECOND LIVESTOCK DE7ELOPRMENT PROJECT
Suery of Technical and Fin-ncial Otpts:
Cattle Post V-rn- t R-ch Sytem- Degroded R-nge  0/
FInal levet-  Fia-aial
1         2          3         4          5          6         7          8         9        10          11        12         13         14         15        16         17         18        19         20     -ay  velay (F) Rate of Re-nee
A  Herd Sie  (Y)
Cattle Pest (2A)                      527        519       493        472       457        444        435       425        414        403       392        382        372       362        353        344        335       326        318        311       29,086
Ranch (2C)                            521        510       509        511        531       550        572       581        601        611       620        617        620       620        620        620        620       620        620        620        54,560
Y  No. Anial  Reid
Cattle Post (2A)                       77         31        50         47        44         42         37        36         36         36        35         34         33        32         31         30         30        29         28         27
Ranch (2S)                            100         56        66         71         71        70         76        87         87         95        96        107        101        104       104        104        104       104        104        104
C ERtraction Rate (IOO1/A)
Cattle Pos  (2A)                       15          6        10         10         10         9          9         8          9          9         9          9          9          9         9          9          9          9         9          9
Rach (2C)                              19         11        13         14         13        13         13        15         14         16        15         17         16         17        17         17         17         17        17         17
D  Re titeat6nn(2)
Cattle Post (2A)                       92         94        88         04        80         78         77        75         73         71        69         67         66         64        62         61         59         57        56         55
EaRth (2C)                             88         87        85         84         85        90         92         94        96         98       100         99        100        100       100        100        100        100       100        100
E Income (P)
Cartre Peer (2A)                   10,150     4,105      6,560      6,425     5,990      5,845      5,000     5,000      4,880      4,880     4,880      4,485      4,340     4,340      4,075      4,075      3,930     3,930      3,665      3,665
Ra-eh (2C)                         13,275      7,400     8,710      9,755      9,775     9,530    10,350    11,830    11,830    12,910    12,910    14,450    13,860    14,120    14,120    14,120    14,120    14,120    14,120    14,120
P. 2R.27atEr  Coats .
Cattle Pent (2A)                    2,913      3,097     2,999      2,915     2,856      2,808      2,784     2,755      2,720      2,683     2,646      2,612      2,581      2,550     2,5i2O     2,490      2,460      2,432     2,404      2,384
Ra-ch (2C)                          3,787      5,445     5,903      5,871      5,905     5,852      6,060     6,106      6,150      6,200     6,244      6,230      6,244      6,244     6,244      6,244      6,244      6,244     6,244      6,244
G  tet Setome (E-F)
Cattle Pe-r (2A)                    7,237      1,007     3,561      3,510      3,133     3,036      2,216     2,244      2,159      2,196     2,234      1,872      1,759      1,789      1,555     1.585      1,469      1,496      1,260     1,280
Rarth (2C)                          9,408      1,954     2,807      3,883      3,869     3,678      4,289     5,724      5,679      6,710     6,665      8,219      7,615      7,875      7,875     7,875      7,875      7,875     7,875      7,875
(2C)  11,20   8,400     2,50          -          -         -          -         -        -            -         -         -          -          -          -          --          -        -           -          -                        13.97
Ranch (SC)                         11,200      0,400     2,500         -                    _          _         _-                                                                                    _                                                                     39
I/ Medal 2A V-ctet 2C (Annex 20, VRelae 00)
Agosst 4, 1977



ANNEX 7
Page 1
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Communal Grazing Units
Background
1.        Evidence of increasing, and in some areas possibly irreversible,
-lamage to grasslands resulting from uncontrolled grazing of livestock was a
major incentive for tl-c Government of Botswana in introducing the TGTP (Annex 4).
Ihe Government recognizes that in addition to providing opportunities for the
larger cattle owners to embark oui commercial ranching exercises, it is also
essential to spread the benefits to small cattle owners in communal grazing
areas withoiit causirg fur-her detriment to the range. Botswana's Tribal
Land communal pastures (i.e., those likely to be zoned communal under TGLP)
include all uncultivated land and crop aftermaths in populated areas; the
1974-75 agricultural survey indicated that these pastures are utilized, in
general, by cattlemen owning less than 100 head of cattle. Many of these com-
munal grazing areas are already degraded by local overgrazing and inadequate
distribution of stock around the available water sources; the pattern of
range degradation in communal areas, particularly around villages, is gen-
erally more serious than that encountered in areas likely to be designated
as "commercial" under the TGLP, i.e. "cattie posts."
2.        Methods for the restoration of range under continuous usage have
not been tested under the extensive, semi-arid, conditions of Botswana.
There are, however, advocates of rotational grazing systems using large
numbers of paddocks, who claim that range condition can be maintained and
increased by the adoption of these systems; as many as 16 paddocks per herd
are recommended involving large capital outlays. Such systems are being
used in Rhodesia, pioneered by the ecologist, Alan Savory. A trial system
is being operated in Botswana at Serowe but no conclusions can yet be drawn,
because it has been underway too short a time, and the data necessary for an
objective evaluatiox, are not available. In the mission's view, it would
be technically and financially risky to recommend direct implementation by
farmers of such a technology, particularly since it is unproven in Botswana,
in communal grazing lands, when simpler alternatives might achieve the same
results in terms of increasing animal output and improving the condition
of the range. This Annex presents proposals for the testing of alternative
grazing systems to provide: (i) information on technically and economically
feasible methods of range use for communal grazing areas; and (ii) opportun-
ities to develop management potential in the local community as well as for
identifying forms of cooperative arrangements on the basis of suitable produc-
tion systems.
Component Design
3.        Twelve communal grazing units representing the combination of
three ecological re--ions and four grazing systems would be developed and



ANNEX 7
Page 2
maintained for a period of time commensurate with the need to obtain reliable
results reflecting the range of year-to-year variation occuring in Botswana.
While the evaluation of grazing systems is a long-term process -- particularly
when the degree of control over the experimental material is limited, as in
this case -- it is felt that data collected over a period of five years would
provide a reasonable basis for a preliminary assessment. It is expected that
this experiment would suggest a constellation of further aspects deserving
a more detailed and controlled investigation.
4.        The three ecological regions would represent communal areas located
in: a) the "hardvelt" of the Limpopo unit soils in the east; b) the "mopane
veld" of the northeast of Botswana which, although on similar soils to the
"hardvelt", has a different vegetation cover; and c) the "sandvelt" of the
Kalahari sand soils type on the eastern edge of the Kalahari. Within each
ecological region, the grazing systems to be tested would be: i) continuous
grazing; ii) 3 paddocks per herd; iii) 8 paddocks per herd; and iv) 16 paddocks
per herd. Each of the twelve grazing units would be further sub-divided to
provide for a replication of the treatment. Due to the variability in rainfall
among and within years, stocking rates would be managed for each grazing system-
ecological region combination according to the availability of herbage. System
performance would be evaluated through animal load, animal performance, grass
yield and range trend. In summary, there would be 12 grazing units and
a total of 24 "plots" (two replicates per system-area combination); each unit,
of about 2,000 ha, would provide grazing for 300 animals (weaners on entry)
which would be maintained by APRU for a two-year period within the cell and
then returned to the owners; this would necessitate annual admissions of half
the stock requirements. Labor, cattle maintenance and water pumping expenses
would be borne out by the respective communities. The grazing units would be
maintained under APRU's "reasonably acceptable" management system, consisting
of salt-mineral supplementation and veterinary control.
5.        While the evaluation of grazing systems as envisaged here would not
be carried out under fully controlled conditions -- since a complete control
of the facilities and animals in communal areas would be most difficult to
achieve -- every effort should be made to eliminate possible sources of bias
which might render the evaluation meaningless. For example, efforts should
be made to standardize management practices among units in a way similar to
that currently found in APRU's research ranches; this should not be difficult
to achieve but would require considerable planning and supervision. Ideally,
the grazing cell would be sited on an existing water facility, but provision
has been made for drilling and equipping a borehole, should this be necessary;
all management facilities would be located at the center of the grazing cell.
6.        It is anticipated that there will be logistic, supervisory and
climatic problems which might complicate a rigorous and sound statistical
treatment of the data. However, there are a number of ways to circumvent
problems arising in the analysis of missing data and of inter-location
comparisons. For example, the feature of providing an intra-location repli-
cation of each grazing system provides the means to compare and test systems
within a region should the data of the other two regions become meaningless



ANNEX 7
Page 3
for one reason Or  another;  the design is, thus flexible in several ways
and should make it possible to carry out an objective evaluation of grazing
systems in communal pastures. To provide a conceptual framework for the
analysis and interpretation of the results, systematic sources of vari-
ability -- i.e., those accounted for in the design -- may be partitioned as
follows:
Source of Variation   Degrees of Freedom        Hypothesis Tested
1.   Ecological Regions (E)         2            1.  Average differences among the
three regions
2.   Grazing Systems (G)            3            2.  Average differences among
the four systems
3.   E x G                          6            3.  Differential responses of
grazing systems in the
different ecological regions
4.   Replicates (R),               12            4.  Variability among identical
within E x G                                    grazing systems within the
same ecological region
5.   Years (Y)                     K-1 a/        5.  Year-to-year variation
6.   E x Y                       2(K-1)          6.  Differential responses of
ecological regions in
different years
7.   G x Y                       3(K-1)          7.  Differential responses of
grazing systems in different
years
8.   E x G x Y                   6(K-1)          8.  Combination of hypotheses 3,
6 and 7 above
9.   R x Y                      12 (K-1)         9.  Differential response of
replicates in different years
10.  Residual                   24K(M-1) b/    10.  Experimental Error for hypotheses
4-9
a/   K represents the number of years
b/   M represents the number of measurements made within each of the E-G-Y-R
combinations. The total number of observations in the experiment is
equal to 24 KM, assuming a completely balanced set-up.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
APRU recognizes that it is unlikely that these trials yield defini-
tive statistical results. For this reason, two additional grazing cells would
be developed by APRU in degraded areas of land where boreholes have been
abandoned. These cells would comprise the range of grazing systems proposed
for the communal areas and they would be stocked with purchased cattle. The
two proposed cells would provide a yardstick against which developments
occurring in communal cells can be compared and discussed.
Costs and Management
8.        In view of the fact that the concept of rotational grazing systems
is a new one in Botswana and that there are considerable risks associated
with its development, construction and running costs for a five-year period
would be covered by the Government, on a grant basis to the community.
Capital costs totalling about P 500,000 would include fencing, housing of
technical and industrial staff, watering and handling facilities and vehicles.
Recurrent costs of about P 92,000 per year would include salaries of technical
and industrial staff, vehicle maintenance and running and maintenance of live-
stock. Full detail on costs are presented in Annex 8.
9.        The grazing units would be developed, maintained and managed by APRU.
The selection of areas on a preliminary basis would be made by the Department
of Agricultural Field Services through the Sand Veld survey teams; thereafter
a more detailed selection would be undertaken by APRU in conjunction with
District Agricultural staff and the local community. When a comminity ex-
presses a desire to participate in the trials, a management committee would
be elected which, inter alia, would determine the number of stock which indi-
viduals would be allowed to grace within the area; APRU would maintain a
close contact with such committees. Once there is an agreed layout and
construction plan, the community represented by the committee, would be
bound to it but no development would ensue unless there is such agreement.
The cattle would not change ownership and could be removed by the owner at
any tiri- but an attempt to minimize disruptions to husbandry and management
W mt1d be made.  Prior to the commencement of expenditures, the committee
would agree in that APRU will have an absolute control over: 1) the maximum
number of cattle allowed in the unit at any one time; 2) the routine animal
husbandry and grazing regimes followed within the unit; 3) the recording
systems including handling and weighing of animals. The APRU, on the other
hnAd, would: 1) keep the association fully informed on the development and
performance of the grazing units; 2) consult the association on possible
management policy changes; 3) assist with the identification and training
of community members with management potential; 4) periodically review the
extent of community participation; and 5) withdraw to an advisory and monitor-
ing position when satisfied that this would not jeopardize the possibility
of obtaining meaningful results.
Staffing
10.       Technical staff would include a pasture agronomist (which could be
possibly funded within FAO Research Project), two technical officers (Swazi-



ANNEX 7
Page 5
land Diplomats 1/) and 14 agricultural demonstrators; 14 industrial class
workers would also be necessary. Posts within development estimates must be
created as APRU has insufficient staff at present; however, agricultural
demonstrators would be provided by the Department of Agricultural Field
Services until project completion.
Recommendations
11.       During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following:
1) that APRU will consult with IBRD on the selection of sites and on the
development plans and degree of community participation for each of the
proposed grazing units; 2) that APRU will furnish IBRD detailed data on
the physical (including staffing) and technical implementaton of the grazing
units, including animal and range performance and that such evaluations will
be published in APRU's annual bulletins, when appropriate; 3) that the degree
of community involvement will be constantly reviewed by the Ministry of
Agriculture; and 4) that after completion of the component, a comprehensive
report will be submitted by APRU and by the Ministry of Agriculture reviewing
technical, sociological and financial elements of the trial, indicating
aspects which need further investigation and forwarding proposals for small-
holder livestock development under the TGLP within the frame of the lessons
learned in the exercise. It is expected that all agencies involved in rural
development within the Government of Botswana would provide inputs for the
preparation of such report. In the course of normal supervisions, IBRD would
continuously suggest further items to be covered in the comprehensive review
of the communal areas component, and would maintain a close liaison with
relevant government and non-government agencies concerned with smallholder
livestock development in Botswana.
11   Since experienced Batswana are scarce, provision would be made in the
FAO Range Research Project (BOT/74/006) should local staff not be avail-
able. Should this occur, counterpart staff would also be required to
ensure continuity.
October 25, 1977



ANNEX 8
BC" '7's                                                    Table 1
SECOND LIVESTOC DEVELOPMFNT PROJECT
Ranch Model - Investment Costs  1/
(F)
Unit           12                               3
Unit        Cost      No      Cost     No      Cost      No      Cost        Total
1.  Water Supply
Pump and Engine  2/                        Item       1,700      1       1,700     -        -        -       -          1200
Reservoir  ^'                              Item         700      2       1,400     -        -        -       -          l,i00
Trough                                      Item         60      4         240     -        -        -       -            240
Piping                                     m           1.6    100        1.600     -        -        -       -          1,600
Sub-lotal                                                       4,940                                -         4,940
2.  Trakks and Firebreaks
Perimeter                                  km           35       32      1,120     -        -        -       -          1,120
Internal                                   km           35       16        560     -        -       -        -            560
Sub-Total                                                       1,680              -                 -         LA SC_
3.  Fencing
Paddocks  4/                               km           350       7      2,450     -        -        -       _          2,450
Perimeter 5/                               km           350      -         -       24    8,t,00      -       -          8,400
Internal S-ub-Division                     km           350      -        -        -        -         7    2,450        2,450
Sub-Total                                                       2,450            8,400            2,450        13,300
4.  Buildings
Pumphouse and Storage                      Set        1,000       1      1,000     -        -        -       -          1,000
Sub-Total                                                       1,000              -                 -         1J00
5.  Other
Tools and Supplies                          Set         500       1        500     -        -                -            500
Handling Yard and Crush                    Item         600       1       600      -        -       -        -            600
Sub-Tot-.l                                                      1,100              -                 -         1,100
TOkA  CAPITAL COSTS                                                         11,170            8,400             2,450      22020
1|    In September, 1977 prices, including taxes and duties.
2/    Recasing of bcreholes, well-head,rising main pipe, engine repair.
3/    Reservoirs of 10,000 gallons each.
4,!   Two square paddocks of I km2 each, sharing one boundary.
5/    On average, each ranch would bear the cost of fencing three of the four boundaries of the ranch.
Note.  These investments correspond to the "average ranch"requirements.  They can vary
depending or -he condition of the water supply system, and on the grouping of ranches, which reduces
the total re'nirements in perimeter fencing. Total capital cost could be as low as
P.14,30  (7> - ranch with a water supply system in good condition and requiring the construction
of 16 k  -)f -.imeter fencing only) or as high as 24,800 (for an isolated ranch requiring 32 km of
per!:     fensing and with a water supply system needing repair). Some of the developments involved
lgL:     r^-  ed through an association of ranchers or a service company.
-   vov--rament    Botswana's preparation report and mission   estimates.
NIgust 3, 19;



ANNEX 8
BOTSWANA                                                Table 2
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ranch Model - Operating Expenses 1/
1      2      3       4       5       6      7       8      9       10        11
1. Variable Costs
Costs per Animal 2/                           4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5       4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5         4.5
Number of Animals 3/                          520    510    510    510       530    550    570    580    600    610         620
Total Variable Costs                        2,340  2,300  2,300  2,300   2,390  2,480  2,570  2,610  2,700  2,750    2,790
2. Maintenance Costs
Fencing A/                                    -       105    465    570      570    570    570    570    570    570         570
Tracks and Firebreaks  5/                     -       480    480    480      480    480    480    480    480    480         480
Wateryard                                     -       300    300    300      300    300    300    300    300    300         300
Buildings and Yards                           -       150    150    150      150    150    150    150    150    150         150
Tools and Equipment                           -        50     50      50      50      50     50      50     50      50       50
Total Maintenance Costs                       -    1,085  1,445  1,550   1,550  1,550  1,550  1,550  1,550  1.550    1,550
3.  Labor  6/                                     900    900    900    900       900    900    900    900    900    900         900
4.  Lease of Land                                 200    200    200    200       200    400    400    400    400    400    1,300
5.  Administrative Costs                          100    100    100    100       100    100    100    100    100    100         100
6.  Bulls  7/                                     600    600    600    600       600    600    600    600    600    600         600
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS                       4,140  5,185  5.545  5,650   5,740  5,920  5,960  5,960  6 050  6 100    7,040
1/  In September, 1977 prices, including t-.es and duties.
2/ Costs per Animal are broken Jown as to,i ows:
Salt and Minerals                   1.0
Veterinary Expenses                 1.75
Pumping of Water                    1.30
Other                               0.45
Total                  4.50
3/ These figures are averages.
4/ Fencing Maintenance: 7 km in year 2, 32 km in year 3, 38 km in year 4 and thereafrer, @ P 15 per km
5/ 48 km @ PIO per km.
6/ Three workers @ P300 per year
7/ 2 bulls @ P300 every year.
Note:   This table does not separately identify the costs of services provided by a Service Company or other farmer association.
These services would correspond to (i) the transportation of salt and minerals included in the variable
co3ts, i.e. about 25 tons over an average distance of 100 km, from the nearest Livestock Advisory Center, @ P 0.08/ton/km
(ii) the maintenance of fencing, tracks and firebreaks, building and yards, and of the wateryard(excluding spare parts),
and (iii) the services such as book keeping, secretarial services, extension. The aggregated value of these
services would be about P 2,000 per year per ranch at full development.
Source: Government of Botswana's preparation report and mission estimate.
August 3, 1977



BOTSWANA                                                                                ANNEX 8
Table 3
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ranch Model - Revenue From Sales 1/
(P'000)
1          2          3         4         5         6         7         8         9          10          11          12
Bulls                        No                                    2          2          2         2         2         2        2          2          2         2            2            2
Av. Unit Price                         130        130        130       130       130       130      130         130       130       130           130         130
Revenue                            260         260        260       260       260       260      260        260       260       260           260          260
Heifers  36-60 months       No                                     2          2          3         3         6         4        6         10         10        12           12           17
Av. Unit Price                         130        130        130       130       130       130      130         130       130       130           130         130
Revenue                            260         260        390       390       780       520      780      1,300    1,300    1,560           1,560       2,210
Steers 36-48 months         No                                    5          16         22        31        35        41       45         50        50        54            54           58
Av. Unit Price                          140        140        140       140       140       140      140         140       140       140           140         140
Revenue                            700      2,240       3,080    4,340    4,900    6,300   7,000          7,000    7,560    7,560           7,560       8,120
Steers  48-60 months 2/   No                                     53          20         22        13         7         -        -          -          -         -            -            -
Av. Unit Price                          150        150        150       150       150 
Revenue                          7,950      3,000       3,300    1,950    1,050           -        -           -         -         -             -           -
Fattening Cull Females    No                                      37         16         17        21        21        23       23         25         25        27            27          27
Av. Unit Price                          120        120        120       120       120        120      120        120       120       120           120         120
Revenue                          4,440      1,920       2,040    2,520    2,520    2,760   2 760          3,000    3 000    3,240           3,240        3,240
TOTAL REVENUE FROM SALES                                     13 610      7,680      9,070    9.460    9,510    9,280  102100    11 560   11&560   12,620                12.620      13.830
/   In September, 1977 prices.  Prices used are actual prices observed in Botswana in 1976, increased by 10% to adjust to expected 1977 prices.
2/   In  Year 1, 36 steers 60-72 months and 17 steers 48-60 months are sold
Source:  Mission estimates: these figures are derived from herd projections (Annex 6), as modified to present a more realistic cash flow.
August 3, 1977



ANNEX 8
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESMCK DEVUOfPENT PROJECT
CoUDanl Grazing Unitea
Investment Costs
(Pula '000)
Year 1           Year 2           Year 3            Year 4           Ye-r 5       Total years 1-5    Foreign Expenditure
Unit   Unit Coat   Units    Coat    Units   Cost   lUnits   Cost    Units   Cost    Units   Cost    Units   Cost                    Conp9ne
INVESTMENT' CATEGORY                        (puls)
Fixed Investments
Fencing
(a) Continuous grating, 2                       _/
replicates                      km       425            70      80                                                                            6 -  -  -  -6  30         50
(b) 3 paddocks, 2
replicates                      km       425           100      43         -      _       _       -                                          105       43               50
(c) 8 paddocks., 2                                                                                                                               10        4                 50
replicates                      km       425           220      94                                                                           180       94                50
(d) 16 paddocka, 2
replicates                     kl        425            -        -      350    149        -                                                  3 0 -  -  F  149           50
Sub.TsteV                                                  167               149                                                                  316
Ranch Centers
Housing                            unit   7,500              9      68         3     23       _        -         _      -           _              12      91                60
Water Developrsent                 unit   6,500               9     59         3     20       -        -         -               -        -        12      79                80
Handling and                               1,300              9     12         3       4      _        -         -                                 12      7h                80
Miscellaeous                               1 ,100             9     1o         3       3      -                         _                 _        12       13               60
Sub-Tontal                                                 149               50                                                                   199
Vehicles
2.5 teon trucks                     NO    5,000               2     10         -       -      -        -         -      -        -        _         2      10              lOO
1.5 ton trucks                      No    9,000               1      9         -       -      -        -         _         _              -         1        9              100
Sub-Total                                                   19                                                                                      19
Total Fixed Investments                                            316              199
Operatino Costs
Wages and Salaries d/
Pasture Agronomist-           Man year  50,000              1      50         1     50                0        1      50        1       50               250                80
Technical Officers            San year   3,000              2       6         2      6                6        2       6        2       6                 30                 0
Other Staff                                                        55               55               55               55                55               275                 0
Sub-Total                                                  111              1tl              111              111               111               535
Other Operating Coats
Vebinle Maintenance and
operations                                                         18               18               19               18                18                90                80
Livestock  Management             unit         4         2,700      11    3,600       14  3,600       14   3,600       14   3,600        14                67                75
Sub-Intal                                                   29                32              32                32               32               Y57
Total Operating Costs                                              140              143             143                                 143                712
Total Investmant Costs                                            456               342             143               143               143              1,227
a1 Based on Data provided by APRIU
bh Contractor Price
ct E.ch Unit at 3 locations
d/ Post could possibly be provided by FAO
August 3, 1977



PS=E 8
Table 5
BOTSWA
SECCIID LIVESTOCK DEvELOPME  PROJCT
NDB Arinultoral Credit Diviion
Inv-t,ent Costs -
(PFOO)
Foreign
Unit          Year 0-           Year 2             Year 3            Year 4             Year 5         Total Years 1-5       Expediture
Unit     Cost       Units   Cot        Units   Coot      Unite   Coet       Unit    Cost      Unita   Cost       Unite        Cost          %
(Thula)
Fixed Investronts
Wend Offic-
Office iEuipeert                             set      9UCO          1      9.0                                                                                   1          9.0         90
RAdio                                        no.      2 500         1      2.5                 _                  -                  _                  -        1          2.5         90
Vehicles                                     no.      9,000         2    18.0                  _                  -                 _                  _         2         l8.U         90
Su,b-Total                                                                29.5                                                                                             29.5
5ranch Office
Office Construction                          no.    22,000                             1     20.0        1      20.0        1      20.0       -        -         3         60.0         50
Houning                                      no.    15,000                             2     30.0        2      30.0        2     30.0       -         -         6         90.0         40
OffMce ESqap.eer                             sot      0,000                            1      6.0        1       6.0        1      6.0       -         -         3         18.0         70
Ridios                                       no.      2,500                            2      5.0        2       5 0        2       5.0      -         -         6         15.0         90
Vehicles                                     no.      9,000                            2     18.0        2      18.0        2      18.0      -         -         6         54.0         90
Othec Costs                                                                                  10.0               10.0              10.0                                     30.5         50
Sub-Tot.l                                                                29.5                89.0               89.0              89.0                                    267.0
Tonal Fined Invoee.tnte                                                   29.5               89.0               8980 89.0                                                 296.5
Inco rontal SOsertiur Costs~/
'Aug00 -nd Salanios
food Offico:
onago, Agricultural dinian                   no.    40,000          1    40 0          1     40.0        1      40.0        1     40.0       1        40.0                200.0         70
Coons Su-esoi-er                             n.    15 00            1    15.0          1     15.0        1      15.0        1     15.0       1        15.0                 75.0          0
Loan/nnD-elap-et Officne-                    nn.    5S000           3    15.0          5     25.0        5      25.0        5     25.0       5        25.0                115.0          0
F-nnc_ial Officer -O.    30.000                                     1    30.0          1     30.0        1      30.0        1     30.0       1        30.0                150.0         50
Support Staff                                                            10.5                15.0               15.0              15.0                15.0                 70.0          0
Sub-Total                                                               110.0               125.0             125.0              125.0                                    610.0
mooch OfMfics-
L.aC, Officers                               no.         -             -         -        -              1       5.0        2     10.0       3        15.0                 30.0          0
Support Stoff                                            -          -     -            -      -                 4.0                8.o                12.0                 24.0          0
Sub-Totol                                                                                                        9.0              18.0                27.0                 54.0
Total WArse end Silu1irs
oth-r Opnro.itg Costs
Office SLointennocn. Rent                                                 15.0                10.0              15.0               18.0               20.0                 78.0         20
TroonI Expen...                                                          50.0                 25 .0             25.0              25.0                25.0                150.0         50
Pisc  ll nnous Caste                                                     15.0                10.0              10.0               10.0               10.0                 55.0           0
Total Other Opor-ting Casts                                               80.0                45.0              50.0               53.0               55.0                283.0
fotal Icoreronlal Operating Costs                                        190.0               170.0             184.0             196.0               207.0                947.0
Total Iuvotoent Costs                                                    219.5               259.0             273.0             280.0               207.0              1,243.5
a/ Qffinen in Moon, S-otae, Teabong
L I.--renentol costs for astebliehnent of Division and of credit progrg  considered  e Orvestrant cests
u/ Includes costs for pro-year I developsent activities
Augunt 3, 1977



A-NN'EX 8
BOTSWANA                                                                                           Table 6
S1ECO2  LIVESOChK DV PELOMNT PROJ ECT
.,rketing Infrastructure
lnvestment Casts
(P'OOG)
Year 1          Year 2           Year 3            Year 4            Year 5            Total years 1-5            Fo-eign Expeoditure
INVESTMENTr CATEGORY            Unit   Unit Cost    Units   Cost         ots   coat    units   Coot    lnits   Cost    Illoits   Cost   Total Units   Total Coste               C88pcO-t 7
1. Trek Route _evelooseot
lanpteonesant lnisting lootes o/
Borshelen                     No       12            3       36        -      -                                                                3               36                7,
Kr-abs                        No        2.2         19       42                                                                               19               42                ?5
H-using                       No        1.2          4        5                                                                                4                5                50
Other                                                        12                                                                                                12                 9O
Sob-Total                                                95                                                                                                 65
New Routesh
Boreholes                     No       12                     -        8      96        10      120       10      120      _                  28              336                75
Krraals                       to        2.2                   -       10      22        15       33       21       46       -                 46              101                2i
housing                       No        1.2                   -        8      10        10       12       10       12       -                 28               34                 50
Slb-Total                                                                 128                165              178                                         471
Sub-Totnl Trek Rostcs                                        95              128                165               178                                         566
2. lablwas Pnodlinog facIlities
Impr_ v   t of 1l
SidingnE                                                    25               25                 25                -                                          75                 60
3. SosalIstock Caldiso Grounds
ConGtrun;1on of 5 holding
GroundeS                     Each      4.0                   -        2       8         3       12                -       -                   5              20                 60
Tot4l lovo-t-eet Costs                                      120              161                202               178                                         661
a/ Ghanzi-Lobatso, Calopc-Tsstnu Nojane
./ Bokopita-Tabkong, Tsabong-Werda, Tahane-gang, letlhakeng-Lobatse., Shoshong-Nahalapyo, Macbaneng-Mahalapye, Martics Drift-Palapyn, Bobiru-S-lebe Pikwe,
Rakops-M1akoba, Makoba-Serule/Palapye., Makoba-Dlkwa. 1unte-Dukwe.
c/ Inpr-ovesent of all facilities by providing valor facilities and piping, troughs, pews and loading -ampa. Throughput raongs fron, 500 to 40,000 head
per annum.
4/ At Tonoto, Msadilare, Robonong, Naunatlala.  nd T.ntanbjwe.  Inch 1/2  In2, with handling pens and housing for herdasen.
A.ugust 3, 1977



ANNEX 8
Table 7
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ranch Management Training Center/
Investment Costs
(P' 000)
--- Year            --    Total
Training Center - Fixed Investments         1     2      3      4    Years 1-4
Buildings/                                61      -     -      -         61
Vehicles                                   22      -     -      -         22
Plant and Equipment                        17      -     -      -         17
General Equipment                          40      -     -      _        40
Other                                      10      -     -      -         10
150                           150
Recurrent Costs
Salaries                                    5    46    51       56      158
Other Expenses                              4    84    93    102        283
9   130   144    158        441
Total Investment Costs                    159   130   144    158        591
a/  Data fr=m Project Memorandum dated March 9, 1977 presented for EDF consideration.
b/  PRThabilitation of existing school at Ranatlabama.
May 24, 1977



ANNEX 8
Table 8
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Services
Summary of Investment Costs
(P'000)
------ Year ---------           Total        Foreign Ex-
Component                    1     2      3     4      5     Years 1-5      penditures %
Ranch Management  a/
Training Center-
Fixed Investments           150    -      -     -      -        150              50
Recurrent Costs               9   130   144   158    -          441              10
Sub-total                   159   130   144   158    -          591              64
Monitoring & Evaluation-b/  155   140   140   155   140         730              64
Preparation of Future
Projects                  -     -      75    75    50        200              40
Studies and Experimental
Work _                    50   100   100   100    50         400              40
Total Investment Costs      364   370   459   488    240    1,921
a/ See Table 7.
b/ Estimated cost of monitoring manager and full support services (including consultants)
c/ Detailed proposals for this work would be prepared for IBRD approval.
August 3, 1977



ANNEX 9
Table 1
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCGK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Suumary of Annual Project Costs -/
(P'000)
---------------___ Project Year -------------------                Total Years             Foreign
1             2             3              4            5             1 - 5                 Expenditures
Project Component
(a) Ranch Developz-n b                           224           504            862           495           125           2,210                   1,658
(b) Connnnal  Grsz) r.t Units
Fixed Investments                             316          199             -             -             -              515                     240
Salaries                                     111           111            111           111           111             555                     200
Other Operating Costs                         29            32             32            32            32             157                     122
Sub-total                                  436           342            143           i43          143            1,227                    562
(c) Communal Credit Schemes  /                    -             50            100           150           150             450                     225
Sub-Total
(d) NDB-Agricultural Credit Division
Fixed Investments                             29.5           89            89             89           -              296.5                   180
Operating Costs                              190           170            184           196           207             947                     306
Sub-total                                  219.5         259            273           285          207            1,243.5                  486
(e) Marketing Infrastructure
Trek Route Development                        95           128            165           178            -              566                     340
Railway Nandling Facilities                   25            25             25            -            -                75                     45
Smallstock Holding Grounds                    -              8             12            _            -                20                     12
Sub-total                                  120           161           202            178           -               661                    397
(f) Technical Services
Training Center                              159           130            144           158            -              591                     119
Monitoring and Evaluation                    155           140            140           155          140              730                    469
Project Preparation                           -             -              75            75           50              200                     80
Sttudies and Investigative Work               50           100            100           100           50              400                    160
Sub-total                                 364            370           459            488          240            1,921                    828
Total Project Investments                  1.384         1.686          2,039         1.739           865           7,713                  4,156
COntinRencv Allowances
Physical d/                                  150           194            247           199           93              883                    499
Price  e/                                    206           423            717           791          391            2,528                  1,362
Total Contigencies                         356           617            964           990          484            3,411                  1,861
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                        1,740         2,303          3,003         2,729         1,349          11,124                   6,017
a/ Based on Annex 8 tables.
b/ Assumes development of 20 ranches Year 1, 30 Year 2, 50 Year 3.
c/ Small-scale loans to farmers, detailed proposals to be approved by I8RD,
d/ 10% for all items except ranch development, for which a 15% factor was supplied,
e/ Price  -ox  ngencies are based on IBRD/IDA guidelines and mission estimates as follows:
1977       1978    1979       1980-83
t eign Costa
Civil Works                 10         9         8          8
Enuipment                     8         7.5      7           7
Technical Assist;  e          8         8         8          7
Local Costs:                    10         8         8          7
Weighted Average              9.6       8.2       8          7.2
August 3. 1977



ANNEX 9
BOTSWANA                                    Table 2
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPFMENT PROJECT
Financing Plan
(P ' 000)
Government                                  Total
Project Componenta                        Farmers   of Botswana      ULCA     EDF      IBRD     Cost
(a) Ranch Development                      667           643          -        _     1,975      3,285
(b) Communal Grazing Units
Fixed Investments                       -            155 b                 _        580       735
Operating Costs                         -          1,0051         -        _     _ -        1,005
Sub-total                             -          1,160         -         -       580      1,740
(c) Communal Credit Schemes                 -            160          -        -       480        640
(d) NDB-Agricultural Credit Division
Fixed Investments                       -             80          -        -       345        425
Operating Costs                         -            840          -        -        510     1,350
Sub-total                             -            920         -         -       855      1,775
(e) Marketing Infrastructure                -            195          -        -       750        945
(f) Technical Services
Training Center                         -            594          -       250       -         844
Monitoring and Evaluation               -             -         1,040      -         -      1,040
Other Technical Services                             115          -        -       740        855
Sub-total                             -            709       1,040      250      740      2,739
Total Project Costs                    667         3,787c'      1,040     250    5,380    11,124
a/ Costs include contingencies and taxes.
b/ Costs of an expatriate pasture agronomist may be financed
by FAO or bilateral sources :if external support does not
materialize, costs could be financed under technical services
category.
c/ Taxes estimated at P1,040
August 5, 1977



ANNEX 10
Page 1
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ranch Management Training Center 1/
1.        As part of the Tribal Grazing Lands Policy, the Botswana Government
proposes to provide facilities for the training of managers of individually
and in a future, communally-owned ranches, managers of ranch service companies,
bank finance officers and extension staff involved in the implementation
of the TGLP. This would be done through establishing a ranch management
center, which would also house staff who would evaluate livestock develop-
ments associated with the TGLP.
2.        The Ranch Management Center would be located at Rabatlabama, near
BMC's plant at Lobatse, where a complex of housing, buildings, cattle handling
facilities and 500 ha of grazing land are already available. The facility
is currently used by the Ministry of Agriculture as a semen collection and
distribution station. Installations associated with a former veterinary
training school and six out of eight high cost houses are unused. The main
school building is suitable for conversion into teaching rooms and offices
at minimal cost; a farm workshop could be easily incorporated into the main
building. In addition to the proximity to BMC's plant, the location would
enable trainees to take advantage of nearby APRU facilities, proposed ranching
development schemes, trek routes, and freehold ranches of the Molopo and
Lobatse blocks.
3.        Training Load and Program:  The following courses 2/ would be
offered: a) Ranch Manager's Course - about one year duration and 30 trainees
per year, the course would be directed to train managers capable of handling a
ranch of up to 8,000 ha and 500 animal units. Most instruction would take
place at demonstrations and "on-the-job" situations; the main components
of the course curriculum would be in the areas of animal production, farm
engineering and farm management. In selecting trainees, preference would
be given to applicants from ranches developed under the TGLP; shortfalls
in the intake of trainees could be filled by participants from the free-
hold sector; b) Service Company Managers/Finance Officers Course - with
about three month-long sessions, training would be provided for groups
of three service company managers or three finance officers depending on
demand. Trainees would be assigned to the evaluation team residing at
Rabatlabama and would be exposed to all aspects of the work relating to their
functions; c) Extension Officers Course - short courses with emphasis on ranch
management would be run to broaden the training of extension staff.
1/   This annex summarizes a Government proposal for the center, presented
to EDF for consideration in March, 1977, and subsequently approved.
Para. 6 gives IBRD staff comments.
2/   Student conditions would be in line with those of full time students
at Botswana Agricultural College, i.e. free tuition board and lodging,
free protective clothing and a training allowance of P 10 per month.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
4.        Management. Staffing and Equipping of the Center:  The Center would
be controlled by a board of governors representing Government Agencies involved
in livestock development. Under the board, a center principal would be
responsible for the overall operation of the institution, including recruiting,
and supervision of ranching operations. The principal would be assisted by a
bursar/warden, three agricultural demonstrators and about 15 support staff,
e.g., secretary, librarian, farm operators. Vehicles, farm machinery, tools
and supplies and buildings (including some re-structuring) would be provided.
5.        Evaluation Unit:  An evaluation unit would also be based at the
center. It would assist in collection of data necessary for the on-going
evaluation of developments emanating from the TGLP and would have an input in
preparation of future livestock projects. It would be staffed with a range
agronomist, an animal production specialist and a farm management economist
and vehicles and special equipment would be provided. The EDF financed team
would maintain contact with the Second Livestock Project Monitoring Officer
(provided by ILCA) to be based at APRU (see Annex 12) through the Coordinator
of Range and Animal Production Research. This should facilitate the transfer
of monitoring responsibilities to national authorities once ILCA's commitments
are completed.  The Unit will be responsible to the Director of Agricultural
Research through the coordinator of Range and Animal Production Research and
will submit bi-annual reports to a TGLP Evaluation Committee of eight members
representing Government agencies involved ia the implementation of the policy.
The Evaluation Unit would not be responsible for the monitoring and evaluation
of the Second Livestock Development Project; this would be done by the moni-
toring officer provided by ILCA. It is hoped that the contribution of the
Evaluation Unit will assist the Government of Botswana in developing a research
and evaluation system capable of assessing changes in the livestock industry
resulting from the execution of the TGLP and proposing corrective actions for
undesirable ones.
6.        The evaluation team was originally presented as part of the Second
Livestock Development Project. During appraisal, however, it was agreed
that the team would not prove effective as a monitoring or evaluation vehicle
for the project, because of its location at Ramatlabama (some distance from
Gaborone and from APRU), the compositon of the team, and the potential duplica-
tion or overlapping with the functions of the ILCA-monitoring manager. Further,
costs would be quite excessive in relation to Project costs if the team's func-
tions were conceived as directly related to the Project. Therefore, the terms
of reference of the evaluation team should make clear their responsibility as
a research unit providing basic data and feedback on aspects of implementation
of the TGLP.
D. Implementation and Costs
7.        It is expected that the Ranch Management Center will become fully
operative by April, 1978. The Evaluation Team should be on board by the
beginning of 1978. Total capital costs would be of about P 806,000 (P 160,000



ANNEX 10
Page 3
and P 646,000 for the training and evaluation components, respectively) with
67% of this accounted by the salaries and allowances of the Evaluation Team;
Botswana's recurrent budget contribution would be a total of about P 0.5
million distributed over a period of four years. Capital costs are expected
to be financed in their entirety by the European Development Fund.
October 11, 1977



ANNEX 11
Page 1
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
A. Introduction
1.        The Tribal Grazing Land Policy (TGLP) is expected to change signi-
ficantly current patterns of livestock production and distribution systems
in Botswana through extensive public and private sector investment efforts;
the Second Livestock Development Project constitutes a first step in this
direction. The Government is directing efforts towards organizing a compre-
hensive and dynamic information system capable of identifying, following
and correcting through time changes in the livestock sub-sector stemming
from the TGLP's implementation. The Government has proposed the inclusion of
a monitoring mechanism in the context of the Second Livestock Development
Project. This is justified on the grounds that the Project will constitute
the first major investment effort in moving toward the TGLP whose impact
the Government of Botswana wishes to maximize. Proposals for the establish-
ment of a Second Livestock Project monitoring mechanims are outlined in
this Annex.
B. The Monitoring Mechanism
Objectives
2.        Main objectives would be as follows:
(a) Contribute to smoother Project implementation through
improved information flows;
(b) Indicate discrepancies between planned and actual
achievements and identify critical factors --
technical, organizational, administrative, socio-
economic -- causing them;
(c) If required, test asusmptions underlining the develop-
ment effort through sampling procedures;
(d) In collaboration with APRU, test range trends outside
and within Project areas;
(e) Assist the TGLP's coordination in identifying the income
distribution effects of the policy and of the Second
Livestock Development Project in particular; and



ANNEX I 1
Page 2
(f) Follow-up on the effectiveness of ranch management
training proposals included in the Project (Annex 11).
Organization
3.        As a part of its research program, the International Livestock
Center for Africa (ILCA) has agreed to include Botswana's Second Livestock
Project in a monitoring network of Bank-supported livestock projects in
Ethiopia, Kenya, Mali and Nigeria. ILCA would provide a monitoring specialist
-- possibly a livestock economist with experience in range production systems
in Africa -- who would be stationed at the APRU headquarters. In addition to
the monitoring aspects, ILCA's contribution would strengthen APRU's research
capability, particularly in the area of farm production economics. The
monitoring specialist would liaise with the coordinator of Range and Animal
Production Research and with the Evaluation Team at Rabatlabama through him.
ILCA would also provide funds for vehicles, short-term monitoring consultants
as required, internal and external travel (to and from Addis Ababa) and
support staff if and when necessary. The monitoring mechanism would be
provided for at least five years with an annual cost of about US$150,000,
excluding contigencies (see Table 1, Annex 11). A Memorandum of Agreement was
signed between ILCA and the Government of Botswana in July, 1977.
October 25, 1977



ANNEX 11
Table 1
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation-/
Project Costs
(P' 000)
-- Year ---------                 Total          Foreign
Component                 1      2     3     4      5     Years 1-5      Expenditures
,0
Monitoring Managerb/    65    65    65    65    65            325              75
Land Cruiser  '          15      -     -    15      -          30             100
Travel Allowance          5      5     5     5      5         25   -           50
Secretarial Support       5      5     5     5      5         25                0
Field Staff Support      15    15    15    15    15           75               10
Consulting Services      40    40    40    40    40          200               75
Other (Equipment, etc.) 10    10    10    10    10             50              50
155   140   140   155   140          730
a!  Tentative cost data agreed with ILCA during appraisal mission.
b/ Full cost including housing and personal vehicle.
May 24, 1977



ANNEX 12
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation
Tbh Livestock II Coordinating Committee would consist of:
Livestock Project Development Officer - Chairman
Director of Veterinary Services or named representative
Director of Agricultural Field Services or named representative
Director of Agricultural Research or named representative
Chief Agricultural Economist or named representative
Manager Agricultural Division, NDB
Monitoring Manager, Animal Production Research Unit
Under-Secretary (Lands) Ministry of Local Government and Lands
or named representative
Tribal Grazing Land Programme Coordinator, Ministry of Finance
and Development Planning
Senior Planning Officer, Ministry of Finance and Development
Planning or representative
Administrative Officer, Livestock Project Coordinating Unit -
Secretary



ANTKEY 12
Table 1
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                                    _
_ _   1977         1978              1979              1980               1981               198:' f            1983
A  PREPARATORY TO PRoJEC-r' ND B    d d
Apprn-e  D-vision
1.ecisieo.r Co-mercial Banks
2. Creation NDB Agricultural Division                               eoded Prmant
R-cr-ltment 01 Manager
Secondme-lt of St*ff
Training of Staff
PintO ristn Soblidiary Loo., Agreements
Model Contracts
Lnndtig Procedures., Farms
Off-o Space
3 Legisltiosc
Heypthecatio- Act                                          I      -" by r-1 --m
Asso-iated Logistatln                                =         II
Communal Motagement Associatios Act                        _
4. TGLP
Surveys, data collection
Zo..rig Ptans
Dotoiled Plan-r,g
Madei eases, rents
ApphicOtl-nt for leases,   eti-
Leas approed and signt     flt 
Demarcotint of R-nche
5. Proparati-t of Rnch L
Appl-otio-
Dovelopm-et Plans
Approval
Disbursements_
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
_   20    30             50
1. Loons Approved _
2 Commana Gra-ing Units
Planting                                                                                                                    _
Development
3. Comminal Managom-et Schemes
4. NDB
5. Trek Routes_
6. Marketing Infrastructure
7. Ranch Training 
8. Monitoring and Eoalsation
9  S-rvico Cmpanies                                                To Be Dotermeod
C. CORROLARY ACTIVITIES
EDF Ll-nt-Ok Se--icos Prio-ct
EDF Small Stock Project
D  BANK SCHEDULING
Appraisal
Post-Appramsal Mis-ior                                  O JoIy  1973
Negatiat,o                                                     t Sept. 19-23
8uaand Pnosentt-;on                                            o Nov. 22 1973
Loan Signing                                                    a onembar 159 7
Effei-eoess                                                          a Mrb  1, 1977
Project Completion                                                               -9
Closing DOto                                                                                                                                                   I
World 8ank- 18014






ANNEX 13
1QTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                     Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                             at End of Quarter
(US$'000)
1977/78
December 31, 1977                                 0
March    31, 197e.                              200
June     30, 1978                               400
1978/79
September 30, 1978                              600
December  31, 1978                              800
March     31, 1979                            1,000
June      30, 1979                            1,250
1979/80
September 30, 1979                            1,500
December  31, 1979                            1,750
March      31, 1979                           2,000
June      30, 1979                            2,250
1980/81
September 30, 1980                            2,500
December  31, 1980                            3,000
March      31, 1981                           3,500
June      30, 1981                            4,000
1981/82
September 30, 1981                            4,500
December  31, 1981                            5,000
March      31, 1982                           5,500
June      30, 1982                            6,000
1982/83
September 30, 1982                            6,200
December  31, 1982b/                          6,400
March     31, 1983                            6,450
June      30, 1983c/                          6,500
a/  Expected date of Effectiveness March 15. 1978.
b/ Expected date of Project Completion.
c/  Closing date
October 14, 1977



BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                    ANNEX 14
Financial Analysis
Cash Flows for R.nch Development models
1.    Without  Project - Cattle Post-  Years          1         2          3          4         5          6          7         8          9         10         11        12          13         14         15       16-18       19          20
Total Sales                          10,150      4,105     6,560      6,425      5,990     5,845      5,000      5,000     4,880      4,880      4,880     4,485       4,340      4,340      4,075      3,930     3,665       3,665
Operating coe'-                       2,913      3,097     2,999      2,915      2,856     2,808      2,784      2,755     2,720      2,683      2,646      2,612      2,581      2,550      2,500      2,460     2,404       2,384
Invest 
Debt S . .ic-                           -          -          -         -          -          -         -          -          -         -          -          -           -
'et Income                         7,237     1,007      3,561      3,510     3,133      3,036      2,216     2,244      2,159      2,196      2,234     1,872       1,759      1,789      1,575      1,470     1,261       1,281
2.   With Project - Ranch Developmentb/
Total SaleS                          13,275      7,400     8,710      9,755      9,775     9,530    10,350    11,830    11,830    12,910    12,910    14,450          13,860    14,120    14,120    14,120    14,120         14,120
Operating Costs                       3,787      5,445     5,903      5,871      5,905     5,842      6,060      6,106     6,150      6,200      6,244      6,230       6,244     6,244      6,244      6,244      6,244      6,244
Investment Costs                     11,200      8,400     2,500             -          -          -               -          -         -          -          -           -         -          -          -          -          -
D-velop.ent L     c.                  8.500      7.000     8,000        -          _          -       2,290      2,590     2,490        -          -          -           -          -         -          _          _          _
Debt Service                           -           -          -         -          -       2,580      4.700      7,440     7,760      7,650      4.940      4,940       4,940     4,940      4     940
Net ITcoma                         6,788        555     1,107      3,884      3,870     1,108      1,880        874       410       (940)    1.726      3.280       2,676      2.936      2,936      7,876     7,876       7,876
Incremental Net Benefits
(before Debt Service)                      (449)      (452)   (2,454)      (374)       737        652     4,364      6,070     6,011      4,514      4,432      6,348       5,857     6,087      6,301      6,406      6,615      6,595
Incremental Net Benefits
(after Debt Sa-rice)                      (449)      (452)   (2,454)      (374)       737    (1,928)       (336)   (1,370)   (1,749)   (3,136)       (508)    1,408          917      1,147     1,361      6,406      6,615       6,595
a/ Cash flow based on herd projection presented in Annex 6, Table I
b/  See An.c. 6, Table 2
c/  Development loan, 127. interest, 15-year repayment period, including 5 years grace period;  farmer down payment of 20%
Working capital Ioans are bank overdrafts at 121 interest per ansum
Notes The financial return for this model is about 141; however, the cash flow position of the rancher is clearly
problematic for et least 10 years, showing a suebstantial drop in net proceeds available for withdrawal fro- the ranch.
Ranchers may for this reason opt for more gradual or lens expensive investment plans.   Sn the otter hand, ranchers
may develop ranches as indicated here, since requirements for cash ore reportedly low;and there is a strong tradition
of investing surplus funds in cattle.
August 5, 1977



ANNEX 15
BOrSWANA
SECORD LIVESTOCK DEVEWMNIIT FROJECT
ProL-ot-related Cash Flav ft/
Governmuent of nottnana                                                                           Project Year
Soarcea                         1      2      3         4        5         6        7       8        9       10       11       12       13       14       15       16       17       18       19       20
IBRD Loan b/                  600   800   1,000   1,000         400       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
ILCA Contribution and
EIF Grant                  255   300       225      200      200       -        -        -        -                -                                   -        -        -        -        -        -
NIB Loan c!                    -      16       52      125      180      270      347      471      460      439     417       396     374      352      331      'c       157        -
Tan R-evens d/                  15 144        180      139       95       78       83      100      110      115      140      150      iNO       I-o     170      180      a.s      190      190      190
Sob-Total                  940 1.260   1,457   1,464         873      348     43C      571      570      554      557      546      524      502      50I      435      342      190      190      190
Uoon
Loan to NDB c/                 196   454      915      679      460       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Grant to NDB  -                241   312      355      396      310       -        -             -        -            -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
AgrinIItural Ditision
Gronts for Other Pro4Co5. 1,034   960         884      809      383
On-goig Cost ofSertces          20    25       33       37       37       37       37       37       37       37       37       37       37       37       37       37       37       37       37      37
Service and Repayment IBRD
Loan bh                     29    71       129      200      272      553     533      513      493      473      453      433      413      393      373      353      333      313      293    278
Sob-Total                1,520 1.822   2,316   2,121   1,462          590      570     550      530      510      490      470      450      430      410      390      370      350      330    315
An-nal Cash Slrplo/
(Deficit)                 (5_8) (562)   (859)   (657)   (587)    (242)  (140)           21       40       44       67       76       74       72       91       45      (281   (160)    (140)  (125)
National Develapsent Back
Sources
Loon from Government           196   454      915      679      460       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Grant from Government -        241   285      300      314      228       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Agricultural Division
Repayments frn_                 -      13      42      100      144      216      278      377      368      351      334      317      299      282      265      204      126
Co=ercial Backs
Repay-enta from Farmers f/              4       14      32       46       65       76       93       88       82       77       71       65       60       60       39       23
Sob-Total                  437   756   1,271   1 125         878      281      354     470      456      433      411      388      364      342      325      243      149       -        -        -
Sees
Loans to FPr-ern f/             39    91      183      136       92
Loots to Ge=ercial Banks   157   363          732      543      368
Repoysente to Government        -      16       52     125      180      270      347      469      456      434     412       392      369      348      327       251    153
I-r-r-ntol Costs -
Agricultural Nivisiove / 241   285         300      314      228
Sub-Total                  437   755   1,267   I110d         868      270     347      469      456      434      412      392      369      348      527       251    153
Annual Cash Sorplus/
['Deficit) j/              -        1        4        7       10      11         7       1       -        (1)      (1)      (4)      (4)      (6)      (2)      (8)      (4)
Cursulaive Cash Surplus/
(Deficit)E/                _        1        5       12       22       53      40       41       41      (40)      39       35       31       25       23       15       11
ol  In constant terre; costs exclude price contingencies
h/  IBRD in..e  eecluding price cotntiangnies:aaout P 3.8 nillifn, 7,97 interest, repayable over 20 ye-rs including 5 years grate
c'   Loan at 8K p..; repayment schndule determined by repeysent schadales of loans to cossercial banks end NDB direct
Inoes to farmers.
d/  Includes estinates of CustosG Union Ravotte (about 20/ of foreign  expenditures antlading technical .asisa rnt) and
incremental taxation on Proje-t beef prodntion at 10./
e/  Grant covers agricultural diviaion                   -tcremental casts daring PmJemt period.  Additional Uronts 557 be required to
scpport the division thereafter, bht casts cannet be estimated Si.n.  they  .ould be a fanction of ftore loan volum.
fl  Loans to farmers at 127 p7.. interest, repayment aunt 15 yeers including 5 yeats grace; 857 recovery asumed.
yl  NDB deficit r-flocte likely require-ent for continuing Governmeat subsidy of develnpneet casts for ranch lending
pr-grace in their initial phase.
Octaber 27, 1977



ANNEX 16
Page 1
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Project Benefits
1.        The incremental benefits of the Project were calculated on the fol-
lowing basis:
(a) Commercial ranches: The incremental sales represent the difference
in projected income from cattle sales between a ranch developed
following the model presented in Annexes 6 and 8 and traditional
cattle post estimated revenue without the Project, assuming that
over 20 years the range would be degraded.
(b) For marketing infrastructure, it was assumed that an estimated
30,000 animals would be affected, and that about 5 kg liveweight
per animal would as a result not be lost in transit; this is a
conservative estimate of animals affected and transit losses
per head.
(c) Benefits resulting from other Project components have not been
quantified; the communal grazing unit trials would have an experi-
mental character, and it is not possible to project benefits with
any accuracy. The same applies to communal management association
schemes. Benefits from training, studies, monitoring and evaluation
were not included, except where they relate directly to directly
productive Project components.
2.        It should be emphasized that the Project is designed as a pilot
effort of a broad and long-term development program. Benefits that would
result from investment in this initial program are subject to considerable
uncertainty. Development should be viewed in part as experimental in nature,
designed to contribute experience that would assist in design of future,
almost certainly larger, projects.
Treatment of Costs
3.        Costs were calculated as follows:
(a) Incremental operating and investment costs for ranch development
were calculated on the same basis as incremental costs (para 1(a)).
(b) Investment costs and related operating costs for other components
were all included in the analysis with the following exceptions:
(i) Costs of the communal grazing unit program and communal
association schemes were excluded since the benefits cannot
be quantified and would relate principally to future devel-
opment programs.



ANNEX 16
Page 2
(ii) The costs of 75% of the training center, and 75% of monitoring
and evaluation were excluded from the analysis because the
benefits would relate largely to other, future projects; in the
case of monitoring and evaluation, the benefits of the ILCA
program would apply in other countries besides Botswana. Costs
of studies and future project preparation were also excluded
from the analysis.
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
4.        The analysis is based on the following assumptions:
(a) Project life is 20 years;
(b) taxes were excluded from the analysis; taxes would represent prin-
cipally a share of Botswana's revenues from the South African cus-
toms Union that can be attributed to Project related imports;
(c) foreign exchange costs and benefits were valued at the prevailing
exchange rate which was assumed to reflect quite accurately the
economic value of foreign exchange;
(d) costs of labor were included in the analysis for cattle posts and
other developments. No shadow price was used for labor costs, since
it was assumed that market rates reflect quite accurately the eco-
nomic cost of the labor involved;
(e)  prices for cattle were valued at BMC 1976 prices adjusted by 10%
to reflect expected price increases in 1977, and from 1978 onwards
following IBRD commodity price guidelines. There remains consider-
able uncertainty about the prices Botswana will receive for its
beef exports, since this depends largely on whether favored access
to the EEC and South African markets continues. It was therefore
assumed for alternatively analysis that prices would continue
to reflect preferential trade arrangements, and that they would be
reduced by about 20%, an estimate of the likely impact of a suspen-
sion of present preferential trade arrangements. The rate of return
presented assumes an intermediate situation.
5.        Based on these assumptions, the economic rate of return was esti-
mated at about 15%; calculations are given in Table 1. Under the alternative
assumption on prices (para 4(e)), the rate of return would be about 12% and
17%, respectively.
6.        The sensitivity of this rate of return was tested under several
unfavorable assumptions. Results of this analysis are presented in Table 2.
October 11, 1977



ANNEX 16
Table I
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPE2NT PROJECT
Econoic Rate nf Return Calcu.Laion
(P'000)
Pro ject Year
1           2           3           4           S            6           7           8           9            10           11            12           13            14           15            16           17-19            20
BENEFPIS
Cattle Ranches
Without Project  - Sales                      128         302         647          678         695         773         707          650         650          645           547          547          542           S1I           417          464            424             424
With Project       - Sales                    272         562        1093          848         930         946         956         1000        1085         1108          1210         1284          1326         1395          1410         1410           1410            2720
Nat Inraentel Benefits                        144         260         446          170         235         173         249          350         435          463           663          737           784          880           993          946            986            2296
Cattle Merektine
Sainge from Denr.esed Weight LOnc              -           75         100          110         130        1S          150          130         150         1S           10           1S         10            150           150          110           1S             10
Tntal iae .as -si fenefit.                    144         335         546          320         385         323         399          1ff         101          613           B13          887           934         1030          1143         1096           1136            2446
Ad itutnete
Beaf Prices - Intsen-tion-l trenda             14          70         180          106         127         107         132          180         211          221           293          319          336           371           411          345            408             881
Sub -Totil
Total Economic Benefits  5/                   158         405         726          426         512         430          531         680         796           834         1106           1206        1270          1401         1554           1491         1545             3327
Total Ennnomic Benefits  b/                  126          324         589         341         410          344         425         544          637          667           885           965        1016          1121          1243           1193         1236             2662
COSTS
Ficed In-set-nt Costs
Ranch D-velops,nt - Inveernento               230         523         902          535         130
NDB Crsdit Divisium                           242         285         300          314         228
M-kesting Imfr-srunture                       132         171          222         196          -
Training and Meiioring and Evaluation          86          74           78          66          38
Tatl Fined Inve-stmnts                       690       1.053       1.502       1L111          416
Recurrent Costs
Ranches - Incremental Operating Costs           0           18          73         189         265          297         301         316          320          322          336            344         348           353           349            359          359              359
Mackhting Infrastructure                      1           23           30          34          34          34           34          34           34           34           34             34          34            34            34             3434                        3_4
Slb-Total                                      18          41         103          223         299         331          335         350         354           356           I             378         382           387           383           393           393              3
Tutal  en-ressntal Fi.an.iel Costa            708       1.094       1f605        1.334         715         331          335         350          354          356          370            378         382           387           383            393          393              393
AdAustments to Costs
Tease                                        (81)        (144)       (180)        (139)        (95)         (78)       (83)        (100)      (110)         (115)          (140)         (110)        (110)        (170)         (180)          (185)        (190)            (190)
Total Econoa-if Costs                         623         950        1.425       1.195         620          253        252          250         244          241            230           228          232          217           203            208          203              203
Nat InnEnic Benefits o/                      (465)        (54_)       (699)       (369)       (108)         177        279           430        552          593            876           978        1.038        1.184         1.351          1.283        1.342            3.124
Net Ecommir Benefits b/                      (487)       (G?6)        (836)       (854)      (110)           91        173          294         393          426           655            737          784          904         1.040            985        1.033            2.459
a/ Ass-aing continuation of profarentltl tr-de  -rrege-nto.
b/ Aseumiag dieno.tinetifon of prefereettal trade arrangement..
Economic Rotc of R0t0        (a) 17%
October 27, 1977                                                                                                        (b) 13%



ANNEX 16
Table 2
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Sensitivity Analysis
Rate of Return
(a)        (b)
1/
1.       Economic Rate of Return - Base                          17.2        12.4
2.       Costs Increased by 10%                                  15.0        10.6
3.       Costs Increased by 20%                                  13.2         9.0
4.       Benefits Reduced by 10%                                 14.8        10.4
5.       Benefits Reduced by 20%                                 12.4         8.3
6.       Costs Increased by 10%, Benefits Reduced by 10%         12.8         8.6
7.       Costs Increased by 20%, Benefits Reduced by 20%          5.6         2.1
8.       Higher Level of Pre-development and Without
Project Sales Assumed                               15.0        10.0
9.       Benefits Lagged by 1 Year                               13.8        10.0
1/       See Table 1.
2/       See Annex 6: some farmers who would participate in the Project would
start with a higher level of sales; if it were assumed that all farmers
in the Project started with sales at this higher level, the Project' s
rate of return would be as shown.
Column A Assuming continuation of preferred access to EEC market.
Column B Assuming discontinuation of preferred access to ECC market.
October 14, 1977



ANNEX 17
Page 1
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Principal Project-Related Documents
1.        The following annexes prepared by the appraisal mission are avail-
able in a separate volume:
18. Agricultural Background
19. Size of the National Cattle Herd and Extraction Rates
20. Analysis of Ranch Development Models
21. Service Companies
22. National Policy on Tribal Grazing Lands
2.        The following materials are available in the Project file:
A.   General Documents on Botswana
1. Estimates of Recurrent Expenditure, 1973-74, 74-75,
75-76, 76-77 (including development fund)
2. National Accounts and Selected Indicators; 1966-76
3. National Accounts of Botswana 1973-74
4. National Development Bank - Annual Reports, 1970-75
5. National Development Plan 1976-78
6. Planning Officers Manual, Ministry of Finance and
Development Planning, August, 1976
7. Maps: Soils
Boreholes
Rainfall
Land Use
B.   Documents on Agriculture and Livestock
8. Agricultural Survey 1970-71, 1971-72, 1972-73
9. Agrinews - May, October 1976



ANNEX 17
Page 2
10. Annual Report - Division of Co-operative Development 1975
11. Artificial Insemination Scheme, 1976
12.  APRU:  Ranch Management - Basic Facilities - Livestock
Management - Production Levels, 1976
13. The Auction System
14. Background to investigations into the Production Levels
of Sheep and Goat Flock Maintained under Extensive Manage-
Systems in Botswana; 1975
15. Basic Ecology for Range Management in Botswana
16. Botswana Marketing Cooperative Report - Projected Future
Needs
17. Botswana Meat Commission - Report and Accounts 1970-76
18. Bull Subsidy Scheme, 1976
19. Cattle Marketing in Botswana - Development Study No. 8,
January 1971
20. Cattle population in Botswana (1975)
21. A computerized System for Rapid Handling Analysis and
Use of Beef Cattle Performance Records, APRU 1974
22. Division of Planning and Statistics - Some consideratons
concerning the establishment of an Abattoir in Northern
Botswana, August 1974
23. Duties of Agricultural Demonstrators, 1975
24. Environmental Factors Affecting Beef Cow Reproductive
Performance in Botswana
25. Estimation of the National Cattle Population, 1972
26. A Five-year Programme of Integrated Beef Cattle and
Range Research in Botswana: 1970-75; 1. Technical
Results, 2. Presentation and Implemention of
Research Results for Extension Services
27. Format of Small-stock Management Survey



ANNEX 17
Page 3
28. Freehold Farm Survey 1970-1971
29. A Handbook of Common Grasses in Botswana, 1976
30. An Integrated Programme of Beef Cattle and Range
Research in Botswana: 1970-76
31. Marketing Branch Agenda for Cooperative Conference -
Marketing Societies Conference 9th - 10th October, 1976
32. 1973 Cattle Sample Census
33. Ministry of Agriculture Register by Dept. and Unit, 1976-77
34. The Operation of Beef Cattle Breeding Research under Semi-
Arid Extensive Conditions in Botswana, 1971
35. Projections of National Cattle Population (Mimeo)
36. Proposed Ministry of Agriculture Re-Organization,
February 1975 (including chart)
37. Provisional Vegetation Map of Botswana
38. A Report on Livestock Marketing, 1975
39. A Study of Constraints on Agricultural Development in
the Republic of Botswana, 1974
40. Testing of Grazing Systems in Botswana, 1976
C.   Documents Relating to Livestock Projects
41. Distribution of Agricultural Implements Project
42. Evaluation of the Botswana Range Management and Development
USAID Project No. 690-11-130-015, Part II
43. The Mochudi Toolbar - August, 1975
44. Preliminary Project outline - Expansion of Botswana
Agricultural College
45. Project Memorandum - Development of Land Boards, January 26,
1977
46. Report of visit to Commonwealth Development Corporation to
examine files and records of the CDC Ranch Development
Project at Pandamatenga, Nata and Bushmen Pits.



ANNEX 17
Page 4
Documentq Pert^ning tc IBRD Livestock II Appraisal
47. Appraisal mission travel itineries and meeting
schedules
48. Livestock project preparation team
Second Livestock Development Project (Livestock II)
Service Company Organization and Support May 17, 1976
49. The legal prerequisites for Livestock II;
Project Steering Committee Paper No. 2
50.  Memo from APRU to Appraisal Team:  "The evaluation of
Grazing Systems on Communal Pasture".
51. Memo from APRU to Appraisal Team: "Monitoring of the
Second Livestock Development Project".
52. Project preparation Report, December, 1976
53. Notes on the Haina Veld, Tsabong
54. Report on BLDC for Appraisal Team, 1977
E.   Documents on Tribal Grazing Land Policy
55. Central district preliminary land zones
56. Communal grazing areas - group formation
57. Discussion Paper - Group formation in communal areas
September, 1976
58. "Does the Government realize how troublesome a Motswana
can be?"
59. Does he think we shall club ourselves together once we get
to the cattle ranches?"
Stc 14:8: '76
60. Information sheet for prospective lease applications
61. Information sheet for prospective lease application by
groups
62. Land utilization Technical note 9 - District Zoning
Information
63. National workshop on T.L.G.P., 1975



ANNEX 17
Page 5
64. Preliminary Report on the Public Consultation on the National
Policy on Tribal Grazing Land
65. Popular version of the tribal grazing land policy - May, 1976
66. Tribal grazing land policy consultation campaign
Basic statistics on Radio Learning groups
Report Form Response and Population Coverage - November 10, 1976
F.  Legislation Relevant to Project
67. The Agricultural Resources Conservation Act, 1972, No. 30
68. Communal Management Associations Act: Draft bill, June, 1977
69. Hypothecation Bill
70. Laws of Botswana: Control of Livestock Industry - Chapter 36:01
L.R.O. 1/1976
71. Tribal Land Act
72. Agreement - Dong Dong Ranchers Service Company
G.   Other documents
73. Technoserve - Allied Ranching Inc. (Kenya)



BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                  Chart I
Mlinistry of Agriculture - Organization Chart
Minister
I 
Permanent Secretary
Livestock Project                            Deputy                             Rural Development
livAnages ntP Permanent                                                            Coordinator
Managemrent Unit                            SecretaryCoriar
|   hie             Director    ||Director                  ||Director    ||Registrar    | |Botswana                                    |
ura        Agricultural              Agricultural                           Veterinary        of                  Agricultural
t         Research           r      Field m ervices                        Servces           Cooperatives        College
Anma                   Arbl                               eurheter
Production            Research                           Services          Laboratory      hSrie
Research Unit.
Range                 Crop         |    | Agricultural |      |Land          l
Management         |Improvement |       |Extension    |       |Utilization 
Section
|Field Extension |
|  Services      l
(Agricultural
Demonstrators)
World Bank-17431






Cbart 2
8OTSWANA
NATICNAL OEVELOPMENT BANK
ORGANIZATION FESRUARY 1977
OF
PIMAANcE
C>"Al     .
*AG
A*4
sEVgrANSN P1.AMN
AND~~~~~LA 
Son. *ACCOUNT                                     O .  I  X  I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .. I_                       . ,-  I'  - ----- ,,,,,.....
_   t CAIT     { wD C"lQPcv,-- LC^ C$O^NCtx| pieLO 04capq'   011L. ootf zW    s$Pi ^     OPP'CIPP  offLO OPPfCvp  'iL $1{O*'C"
IPu8ss~ ~~~~~~~~-- -; ----                      .......                     -------  .......'''..---''.-
:XISTING POMs NSt
X owm   MOTIONS                                                                    UN






Chart 3
BOTSWANA
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Project Organization
Project Steering Committee
Dep. Perm. Sec. Ministry of Agriculture
Director Ec. Affairs, Ministry of Agriculture
General Manager. NDB
Project                   Livestock 11
Coordinating              Project Coordination
Committee                 Officer
ND8 Agricultural                     APRU                          Department                      Department                       Ch ief
Credit Division                                                    of Veterinary                   of Agricultural                  Agricultural
Communal                      Services                        Field Services                   Economist
Ranch Development                    Grazing
Communal                             Units                         Trek                            Railway                          Studies
Loans                                                              Routes                          Handling                         Future
Smalistock                      Project
Training                        Preparation
May 31, 1977                                                                                                                         World Bank 17517






s.,,< A  NhJ G~d  I&O                                            = A  :;:,4. t: j  : : ;::Z  2  A  0E:t: t:  h/g2'-REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
SOILS, RAINFALL AND
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK
{-    :  1   \   J  t : 0   { l   qe r      g     '   l  4     K      T    i ~~~~R o D E S ~ A   0   F i  4..  51F ,4FNF O
;   ;  Z  0;  (  rE ' r gv r Tf +q t TEp gl O ETeNE ~~~~~~~~~~~~'C'<  F~FF 00400 0100,FF' 100
_ET- 7 a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41r  0y0                                    OFOPNOFOSFoI  {L&V   0!, 00F    F 
F/A   FK  A  t:  '  i!  ,):.: S '' * C % '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~04 F00F000 O- '41 *  4
F-i .IL.  01'0FOONNFU    0 , Cr+F FF000 .-i:
MO0
E   5~~~~~~~~~~C AVE S:4 000 PL4000
-    - FN0-6TFfl. -OJ-F4, -"-
C D                                               X                                                     S   :S.,r  T 9 . .DKr~twD SUUUUSRA-ebmd oN
vRWpIjjLJoC   OF  ~                                I                   A-  Ir  I      Rl   /RE ;
MI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--
-00,FEE0I
444 J V v <       t  t ; 50I 0A 5 FT 0  <  T
-e | ~~40             j                                  Th                                   i '  '  or    2 5 ' t  o r
\  \1   0R,!t   2>D-,  ft  ;.  s*Sr0;i AD,>0S; i G H;  Ci  -   FD L 2  0. 0               1I    V     IS       nN- R  
f   I   ;;   S;   ?\T  TE  EDi  D  ,.  S1  PX  RC !0 F) S O U T H FRT I C A S? j E 11 0 X OR_LI_H [N'<- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 , VrS 
210  L D S 0  1  t !,,  5;''   2S  0 '=''  SlS  AS alf    -D!eXj.  M SS CwS s~F9u~bL S{! |  CT    d 5;A CF    $






A N: G  OL:                                                 A X              >o  tZAM AIA  k
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
COP  LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-E~REL-oHNT` RhEA RUNER RRIOT HIINET
RE EONNEC RES UDE OHER IRMSCTS
-T                                                                                     A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RESTW  ARDSTA RNETE
EX RHATDRA DROICED
OCT    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                                               S~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETEtNRlEY TORSOSm ROTEN
~~IR ~ -N    0> K              AV L             A         Kb A              R                                                  ;0Q                     5      [      ]-Ovt^CKF25hE  1lTfJ
0    t   i 0|  NGAMILAN DS    :        =           9           =           9         z           <      9       0         ABuArhityo tf        w    ~    "4NM A OP L-
R~~~PURUC OF SOUTH AWCA                  END~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 
D5                          Dr                                                                28                                 ER
-Z2-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~S qLG AZ                            fNPLA5.RStf{ef\f'         G|
G; V.   K   A TEAHAR/0jt    
j tXNnone   Av z   &   G    / l  O       N                              |    A         Shoshonv  >\&alapwfJOd ROnchR   
|      \_       o/>epet e M;CN29  lTNlNtLSeFAtONi7tCC
'   \    L    --I    /   G   \   U   .,WEPESFFV, tpt,zS < 2 - r4^lqF22wer RbAtfi I~~~~~~~~d
-2i-  1l  X % t > 0 - t>- _w-U 24CE'TRA
< t ,;t -- KGHALAGAI.,.- ...... --=-rstsp 0mqs
~~  X  r  :  kA TF L h lA  t  + ; _ ' = ' 0 0;;: i s ; W ^ * 1 y                                         T-   WW- '' 
j  \  i i         t )                                            >                                   EJ  7\    \      1                           '}\       rH  A  R  I             S A
i  \  \  /  f B --- |x%SD ~ r. r:a                                                                         h f BT SAAO 
_z6-  \             Tshabong<riRvi68\'                  -t    1J;  ,rr: 81'   e      L                Tt S '                                 26o-       A         L   r.p~  .0~
i/jke                             D0<     -W Prf        Zm                                  vt-ySKWENEONG             oo$                                     -g
r;  o e    E  >   X  0    0 t6lPUetic  tF   vsogTwi fMWA 0:          H           sp    426    16D                 ,      %        so........A;Aur-rt - '-vR  t
Iy  t -   22    :  ;.;  \   \ 2^; :=at::;- S   :' t \"5, ,-  sus        tz W      :        .                                   z                 os+@n~~~~~~~~-C'o
K - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r A". LSUR. t VAN.- D



