FILE  COPY                             Document of                    RETUJ-?`, TO
The World Bank                   REPC                 5K
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                 ON E  Vs- EK
Report No. P-2140a-'BT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
-OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEN'
-TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOR A
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
October 31, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =  Pula (P) 1/
US$1.20         =  p 1
US$1.00         =  P 0.833
US$1,000        =  P 833
US$1,000,000    =  P 833,300
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)           =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       =  0.62 miles (mi)
I metric toe (m ton)  =  2,204 pounds (lb)  2
1 sq km (km )          =  0.386 sq. miles (mi )
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ACP     -    African, Caribbean, and Pacific Countries
APRU    -    Animal Production Research Unit
BAC     -    Botswana Agricultural College
BLDC    -    Botswana Livestock Development Corporation
BMC     -    Botswana Meat Commission
CIDA    -    Canadian International Development Agency
CTO     -    Central Transport Organization
EDF     -    European Development Fund
EEC     -    Furopean Economic Community
BMD     -    Foot and Mouth Disease
GDP     -    Gross Domestic Product
GNP     -    Gross National Product
ILCA    -    International Livestock Center for Africa
LPMU    -    Livestock Project Management Unit
MLGL    -    Ministry of Local Government and Lands
MWC     -    Ministry of Works and Communications
NDB     -    National Development Bank
NORAD   -    Norwegian Agency for Development
ODM     -    Overseas Development Ministry (United Kingdom)
SIDA    -    Swedish International Development Agency
TGLP    -    Tribal Grazing Land Policy
GOVERNMENT OF BOTSWANA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
11 The Pula was revalued by 5 percent against the dollar in May 1977.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOTSWANA
Second Livestock Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Botswana
Amount:             US$6.5 million equivalent
Terms:              Repayable in 20 years including 5 years of grace, at
7.9 percent per annum,
Relending Terms:   About US$2.4 million equivalent of the loan would be
on-lent to the National Development Bank (NDB) at 8.0
percent interest per annum, with a repayment schedule
conforming substantially to the aggregate of the amorti-
zation schedules for its sub-loans.
Project             The proposed project will (i) assist the Borrower in
Description:       arresting the deterioration of the country's rangelands
through introducing improved range and cattle managemernt
systems on about 100 ranches to be developed on tribal
land zoned as commercial; (ii) seek new technologies
to benefit small livestock owners through developing
about fourteen grazing units on tribal lands zoned as
communal for testing alternative grazing systems and
provide support for small communal schemes in these
areas; (iii) promote more efficient marketing of live-
stock through constructing new and improving existing
trek routes, improving rail handling facilities, and
constructing holding grounds for small stock; and (iv)
strengthen institutions serving livestock development
programs. About 1,000 individuals in tribal areas are
expected to benefit from the ranch development and a
much larger number, over 3,500 individuals, will benefit
from the communal grazing units and the improvement of
the marketing infrastructure.  The main risk facing the
project is whether cattle owners will find the proposed
ranch developments sufficiently attractive financially,
since many cattle owners now derive quite high returns
with minimal inputs, largely at the expense of range
deterioration.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:
US$ Million         Foreign as a
Item                                 Local   Foreign   Total   % of Total
A.  Ranch Development                  .67      2.00      2.67         75
B.  Communal Grazing Units             .80        .68     1.48         46
C.  Credit for Communal Schemes        .27       .27       .54         50
D.  NDB Agricultural Credit
Division                       .91        .59      1.50         39
E.  Marketing Infrastructure           .32        .48      .80         60
F.  Technical Services                1.32      1.00      2.32         43
Sub-total                     4.29       5.02     9.31          54
G. Contingencies:
Physical                       .46        .60     1.06         57
Price                         1.41       1.65     3.06         54
Sub-Total                     1.87       2.25     4.12         55
Total Project Cost            6.16       7.27    13.43         54
Total Project Cost            4.90       7.27    12.17          60
(Net of Taxes and Duties)
Financing Plan:
US$ Million      Percent
Total         of Total
Bank                                        6.50             53
International Livestock
Center for Africa (ILCA)                 1.26 1/          10
European Development Fund                    .30              2
Ranchers (Project Beneficiaries)             .81              7
Republic of Botswana                        3.31             28
Total Project Costs:               12.18             100
1/   The ILCA contribution to the project represents an estimate of the value
of a monitoring and evaluation program ILCA will provide as part of its
overall research program.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY           1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    Total
-(US$ Million)---
Annual             400     850   1,000   1,250   2,000       500   6,500
Cumulative         400   1,250   2,250   4,000   6,000   6,500   6,500
Rate of Return:    The economic return from the elements of the proposed
project which relate directly to expected increases in
livestock production (about 56 percent of total project
costs) is 15 percent.
Appraisal Report:  Report No. 1630-BT, dated October 31, 1977.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOR A SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Botswana for the equivalent of US$6.5 million to
help finance a second livestock project. The loan would have a term of 20
years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.9 percent per annum.
About US$2.4 million of the proceeds of the loan would be relent to the
National Development Bank at 8.0 percent interest per annum, with a repay-
ment schedule conforming substantially to the aggregate of the amortization
schedules for its sub-loans.  The European Development Fund will also help
finance the project with a grant of approximately US$0.3 million equivalent
and the International Livestock Center for Africa will provide technical
assistance valued at US$1.3 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report on Botswana entitled "Developmenr.
Strategy in a Mineral-led Economy" (No. 735-BT) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 30, 1975. An updating economic mission visited Botswana in
May 1977; its report is expected to be distributed to the Executive Directors
in early 1978. Country data are given in Annex I.
3.        Botswana is a landlocked country located at the center of southern
Africa. Although it is the size of France, the population in 1976 was only
about 700,000, of which about 75 percent was concentrated in the eastern ten
percent of the territory. During the early 1970s, GDP grew in real terms at
about 20 percent annually and is currently expanding at 6 percent per annum.
GNP per capita in 1976 was about US$410.
4.        Until the early 1970s, livestock was the country's principal re-
source. Cattle rearing still dominates the agricultural sector which provides
the main economic activity for about 83 percent of the population. While
less than 10 percent of the land is suitable for crop cultivation, cattle
thrive on the savanna type vegetation covering more than half the country.
Crops such as sorghum, maize, millet, beans and cowpeas are grown mainly for
subsistence consumption. In recent years, minerals have become Botswana's
main source of economic growth. Substantial deposits of diamonds, copper,
nickel, coal and brine have been discovered and two major mines are in opera-
tion, one producing diamonds and the other copper/nickel. In the future, it
is possible that major coal and soda-ash mines will be established.
5.        Although Botswana has good potential for development, it faces a
number of serious constraints: (i) water; (ii) infrastructure, including
international transport because of the country's landlocked position; and



-2-
(iii) technical and professional manpower. Rainfall is highly erratic,
and the country is prone to frequent droughts. In the eastern region, water
comes primarily from boreholes, dams and seasonal rivers, and supplies could
become inadequate to meet the country's urban and industrial needs during
the late 1980s. Studies are currently being carried out on the underground
water resources of this region. The vast Okavango swamp in the northwest,
which is separated by large distances from the main population centers in
the east, represents a potential source of future supply. Its complex hydrology
and delicate ecology are being intensively studied as part of the Government's
long-term plan for water development. However, provisional results indicate
that the cost of transporting water to the east appears extremely high, while
irrigation potential in the Okavango area will be limited by poor soils.
6.        Infrastructure is at an early stage of development.  With public
utilities generally available in the main urban centers, the Government
is giving priority to extending these facilities to the rural population.
Only about 250 km of the 7,200 km of main, feeder and secondary roads are
bituminous surfaced; secondary and rural roads are often little more than
tracks. Current investments in transport are being concentrated in upgrading
the vital north/south road axis (about 1050 km) to bituminous standards by
1981. Existing airfields cannot yet accommodate jet aircraft, but the main
fields are being upgraded to international standards. The main railway line
is owned and operated by Rhodesia Railways and passes from Rhodesia through
eastern Botswana for about 640 km before connecting with the South African
railway system. The Government is concerned with the country's landlocked
position and the potential problem of access to international transport
routes, particularly in view of current political events in southern Africa.
As the Government does not want to be solely dependent on routes through South
Africa and Rhodesia, it has recently completed, to gravel standards, a road
link with Zambia.
7.        The shortage of professional and technical skills is a major con-
straint to development. At independence in 1966, general levels of education
and skills were low, with illiteracy estimated at 75 percent of the adult
population; in fact, there was no public system of secondary education.
The Government has implemented an expansion program in education and training
to localize as rapidly as practicable technical and professional positions
in both the private and public sectors. However, with the expected growth in
the economy, the need for additional skilled manpower will become even more
pressing, necessitating an increased reliance on expatriates and a step-up in
the level of educational investment. An international commission on education
has recently recommended substantial changes in the education system to make
it more relevant to the country's development needs; the Government has recently
published a policy paper in which most of the commission's recommendations
have been accepted.
8.        Botswana's development objectives, first outlined in its post-
independence Plan (1969-72), can be summarized as follows: (a) rapid eco-
nomic growth; (b) social justice, defined as achieving a more equitable
distribution of income and providing equal opportunities for all Batswana



-3-
in education and employment; (c) greater economic independence, particularly
the diversification of the country's ext:ernal9 economic and trade relations,
and the localization of skilled manpower; and (d) sustained livestock pro-
duction, while conservirig the natural environment.
9.        Economic performance during the second Plan period (1972-76)
was very satisfactory, with a GDP growth rate of 11 percent a year.
Starting from a very low level, economic growth was export-led with the
production of diamonds in 1971 and copper/nickel in 1973. Prior to 1971,
the value of minerals in external trade was negligible, but by 1976 it
represented 55 percent of merchandise exports, overtaking meat and meat
products as Botswana's main commodity. The strong demand for beef during
this period, both in South Africa and the United Kingdom, brought an expan-
sion of agricultural output through increased offtake of the national herd.
Domestic wage employment grew by 8 percent a year while migratioin to South
Africa's mines increased following a substantial rise iqn mine wages.
10.       Also, between 1972 and 1976, total government revenue increased from
P 12 million to P 79 million mainly because of the rapid growth in Customs
Union receipts but also because of increases in direct taxation and mining
revenues. Government current expenditures rose from P 15 million to P 50
million. Over the first half of the 1970s, the Government has thus been in a
position to finance from its revenue surplus an increasing proportion of its
development expenditures which hitherto had to be fully financed from external
sources.
11.       Together with Lesotho, South Africa and Swaziland, Botswana belongs
to the Southern Africa Customs Union, established in 1910, which provides for
free movement of goods between member countries. Under this UnLion  all
customs, excise and sales duties are paid into a common revenue pool and
allocated to members mainly in relation to the value of their imports and
excisable production. A 1969 revision of this agreement led to a five-
fold increase in Botswana government receipts from the pool over the last
six years. A more recent revision in 1976 is expected to add to Botswana's
benefits from the Union (para 15). Up to 1975, these countries also comprised
the Rand Monetary Area, but Botswana withdrew after establishing a Central
Bank and introduced in August 1976 its own currency, the Pula.
12.       Income distribution is a growing concerin in Botswana.  The tradi-
tional pattern of cattle ownership, communal grazing practices and control
of watering points have favored a limited number of Batswana- A 1974/75
survey revealed that 45 percent of rural households own no cattle at all,
another 20 percent own fewer than 10 head, while 5 percent own about half the
cattle. This inequality in ownership has steadily widened as the size of
herds expanded and competition for grazing larnd and water increased (exacerè-
bated by periodic droughts which have eliminated some small cattle owners).
To reduce this inequality, the Goverrnment adopted in July 1975 a new tribal
grazing land policy (para 28) designed to reform traditional practices of
cattle raising, modernize ranch management and increase productivity.



- 4 -
13.       The current Plan (1976-81) underscores the same principles as the
previous Plan through its emphasis on infrastructure, education and rural
development. It calls for public capital expenditures of US$345 million
equivalent which implies an annual average investment equivalent to 36 per-
cent of GDP. This increased program reflects the country's growing absorp-
tive capacity as well as improved government planning. Whereas planning was
largely project oriented, it is now focused on longer-term strategies within
a macro-economic framework.
14.       Development prospects over the next five years are favorable; GDP
would increase at about 11 percent a year, if expansion in diamond produc-
tion, continuing favorable terms for beef exports, and a sustained increase
in copper/nickel output take place as expected. However, the possibility
of a major drought, or an expansion of hostilities in the region, presents
a serious threat to the country's development programs.
15.       Under favorable circumstances, government revenue would increase
by about 14 percent annually in real terms over the current Plan period.
Customs receipts, which accounted for almost half of government revenue
between 1971/72 and 1974/75, fell to about 25 percent in 1976/77, but under
the revised revenue formula of the Customs Union Agreement, receipts should
account for about 38 percent towards the end of the Plan period. Revenues
from the mining sector which had also fallen, partly due to rising costs in
diamond production and partly to prolonged technical difficulties encountered
in the Shashe copper/nickel project, are also expected to increase towards
the end of the Plan period following the planned increase in mineral produc-
tion. Revenue from direct taxation is expected to continue on a strong up-
ward trend.
16.       Multilateral and bilateral agencies have extended substantial
assistance to Botswana on highly concessional terms. The Bank Group has
been the main multilateral source, but the European Economic Community, the
African Development Bank and OPEC sources have also been active in Botswana.
Bilateral assistance has been diversified, the main sources being the United
Kingdom, Canada, United States, Germany and the Nordic countries. Disburse-
ments amounted to an average of US$33 million per annum over the last three
years. Total disbursed public debt amounted to US$161 million at December
31, 1976. Service payments on debt during 1976 were US$448 million, implying
a debt service ratio of 2.5 percent. If the grant element of future capital
inflows is reduced from the current-level of 60 percent to 40 percent, the
debt service ratio would increase from 3.5 percent in 1980 to a still man-
ageable level of 6.4 percent in 1985. While the terms of assistance could
harden somewhat in the light of the country's growth and development, the
country will still need external assistance on concessionary terms in view
of its relatively low per capita income and the possibility of disruption
of its development program. Further, since Botswana's commendable develop-
ment program (para. 13) will result in a more rapid growth in recurrent
expenditures relative to revenues, external agencies should be prepared
to finance a proportion of local costs of projects.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOTSWANA
17.       The Bank Group, which began operations in Botswana by financing a
road project in 1964, has made eleven loans and credits totalling US$92.7
million (net of cancellations) -- six credits (US$15 million) and five loans
(US$77.8 million) including US$3.5 million on Third Window terms. These have
financed four road projects, plus projects for water supply, livestock, urban-
ization, education, a development finance company and engineering studies and
infrastructure for the Shashe mining complex. As of December 31, 1976, the
Bank Group's share of Botswana's external public debt (disbursed only) was
31 percent (the share of IBRD alone was 22 percent), but was 80 percent of
its debt service payments -- a reflection of the predominance of soft funds
in Botswana's external debt.  About 80 percent of debt service payments to
the Bank Group, however, were for the Shashe infrastructure loan, which is
guaranteed by the international mining companies concerned. The Bank Group's
share of the country's external public debt (disbursed) and debt service
payments in 1985 is estimated at about 24 and 32 percent, respectively. A
summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits to Botswana is given in
Annex II, together with notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Botswana
is not a member of IFC.
18.       Overall, the Botswana Government and its agencies have demonstrated
good performance in the planning and execution of development projects. Of
particular note is the completion on schedule of the major parts of the large
Shashe infrastructure project which is related to the Bamangwato Concessions
Limited (BCL) copper/nickel mining scheme. This scheme has been beset with
major technical problems and, although substantial progress has been made
towards their resolution, the scheme is still some distance away from
achieving its rated annual production. Under present financial arrangements,
the large increase in capital costs of the mining scheme, as a result of the
technical difficulties, would result in a substantial reduction in the
benefits (royalties, taxes, and dividends) expected to be received by the
Government. The Government has been seeking ways to safeguard its expected
benefits and with Bank assistance has reviewed various financial and technical
possibilities for improving the project's financial prospects. In addition, the
private international companies sponsoring the mining scheme have been seeking
relief from their commitment to provide BCL with unlimited funds until project
completion. Discussions between the Government and the companies have been
actively pursued and a final agreement on the financial issues may be reached
before the end of the year. The first livestock project has also faced
critical problems (para 32). Serious delays were encountered in the initial
years of implementation, primarily the result of weak management, and ranch
development proved to be much more costly than anticipated. Nevertheless,
the Government has been making concentrated efforts to resolve the outstanding
issues.
19.       We propose to continue our active support for the Government's
development plan. A second urban project has recently been appraised that
will give some additional help to the Government in meeting the mushrooming
urban problem which the country faces. The project is expected to comprise
squatter upgrading, site and services, and small business components in both
Francistown, the main regional center in the north, and in Selebi-Pikwe, the
new town created as a result of the Shashe mining and infrastructure project.
A second education project is also being prepared to help the Government
counter the country's severe shortage of skilled manpower. It will likely



-6 -
be broad based, and include components for secondary education, non-formal
education and skills training. We also hope to continue our support for
mediunm-scale industrial growth through the Botswana Development Corporation,
a multi-purpose agency which is the country's main channel for investment
in the industrial sector.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
20.       Although agriculture's share of Botswana's GDP gradually declined
since the early 1970s, when the exploitation of diamonds and other minerals
began, the sector still is crucial to the economy. In 1974-1975, agriculture
(primarily livestock) represented about 30 percent of GDP, accounted for
about 36 percent of export earnings and contributed an estimated 45 percent
of total rural incomes. About 80 percent of rural households are directly
involved in agriculture, which is dominated by a tradition of livestock and
cattle rearing. The rangelands which cover most of Botswana can be used
economically only for extensive livestock production. Most crops, primarily
maize, sorghum, millet, beans and cowpeas, are grown in the east and around
the Okavango Swamp, almost exclusively for subsistence. As a result, Botswana
imports significant quantities of agricultural produce from South Africa,
particularly maize and maize meal.
21.       The sector is divided between relatively modern, European style
farming in the freehold land areas (about 3 percent of the country's landmass)
and traditional farming in the tribal lands where cultivation techniques are
generally rudimentary. In the latter areas, yields are low and crop failure
common, due largely to erratic rainfall, labor shortages, limited use of
fertilizers and pesticides, and poor storage facilities. The Government,
however, is endeavoring to counter these difficulties, by strengthening its
extension efforts, improving seed varieties, designing more efficient agricul-
tural implements and cultivation techniques, and improving marketing systems.
Further testing and investigation is also being carried out to
determine the extent of suitable land and water resources, and appropriate
farming systems. The Government is being assisted in these efforts by the
United Kingdom and Sweden.
22.       The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for formulating agri-
cultural policies and programs, supervising parastatal bodies, including
the Botswana Meat Commission (para 29), and providing extension services.
It has three major departments: Agricultural Field Services, Veterinary
Services, and Agricultural Research.
23.       The Department of Agricultural Field Services, in charge of extension,
presently employs about 200 extension workers. Attention has focused mostly
on crops, but the Government intends to strengthen programs for livestock.
For example, a range management section has recently been created for assistance
in ranch development, and to develop systems for enforcing range use regulations
(para 45). The Department of Veterinary Services is responsible for disease
prevention and control programs, meat inspection and grading, livestock advisory
services and veterinary research. It has a full complement of veterinarians
and veterinary assistants. The Department of Agricultural Research carries



-7-
out both crop and animal research activities. Its Animal Production Research
Unit (APRU) has conducted excellent research in a number of fields relating to
the livestock subsector including the development of management systems for
livestock production in Botswana, breed performance, and range productivity.
The principal problem facing the Ministry is a severe shortage of Batswana
staff at senior and intermediate levels. A localization plan has been pre-
pared, but will take some years to implement.
24.       The Ministry also runs the Botswana Agricultural College (BAC) and
a number of rural farmer training centers. The College trains staff for agri-
cultural agencies and graduates about 75 students a year from its two-year
certificate level program. Higher-level training is offered at the University
of Botswana and Swaziland.
Livestock
25.       Botswana's national cattle herd has increased rapidly in size over
the past 10 years and is presently estimated at about 2.7 million head. Sheep
and goat numbers have tripled during the same period and now total about 0.5
million and 1.4 million head, respectively. This rapid increase in the live-
stock population is largely due to unusually high rainfall and to better than
normal grazing conditions during the past few years. The far greater rela-
tive increase in sheep and goat numbers over cattle numbers probably reflects
their better ability to utilize the coarser feeds presently growing on deter-
iorating rangelands. Sheep and goats are traditional sources of milk and
meat in rural communities and only token numbers are marketed for urban con-
sumption or for export. Both, however, have export potential and the Govern-
ment is planning to encourage their flow into processing and marketing channels.
26.       The national cattle herd is remarkably healthy and free of disease.
The only diseases affecting the acceptability of beef on foreign markets
are Foot and Mouth Disease (FND) and measles, and both are well controlled on
a national scale. The main scourge, FIID, is being controlled through free
vaccination programs, veterinary cordon fences and fenced quarantine areas
dividing the country into four veterinary regions. Animals moving from one
region to another are routinely subjected to a 2 to 3 week period of quarantine
coupled with close veterinary inspection to ensure that they are not carrying
or suffering from the disease. The Government is further strengthening its
control programs because of increased fears of the disease moving in from
neighboring Rhodesia in view of the recent political unrest in that country.
27.       Ownership of the national cattle herd is concentrated in a rela-
tively small proportion of the population. About 50 percent of the herd
is owned by only 5 percent of the rural households, while about 45 percent
of rural households own no cattle at all. Modern ranching techniques are
largely uncommon, except in the privately owned land areas where about 370,000
cattle are raised. In the tribal areas, custom provides for communal right to
grazing lands, where herds are allowed to graze and mingle without restriction
around water sources owned by the community. As pasture around these water



- 8 -
sourc-- hc  be ome progressively degraded, owners of larger herds have moved
away from the populated areas to sink their own water boreholes and establish
cattle posts 1/, mostly in the Kalahari region. Here, too, cattle graze without
restrictions since, under tribal custom, individuals are not permitted to own
the land or develop it, although they are able in effect to control the land
around the borehole through controlling the water source. Estimates of total
:;-sting boreholes range between 4,000 and 7,000.  Overstocking and poor
management has seriously damaged the range and reduced its carrying capacity
in many areas. Deterioration will, in all likelihood, continue and may well
wve irreversible unless action is taken to control stock numbers and improve
management.
The Botswana Government, keenly aware of this destruction to the
country's rangelands, enacted the Agricultural Resources Act of 1972. This
Act created an Agricultural Resources Board, under the aegis of the Ministry
of Agriculture, with powers to pass orders and regulations to conserve natural
resources such as limiting the number of animals which can be grazed by
any occupier of land or which may be watered at any particular water source.
However, the Board has not yet been able to enforce such measures effectively
because of a lack of manpower, expertise and resources. More recently,
the Government launched a far-reaching new policy, the Tribal Grazing Land
Policy (TGLP), designed to develop the country's livestock potential, while
protecting the range from permanent damage. This policy forms part of a
comprehensive strategy for rural development and is based on a reform of land
tenure. Under the TGLP, tribal land will be sub-divided into "commercial",
''communal", and "reserve" zones.  In l'commercial" zones, individuals or groups
of individuals will be able to obtain 50-year leases to land and will pay
rents. Communities will retain collective rights to land in "communal" zones,
but new programs and legislation are planned to promote their development.
"Reserve" zones will be held in reserve for development by future generations
and to protect wildlife and areas of unique ecological interest.  The prepara-
tion of plans and programs to implement the TGLP is underway but will be a
lengthy process, and many questions are still to be resolved, particularly
about the benefits to small- and medium-scale livestock owners versus those to
large farmers (para. 52). Nevertheless, development of the livestock sector
should not await their solution, as a significantly more egalitarian production
system seems an unlikely outcome. The proposed project would represent the
first major investment program in support of the TGLP.
29.       The Botswana Meat Commission (BMC), a parastatal corporation formed
in i966, is the dominant institution in cattle marketing and slaughter, and
en-_yP a statutory monopoly over exports of meat and live cattle from Botswana.
Since gver 80 percent of Botswana's livestock production is exported, market-
i  --nnels converge upon the Commission's single abattoir, located at
Lobatse in the extreme south-east corner of Botswana. The Commission's plant
2odezn and well-managed, and includes subsidiary plants for production of
various meat by-products. The Commission controls the flow of cattle to the
i/   A cattle post is a place where a household's cattle and small stock are
kept, usually separate from a village.



- 9 -
plant and sets prices.  It purchased 189,000 head in 1975 and 212,000 in 1976,
amounting to about 7 percent of the national herd. Cattle marketing is ren-
dered difficult by Botswana's great distances and poor communications, and by
the location of the abattoir. About 70 percent of the cattle are moved to the
abattoir via rail. The remainder are mostly trekked or transported by trucks.
Nevertheless, Botswana's cattle marketing system is well organized, and most
producers have reasonably good opportunities to sell cattle, for cash, through-
out the year either direct to the Commission, to various marketing cooperatives,
to cattle traders and "speculators", to the Botswana Livestock Development
Corporation (BLDC) which further finishes the cattle, or at auctions organized
by the Ministry of Agriculture. To reduce cattle theft, sales are controlled
by law through a system of licenses and permits.
30.       Botswana historically has marketed most of its beef in the United
Kingdom and South Africa, usually at prices more favorable than prevailing
world prices, particularly in recent years. However, since the United Kingdom
joined the European Economic Community (EEC), Botswana's exports to the United
Kingdom have come under the auspices of the EEC. In accordance with the Lome
Convention between the EEC and the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) coun-
tries, imports into the EEC were to be duty free, but subject to variable
import levies. Shortly after signature of the Convention, the import levy,
which represents the difference between the world market price and EEC's
guide price, was significantly increased, and seriously affected the economic
viability of Botswana's exports to the EEC.  Since then, Botswana has engajed,
with other affected ACP nations, in negotiations to remove or rebate the levy.
In July 1975, agreement was reached on a 90 percent rebate of the levy for a
six-month period; this rebate agreement was extended twice for six months
(commencing 1976), and an agreement was tentatively reached in late 1976
extending the rebate for 12 months. Good possibilities exist that the 90
percent levy abatement arrangements will be extended through 1978.
31.       Institutional credit for agriculture in Botswana is principally
geared towards the needs of freehold farmers and wealthier cattle owners.
Farmers can obtain credit from the National Development Bank (NDB), Botswana's
two commercial banks, cooperatives and through BMC, for the purchase of feeder
steers (the Graziers Scheme). NDB is a small institution established in 1963
as a statutory corporation, and provides short and medium term loans for
agricultural machinery, water development, breeding stock, and small enter-
prises.  It is the principal source of credit for traditional agriculture
since it can secure loans against movable security such as cattle. The
commercial banks are the largest source of credit to the agricultural sector.
They are well staffed, have a wide network of offices and agencies throughout
Botswana, and operate with efficient and flexible procedures. Lending to
the traditional sector, however, is limited. Most commercial loans are
short-term overdrafts (principally because of the unavailability of long-
term credit) and usually require pledgable non-movable security. However, a
Hypothecations Act enabling commercial banks to take movable security has been
approved by Parliament. The Graziers Scheme has been operated by the Commis-
sion since 1969 to assist farmers wishing to acquire cattle for fattening.
Since the main criteria for the Commission's approval of a grazier are satis-
factory management and stock handling facilities, the scheme has primarily
benefitted freehold farmers.



- 10 -
32.       The First Livestock Development Project, jointly financed by IDA
and the Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) in 1972, with credits
of US$1.65 million each (Credit 325-BT), was principally a land development
scheme for remote, uninhabited and unutilized land. It aimed at developing
30 breeding ranches, five cattle fattening ranches, and 24 karakul sheep
farms in western Botswana, nine fattening ranches in eastern Botswana, and a
fattening ranch at Makalamabedi in the north. Borehole maintenance services,
stock route development, and a series of studies for, inter alia, monitoring
the effects of fencing and ranching on wildlife migration and range conditions
were also included. A Livestock Project Management Unit (LPMU) within the
Ministry of Agriculture was to develop the western breeding and sheep ranches,
then lease them to farmers, and to develop and operate fattening ranches.
The Botswana Livestock Development Corporation (BLDC), a subsidiary of BMC,
was established to develop and operate the eastern fattening ranches and
the Makalamabedi ranch. The project has not yet been completed and it is
too early to assess completely the project's impact. Nevertheless, it has
clearly experienced serious problems, and will not yield the benefits expected
at appraisal. Serious delays were encountered in the initial years of imple-
mentation, in establishing project entities and appointing personnel. Ranch
development was slow and expensive, with substantial cost overruns for all
components. LPMU has developed about 13 breeding ranches and 7 sheep farms,
at costs in excess of those planned; only eight breeding ranches are occupied.
Some fattening ranches in the east and west were developed, but farmers have
proved unwilling to graze cattle there for a fee. No formal lease or loan
agreements have yet been signed by the occupants of the breeding ranches. In
addition, breeding ranches already developed have been damaged by fire, and
also by migratory animals, and must be repaired. The Makalamabedi ranch is
operating well, buying cattle from Ngamiland producers and selling them to
BMC. BLDC has, however, encountered serious financial problems. The reasons
for these problems are complex, but appear to relate principally to poor
management, exacerbated by logistic difficulties. The Government, however, has
been taking definitive steps to counter these problems, including redefining
BLDC's scope of operations and expanding its marketing functions; undertaking
an audit of LPMU to assist in determining how funds have been spent, and
its future role; and strengthening of LPMIU's extension services. Although the
proposed project differs from the first in approach and in the institutions
involved, deliberate efforts have been made to avoid recurrence of similar
problems. Responsibilities for execution and coordination have been defined
more clearly and the likely impact of logistic difficulties has been well
considered in the establishment of implementation schedules and cost estimates.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       A Xeport enti,tled "Botswana - Appraisal Qf a Second LiyestQck Develop-
ment Project", No. 1630-BT, dated October 31, 1977, is being distributed
separately.
34.       The proposed project was prepared by the Botswana Government, with
assistance from the Bank Group and from an Agricultural Development Service
staff member seconded to the Government. Preparation was financed from funds



- 11 -
provided in Credit 325-BT for the first livestock project. A government
request for Bank Group assistance was received in December 1976. The proj-
ect was appraised in the field in January/February 1977. Representatives of
the European Development Fund (EDF) and the International Livestock Center
for Africa (ILCA) participated in the appraisal. Negotiations were held
in Washington from September 19 to 22, 1977. The Botswana delegation was
led by Mr. M. Taylor, Chief Economist, Ministry of Finance and Development
Planning, and included Mr. M. Sekgoma, Acting Permanent Secretary, Ministry
of Agriculture, and Mr. A. Woodcock, General Manager, National Development
Bank.
Objectives and Description of the Project
35.       The objectives of the proposed project are to assist the Borrower
in arresting the deterioration of the country's rangelands; developing
ranches; seeking new technologies to benefit small livestock owners; pro-
moting more efficient marketing of livestock; and strengthening institutions
serving livestock development programs. The project will constitute the
first investment effort supporting the implementation of the Government's
new Tribal Grazing Land Policy (TGLP) (para. 28).
36.       To meet these objectives, the proposed project will provide the
following:
(a) Development by farmers of about 100 ranches on land designated
as "commercial" under the TGLP. Individuals or groups of indivi-
duals will be able to obtain leases to land in commercial zones to
develop ranches from existing cattle posts. The pattern of ranch
development will vary, but will generally involve perimeter fencing
of the ranch and division into three paddocks, provision of fire
breaks and ranch roads, and improvement of internal water distribu-
tion systems. The farmers, who will likely seek loans from the NDB
to finance the investments, would be expected to implement im-
proved procedures for management of their herds, maintain ranch
facilities and keep financial records adequate to facilitate
analysis of herd development and financial returns.
(b)  Development by the Animal Production Research Unit (APRU) (para.
23) of about fourteen communal grazing units in areas designated
as communal land for the purpose of testing different grazing
systems under various ecological conditions. Animal production
research in Botswana has not yet been focused on the development
of livestock management systems to assist the many small cattle
owners concentrated around villages, or on the rehabilitation of
rangeland that has been overgrazed and degraded. The problems are
technical and sociological; rehabilitation of pasture has not yet
been demonstrated, and it is not known how producers will work in
cooperative management arrangements. The fourteen grazing units
to be developed will provide systematic data concerning these
problems.



- 12 -
c) Smali-szale loans for livestock development by communal associa-
tions on communal land. A line of credit would be made available
to the National Development Bank (NDB) to finance small-scale proj-
ects such as fencing, improvement of watering facilities, and mar-
keting infrastructure that are proposed by communal management
associations.
(d) Support to a new agricultural credit division in the National
Development Bank through provision of equipment and materials
and funds for meeting the salary of a division manager and other
operating costs over the project implementation period. NDB will
establish such a division to assist potential borrowers in pre-
paring ranch investment plans and completing loan applications,
and to supervise all loans for ranch development, providing assis-
tance where required.
(e) Development of livestock marketing infrastructure including con-
struction and improvement of trek routes. Facilities at railway
loading stations would be improved to make transport of cattle
more efficient and to reduce losses due to poor handling. The
construction of holding grounds for small stock will enable the
animals to be held for periods long enough for shipments to the
Botswana Meat Commission to be collected, thereby hopefully leading
to an increase in the rate of offtake.
(f) Technical services for studies and experimental work arising
from project operating problems, monitoring and evaluation of
project progress, preparation of future projects, and establish-
ment of a ranch management training center. The center would
train owners or managers of new TGLP ranches, NDB staff, and
extension workers.
Cost Estimates and Financing
37.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$12.2 million,
excluding taxes and duties amounting to US$1.3 million equivalent. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$7.3 million, or 60 percent
of the total project cost. Costs have been estimated on the basis of prices
at September 1977. A physical contingency of 10 percent has been applied
to all project items except ranch development for which a 15 percent contin-
ge cy has been applied to reflect the greater uncertainty involved. A
dcca-7 'ed breakdown of costs is given in the Loan and Project Summary.
38e       The Bank, the European Development Fund (EDF) and the International
Liviestock Center for Africa (ILCA) would finance 66 percent of total project
costs, net of taxes and duties, and cover all the foreign exchange require-
ments and US$800,000 equivalent of local costs.  The proposed Bank loan of
US$6.5 million would finance about 53 percent of total project costs, includ-
ing 82 percent of the foreign costs and about US$540,000 equivalent of local
costs. EDF has agreed to provide about US$300,000 equivalent as a grant to
finance the investment cost of the ranch management training center. ILCA
has agreed to provide monitoring and evaluation services valued at US$1.26



- 13 -
million as part of its overall research program. The commercial banks in
Botswana would provide working capital required for ranch development.
In addition, the farmers benefitting from the project would finance about
US$800,000 of total costs, principally through sales of stock to provide a
down payment for loans for ranch development. The Borrower would provide
funds to meet the remaining local costs of US$3.3 million equivalent.
39.       Since the National Development Bank will administer the ranch
development component (para. 43), project funds for ranch development (about
US$3.2 million from both the Bank and the Borrower) would be on-lent to NDB
at 8 percent interest per annum, with a repayment schedule conforming sub-
stantially to the aggregate of the amortization schedules for sub-loans,
under a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank. Its signing will
be a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(a), draft Loan Agreement). In
turn, NDB would on-lend part of these funds to the commercial banks, also at
8 percent, which will assist NDB in administering the ranch development com-
ponent (para. 43). Administration agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, for
this on-lending will be a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(b), draft
Loan Agreement). Further, it will be a condition of disbursement for the
ranch development component that the Bank had approved a model loan agreement
for sub-loans by NDB and the commercial banks, and agreement had been obtained
on lending procedures (Section 2.02(c), draft Loan Agreement). Project funds
for small-scale credit for communal association schemes (about US$800,000)
would also be on-lent to NDB, which would administer this component, on terms
to be agreed. Disbursement for this will be conditional upon agreement on
detailed proposals including on-lending arrangements (Section 2.02(e), draft
Loan Agreement). The Government would take the foreign exchange risk for
both the ranch development and communal association schemes.
Sub-Lending Terms and Conditions
40.       Funds for ranch development would be sub-lent to farmers at 12
percent interest; precise terms would vary according to individual require-
ments, but the maximum term would be repayment over 15 years including 5
years of grace. These rates are in line with those prevailing in Botswana.
The spread of 4 percent which NDB and the commercial banks would receive
should be adequate to cover their administrative costs and provide for risk.
Agreement has been obtained that potential farmer participants will obtain
leases to land in the commercial zones, and have their ranch boundaries
identified and recorded (Section 3.07(a), draft Loan Agreement). Selection
criteria for ranch loans will give priority to groups of livestock owners over
individuals owning large herds since the smaller livestock owners will have a
greater need for assistance and their involvement would broaden the project's
impact (Section 3.07(b), draft Loan Agreement).  While details of financing
for communal association schemes will be finalized when proposals for this
component are reviewed by the Bank (pgra. 39), such schemes will be financed by
NDB partly through grants and partly through loans which would carry interest
rates appropriate to the scheme but probably in the vicinity of 12 percent.



- 14 -
Cost Recovery
41       For ranch development, farmers will be expected to pay the full
cost of investment, and the proposed interest rates are reasonable in view
of prevailing market levels. Given the pilot nature of the ranch development
program, however, the cost of providing credit will be high, and the Borrower
therefore proposes to establish an agricultural credit division within NDB
(para,43) and subsidize it with grant funds. For similar reasons, benefi-
ciaries in communal association schemes will be required to repay only part
of the cost of such schemes (para. 40). In addition, producers involved in
the communal grazing units to be established will not be expected to pay
the full cost of these units, given the experimental nature of the program.
Instead, it is expected that costs of this program, together with those of
the marketing infrastructure, will be recovered through existing taxation on
the cattle industry as a whole.
Project Implementation
42.       A Project Steering Committee, comprising the Deputy Permanent
Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture (Chairman), the Director of Economic
Affairs, Ministry of Finance and Development Planning, and the General
Manager, NDB, has been established to assume overall responsibility for
policy direction and project coordination. A Livestock II Coordinating
Committee has also been created, comprising all officials with responsibil-
ities for project implementation. A Livestock Project Development Officer
has been designated to serve as Secretary to the Steering Committee, and
Chairman of the Coordinating Committee. He would organize the work of the
Committee, ensure that decisions are implemented, monitor the provision
of funds, prepare periodic reports on project progress, and oversee prepara-
tion and audit of accounts. The Steering Committee will also be responsible
for preparing, in addition to quarterly progress reports, an annual program
review on the project covering several specific topics and recommending a
work program for the following year (Section 4.04, draft Loan Agreement).
43.       Each component of the project will be implemented by the department
or agency normally responsible for such activities. NDB will be responsible
for providing credit in collaboration with the commercial banks, which are
well capable of assisting NDB in this function, for supervising sub-loans
during the implementation period, and for providing assistance, including
loans, for communal schemes. In order to carry out these functions, an
agricultural credit division will be created within NDB. The division will
also recruit and train staff, develop operating procedures for the ranch pro-
gram, and elaborate procedures for selection of sub-borrowers and evaluation
of loan applications. Most applicants for sub-loans will require considerable
assistance in preparing the ranch development plans included in the subloan
agreements; NDB staff will work with ranchers to develop plans appropriate
to their land and cattle herds, and will follow the provision of services
closely. Agreements on NDB's lending procedures for ranch development have been
obtained (para 39). Further, in order to help ensure that NDB will be able



- 15 -
to carry out these activities, the Borrower will provide sufficient qualified
staff to NDB and ensure that NDB's agricultural credit division is headed by a
manager whose qualifications and terms of reference are acceptable to the Bank
(Section 3.09, draft Loan Agreement), and it will be a condition for disburse-
ment that key staff have been obtained (Section 2.02(c), draft Loan Agreement).
44.       The Animal Production Research Unit (APRU) will organize and super-
vise the communal grazing unit research program and oversee project monitor-
ing and evaluation. It will work with the Ministry of Local Government and
Lands and the Agricultural Field Services Department in selecting the sites
for testing alternative systems. To carry out this work, APRU will require
additional technical and support staff. Such staff will be provided, including
a pasture agronomist whose qualifications and terms of employment are satisfac-
tory to the Bank (Section 3.08, draft Loan Agreement). Disbursement for the
communal grazing unit program will be conditional upon agreement on detailed
proposals (Section 2.02(d), draft Loan Agreement). ILCA has agreed, as part
of its five-country monitoring and research program, to provide an experienced
livestock economist who would serve as monitoring manager. The economist
would also conduct surveys and special studies of particular interest to ILCA,
and assist in other APRU activities and in development of curricula by NDB and
other concerned agencies for the ranch management training center.
45.       The Veterinary Services Department will develop, operate and
maintain the trek routes. The Agriculture Field Services Department will
improve the smallstock holding grounds and railway handling facilities.
This Department will also direct the ranch management training center and be
responsible for agricultural extension work. While the NDB will provide most
of the assistance to ranchers necessary for the implementation of the project,
the Government recognizes the longer term need to reorganize and strengthen
the Agriculture Field Services Department to provide adequate range management
and extension support for cattle ranching, communal area livestock schemes
and small stock development projects under the TGLP. Towards this end, a
range management section has been recently established within the Department.
46.       The Steering Committee will allocate to the appropriate agencies
responsibility for studies and experimental work arising from project operating
problems, and for preparation of future projects. Proposals for such activities
will be subject to Bank approval (Section 3.10, draft Loan Agreement).
47.       Implementation of the project will be closely coordinated with other
elements of the TGLP, particularly those affecting communal areas. Further,
given the present ownership pattern of the national cattle herd (para. 27),
the Borrower will prepare and implement, in consultation with the Bank, a
study to monitor the impact of TGLP activities on income distribution (Section
4.08, draft Loan Agreement). In addition, the impact of project developments
on range condition will be carefully monitored during project implementation
(Section 3.06, draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
48.       Procurement under all Bank financed components except ranch devel-
opment and communal association schemes will be awarded after international



- 16 -
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group procurement guidelines.
Procurement for ranch development and communal schemes will be handled
directly by ranchers using Bank funds channelled through NDB. Vehicles,
equipment and supplies costing less than US$50,000, which are not expected
to aggregate more than US$300,000, will be awarded in accordance with stan-
dard Government procurement procedures. These local procedures have been
reviewed by the Bank and found to be satisfactory. Civil works for develop-
ment of communal grazing units, NDB facilities and marketing infrastructure,
expected to total about US$1.2 million, will be carried out either by force
account or by local contractors selected in accordance with standard Govern-
ment procedures. These works are more adapted to local procurement since
they will be in scattered locations and carried out over a three-year period.
Draft tender documents for all contracts exceeding US$100,000 will be submitted
to the Bank for approval.
49.       The Bank would disburse against:  (i) 75 percent of expenditures
for ranch development and communal association schemes; (ii) 100 percent
of foreign expenditures or 75 percent of total expenditures for vehicles,
equipment and materials; (iii) 75 percent of total expenditures for civil
works; (iv) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 80 percent of total ex-
penditures for technical services, including assistance to NDB; and (v) an
unallocated amount representing a part of price contingencies on the above
categories and transferable to them as appropriate. Retroactive financing
of up to US$250,000 is proposed for expenditures incurred after July 1, 1977
on start-up costs (vehicles, equipment, and technical assistance), primarily
for NDB's Agricultural Credit Division.
Benefits, Justification and Risks
50.       A most important project benefit will be the protection of range-
land from further degradation. In addition, implementation of the project
is expected to result in increased production and improved quality of beef,
increased offtake of cattle and smallstock, and a reduction in transport
losses. Annual incremental production from the ranch development, as com-
pared to without the project, is estimated at about 5,000 head of cattle by
1985, or a 1.5 percent increase in Botswana's present projected cattle pro-
duction for that year, and at 8,000 head when ranch development is fully
completed in 1990. Over 20 years, the project would raise annual net ranch
incomes, in constant prices, from about P 3,500 (US$4,200) to about P 7,900
(US$9,500), whereas, without the project, incomes would fall to about P 1,500
(US$1,800). In addition, the communal grazing unit program, while experimen-
tal and research oriented, is expected to lead to increased production in
the villages concerned. The marketing component should lead to an increase
in marketed offtake, reduce losses due to trekking on inadequate routes and
poor handling on the railway, and improve quality. The project will also help
to strengthen the capabilities of both the Ministry of Agriculture and the
National Development Bank, and pave the way for further development programs
in the livestock sector. Unlike the first livestock project (para. 32), the
developments under the second project will take place on land already occupied
by farmers.



- 17 -
51.       The economic rate of return from the elements of the project which
relate directly to expected increases in livestock production (about 56 per-
cent of total project costs) is estimated at 15 percent. Costs of the com-
munal grazing units, part of the ranch management training center, studies
and future project preparation, and part of the monitoring and evaluation
were excluded from the rate of return analysis because the benefits from
these activities will accrue largely in future livestock schemes. The eco-
nomic return was calculated assuming an intermediate situation between con-
tinued and discontinued (from 1978) preferential access to the EEC. With
preferential access the rate of return would be about 17 percent; without
it about 12 percent. The economic return is quite sensitive to major shifts
in relationships between production costs and benefits. A 10 percent increase
in costs combined with a 10 percent reduction in benefits would reduce the eco-
nomic return to about 10 percent.
52.       An estimated 200 households, or about 1,000 individuals, are ex-
pected to benefit from ranch development under the project. This component,
however, is likely to benefit principally many of Botswana's larger farmers
in its short-term impact, since cattle ownership is presently highly skewed
(para. 27) and ranching under Botswana's semi-arid conditions is profitable
only on a relatively large scale. This is in spite of the fact that selec-
tion criteria favoring groups of small farmers will be used (para. 40).
Nevertheless, we concur with the Government's position that the importance
of arresting the degradation of the rangeland outweighs the initial disqd-
vantage of project benefits flowing to higher income Batswana. No feasible
solutions have yet emerged for promoting smallholder livestock production
in the short-term although the project will make a substantial contribution
in this area through the development of communal grazing units, the provi-
sion of credit for communal associations' schemes, and the improvement of
marketing infrastructure. Over 700 households, or about 3,500 individuals,
are expected to benefit from the communal grazing unit program. The proj-
ect's income distribution implications, however, will be carefully monitored
throughout the life of the project (para. 47). It is not expected that
ranch development in areas designated as "commercial" under the TGLP
(para. 28) would be detrimental to small farmers, particularly given the
proposed developments in the "communal" areas, the provision of "reserve"
areas in which further developments for assisting small farmers can be
undertaken, and the traditional spirit of cooperation among neighboring
cattlemen.
53.       The project presents a relatively high degree of risk.  The finan-
cial attractiveness to cattle owners of the proposed ranch developments is
somewhat uncertain, largely because many cattle owners now derive quite high
returns from their cattle posts with minimal inputs, and the proposed invest-
ments are unlikely to increase their incomes rapidly. Delays in implementa-
tion could therefore arise if farmers prove to be reluctant to borrow funds
for development along the lines proposed. Delays could also arise if imple-
mentation of the TGLP is slower than expected (para. 28). However, any delays
in investment beyond the timing now expected would have little effect on the
rate of return, as expenditures would be delayed to approximately the same



- 18 -
extent as benefits. In recent years, Botswana has been receiving favorable
prices for its meat exports (para. 30). If, however, Botswana had to sell a
substantial part of its beef at world market prices, benefits to ranchers
under the project would fall sharply and could seriously affect their finan-
cial viability. Offsetting this risk is the general upward trend of world
market beef prices and the skill of Botswana's negotiators in maintaining
access tc favorable markets.  Lastly, aside from the normal risks facing
livestock projects such as the possibility of drought, the project could be
impaired by a worsening of the security situation in neighboring countries.
Such a situation could interrupt vital rail service, impede marketing of beef,
and increase the risk of disease outbreak. The Government is taking steps to
reduce this risk through examining alternative modes of transport for use in
an emergency and is strengthening its disease control programs (para. 26).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUM4ENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Botswana and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a draft resolution approving the
proposed loan, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Features of the Loan Agreement of special interest are referred to in Section
III of Annex III to this report.
55.       Disbursement for ranch development loans will be conditional on (a)
the approval by the Bank of a model loan agreement for subloans, (b) agreement
between the Bank and TDB on lending procedures, and (c) the appointment of
key staff to NDB for its lending operations (Section 2.02, draft Loan Agree-
ment).
56.       Disbursement for the communal grazing unit program and small-scale
credit for communal association schemes will be conditional upon agreement
on detailed proposals (Section 2.02, draft Loan Agreement).
57.       Additional conditions Lor effectiveness of the proposed loan will
be:
(a) the signing of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory
to the Bank, between the Borrower and NlDB (Section 6.01(a),
draft Loan Agreement), and
(b) the signing of administration agreements, satisfactory to
the Bank, between NDB and the commercial banks (Section
6.01(b), draft Loan Agreement).
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Ar-
ticles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
October 31, 1977



ANNEX I'
Page 1 6of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
BOTSWANA             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                   --------------Ö----------Ö ----------- !n           _
--------------                                 EBOTSWANA                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
lOrAL       600.4                                         MOST RECENT                                      TRINIDAD AD
AGRIC.      41.6.1                       1960        1970   ESTIMATE            MOROCCO         ZXABIA         TOBAGO ***
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                        90.0*      90.0 *   410.0*                300.0*      3000.*    1260.0 *
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION ('AID-YR, MILLION)             0.5         0.6        0.7 /               14.8         4.3          '.0
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE  M.                          1.0        10          1.0                33.0          6.0       200.0
"S   1.6k                74.0        1.           0.
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND           1.0        1.57Bo
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)           46.6       46.1       45.6                 49.2         49.7        32.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THoU,AV)            28.2       25.4        23.0                18.5         20.9          7.1
INFANT 1N.CRTALLTY RATE I/THOU)          ..          .      126 0                   . .                    34.4
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)         35.9       41.0       43.5  .              50.4         43.5        66.1
GROSS REPRODUCTIOS RATE                   .-       2.9         2.9                 3.4          3.3          2.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                   2.0        1.9        2.3*                 2.4 A        2.9          2.1  /a
UR3AN                                   9.1       14.4         9.1                 4.0         13.6          3.1
URBAN PCPULArION (l  OF TOTAL)            2.4        10.0       tS.0                32.2         30.0         24.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                         43.7/a                46.1  .              46.4         45.8        41.2
15 TO E4 YEARS                         51.7         ..       48.5 j        ~      51.1        51.9         55.1
65 YEA?S AND OVER                       4.6/         ..        5.4                 2.5          2,3          3.7
AGE DEPENOENCf RATIO                                                                  I 0         0.9          0.8
ECCN.CM:C DEPESt_NCY RATIO                t oab                  1 1..                                         1.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEDTORS (CU"ULATIVE. THOU)                                    . * 83            68.1 6a                  25.4
USERS (% OF VARRIED  OMENJ              ...         ..         ..                 3.o           *
Ef.PLOYMJENT
TOTAL LABOR FCRCE (THOUSAND)            250.0  a3300.0         320.0                                        350.0  Ab
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)           91 .0      87.0        83.0                   ..          ..         22.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)               .                      .                   ..        10.0  Ab    12.5
INCOME DlSTR2BUTICN
X OF PRIVATE INCO-ME RECOD 8Y-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..          ..       28.1  /d            20.0
HIaHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                .-          .-      6o.5 -               49.0
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..         .-         1.6                 4.0
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..         ..        7.6                 12.0
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF ONNERS
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS              ..         ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              20870.0   14780.0  10370.0                 12650.0    13500.0        2330.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          2380.0    1200.0    1220.0                              2920.0 A!  400.0  A
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED             430.0 f    370.0       320.0               660.0 h      310.0        230.0
PER CAPITA SURPLY OF -
CALORIES I% OF REQUIREIMENTS)          85.0       87.0        87.0  /e           103.0         88.0        97.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                64.0       65.0        65.0 Le             64.0         64.0        64 0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             ..       33.0          ..                14.0/ß       25.0  d    34.0 /d
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                 ..         ..          ..                  ..           ..         1.8
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                         36.0       66.0        71.0                55.0         #0.0       lio.o  e
SECONDARY SCHOOL                        1.0        8.0        12.0                 12.0        12.0         40.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)               12.0       12.0        12.0                12.0         12.0         15.0
VOCATIGNAL ENROLLMENT
(I  OF SECONDARY)                       4.0       19 0        19.0                 2 0          3.0          8.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE  %)                  20.0          ..       2s.o                 210            *         88.0
HOUSI ND
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                    ..         ..          ..                  ..          2.6  e      1.7 /f
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER l%)                           ..         ..         ..                   ..        88.0 /f    64.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
1   OF ALL D%ELLINGS)                        ..        9.0                                                     66.0 Lfh
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (XI                       ..          . .        ..                   ..
CONSUMe T ION
RA0UJ PECE!vEPS (0TP TU^l' rCP)            6.0       13.0       17.0 _               60.0         18.0       276.0
-*AS'SEANGER CARS 4PER-,;HOU Pop)           2.0 o      3.0        5.0                 15.o         14.0        73.0
FE~TRtCETt (wMEAK  Q;&R CAP)                ..         ..       82. 0  f        -   128.0       957.0       1172.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                   ..          ..         ..                 0.2          0.5         5.9
Ö----------------------------------------------------------------------_ --_                    - -      -        -
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



AIIZI7 I
-  tagges
'-9at  eitobto
C:;  .<too,   .to  or 20 sy?~  o ts   ?rAf  7<0é00: '35)   "Ii M; '6t                 ;*       é      -       z          :    po        ~ z   b#
.rC  ~ '.2y0  too SO;   IOroO.O19 '.  .02>5>  W,.,pr't;t?  <00005050 10 "                                          fort 9n-05tb tO  DL?r doe to
0<02 0't 00(020400 INtl  0 751 a'i--   I  C-.rc:  '<-7  la-                                                                aaal.tan
Lu     >- 00<ΩaKz_~     2                     tOYot.0'O                                              a;  2300 oeLonr Toabt.  sebntan
st-ooO.;     y      p  1L7          'r- o'9
aL   DM  F147-Zor                                   mo ' t&    lor-rs-no
/f c55  -4;fC_1U&r                       .,                                               ..-aAo6q                           Total, urbari and
5~7? Aogsot 26, 1977
M~~~~~~r 1-Int  of               -6APTfth  of  00'
'a    <a ~ .0..i                                                                                                                   a;b-f ltd-d by  s          fnd   hof LretIeS,
s;-it   - 900 oorof oefmot  of L    ci1t700e                                                                      -z2'ItFo;rrop.0  lo  '    ,,o  doo
~to  a  ar  genocisod Cpo pfl tn d   fsprsI endr
.0 'torI '' 7 loLa.                                                                                       .0 .  ....  .o.oooifornots f-d tooosd.   -trots ener
0  r.sZOJ1 60, 1979 cod i9?  do-.o:-b't-   etroobne
<0 - tnt oqosot Ito - Od-poor POfttoOtrOt  000  9<0.00 000202.?           lool 0<100  'oodr ootgfsts, opeend sohtdfetribocieesoo
Otto.                                                                                                            or-o to- Oo -ebot   taco!-.tt
'-0 catty                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pl1y of food is deffeod coboes; r lr
-.o~i. by U3DA Eoonool Rss..orofh leo-lo..
sOl   rw   ftonal protets  er dsy, ed
- -0-  t-~<sr  030osod   -aeoyo -bosLiOtt  biztt1w rAt tithoo:s  c2                                      -                     of obtob tO gros  ebsrod be eslasi
--ot  is. ot-  ro-sorr iboeti  eernro5 nodlol7 ts7        od    (II90                                                        ho,, 'h-o. of 75 gra   of tonal pansels
-diq~t fgins 1975 for  -oo  -e t ootio  ..,  arf   for thn world, proposd by FAko
irs;'-tryo.ro-ttroots aorrfo  -ding It tOOl ta   9CtoOtoao  :50-Poes pply of feed
<0  -g.  ~ssfo   -'1975 for stat rotoot o-tinln                                                                                       rsoper doy.
to'  ''-  roe 9/tOo. A--Arse  doosin. of tofosro  hrdrrr7.:0    a                  f;~.            .oob    rr  ifosn    n e5rsp1-6
---gPs-,t  trse   -oding in b-Pot. 1979 rod is-p"  fordoobs
-o.; ta oa  A- trot    --be  to lta'  do_t,l-l '--n      lolns  o   l   9C   epr
<os-a.  -co:::--   .  otltd  of  tto ospooantot yo-..oor ~0--'so p.o                           :oaovlr.ood        hilobfirno  eged   -li  .5cr
<~'-00   ats  o 9-ooyrr sooto~0  sdf.a-.00 100.   t;  aol);:9ot ro-t0  ofa-tis; fto  -oottfs with
.iorartros;aoo'ortos.                                                                             <stood 1197~~~~~~~~IGG  sloos  -a   ppil. ens below
oo:o-    95 0 aS-OD. 1940-7D -r  1970-75,                                                .                                            ,-abol - iropotod ensho-o;  -nOndepo
tor ct'-oa                                                                                                                            -oo   orsee er  gnerelly ...old.d.
21-ca  -ot  tros so  affnn noaaooiip.of dt..  -..o  ~o~toos   onsolnsy b. perti.1y or
its  tror.-r(00-rot) -Childeno (0-it ver)   srklog-sro~ (11)4                                             --005,-'00'    C    .,  of        V-tattoo     intst,t'otfos  Intiide
-r  Olo   (65 y-ors and over) es pr--nsg-s of od ---o  por,tttt.a z                                                               0-'   oortoehfo  orntindepondessIfOy               5
Ago 'toodero  to notrIo   f pop.Ition .. sder 11 and 65 co -or t. tkoor
Of's 15 thr-osr  64.ar                                                                                                                           oe      rood .nd write?a  per-
for-rotcd-ootd-ry_rot: -tal   of j,popoltio  a-fo  11 or-A 1,5  -cor-  5                                                                a  15 yrto  -od ow-n
th-  fo,-ai,. g roo-  of 15-64 ..earn.
tort                                                                                                              o.r:~s.'---o-ddr...ogp  rsolsd   seo-penr-psooa 
Ti a- ooiti..  onOo.'-
It tosro ;;o  oO,oo.                                        000-0-0   -                            ldr yr e:ts~~~~~~~~~~~~~.c  Id. piped octet fa f litnea
no;  r,ort,ro  re tnsotyoto                                                                                                      9       - Cowtso-d as  hor too  -srs
;"oooad -aL-q!    potcrntofo of ro-ot i.hr  or:
to   il   t  it   to L.ks :1 fob, rot of a fob on 5  lo.  00rtoa-5-                              d-  ----0    -    'yyto of res-t-t. for redlo trosdo.ts
oO   job,  -td oehsierb for a  prfe   fts p-rd  oortaaro   a-a too-: or                                                                      trsrfn   -nio.dss -sttf...d rert-rs
oo-orpioyof  ;od:roo  of doto, e.,., rnfl.~Oyr ot stiasofots                                                                                  sr      loste-ontisbls
s.c  0-4  230''"'~~ fth.et 702, pooret 201. .sd o00-23  91ao-a- 
L R  ,? .           .                                                                               0-                                          totse ot-le   of  ieoenf, ari .rofslII
iatot  o tespo  naie    sasl
..oo-dsraaato  101 of  ot-l j  owr-.1rh'al,ry-z
-----------------  -------        ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      to'   st,o  onopnonisklasa



ANNEX I
ECONOMIC INDICATORS                      (Page 3 of 4 pages)
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974/75                                    ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                                           1968/69-73/74   1975/76
GNP at Market Prices          248.5       100.0                                             12.0            6.0
Gross Domestic Investment      81.2        32.6                                              40.0
Gross National Saving           3.9         1.6
Current Account Balance       -77.3        31.1
Exports of Goods              118.0        47.5
Imports of Goods              200.6        80.7                                             17.5
OUTPU, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974/75
Value Added                  Labor Force2/                  V. A. Per Worker
US$ Xlln.     ,                 min.       7.                   LS-$       ,_Kfi
Agriculture                   78.1       26.8                .263       83.0                  297          32
Industry                      79.4       27.3               .025         4.7                5,293         576
services                     133.8       45.9               .039       12.3                 3,431         373
Unallocated
Total/Average         291.3      100.0               .317      100.0                   919         100.0
GOVERNME   FINANCE
General Government                            Central Government
n _ n          ofG  of GDP              (Pula En.)             of GD
197          197        19  -7                1975/76     1975/76  1973/74-75/76
Current Receipts                                                                  72.8        31.0         27.3
Current Expenditure                                                               45.2        19.3         17.3
Current Surplus                                                                   27.6        11.7         10.0
Capital Expenditures                                                              35.8       15.2          15.7
Ftternal Assistance (net)                                                         17.6         7.5         10.3
MNOEY, CREDIT and PRICES                              1971         1972        1973        1974        1975      1976
(Million Pula outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money
Bank credit to Public Sector                           1.7         1.9          2.5         3.5         6.0        3.1
Bank exedit to Private Sector                         10.5        13.7         21.9        37.4        53.3       68.0
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP
General Price Index (1969 = 100)3/                   104.9       113.2        132.6       125,5       141.3      158,3
Amnnal percentage changes in:
General Price Index                                     4.0         7.9        17.1        ..          12,6       12 A 
Bank credit to Public Sector                         -43.3         11.8        31.6        40.0       '71.4      -48.3
Bank credit to Private Sector                          7.1        30.5         59.9        70.8 -      42.5       27.6
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
coveved.
1/ Provisional.
2/ Labor force is defined as persons 10 years and over engaged either in family agriculture or in cash emsploynent,
Migrant workers in South Africa are excluded.
3/ No general price index is available; relates to Index of Food Prices for Gaborone only. Data from 1974
relates to a new Index with June 1973 = 100.
not available
not applicable
October 16, 1977



ANNEX I
(Pate 4 of 4 nages)
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOW5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1973      1974     1975                                                  US -smin    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods                 92.0    109.4    126.6               Meat and Meat Products                49.3      33.3
Imports of Goods                136.7    182.4    218.9               Diamonds                              43.7     29.6
Trade Balance                    -4,7    -73.0    -92.3               Copper/Nickel                         34.3      23.2
Non-factor Services (net)        19.6      19.3      20,9
Investment Income (net)         -37.5    -18.5        7.6
Other Services (net)            -25.4    -24.3    -18.6
Net Transfers                    20.7      11.5      12.8               All other commodities               20.6      13.9
Balance on Current Account    -67             W =                            Total                         147.9    100.0
Direct Foreign Investment        53.0      44.6     37.0              EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1976
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                 ..        ..       ..                                                            Us $ Mln
Amortization
Subtotal                     36,2      50.3      47.1               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               161.2
Capital Grants                   ..        ..       ..                 Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                   .,
Other Capital (net)             -13.1       2.9     19.5               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i.               13.0    -06    =                                                 1/lt
Increase in Reserves (+)         21.8      12.2     15.0            DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976 -
Gross Reserves (end year)
Net Reserves   (end year)                  ..       ..                  Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                 2.5
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                              Total outstanding & Disbursed
Tmports                         7.4      19.9     20.8
of which:  Petroleum
Exports
of which: Petroleum          -        -         -       IBRD/IDA LENDING, (SEPT. 30, 1977) (Million US$):
RATE OF EXCHANGE    1971   1972   1973   1974   1975  1976                                                 IBRD         IDA
US$1.00 = R         0.715  0.768  0.693  0.679  0.732' 0.870    Outstanding & Disbursed                    38.1         13.5
Rl.OO   = US$       1.398  1.302  1.444  1.472  1.366  1.150    Undisbursed                               -32-9         1,3
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed         76.0         14.8
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and non-factor services.
not available
not applicable
October 16, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 Pages
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN BOTSWANA
AS AT SEPTEMBER 30, 1977
Amount (less cancellations)
(US$ million)
No.     Year  Borrower       Purpose                      Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
63      1964  Bechuanaland  Road Project                            3.6         -
172     1969  Botswana       Engineering Design &                   1.6        -
Preliminary Works for
the Shashe Project
233     1971  Botswana       Gaborone-Lobatse                       3.0         -
Wiater Supply Project
776-1   1971  Botswana       Shashe Infrastructure        32.0                 -
Project
776-2   1974  Botswana       Shashe Supplementary           5.5                1.4
Loan
303     1972  Botswana       Second Road Project                    2.0        -
325     1972  Botswana       Livestock Development                  1.7       0.3
Project
471     1974  Botswana       Francistown Urban                      3.0        1.0
Development Project
1019    1974  Botswana       Development Finance           4.0                1.7
Development   Company Project
Corporation
1174    1975  Botswana       Third Road Project            5.8                5.0
1274 )
1275T)  1976  Botswana       Education                     10.5               9.8
1408    1977  Botswana       Fourth Road Project          20.0               20.0
Total                                       77.8      14.9
of which has been repaid                   1.8      0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/           76.0     14.8
Total undisbursed                           37.9      1.3      39.2
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 Pages
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loans Nos.
776-1 and 2        Shashe Infrastructure Project:  US$32.0 million loan
of June 29, 1971: Effectiveness Date: March 7, 1972;
US$5.5 million supplemental loan of June 7, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: July 17, 1974; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978.
Work on the infrastructure project as originally envisaged
was completed on schedule and the project is operational.
A later decision to bituminize the Serule-Selebi-Pikwe
road has delayed project completion. Work on the road is
substantially completed, and the loans totalling US$37.5
million are expected to be fully disbursed before end-1977.
Technical problems with the surface treatment plant that
have beset the associated Bamangwato Concessions Limited
mining project have resulted in serious cost overruns and
loss of production. Under present financial arrangements,
the large increase in capital costs of the mining project
could result in a substantial reduction in the benefits
to be received by the Government (in the form of royal-
ties, taxes and dividends). Discussions between the
Government and the private companies on a financial
restructuring have been actively pursued and a final
agreement may be reached before the end of the
year.
Credit No. 325       Livestock Development Project:  US$1.65 million credit
of June 30, 1972; Effectiveness Date: April 10, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Physical development of the Western State Land breeding
ranches is proceeding at a satisfactory rate. Slow
progress is being made with ranch occupancy, lease agree-
ments and farm loan documents. The management of the
Livestock Project Management Unit (LPMU) has been weak but
the Government has taken steps to improve the project
management and has made concrete proposals to resolve
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 Pages
outstanding issues. A detailed physical inventory has
been carried out on LPMU assets, and a financial audit
is being undertaken.
The Botswana Livestock Development Corporation continues
to provide a beneficial service to Ngamiland producers.
A total of 3,625 head of cattle were purchased in the
first three months of 1977. The Corporation has been
operating at a loss, but steps have been taken to re-
establish the Corporation as a public corporation, with
expanded marketing responsibilities, and with additional
financial support.
Credit No. 471       Francistown Urban Development Project:  US$3.0 million
credit of Ma  9  1974  Effectiveness Date:  October 1
19742 Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
Civil and electrical works are complete; progress on
community facilities is satisfactory; most of the res-
idential plots have been allocated, and housing con-
struction is progressing well.  The houses are of much
better quality than usual in site and services areas.
Additional works, using surplus funds generated by the
devaluation of the Rand, are progressing satisfactorily
and are expected to be completed by March 1979. How-
ever, the closing date will have to be extended from
December 1978 to December 1979.
Loan No. 1019        Botswana Development Corporation Project:  US$4.0
million loan of June 27  1974  Effectiveness Date:
December 9, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Approximately 60 percent of the loan is committed. In
view of the slowdown in industrial investment activity
because of the (i) introduction of the new currency
"pula"; and (ii) uncertainty about the political situa-
tion in Southern Africa, it is anticipated that BDC's
completion of this project will be delayed. For this
purpose, the Bank agreed to extend the terminal date for
project submission to June 30, 1978 and the closing date
to June 30, 1980. To date, the investments financed
under this loan have been of good quality.
Loan No. 1174        Third Road Project:  US$5.8 million loan of November 21,
1975; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Satisfactory progress is being made on all project com-
ponents, although implementation is approximately one



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 Pages
year behind schedule, due to the unusually heavy demands
on an understaffed Roads Department and delays over the
approval of tender documents. The contract for the
construction and supervision of the Molepolole-Gaborone
road has been awarded. The contractor has started
mobilization, and completion is expected by the end of
June 1978, one year behind schedule. Detailed engineering
of the Mahalapye-Serule road has been completed. Soils
and laboratory equipment, as well as the loadometers and
weighbridges have been purchased and delivered; installa-
tion of the latter items is expected shortly. The Road
Maintenance Study is well-advanced and is expected to be
completed by year-end.
Loan Nos. 1274
and 1275-T         Education Project:  US$10.5 million loan (US$7.0 million
IBRD and US$3.5 million Third Window) of May 28, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: September 10, 1976; Closing Date:
March_31_ 1982.
Implementation of the project is experiencing a fast
start. Construction contracts for about 25 percent of
the total work have been awarded and work is proceeding
ahead of schedule. Tenders have been called for most of
the furniture and about a third of the equipment.
Loan No. 1408        Fourth Road Project:  US$20 million loan of April 21,
1977; Effectiveness Date: August 18, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The loan was declared effective on August 18, 1977.
Satisfactory progress is being made on all components
according to the estimated implementation schedule of the
project. Consultants for supervision of the Mahalapye-
Serule road construction have been selected and the con-
struction contract has been awarded.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 Pages
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 18 months
1
(b) Preparation by: Government of Botswana with the assistance
of the Bank's Resident Mission in East Africa
and an Agricultural Development Service staff
member.
(c) Initial discussions with the Bank: January 1975
(d) First Bank mission to consider project: March 1975
(e) Appraisal mission departure: January 1977
(f) Negotiations: September 19 to 22, 1977
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: March 15, 1978
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
III.  Special Conditions
(a) Borrowers for the ranch development will have obtained leases to
land in commercial zones, and selection criteria will aim to give
priority to groups of livestock owners or syndicates over individ-
uals owning larger herds (para. 40);
(b) The Steering Committee will prepare, for submission to the Bank,
both quarterly progress reports and an annual program review
covering several specific topics and recommending a work program
for the following year (para. 42);
(c) It would be a condition of disbursement against ranch loans by NDB
and the commercial banks that the Bank had approved a model loan
agreement for sub-loans, and agreement had been obtained on lend-
ing procedures (paras. 39 and 43);
(d) It would be a condition of disbursement of the communal grazing
unit program and small-scale credit for communal association
schemes that the Bank had approved detailed proposals (para. 39
and 44);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 Pages
(e)  NDB will be provided with sufficient qualified staff (para. 43)
and it will be a condition for disbursement for ranch development
loans that key staff are in post (para. 43);
(f) APRU will be provided with additional technical staff for the
communal grazing unit program (para. 44);
(g)  Proposals for studies, research, and future project prepara-Lon
work will be submitted to the Bank for approval (para. 46);
(h) The Borrower will prepare, in consultation with the Bank, a
study designed to monitor the impact of TGLP activities on income
distribution (para. 47);
(i) The Borrower will carefully monitor the impact of project develop-
ments on range condition during project implementation (para. 47);
and
(j) Additional conditions for effectiveness will be (i) the signing of
a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between the
Borrower and NDB (para. 57), and (ii) the signing of administra-
tion agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, between NDB and the
commercial banks (para. 57).



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _"-.                                                                                                                  IEDIs5
ED                                                                 20'                                    AS'                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30-
A N    LA                                                    N GOz                                         ZA M  I A/
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
8         SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I__EL. -ELIMSINARY DEVELOPMENT AREA'
-EDLOPMEST AREASU RI)FERIHET ROCT
DEAR EMEN AOEASU\DEP OTEHE PROJECTS
AKEEHOLD ~AND7ENRESLTSKD
;          ,             Gomore                                               ;  Z ,xS t                    ;81>NK . i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 ~~               ~~Ri  H; 0    D    E   S      I   A  NTcNL4K
i1_______;t__  TREK ROUTESVS. EXDTIN
20-                                                                                                                          SWC.0 yo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" VETERINARY CORDON PENCE.  2QS'
. N | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NGAMILAND                                                                                                                                                              <  0,    oF `R.L 11k SI '^'IE'
<                                                                                                                                         L;V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   DS OSlO ADVIORR YTECTEPRS
co                                                                             N                              tW 7/                                                                 X ................................... f <<N. E.  RmShgwR0DD  '.    'ROPOSSE D.I ERT1KADVISORYCEr"ERS
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
-.224   r   a   0  %  \   CENTRAL   '\r∞  SP&/ tC oppe\>g                AO        aRS D
on        \  GHANZI  jSrw(e   ;                                                                                           -     
</ j   K     A  \ L    A             H            A     R         Imo\                                 1C+  Ly oM,IR     EUS
|tN.1a,e                     R, \         G     /           N                                      /          Sahiy         a2                         
I _ s_ _ _  , T               ---- _- oLephepe                                                                             BITIJIM N[ft,S4hanenq SURFICI,,S SRICATN ROAOS
-s _ X KWENENG                                                                                              MAIN nUAlS ENOST .ONSETDU
TORITAM ROES EATERS TASD205
R..... O1"SUNARER CONSTEESETDEIT
EU'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m                                                                                                                                                              DR 'EVOSiR STANDADOA              R
-240   l  - .   \ f hnne     >      >    ,                          \c:"t    $         2      V       2 \  :          0         0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -~~~ Ol_l NNcI baUNNDRN FT  K E5OUN- F
KGALAGADI                                            L \DMog                                                                                . - -- iRR
5:s' -[ac,D    p  "    " " j                                                                                                                                         ";     5
_26∞                                                  Tshoboog        M~CCStESyisFv iRS                                                                                                                                     N jW~gj          B -\![     ATiNDi
AR  22-  RZR    IRS                                          SOUTH  '         . f0L4; j 6D   A



