Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10782
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 1637-KE)
JUNE 25, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of 
their offici'al duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ALDEV         African Land Development Organization
CIDA          Canadian International Development Agency
DANIDA        Danish International Development Agency
GOK           Government of Kenya
MWD           Ministry of Water Development
RWS           Rural Water Supply Program
RWSG          Regional Water Supply and Sanitation Group
SIDA          Swedish International Development Agency
WDD           Water Development Department



THE WORLD BANK                   FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Opefatkbs Evaluation
June 25, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT   Project Completion Report on Kenya Rural Water Supply Project
(Loan 1637-KE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Kenya Rural Water Supply Project (Loan 1637-KE)"
prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of this project has been
made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 1637-KE)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary  .........................................ii
PART I  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ......1
A. Project Identity .........................................
B. Background  ..........................................
C. Project Objectives and Description  ............................                                  2
D. Project Design and Organization  .............................                                    2
E. Project Implementation  ...................................                                       3
F. Project Results  ........................................                                         7
G. Bank and Borrower Performance and Relationship  ..................                                7
H. Lessons Leaned.                                                                                   8
PART II  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                                                  9
PART III    STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ......                         ............  ......                10
Related Bank Loans ........................................                                         11
Project Timetable  .........................................                                        11
Loan Disbursements  .......................................                                         11
Project Cost and Financing  ...................................                                      12
Status of Loan Covenants  ....................................                                      13
Use of Bank Resources   .....................................                                       16
This documen. has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 1637-KE)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Rural Water Supply Project in Kenya,
for which Loan No. 1637-KE of USS 20 million was approved on December 5, 1978. Because of
insufficient progress, the project was terminated, and the loan was closed on June 30, 1985, on
the original closing date. The last disbu.sement was on September 15, 1985, and the undisbursed
amount of USS 18.2 million was cancelled on the same date.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of the Eastern Africa
Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and I). As the loan was closed 7 years prior
to the preparation of this report, Parts I and m were not sent to the Borrower for comments.
Preparation of this PCR was carried out in April/May 1992, and is based, intr alia, on
the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 1637-KE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background and Objectives
1.    The main objectives of the Project, which was designed as part of Phase IV of the R'iral
Water Supply Development Program (RWS), were (i) to provide safe water to a rural population
of about half a million by implementing 33 new schemes; and (ii) strengthen the organization and
management capability of the Ministry of Water Development (MWD) to plan expansion
programs, and to operate and maintain rural water supply schemes (paras. 4 and 6). The Project
was the fourth Bank loan to Kenya in the water sector: the experience with the implementation of
the First and Second Nairobi Water Supply Projects was satisfactory; the Mombasa and Coastal
Water Supply Project was in progress during the preparation and appraisal of this project. The
previous phases of RWS, supported by bilateral donor agencies, were partially implemented with
long delays and significant cost overruns (para 7).
2.    MWD, the implementing agency for the Project, was established in 1974. It was a new
organization, institutionally weak, with a very expansive program. Financially, it depended on
Government budgetary allocation, revenues from its inherited and newly constructed water
schemes and on grants provided by various bilateral donor agencies. Government's water pricng
polcy, its reluctance to increase tariffs, the lack of a sufficient billing and revenue collection
system (only about 20% of the targeted revenues, aimed to cover operational and maintenance
cost, were actually collected) contributed to MWD's problems (para 8).
Implementation Experience
3.    The Project, as appraised, included the preparation of feasibility studies, detailed designs
and construction of 33 rural water supply schemes. The physical parameters of the selected
schemes were not adequately known at the time of the appraisal and the content of the individual
schemes were constantly changing - growing - during the design period: many of the schemes
actually became complex and extensive regional water supply systems, with much higher cost than
originally expected.
4.    In order to contain the cost within the original estimate, the number of the schemes was
reduced first to 33 (November 1980, before credit effectiveness), theii to 29 in mid-1981 and to
24 in March 1982. At this time the project was already 2 1/2 years behind schedule, no
construction had started and the estimated project cost had more than dozabled.  The
reorganization of the Ministry, which was carried out with reluctance, wasa still incomplete. Some
equipment and vehicles were procured to strengthen the Ministry's direct labor section, but this
made very little or no impact on the operation and maintenance of the exi.ting schemes. No
improvement was made on the revenue collection and the strengthening of the district



- iii -
organizations also advanced very slowly. As there was little prospect for improvement, in
February 1983, the Bank proposed termination of the Project to GOK. Government was first in
agreement, but in November 1983, requested that tre Project be maintained at a revised, lower
scale (para 13).
5.    The Ptoject was restructured in April 1984. The number of the schemes was reduced to 6
(4 contractor built and 2 by force account). The design for another 15 schemes was included in
preparation for a future second project. The restructured project also provided for further
technical assistance, training and most importantly, for a water sector review to assist GOK and
MWD to set the basis for a coherent sector development program and water pricing policy. The
total project cost (net of taxes) was reduced from USS 26.2 m to US$ 17.8 n (including
previously committed expenditures) (paras. 14 through 16).
6.    The start-up of the restructured project was promising, but short-lived. By end-1984 the
previous institutional problems resurfaced. Progress with design wvork slowed and awards of
contracts for the schemes were delayed. Frequent changes of high- and mid-level officers in
MWD hindered continuity of project execution. Finally, in February 1985, GOK decided that in
the future only grant aid should be used for rural water supply development, and the Project
should be terminated. The loan was closed 'on schedule" on J'.no 30, 1985. Total amount
disbursed was only 9% of the loan amount (paras. 18 amd 19) and the undisbursed balance of
$18.2 m was canceled.
Results
7.     The Project failed to achieve its objectives. None of the original 33 schemes or the 6
schemes in the restructured project was completed. Some of the schemes hough with
substantially-enlarged scope) were implemented later, utilizing bilateral grant funds. MWD's
direct labor section also benefitted from the support provided under the Project, and contributed
in a small way to MWD's efforts to operate the existing schemes. Physical assessment of this
impact is not possible.
8.    The creation of the Project Monitoring Unit as part of MWD's new organizational
structure demonstrated its usefulness in the short period after the project restructuring exercise
and was retained to implement rural water supply schemes after the Proiect was terminated.
Lessons Learned
9.    TF-e Project was appraised as part of an over-ambitious lending program, much too early
and without ap riate technical preparation. The consequences of this approach were felt
during the endrety of the "implementation" period and could not be rectified during the
supervision stage.
10.   Retrospectively, it can be seen, that the capability of MWD to plan, coordinate, design
and implement the Project was overestimated and the lessons learned from the implementation of
the previous phases of RWS were not sufficiently recognized. In spite of the massive technical
assistance provided by other donors (funding physical projects as well as a large number of
advisors) MWD had shown all signs of the inertia of an institution which grew too large too soon.
11.   The financial base of MWD was also uncertain. Budgetary allocation (and budget cuts)
were erratic in a time when MWD significantly expanded (both prior to and during the project



- iv -
period). Water pricing policy was unclear, and tariff increases (even covenanted) fell victim to
political considerations.
12.   In summary the main lessons learned are:
(i)      Physical investments should be preceded by engineering designs and reliable cost
estimates; 3rried out preferably under a separate engineering project or a
preceding project in the sector;
(ii)     In case of an institutionally and financially weak organization, support for
institutional improvement and capacity building should not only accompany an
investment project, but precede it during the preparatory phase of the physical
project, and it should be ensured that the scope and size of the investment project
is comrnensurate with the institution's implementation capacity;
(iii)     Realisuc, well-defined and enforceable financial covenants are essential to ensure
the fiuiancial base of any implementing agency.
13.   Overall, it should be said that although the failure of this project and the less than
satisfactory implementation (and subsequent operation) of the RWS schemes, has been
disappointing, it led ultimately to the creation of an independent water supply authority in 1989,
and acceptance by the Government of the principle that it should operate on a commercial basis.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 1637-KE)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    ProQitJ Identity
Name:                     Rural Water Supply Project
Loan Number:               1637-KE
RVP Unit:                 Eastern Africa Department
Country:                  Kenya
Sector:                   Water Supply and Sanitation
Sub-Sector:               Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
B.    Backrund
1.    Kenya's overall economic performance with an average growth of GDP of 6.6 percent per
annum in the first 15 yeas of independence was remarkable. The main ttav of the economy was
the agricultural sector which provided employment to about 90% of the inbor force, and
represented about 38% of GDP in 1977. It has shown good growth in years with favorable
weather conditions, alternating with disappointing performance in years of drought or floods
(specifically in 1974 and 1975). In the high and medium agricultural potential areas the
population is mainly scattered on individual farms; villages as such are rare; instead, small centers
constituted by a few shops, a school and dispensary are more frequent. In the low potential areas
the population is often nomadic and derives its livelihood from cattle breeding. Government's
efforts in the rural areas stressed the need to increase rural incomes (about half of the country-
wide average) and improve the quality of services (transport, water supply, education and health).
It was in this context that Government launched the Rural Water Supply Program (RWS) in 1970
with the stated objective of providing safe and reliable water supply to the population of Kenya by
the year 2000.
2.    The rural population in 1977 was estimated at 12.5 million, of which about 1.5 million
had access to improved water source or piped water supply. The balance had to rely on other
sources, often polluted, insufficient and unreliable and had to carry water over considerable
distances. It was also noted that the level of maintenance of water supply schemes has been
generally low causing frequent disruptions of service.
3.    The responsibility for water supply and sewerage development changed hands often.
Until 1964, the Ministry of Works was responsible for urban, and the African Land Development
Organization (ALDEV) in the Ministry of Agriculture for rural water supplies; County Councils
also operated rural schemes which had been constructed before the formation of ALDEV in 1946.
In 1964, both urban water supply and sewerage, and rural water supply development were
combined under the Water Development Department (WDD) in the Ministry of National
Resources. WDD was transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture in 1968 where it remained until
the creation of the Ministry of Water Development (MWD) in 1974. MWD had a very expansive



-2
program from its inception, which was unrealistic in view of the scarcity of tiained manpow3r
and underbudgeting.
C.    Pro.ect_Obectivrs and Descrition
Proiect Obiectivej
4.    'lhe main objectives of the Project were to:
(i)     contribute to Phase IV of the n1WS, providing water to a rural population of about
h.lf a million by implementing 33 new schemes;
(ii)     strengthen MWD's organization and management capability to plan expaision
programs, and to operate and maintain rural water supply schemes.
Project Description
5.    The main components of the Project were:
(i)     design and construction of 33 new rural watel supply schemes;
(ii)     strengthening of MWD's operation and maintenance, and direct labor secdons;
(iii)    technical assistance for implementation of the recommendations of the
management study 1/; and
(iv)     preparation of Phase V of the RWS.
D.    ProEect Design and Organization
6.    The Project was designed as part of Phase IV of the Rural Water Supply Development
Program (RWS). The project concept, in principle, was justified: assist the Government's efforts
in satisfying the physical needs in the rural areas through the construction of new water supply
schemes, and at the same time, strengthen MWD's institutional capability and financial position.
7.    However, the project as conceived was overly optimistic regarding tne MWD's ability to
carry it out. RWS I started in 1970 (under the WDD in the Ministry of Agriculture) and
comprised the construction of 72 schemes. It was scheduled for completion in 1972. Only by
mid-1976 %,s it basically completed, with only a few schemes remaining unfinished. RWS II
started in t972 and consisted of the construction of 29 schemes. This phase was substantially
completed by the end of 1978. RWS III started in 1974, consisted of 73 schemes, and was due
for completion by 1980. However, virtually none of these schemes were completed by 1977
when the Rural Water Supply Project was appraised (as a matter of fact only two schemes were
completed by January 1980), and implementation was still in progress in 1984 (at the time of
termination of the Rural Water Supply Project). RWS IV as planned included 65 subprojects,
financed by the Bank (33 schemes) and other donor agencies (CIDA, DANIDA and the
Government of the Netherlands).
l/ I  For details see para. 9.



-3-
8.    The lengthy delays in the physical implementation of the various phases of RWS were due
to lack of sufficient professional staff in MWD, financial cost overruns due to inadequate designs,
and financial constraints due to overall Government budgetary constraints. Government's
generally inadequate water pricing policy, and its reluctance to increase tariffs contributed to the
problems. In addition, MWD did not hrve an effective billing and revenue collection system.
Tariffs should have been adequate to cover operation and mainte.Aance (O & M) cost; in reality
the collected revenues covered unly about 20% of the 0 & M costs, and many of the schemes
*           built under RWS I and II were already in need of rehabilitation by 1979/80.
9.   'The appraisal team was aware of these problems and a considerable effort was made to
address the institutionai issues through the inclusion of covenants requiring MWD to carry out a
reorganization of the Ministry as recomnuended by the management study I/.
10.   The selection of the physical subprojects was completed by MWD as a condition for
appraisal, with a brief description of the anticipated components. The cost estimates for the
subprojects were made on the basis of the ongoing RWS I and RWS II schemes.
11.   Retrospectively, it can be said that (a) the selection 3J, design (and con. !quently the
estimated cost) of the physical subprojects were not adequately determined for an investment
project; (b) the ability of MWD to handle projec processing, planning and design was
overestimated; and (c) the anticipated improvement of MWD's financial position and availability
of counterpart funds (in spite of occasional warnings by Treasury) was too optimistic.
Nevertheless, the Project went ahead.
E.    Project Implementation
12.   After a period of 3 years of preparation (including 3 identification, 3 preparation, and 2
pre-appraisal missions, I appraisal mission and 4 post-appraisal missions) the project was
approved in December 1978 and became eff;.tive in January, 1980.
13.   Project progress from the start was very slow dnd problem-laden 4/: .ndividual
subprojects were repeatedly redesigned and their costs escalated; some of the schemes were
substituted by other schemes; in an effort to contain the costs within the original estimate the
number of schemes were first reduced from 33 to 30 in November 1980, (before Credit
Effectiveness) to 29 in June 1981, and to 24 in March 1982. Some progress was made by this
time regarding the restructuring of MWD but it was still incomplete and overall, the project was
about 2 1/2 years behind schedule. Projects costs more than doubled, and MWD's request to
2/    Provision for the evaluation of the RWS was included under the Mombasa and Coastal
Water Supply Project. Instead, this study was financed by SIDA and its results were availabl¢ in
1977/78. The allocated funds were available for a malagement study, but this was financed by
GOK/MWD. The management study report was available at the post-appraisal phase of this
project, and it provided the base for determining the covenants regarding institutional issues.
/    IThe subprojects (as a result of political considerations) were scattered all over the country
which further escalated the difficulties of the whole operation.
4/    The history of the project can also be followed under Table 7B in Part II of this PCR
(Column: Type of Problem).



-4-
Treasury to provide for the escalated cost was unlikely to come through. Total amount disbursed
was only about 3% of the SAR estimate (and about 6% of loan). As there was very little
prospect for improvement, the Bank proposed the terminatioo of the Project to the Government.
Treasury first supported this proposal, but later changed Its mind and requested the Bank that the
Project be maintied at a revised lower scale.
14.   In response to this request two visits were made to Kenya for the preparation of a possible
restructuring of the Project, in Novembcr 1983, and February 1984, respectively. The full
restructuring mission took place in April 1984.
15.   The content of the restructured project is described in the letter addressed to the
Permanent Se,.retary, Ministry of Water Development, dated May 10, 1984, and is summarized
below:
(a)    PrEQjectScope
(i)     Four self-contained rural water supply schemnes EJ; to-be constructed by
contractors selected by ICB procedures. Design and construction
supervision to be carried out by engineering consultants acceptable to the
Bank;
(ii)     Two small rural water supply scheme. 5/ to be designed, constructed and
supervised by MWD staff on a pilot basis to demonstrate MWD's
capability and capacity to undertake such works by force account;
(iii)     Completion of the detailed engineering designs and preparation of tender
documents of fifteen rural water supply schemes E/ for a future Second
Rural Water Supply Project;
(iv)     Purchase of vehicles and equipment to assist MWD to undertake the two
schemes in (ii), and the subsequent operation and maintenance of all the
project -financed schemes in (i) and (ii);
(v)      Training support for the staff of the recently created districts involved
with the projects; and
(vi)     A Kenya Water Sector Review to be undertaken by MWD staff supported
by consultants.
I/    Mhe schemes were selected jointly by the restructuring mission and MWD.



-5-
(b)    Project Cost and Financing §I
Cost of Restructured Project
US$ (million)            KSh (million)
Project Component               | Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign   Total
(i) Four schemes (contractor built)  8.5   3.6     12.1   112.0   48.0      160.0
(ii) Two schemes (force account)  0.2      0.3      0.5    2.0    4.0        6.0
(iii) Preparation of 15 schemes    1.5     -        1.5   20.0      -        20.0
(iv) Vehicles and Equipment       0.1      0.5      0.6 t  2.0     6.0       8.0
(v) Training                      0.1      0.2      0.3    2.0     2.0       4.0
(vi) Kenya water sector review    O0.2              0 3_ _2.0      2.0       4.0
TOTALS                            10.5    4.8      15.3   140.0   62.0      202.0
Restructured Financing Plan
(USS million)
- . .           Bank Contribution   GOK Contribution  Total
Revised project              12.5              2.8               15.3
Previously committed         2.5 -_    _
TOTALS                       15.0              2.8               17.8
Original Loan 1637-KE       20 0
Balance to be cancelled A/   5.0
A/    Agreement was reached that GOK would send a formal request to the Bank for
cancellation.  This request was never submitted.
(c)    Disbursement
Agreement was reached that to reflect the revised financing arrangements, GOK
would formally request the amendment of Schedule I of the Loan Agreement, as follows:
Including contingencies, but excluding taxes and duties.



-6 -
Category                    Amount of Loan Allocated     % of Expenditures to be
financed
(1) Pipes, eilpment, tools,         $2,000,000                     100%
spare parts d vehicles
(2) Civil Worms                     $9,000,000                      80%
(3) Technical Assistance            $3,200,000                     100%
(4) Unallocated                       $800.00Q
TOTAL                              $15,000,000      -      _ - . _ _ _
16.   The restructured project included the preparation of a water sector stdy with the
objectives of assisting (a) the formulation of future strategy in the water sector: and (b) the
revision of the tariff structure (and levels) taking into account the varying phases of development
and to meet GOK's "district focus" objective of local financial viability.
17.   The start-up of the restructured project was promising. Consultants were appointed to
finalize the designs, the construction of one scheme started, some efforts were made to improve
the revenue collection at district levels, and work commenced on the water sector stwdy with
active involvement of the World Bank/UNDP Project Preparation Unit (predecessor to the present
Regional Water Supply and Sanitation Group (RWSG)).
18.   The revitalized activity under the restructured project was short-lived. By end 1984, the
previous problems resurfaced again. Progress with design work slowed and awards of contracts
for the schemes were delayed. Frequent changes of high- and mid-level executive officers in
MWD also hindered the continuity of project execution. Because of the implementation delays
and Treasury's v-.ew that loan funds should not be used for rural water supply development, the
future of the Project became uncertain again. Finally, in February 1985, GOK decided that in the
future only grant aid would be used for rural water supply development and the Project should be
terminated. The loan was closed 'on schedule" on June 30, 1985.
19.   At the end of the project, MWD made an effort to submit reimbursement applications to
the Bank for legitimate expenditures under the project. The outcome of this exercise was
unsuccessful: due to improper record-keeping, the total value of the submitted requests was less
than expected. Final disbursement was made on September 25, 1985. It is to be noted that since
GOK failed to submit formal request for the amendment of Schedule 1, all disbursements were
made on the basis of the original loan agreement.
20.   As described in the previous paragraphs, out of the originally planned 33 schemes, not a
single one was completed before the closing of the loan. This could be attributed to the
following:
(i)     the engineering designs (and for 14 schemes even a preliminary assessment) were
incomplete before project implementation began. During the design period, most
of the schemes grew much larger than originally intended and became regional
water supply systems. These changes in some cases were justifiable from the
engineering point of view, but their cost could not be accommodated under the project;



(ii)    the cmst estimate of the individual project components was inaccurate and
genealy too low;
(iii)    countinpan funds were not available in a timely manner even for the actually
incurred expenditure due to budgetary constraints;
(iv)     the capability of MWD to plan, coordinate, design and implement the Project was
overestimated. The impact of the implementation of the reorganization of MWD,
which was carried out with reluctance by the Ministry's officials, was much less
than expected and came too late; and
(v)      Government may have been reluctant to borrow on IBRD terms for rural water
supplies.
F.    Eroject ResultA
21.   The project had no immediate physical impact through providing better water supply in
the rural areas. However, the design efforts were not fully wasted. Some of the schemes (though
with substantially enlarged scope) were implemented later, utilizing bilateral grant funds.
22.   MWD's direct labor section also benefitted from the support provided under the project,
and contributed in a small way to MWD's efforts to operate the existing schemes. Physical
assessment of this impact is not possible.
23.   The creation of the Project Monitoring Unit in connection with the reorganization of the
MWD was useful and was retained in the Ministry to implement rural water projects after the
Project was terminated.
24.   The Project was originally exempted from rate of return calculation, and no meaningful
ex-post calculat n could be undertaken for the uncompleted project.
G.    Bank and Borrower Performance and Relationship
25.   Despite three years of attempts at defining and preparing the project, the project was
appraised too early and without appropriate technical preparation. The consequences of this
approach were felt throughout the 'implementation" period, and could not be rectified through
Bank supervision. Significant effort was made to save the project from early extinction through
its restructuration. This was not only an effort to resuscitate the physical activities, but also to
pave the way for a better designed future project for which the sector study seemed to be the best
vehicle.
26.   The Borrower (GOK) and the implementing Ministry also made efforts from time to time
to improve and speed up the planning and design activities. The reorganization of MWD was
substantially completed, albeit late. The financial aspects (i.e. adequate tariffs and improved
revenue collection), fell victim to political considerations, and to the inertia of an institution which
grew too large too fast.



27.   Tbe Bank-MWD relationship was not satisfactory. The Bank was looked at with
suspicion, and the pressure from the Bank to implement the agreed institutional changes was
regarded as unwanted intervention into the Ministry's internal affairs and after inidal enthusiasm
to carry out th Water Sector Study, it fell into the same category and has never been completed.
28.   In summary, the performance of both the Bank (in the initial stages) and the Borrower
(during implementation) was less than satisfactory. In addition, the failure of this project and the
difficulties experienced in the implementation of the Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply project
undermined the relationship between the Bank and MWD for a long time.
H.    Lessons Learn
29.   The Project was appraised as part of an over-ambitious lending program, much too early
and withiout aD.roDriate technical pre2aration. The consequences of this approach were felt
during the entirety of the "implementation" period and could not be rectified during the
supervision stage.
30.   Retrospectively, it can be seen, that the capability of MWD to plan, coordinate, design
and implement the Project was overestimated and the lessons learned from the implementation of
the previous phases of RWS were not sufficiently recognized. In spite of the massive technical
assistance provided by other donors (funding physical projects as well as a large number of
advisors) MWD had shown all signs of the inertia of an institution which grew too large too soon.
31.   The financial base of MWD was also uncertain. Budgetary allocadon (and budget cuts)
were erratic in a time when MWD significantly expanded (both prior to and during the project
period). Water pricing policy was unclear, and tariff increases (even covenanted) fell victim to
political considerations.
32.   In summary the main lessons learned are:
(i)     Physical investments should be preceded by engineering designs and reliable cost
estimates; carried out preferably under a separate engineering project or a
preceding project in the sector;
(ii)    In case of an institutionally and financially weak organization, support for
institutional improvement and capacity building should not only accompany an
investment project, but precede it during the preparatory phase of the physical
project, and it should be ensured that the scope and size of the investment project
is commensurate with the institution's implementation capacity;
(iii)    Realistic, well-defined and enforceable financial covenants are essential to ensure
the financial base of any implementing agency.
33.   Overall, it should be said that although the failure of this project and the less than
satisfactory implementation (and subsequent operation) of the RWS schemes, has been
disappointing, it led ultimately to the creation of an independent water supply authority in 1989,
and acceptance by the Government of the principle that it should operate on a commercial basis.



- 9 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 1637-KE)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
As the loan was closed 7 years prior to the preparation of this report,
Parts I and III were not sent to the Borrower for comments.



-10-
PROJECT COMPLEXION REPORT
KENYA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(LOAN 1637-KE)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A.    Related Bank Loans
Table 1: RELATED BANK LOANS
Title of Credit          Purpose                   Approved           Status
Yma     Amount
(USS m)
Nairobi Water   (A) Increase the water supply to   1970  8.3       Completed
Supply Project    Nairobi by constructing (a) a                    satisfactorily in
Lo. 714-KE      weir and river intake on the                       1979
Chania river; (b) a raw water
pumping stadon and
transmission main; (c) water
treatment plant at Ngethu; (d)
treated water transmission main
from the water treatment plant to
Nairobi and a terminal reservoir;
and (e) extension of the
distribudon system.
(B) Provision of T.A. to the
newly forned Water and
Sewerage Department of the
Nairobi City Council
Mombasa and    (A) Increase the water supply to   1975   35.0      Completed in 1982
Coastal Water    Mombasa, expand distribution
Supply Project   into new locations along the
Ln. 1167-KE      coast, (B) provide T.A. to the
Coast Province Water Branch
and the Ministry of Water
Development, and facilitate the
preparation of a rural water
supply project.
Second Nairobi                                  1978     30.0      Completed
Water Supply    (A) Increase the water supply to                   satisfactorily in
Project         Nairobi by (a) modifying the                       1984
Ln. 1520-KE     existing Sasumua dam to
regulating reservoir and
construct new raw water intake
on the Chania river (including
gravity main); (b) increasing the
capacity of the Ngethu water
treatment plant and the
transmission main; (c)
improving and expanding the
distribution system; (B) provide
T.A. to the Water and Sewerage
Department of the Nairobi City
Council.



- 11 -
B.    Project Timei4ble
Table2: PLANNED, REVISED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                        Date Planned        Date Revised          Date Actual
Identification               07-11/1975                               07-11/1975
Preparation                12/1975-02/1976            -             12/1975-03/1976
Preappraisal                     -                 09/1976          09/1976-02/1977
Appraisal Mission             04/1977                 -             04/11-05/05/1977
Post-appraisal                    -              08-10/1977         08/1977-06/1978
Loan Negotiations             03/1978                 -              10/10-13/1978
Board Approval                01/19781'          12/05/1978            12/05/1978
Loan Signature               12/20/1978               -                12/20/1978
Loan Effectiveness            03/1979                                 01/24/1980
Loan Closing                 06/30/1985               -               06/30/1985 2'
Project Completion           06/30/1984          06/30/1985         Not completed '
1/    As per Project Brief.
2/    Because of inadequate progress, and Government's decision not to utilize loan funding for
rural water supply projects, the project was terminated and the loan closed on the original
closing date.
C.    Loan Disbursements
able 3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS (USS MILLION)
FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86
Appraisal Estimate           1.10    4.00    9.70    15.70   19.10   20.00
Actual                      0.11    0.11    0.11    0.45    0.75    1.68    1.80
Actual as % of Estimate     10.0    2.8      1.1     2.9     3.9      8.4     9.0
Date of Last Disbursement 1/  September 25, 1985
1/    The loan was closed on June 30, 1985. The undisbursed balance of US$18,204,421.52
was cancelled on the date of the last disbursement.



- 12 -
D.    Project Cgsts and Einancing
I&klA: PROJECT COm  (USS million)
A22rAijaaLEstiMiZ               Acm  1/
Descripion             Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign    Total
1. Materials and      6.6      6.4      17.0      0.3      0.1      0.4
Construction
2. Engineering         1.3      1.1      2.4      1.5       -        1.5
3. Strengthening MWD    0.6     1.6      2.2      0.4      0.1      0.5
4. T.A.                         0.4      Q        Q         _       QJ
5. Total base cost    8.7      13.5     22.2
6. Contingencies        I                U 8
(Physical & Price)
7. Total project cost
(i) net of taxes    8.1     18.7      26.8     2.5       0.2      2.7
(ii) incl. taxes    11.8     18.7     30.5      2.7      0.2       2.9
i/    Including contingencies.
IAI:: PROJECT FINANCING (US$ millions)
Appraisal Estimat               Actua
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
IBRD Loan                    1.3     18.7     20.0      1.6      0.2       1.8
Government of Kenya         i         -   1 lo          Li       Z_        I1
Total Financing (incl. taxes)    11.8  18.7   30.5      2.7      0.2       2.9



- 13 -
E.    Status of Loan Covenangs
Table 6: COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
Section    Status            Description of Covenants                    Comments
3.01       Not met   The Borrower shall carry out the Project.. in   More details below
accordance with Schedule 2 to this Agreement.    under Schedule 2 (A
to D).
3.02       OK        In any case in which consultants are required...
their qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment, including their terms
of reference, shall be satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank.
3.03 (a)    OK       The Borrower ... to insure ... imported goods
against hazards incident to.. .delivery thereof.
3.03 (b)    OK        ... all goods and services financed out of the  Complied with until
proceeds of the Loan shall be used exclusively    termination of the
for the Project until its completion.         Project.
3.04 (a)    Partially   The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank ... plans,   Documents, reports,
mat       specifications, ..ports, contract documents and  etc. were submitted
construction and procurement schedules.       with delays.
3.04 (b)
(i)   Partially   The Borrower shall maintain records          Record keeping and
met       to.. monitor progress of the Project.          project monitoring
was maintained in
poor quality.
(ii)   OK       shall enable the Bank's representatives to vi-
sit.. .construction sites ..and to examine
goods..., financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
(iii)  Partially  shall furnish to the Bank ... information...  Only partially met,
met       concerning the Project, its cost.. benefits, the  due to poor record
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan.       keeping.
3.04 (c)    Not met   Promptly after completion ... Borrower shall   This condition under
prepare report ... on the Project.            the circumstances can
be regarded as not
applicable.
3.05       OK      . The Borrower shall ... acquire ... land ... and water
rights, and shall furnish evidence to the Bank.



- 14 _
Talel 6: COMPLIANCE W1TH LOAN COVENANTS (con't.)
Section    Status            Description of Covenants                   Comments
4.02 (a)    Partally   The Borrower shall maintain ... records... in  Record kIewing was
met       respect oA the Project, of the departments or  poor.
agenr.ies.. .responsib!e for carrying out the
Project or any part thertof.
4.02 (b)   N/A       The Borrower shall retain, until one year after  Not determined.
the Closing Date.. .records.
4.02 (c)   Partially   The Borrower shall cause MWD to (i) have its    Auditing was carried
met.      accounts and financial statements audited by  out by the Controller
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)  and Auditor General
furnish to the Bank.. .not later tan 6 months after  in accordance with
the end of each year.                         GOK regulations.
Audit reports were
submitted 2 to 3
years late.
4.03       Not met  ... Borrower shall ensure that the rural water  0 & M of the
supply systems.. .ar operated and maintained...   existing schemes
acceptable to the Bank ... and provide ... funds,  were below
facilities, services and resources required for  standards, mainly due
such purposes.                               to (a) lack of funds
(inadequate budgetary
allocation, low tariffs
and poor revenue
collection perform-
ance; and (b) lack of
trained personnel.
4.04 (a)    Not met   Borrower shall set and maintain tariffs.., to  New tariffs
recover 0 & M costs.                          acceptable to the
Bank were
implemented on July
1, 1979. However,
no required further
tariff increases were
introduced until the
termination of the
Project in 1985. (See
comments under
Clause 6.04 (c)).
4.04 (b)   Not met   Borrower shall ensure revenue collection in    Targets were not met.
accordance with Schedule 5 to the Credit
Agreement.



- 15 -
Table 6: COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS (con't.)
Section    Status          Description of Covenants                 Comments
4.04 (c)    Not met  Borrower shall adjust tariffs on December  No tariff adjustments
31, 1991 and periodically thereafter to permit  were made.
recovery of 0 & M costs.
4.04 (d)   Not met  Borrower shall maintain records of billing  Record keeping was
and revenue collection.                   generally poor, and after
the transfer of revenue
raising responsibilities to
the districts (July 1983)
billing and collection
further deteriorated.
4.05       OK        Borrower shall ensure-.. adequate financial  No-additional project
resources and personnel for... axy project not   was carried out during
included in the Program.                  the Project implementa
tion period.
4.06       Not met   Bor;ower, by end-1983 shall furnish ... long  Preparation of Phase V
range program.                            Rural Water Supply Pro-
ject started, but no
formal information was
submitted to the Bank.
At the time of restruc-
turing, it was expected
that the water sector
study (WSS) would
rectify this deficiency.
WSS was not completed
by the time of termina-
tion of the Project.
Schedule   Not met  Construction of Rural Water Supply Systems.  Some of the provisions
2, P?it A                                                      regarding the preparation
of feasibility studies and
designs were complied
with. However, even
though the number of
schemes was reduced
from 33 (SAR) to 4
(Restructured Project)
none of the schemes
were completed by the
time of termination of
the Project.



_ 16 -
lable 6: COMPLIANCE WriH LOAN COVENANTS (con't.)
Section    Status          Description of Covenants                 Comments
Schedule   NIA       Operation and Maintenance of Rural Water    Some vehicles and
2, Part B            Supply Systems.                           equipment were
procured, but its impact
on operations was not
measurable.
Schedule  Partially   Management and Operations of MWD.        Consultancy Study for
2, Part C   met                                                MWD reorganization
was completed in May
1978, followed by
implementation of the
agreed recommenda-
tions. This was partially
completed by October
1979. However,
MWD's operations did
not improve to the extent
anticipated.
Schedule   Partially  Project Monitoring ar.d Planning for Rural  Project Monitoring Unit
2, Part D   met      Water Supply, Phase V.                    was established 2 years
late. Preparation of
Phase V Schemes
commenced but was not
filly completed by the
time of termination of
the Project (partly due to
the failure of Phase IV).
F.   1Us of Bnk Reources
Staff                            ntvgaal.
Data not available.



- 17 -
Table 7: MISSION (IN STAFF DAYS)
-Slage of      Month/  No. of Days in   Spec:alization     Perfonasom                 Type of
Project Cycle    Year  Pau=    Field    Represented       Rating Stats              Problem
Identification   07n5  2    4    Legal Counsel
Financial Analyst
10175  2    4    Loan Officer
Sanitary Engineer
11/75  2    12   Sanitary Engineers (2)
Preparation      12/75  1    I    Sanitary Engineer
02/76  3     10   Sanitary Engineer
Financial Analyst
Training Specialist
03/76  1    1    Loan Officer
Pre-Appraisal    09/76  /,   60   Sanitary Engineers (2)
Financial Analysts
Training Specialist
Pre-Appraisal    02/77  1    4    Sanitary Engineer
follow-up
Appraisal        04/77- .4    106  Sanitary Engineer
Financial Analyst
Economist
Training Specialist
Post-Appraisal    08/77  1    6    Financial Analyst
10/77  1    4    Sanitary Engineer
02/78  2     10   Sanitary Engineers (2)
06/78  2    30   Sanitary Engineer
Financial Analyst
Supervision      05/79  2     10   Sanitary Engineer     3            TIchnial: Proption of feasibility studies
Financial Analyst                and detailed designs 8 months overdue.
Mansgrjal: Poor coordination - Program
Monitoring Unit not established



- 18 _
MTlo : MISSION (IN STAFF DAYS) (con'l.)
Stage * f     Mouth/  No. of Days iA   Speciaton           Peformnc                   Type of
Project cycle    Yen   Pemt   Fidl    Reprsted             Rating StUs                Problem
05/80  1    9      Sanitary Engineer    2             Techcasl: Prepaion of feasbility studies
aad deta,id designs ar 12 months late; many
of the schemes under prepartion are expected
to be significantly lger than envuaged at
appraisal, and estidma   cos ar now US$ 68
m (veu SAR USS 30.5).
EinangQi: MWD requested additional fumding
from Tresury.
11/80  2     20    Sanitay Engineer     2             Tehnig: Frequent revisions of the program:
Finacial Analyst                  to contan the coat within orig    esuma  the
number of scheme ws rhced from 33 to
30, of which MWD would desig 17, and
consultants 13.
06/81   1    4     Sanitary Engineer    3             Technical: Repeated revisiou of the
progm=  as 2 schemes would be joined total
numbr of schemes was reduced to 29, of
which 1S would be dsigned by consultas.
Managonal: Inductioa of new organizaton
stucture of MWD progeins slowly, PPU
still not in place.
EjMagji: Revenue collection perform
uot adequate (below 0 & M cost).
03/82  1    4      Sanitary Engineer    (BTO report Tecnial: To contain the cost within estimate
only)        and in view that none of the feasibility stulies
and design of the schemes wero completed,
the number of schom was roduced to 24.
k4anagerial: Lntoduction of now organizaion
strcture not yet completed.
06t82  1     10   Sanitary Engineer     (BTO report  Technical: Substitution of one scheme in the
only)        program.
Einanial: While Govemment budgetary
allocation covers about 92% of ounterpart
costs, it is not concreely  located. among the
schemes. Review of revenue collection and
sdequacy of taiffs by MWD overdue.
Sd jI: Introductiou of MWD's
roorganizaton is only partialy completed
Ofej:   Project implemetao 2 yers late.
12/82  2    6      Sanitay Engine  (2) (BTO rport   1b:  Powect implementation more tha
only)        2 yeatn late. Due to the enlargem  of
individual scheans, estiated project cost 2 to
3 tims higher than SAR estim



- 19 -
Table 2: MISSION (IN STAFF DAYS) (con't.)
_ Stage of      Month/  No. of Days in   Specialization      Perfonnmace                 Type of
Project Cycle    Year  Pins   Field    Represted            Rating Status              Problem
Fiancial: Availbility of counterpart funds is
doubtful. Revenues cover only about 20% of
0 & M cost.
Managrial: Completion of MWD's
reorniation still incomplete.
02/83  3     20    Financial Analyst,    3             TeIbncal: Fesibility studies and design are
Sanitary Engineer,                 completed only for 8 studies (by consultants).
Maagement                          The remaining 16 schemes arm in various
Consultant                         stg  of prepation. Estimated cost about
USS 72 million (vcrsus USS 30.5 in SAR),
maly duo to enlarged scope of the
subprojects and prices increas   Overall the
project about 2 1/2 years behind schedule.
Financial: Counteprt funds ar not available
for the escalated costs. Revenues cover odly
about 20% of 0 & M cosa, due to low taiffs
and iadequate collection  Audited accounts 2
yeas overdue.
Mamgerial: The reorgani=Aon is
substantially completed, but MWD's officics
favor irum  to the previous sym.
Over1: Project program is unsatsfactory.
Bank proposed to Government the termination
of the project.
Project           11/83  2      6     Division Chief       N/A           Government requested that the Project be
Restructuring                         Sanitary Engieer                   maintained at a revised, lower scale.
(Identification)
Preparation       02/84  1    3       Finmcial Analyst     N/A
Restructuring     04/84  4     40    Financial Analyst     2             Technical: Restructured Project reflects
Sanitary Engineems (2)             Treasury and MWD physical and financial
Procurement                        constraints components: (a) Completion of
Specialist                         design (by consultants) and construction (by
contractors selected under ICB) of 4 schemes;
(b) Completion of design (by MWD) and
construction of 2 schemes (by MWD-force
account); (s) Completion of design of 15
schemes (for a fiuture projet); (d) Vehicles
and equipmt to facili prepartion of
MWD schemes and 0 & Mof project
schemes; (e) Traiing (mainly at district
level); (f) Water Sector Review (carried out
by MWD and Conslltants). Total Project
Cost: USS 15.1 m equivalent.



- 20 -
Table   MISSION (IN STAFF DAYS) (con't.)
-Stage of     Month/  No. of Days ian  Specialization     Psformce                    Type of
Project Cycle    Yenr  Persons  Field    Reprnted         Rating Status              Problem
Ficial: Avaability of counterpart funding
of USS 2.5 million (and budgeting for the
total cost USS 15.1 Im equivalent) is a risl.
Impmovement of revenue collection (covering
only 20% of 0 & M cost) by the closing date
is unlikely.
Suporvision      10/84  1      IS   Training Specialist    N/A        ITnina: Training facilities inadequate to
cope with needs in the sector in general. and
for the project in particular. Key manpower
and taining issu  have not been addressed
since the 1982 Manpower Developmeat and
Training Program (MDTT). Sector Review
should addtr  this problem area.
11/84  2    26    Fincial Analyst      3             Man:g-ij: (jovemment indecidive whether
Saaitary Enginmer                 to continue with the Project using loan femds.
Frequet hnges in high- and mid-lovel
executive officers in MWD hinder coatinuity
of project execution. Trasury's clearance of
contracts delayed.
T.2jica: Award of contacts delayed.
Construction started on 1 scheme only.
0vem: Because of implementation delays
and Treasury's view that loan funds should
not be used for rural W/S developmet, future
of the project is uncetin. Goverment's
position was requested.
02/85  1    3    Sanitary Engineer      (BTO report  Ovemal: Government decided that in fture
only)        only rant aid would be used for mual W/S
development and Ln. 1637-KE shoule be
terminated.
03/85  1    7    Sanitary Engineer      (BTO report  Ovemil: No further progress on any of the
only)        project components. Decision was made that
the Project be terminate and the loan closed
on original date of 06/30/85.
Fiancial: MWD expected to prepar and
submit disbusement requs regarding
legitimate expeaditure under the project,
estimated totalling USS 3.7 million. Outcome
of this exercise was doubtful as MWD did not
keep proper documentation on project
expenditure. (Final disbursment was actually
made on 09/25/85 and USS 18.2 millio-n
undisbursed balance was cancloed).



