Document of                 FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-241 1-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
November 17, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          Kenya Shilling (KSh)
US$1.00         =      KSh 8.0
KSh 1.00        =      US$0.125
(As the Kenya Shilling is officially valued at a fixed
rate of 9.66 K Sh to the SDR, the US Dollar/Kenya Shilling
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this
report were made at US$1.00 to K Sh 8.00 which is close
to the average 1978 exchange rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS
CWP        -    Communal Water Point
lcd             liters per capita per day
MLG        =    Ministry of Local Government
MWD        =    Ministry of Water Development
RWS        -    Rural Water Supply Program
SIDA       =    Swedish International Development Authority
WD         =    Water Department of MWD
WHO        -    World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA - RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:               Republic of Kenya
AMOUNT:                 US$20.0 million equivalent
TERMS:                  Terms of 20 years including 5 years of grace with
interest at 7.35% per annum.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  The project, which forms part of the Government's fourth
rur al water supply program, would provide convenient,
saf'e and reliable water to a rural population of about
half a million, and would also strengthen the Ministry
of Water Development's (MWD) organization and management
caapability to plan expansion programs and to operate and
maintain water supply schemes. The project would con-
sist of: (i) construction of 33 rural water supply
schemes; (ii) strengthening of MWD's operation and
maintenance and direct labor sections; and (iii) tech-
nical assistance for implementation of the recommenda-
ticns of the management study aimed at strengthening
MWI), and for preparation of the fifth rural water supply
program. The schemes would supply between 100 and
10,000 households each, through a mixture of individual
corLnections, communal water points and kiosks. The
project would face risks related to the capacity of
MWI) to plan, construct, operate and maintain rural
wat:er schemes satisfactorily; the implementation of
effective collection methods could also present prob-
lems. However, measures to strengthen MWD have already
begun, and the inclusion in the proposed project of
steps to accelerate training, improve financial control
mechanisms, and provide for implementation of the
program of management consultancy services, combined
with the recruitment of additional trained staff should
substantially reduce these risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contenls may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ESTIMATED COST:
US$ million equivalent
Local Foreign Total
Materials and Construction       6.6    10.4   17.0
Engineering                       1.3     1.1    2.4
Strengthening MWD                0.6      1.6    2.2
Technical Assistance             0.2      0.4    0.6
Sub-total                      8.7    13.5   22.2
Contingencies:  Physical         1.2      1.9    3.1
Price           1.9      3.3    5.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST               11.8    18.7   30.5
of which taxes and duties        3.7       -      3.7
PROJECT COST net of taxes
and duties                     8.1    18.7   26.8
FINANCING PLAN:                                         US$ million equivalent
Local  Foreign  Total   %
World Bank Loan                   1.3      18.7    20.0   75
Government                        6.8      -        6.8   25
PROJECT COST net of taxes
and duties                     8.1      18.7    26.8  100
--    US$ million equivalent------
ESTIMATED               Bank FY               1980  1981  1982  1983  1984   1985
DISBURSEMENTS:
Annual                 1.1   2.9   5.7   6.0   3.4    0.9
Cumulative             1.1   4.0   9.7  15.7  19.1   20.0
RATE OF RETURN:         Not applicable
APPRAISAL REPORT:       No. 1687-KE of October 31, 1978
MAP:                    IBRD 12919 R



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Kenya for the equivalent of US$20.0 million to help finance
a Rural Water $upply Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years includ-
ing 5 years of grace with an interest rate of 7.35% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on Kenya" (Report No.
1783a-KE, dated December 28, 1977) has been distributed to the Executive
Directors. A summary of social and economic data is at Annex I. A Basic
Economic Report on Kenya is now under preparation--the mission to complete
the report returned from Kenya in mid-November.
Economic Structure and Trends
3.        During the first fifteen years of independence Kenya has had conti-
nuity in leadership and development strategy. That strategy has been to
promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment, encouragement of
both smallholder and large-scale farming, and the promotion of accelerated
industrialization through incentives for private (including foreign) invest-
ment in modern industry. More recently, policy statements have suggested an
increasing emphasis on poverty alleviation measures even at the cost of a
slight reduction in the rate of economic growth. With the death of President
Kenyatta there is inevitably some uncertainty about the future, but preliminary
indications are that the main outline of Kenyan development strategy will
remain the same.
4.         Kenya is a poor country with an economy still largely dependent on
agriculture. Average per capita income in 1977 was US$270 and agriculture
accounted for 29% (constant prices) of GDP on average during the period 1975-77.
Agriculture provided over 60% of export earnings in 1977 and remains the major
source of livelihood for the 90% of the population which lives in rural areas.
5.        Growth of the economy since independence has been impressive.  From
1964-73 total GDP grew at an annual average rate of 6.6%. Manufacturing was
1/ This section is substantially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Project (Report P-2395-KE of October
18, 1978).



- 2 -
the most rapidly growing of the major sectors during the period; value added
in manufacturing increased by 8.4% per annum and the share of the manufactur-
ing sector rose from 10.4% of GDP in 1964 to 13.6% in 1973. Agricultural
growth contributed to the strong overall performance as well. Agricultural
output increased by over 50% from 1964-73, or at an average annual rate of
4.5%. Marketed production in agriculture grew especially fast (6.0% per
annum) but subsistence production also grew faster than population during the
period.
6.        Despite Kenya's impressive post-independence growth record, a
number of problems have emerged which will make it difficult to sustain
growth and to reduce poverty.
7.        The most fundamental problem is the rapid growth of popultion in
the face o5 limited arable land. Of Kenya's total area (583,000 km ),
520,500 km is categorized as potentially agricultural, 13% being regarded as
high potential, 6% medium and 81% low. Most of the high-potential land is
densely settled. Pressure on the land was alleviated during the years follow-
ing independence by the opening up of a large part of the land previously
owned by Europeans to settlement by Kenyan smallholders. However, with
population growing at 3.5% per annum pressure is mounting. This has resulted
in increasing subdivision and landlessness in high-potential areas and in
settlement in semi-arid areas ill-suited to farming. These problems help to
account for the slackening in recent years of the previously high agricultural
growth rate, which fell from 4.5% per annum from 1964-73 to 2.3% per annum
from 1973-77.
8.        Rapid population growth is felt most seriously through the increas-
ing pressure on available agricultural land, but it creates other problems as
well. The non-agricultural formal wage sector (which employs less than 15% of
the total labor force) is unable to absorb all the new labor force entrants
because of its small base. Considerable budgetary pressure has also been
created because of the growing demand for social services. Finally, efforts
to improve the distribution of income are impeded because of the relative lack
of access to land and education for the children of the poorest sections of
the population.
9.        A second problem area has developed in the manufacturing sector.  The
rapid growth of industry in the past has been largely based upon investments
in simple import-substitution industries by multinational companies. To a
lesser extent manufacturing production has also catered to the export market
in neighboring countries, particularly in the protected East African Community
(EAC) market. However the scope for further industrialization along these
lines is limited as most of the easy import-substitution possibilities have
been exhausted and the EAC preference for Kenyan goods has been abolished.
The past pattern of industrialization has left the industrial sector in-
creasingly dependent on imported raw materials, components and spare parts and
therefore vulnerable in case of a shortage of foreign exchange. To maintain
growth it will be necessary to reorient industry toward increased use of



-3 -
domestic inputs and increased production for export. This will be difficult,
however, because existing industry has been developing under high protection
and is relatively uncompetitive in world markets.
10.        An additional problem is the stagnation of export volume in recent
years. From 1964-72 the volume of exports expanded at an average annual rate
of 4.6%. Between 1972 and 1974 export volume increased by an additional 11%
but has not risen above the 1974 level. To some extent this is a reflection
of production problems in agriculture and industry, but it is also an indica-
tor of the need to direct more resources into foreign exchange earning activi-
ties. A combination of slow export growth and continued high import dependence
would leave the Kenyan economy very vulnerable to fluctuations in the terms of
trade.
Developments since the 1974-75 Crisis
11.       The Kenyan economy was disrupted by import price increases and by
drought in 1974-75. Marketed agricultural production did not grow at all in
1974 and 1975 while total GDP grew at only 1.6% per annum. The value of
imports increased by more than 50% over the 1973 level and the balance of
payments position deteriorated. The crisis highlighted the extent to which
Kenya, with its import-intensive manufacturing and limited domestic energy
resources, had become dependent on imports.
12.        The Government made several policy changes to deal with the crisis.
First, it introduced measures to minimize the loss of foreign exchange re-
serves and control domestic demand. These included an increase in sales
taxes, credit restrictions, passing on the increases in oil prices to users,
and a freeze on Government recruitment. Second, since its Development Plan
had been overtaken by events, it formulated a medium-term Restructuring
Program with more modest growth and equity targets. Achieving those targets
required restraining consumption in favor of investment, lowering Kenya's high
import dependence and making the economy more export-oriented.
13.       There was a marked improvement in the economy in 1976 and 1977,
though this was largely due to external circumstances rather than to the
effects of the Restructuring Program, most of whose effects are longer-range.
Favorable weather conditions helped agricultural output to grow by nearly 8%
during the two years and high coffee and tea prices transformed the balance of
payments position. The volume of coffee exports increased by nearly 40%
between 1975 and 1977 while the average price' received more than quadrupled.
The balance of payments moved into surplus in 1976 and in 1977 there was a
surplus on current account, the first in thirteen years.
14.        The coffee boomt also had numerous secondary repercussions.  High
coffee incomes stimulated activity in manufacturing and other sectors, and
also helped directly and indirectly to finance an investment boom; gross fixed
capital formation rose by 22.6% in real terms between 1975 and 1977. The
effect on domestic savings was even more dramatic; the ratio of domestic
savings to GNP rose from 12.5% in 1975 to 18.7% in 1976 to 22.7% in 1977.
Finally, current revenue of the Government increased by about 50% during the



- 4-
budget year 1977/78. This was matched, however, by an increase in recurrent
expenditure, while development expenditure increased by at least 40% according
to preliminary estimates. In real terms total Government expenditure increased
by more than 20%. This increase was greater than anticipated because of unex-
pected large increases in defense expenditure and because of heavy investment
in transportation equipment occasioned by the break-up of the East African
Community.
15.       As a result of these generally expansionary conditions a short-term
macro-management problem has emerged. The total supply of money and quasi-
money expanded by 46.8% during 1977. Consumer price increases accelerated,
with price increases in 1977 ranging from 13.5% for the Nairobi Middle Income
Index to 21.0% for the Nairobi Lower Income Index. Imports also grew rapidly
during the first few months of 1978 at the same time as coffee prices declined
well below the level of early 1977. The full effect of past monetary expan-
sion has probably not yet been realized and continued pressure on domestic
prices and import demand can be expected. In order to restore domestic and
external stability, it may be necessary to pursue more restrictive monetary
and budgetary policies in the near future.
16.       Of more long-term significance is implementation of the Restructur-
ing Program. The Government has made good progress but there are some areas
in which further action is needed. In the fiscal field, it has introduced
procedures to ensure better control of expenditure and increased expenditure
in directly productive activities. However, as noted above, unanticipated
expenditures have temporarily put renewed pressure on the budget. The Govern-
ment has also emphasized agricultural sector development and taken a variety
of measures to improve performance in this sector. Periodic producer price
increases and a strong wages policy have helped to shift the terms of trade
between agriculture and manufacturing in favor of agriculture by over 100%
during the past three years after a long period during which they had moved in
favor of manufacturing; even if coffee is excluded the improvement was close
to 50%. However, the Government has been slow to formulate and implement
badly needed new policies in the industrial field. While it introduced duties
on hitherto duty-free imports of intermediate and capital goods as steps
towards a more rational protection system, increased the sales tax on luxury
goods, introduced an export subsidy of 10% to stimulate the export of manu-.
factured goods and certain commodities, and devalued the shilling-in October
1975 to make manufactured exports more competitive, a comprehensive policy
package to eliminate the disadvantages under which export-oriented industries
operate remains to be formulated.
Development Plan FY79-83
17.       Background studies are now under way to analyze major economic and
social issues in preparation for the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan. The
major objective for the next Plan period will be alleviation of poverty
through the creation of income earning possibilities and by providing for
basic needs in nutrition, health, education, housing and other social services.
Thus, while the Plan would provide for a large degree of continuity in Kenya's



development strategy, ther,e would be greater attention paid to social
objectives as compared witlh the ongoing Restructuring Program and the Third
Plan. At the Government's request, the Bank is providing assistance in
developing strategies in urban development and resource mobilization.
External Debt
18.       The current low overall debt service ratio of about 5% (including a
notional 50% share of the debt of the East African Community Corporations)
is expected to rise to about 11.5% by 1985. Including this share of EAC debt,
the IBRD is presently holding 29% of Kenya's outstanding external debt and IDA
11%; the IBRD share is expected to rise to 33% and the IDA share to 12% by
1985. Debt service payments to the Bank are about 30% of total debt service
payments; IDA share is about 1%. These two figures are projected to be about
the same by 1985. Kenya has seen a gradual switch by other donors from loans
to straight grants (including conversion of some loans to grants 1/) or to
loans on very concessional terms and the Government has pursued a rather con-
servative commercial borrowing policy in recent years. Despite the recovery
of Kenya's overall savings performance to a notable 18% of Gross Domestic
Income, it is projected that Kenya's development program will require substan-
tial finance in excess of public savings and available non-Bank Group external
capital and we therefore expect to continue our practice of financing a
substantial proportion of total project costs, including some local costs when
necessary.
Impact of the De Facto Dissolution of the East African Community (EAC)
19.       Recent developments of the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R 77-312).
The de facto breakup of the EAC has had some impact on Kenya's budget. The
establishment of national corporations to replace the former East African
Community Corporations required investment outlays as well as operating
subsidies from the GovernmLent, but the burden on the Government budget will
hopefully be temporary, as; the Corporations are expected to become self-
financing. The closure of the border with Tanzania will have some effect
on trade -- Tanzania was a large customer for Kenyan manufactured goods
and new markets will have to be developed. As Tanzanian exports to Kenya
were small replacing these should not be a major issue except in specific
commodities (i.e. tobacco and cotton). The border closure has also had a
slightly negative impact on tourism, although Kenya is expected to overcome
this by developing beach resorts and game parks within Kenya.
1/   Since the amounts involved so far have been relatively small, the impact
of these conversions on the debt service ratio and on the Bank's ex-
posure has been marginal.



- 6-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
20.       Hitherto, Kenya has received 29 Bank loans, including three on
Third Window terms, and 25 IDA credits amounting to US$752.1 million, sup-
porting 46 operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries
of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the
development of common services (railways, ports, telecommunications and
finance for industry), operated regionally for the three Partner States of the
East African Community. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans
and IDA credits to Kenya and to the East African Community Corporations, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of October 31, 1978.
21.       The Bank has assisted the Government in its efforts to restructure
the economy. In addition to increasing lending in directly productive sectors
(particularly agriculture), a US$30 million program loan was approved in 1975
to provide direct assistance to the Government for implementing its Restructur-
ing Program (paras. 12 and 16). While recent sector and economic work has
also focused on the adjustments which Kenya must make to deal with the changed
international economy, the upcoming Basic Economic Report is expected to
comprehensively address the issues of income distribution, population growth,
and appropriate long-term agricultural and industrial policy.
22.       Significant progress has been made in giving the Bank's lending
program a rural focus, and in concentrating on employment and income distri-
bution objectives. Projects approved since July 1977 include the first
Integrated Agricultural Development Project aimed directly at small subsistence
farmers; the Rural Access Roads Project supporting labor-intensive infrastruc-
tural developments; and an Irrigation Project which will open up significant
new areas for settlement. The Bank also supported the tourism sector in Kenya
for the first time -- an effort intended to help Kenya conserve its wildlife
and exploit its foreign exchange earning potential. The industrial lending
program included a third loan to the Industrial Development Bank and a Small
Scale Industry Project. Recently a Fourth Education Project, a Water Supply
Project for Nairobi, a Second Urban Project and an Engineering Project (Olkaria
Geothermal) were approved. Negotiations for an Agricultural Development
Project for Narok District and a Sugar Rehabilitation Project have also been
completed. In the near future, further support to the agriculture sector is
expected to include a smallholder coffee improvement project, a second inte-
grated agricultural development project and a pilot scheme for development of
arid and semi-arid areas. In addition, a telecommunications project, a
highway sector loan and a further power project are contemplated.
23.       Overall, project implementation performance is satisfactory.  One
major exception was the Second Livestock Development Project which was suf-
fering from inadequate beef prices as well as organizational difficulties
reflecting in part the complexity of the project. The Government has recently
increased beef prices substantially and prospects for utilizing the credit
have now improved. Progress on the Group Farm Rehabilitation Project has also
been slow due to administrative difficulties and reluctance of group owners to
participate. Finally, Kenya has experienced serious cost overruns, most



notably on the Nairobi Airport Project and road construction projects. The
Government of Kenya has made funds available to complete these projects.
International Finance Ccrporation (IFC)
24.       IFC has committed a total of US$36.8 million for four companies in
Kenya: Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism
Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.; and Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.). A credit
line for medium- and small-scale enterprises was extended to the Commercial
Bank of Kenya. As of October 31, 1978, IFC held for its own account US$28.4
million comprising US$20.4 million of loans and US$8.0 million of equity. A
summary of IFC investments in Kenya as of October 31, 1978 is included in
Annex II.
PART III - THE WATER SECTOR
Background
25.       Although lying in equatorial latitudes, Kenya experiences wide
differences in climatic conditions caused mainly by variations in altitude.
Average rainfall is about 450 mm per annum but the actual distribution re-
sults in vast areas receiving less than 250 mm while hill masses may receive
up to 2,500 mm.
26.       Kenya is generally poor in surface water; apart from the Nzoia,
Yalla and Mara rivers in the west and the main courses of the Tana and the
Galana in the east all the rivers and their tributaries are seasonal. The
major rivers originate from only 5% of the area of the country, where the rain-
fall exceeds 1,250 mm per annum. The groundwater potential appears promising,
but considerably more investigations are required. The main water table is
typically about 80 m below the surface, but in some areas, particularly along
the coastline and almost everywhere along Lake Victoria, an abundant quantity
of groundwater is available close to the surface. The quality of groundwater
is generally satisfactory; however, in the north and east water is often
saline, and in Nairobi and the Rift Valley some groundwater has excessive
fluorides.
27.       The Ministry of Water Development (MWD) is the sole agency in the
Government with technical expertise in water affairs and is in charge of
coordinating water resources development. Special assignments, however, are
carried out by statutory boards, and several other ministries and agencies -
including municipalities and county councils - are involved in the development
and operation of water supply facilities.
28.       The systematic investigation and inventory of all the country's
water resources started in 1976 as the first part of the National Water
Master Plan; in succeeding parts the Plan will evaluate development of water
demands, present the technical solutions for development of water resources
and propose ways of conserving water. Preparation of this Plan is being
financed by the Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA).



- 8-
Urban Water Supply and Sewerage
29.       Practically the whole urban population, estimated at about 1.7
million in 1977, is either served from piped water supply systems or has
reasonable access to public systems. The quality of supply depends on the
size of the community and generally is better in larger towns. Some towns
with fast population growth have been unable to keep pace with water demand
and are now experiencing periods of serious water shortage. Water is usually
supplied through metered individual connections; usage is not excessive,
ranging from 70 to 160 liters per capita per day (lcd). The development and
operation of sewerage systems is controlled by the City Council of Nairobi,
the Ministry of Local Government (MLG) in the other larger towns, and by MWD
in all other settlements. In the country as a whole, about 4% of the popula-
tion use public sewerage systems, about 4% septic tanks and 40% pit latrines.
More than 50% of the population has no sanitation facilities. The City
Council of Nairobi is expanding its sewerage system, the systems in four
municipalities are now being expanded by MLG, while MWD is constructing seven
systems in smaller towns.
The Rural Water Supply Sub-Sector - Background and Issues
30.       The 1977 rural population is estimated at about 12.5 million, of
which 1.5 million presently has access to an improved water source or piped
water supply. The balance of the rural population carries water over consider-
able distances from natural sources, which are often polluted, insufficient or
unreliable. About one-third of the rural population presently served has
individual connections to their farms, and the rest draws water from communal
water points (CWP), kiosks 1/, protected springs or wells. Water usage ranges
from 50 lcd for individual connections to about 10 lcd for others. Maximum
walking distance to an improved water source is 1 km in high potential areas
and 4 km in low potential areas.
31.       The efforts of the Government in rural areas have addressed the
need to increase rural incomes and improve the quality of services, with an
increased emphasis on agriculture, transport, education and health. Provi-
sion of reliable water supply to improve health, to relieve women from water
carrying and to enhance cattle breeding has high priority for the rural popu-
lation. With the objective of providing the whole rural population with safe
water by the year 2000, the Government instituted a series of Rural Water
Supply Programs (RWS) in 1970; since that time, the Government has devoted
considerable resources to the construction of rural water supply schemes. The
first three RWS programs received support from SIDA in 1970, 1972 and 1974.
The Water Department (WD) of MWD, which is the Ministry's executing agency,
began to gain experience on a large scale in the planning, design and con-
struction of rural water supplies when RWS I started in 1970. The level of
maintenance of these schemes is generally low, causing frequent disruptions of
1/   Water from CWP is either free or charged at a nominal fee per family;
supply from kiosks is paid for by volume.



- 9 -
service. In addition problems have arisen with regard to organization and
staffing, revenue collection and establishment of adequate tariffs.
32.       Because of the serious problems being encountered and the lack
of data on the construct:Lon and operation of rural water supplies, the Gov-
ernnment agreed in 1975 to undertake a comprehensive evaluation of all past
and ongoing rural water projects as a basis for the preparation of future
rural water supply programs. Funds were included under the Mombasa and
Coastal Water Supply Project financed by the Bank (para 42) for an evalua-
tion study of existing schemes and the preparation of a rural water supply
project for Bank financing.  In early 1976, MWD appointed a Swedish con-
sultant to undertake the evaluation and to assist MWD in preparation of the
fourth RWS program. The evaluation was eventually financed by SIDA while
the provision in the Momlbasa loan was used for the Management Study (para
35). The consultant's report provided impbortant inputs for the preparation
of the proposed project.
33.       Particularly iin the case of RWS I and some RWS II schemes, the
evaluation study found that schemes had been built on the basis of insuffi-
cient data on water resources and water demand, both factors ultimately lead-
ing to inadequate design. Further, little attention was paid to the desires
of consumers concerning quality of supply, location of kiosks and communal
water points (CWPs) and willingness and ability to pay for various kinds of
service. In a sample of 35 schemes it was found that only about half of the
potential consumers actually used the new systems, less than half of the
schemes provided a reliable supply, and nearly half of the schemes provided
water that did not meet WHO standards. These factors showed only modest
improvement during implementation of RWS III. This unsatisfactory state of
affairs was due to a combination of factors: (i) poor initial design; (ii)
inadequate supervision by field offices of WD; (iii) lack of workshops, spare
parts, transport etc.; (iv) inadequate financial control mechanisms; (v)
insufficient budgetary allocations; and (vi) lack of qualified staff.
34.       The evaluation study indicated that MWD had not been able to set
up the necessary policy, administrative, legal and financial mechanisms to
ensure efficient operation, and this situation had been aggravated by the
dramatic increase in the scope of MWD's activities because of the high prior-
ity given to water supply in recent years. In addition, MWD had been required
to take over the running of water supply systems previously operated by county
councils and other autonomous rural water supply schemes when these were being
operated unsatisfactorily; these responsibilities were often assumed without
provision of additional staff or budgetary adjustments, adding to an already
heavy burden.
35.       Although the evaluation study provided important information on the
technical problems facing the sector, it did not adequately address the weak-
nesses in the management methods of MWD. A further study of the organization
and procedures of MWD was therefore required in order to obtain specific
recommendations for strengthening the Ministry. In December 1977 the Govern-
ment hired management consultants to conduct a thorough investigation of MWD,
its organization, management methods, staffing and accounting policies. The



- 10 -
consultants recommended a reorganization of the Ministry to enable the Per-
manent Secretary to control effectively the different arms of the organiza-
tion, and to upgrade the planning/budgeting/monitoring process. These recom-
mendations have been accepted, and the Government has decided to reorganize
MWD generally along the proposed lines.
36.       Under the proposed project specialized personnel would be employed
to assist local counterparts to implement recommendations for improved
manpower planning practices, accounting/budgeting and financial control
mechanisms, project planning and monitoring methods and stores management,
and to facilitate the introduction of the new organizational framework.
Measures to be taken to strengthen the management and operations of MWD are
described in Annex D to Schedule 2 of the draft Loan Agreement, and the
program for implementation of the management consultants' proposals would be
reviewed annually with the Bank (Schedule 2, Part C(3) of the draft Loan
Agreement). Implementation of these measures is expected to be completed by
December 31, 1980.
37.       Specific measures to strengthen the staffing of MWD would include:
creation of a Program Monitoring Unit and appointment of a Program Coordinator
to head that Unit (para 50); appointment of a Public Relations Officer to
ensure that the full benefits of operating rural water supplies are realized
(in particular this officer would ensure that the wishes of the population
were reflected in the design of new schemes and would initiate health cam-
paigns); appointment of a Training Officer who would undertake periodic
assessments of MWD's manpower requirements, and set up training programs
accordingly; appointment of a Cost and Management Accountant at MWD's head-
quarters and appointment of qualified accountants at all provincial offices.
The Public Relations Officer has already been appointed and is assisting with
preparation of feasibility studies for schemes included in RWS IV. Appoint-
ment of the Program Coordinator, the Cost and Management Accountant and the
Training Officer is also seen as essential to the success of the project, but
since major efforts during the first months of implementation will focus on
engineering, appointment of these officers would be a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed loan (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). In
addition qualified accountants would be posted at all provincial offices of
MWD by April 30, 1979 (Schedule 2, Part C(2) of the draft Loan Agreement).
38.       WD has recently prepared operation and maintenance standards to
be used in the preparation of recurrent and capital budgets. MWD would be
provided with sufficient funds to meet the established standards for operation
and maintenance of all schemes under its control; these standards would be
revised from time to time, as necessary, in consultation with the Bank (Section
4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). In view of the already heavy commitments
of the Development Branch of WD, until completion of the project MWD would be
provided with adequate financial resources and personnel to carry out any
development program which the Government required it to undertake outside RWS
IV (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). Details of a rehabilitation
program for existing schemes have been worked out by WD, and three aid agencies



- 11 -
will provide financing for this item. 1/ Engineering consultants will survey
schemes in need of rehabilitation, make recommendations and, after MWD's ap-
proval, proceed with implementation. Further, mobile teams will be set up to
undertake repairs as needed. Under the proposed Bank-financed project, the
expansion of training facilities (para 48) would be aimed particularly at
addressing the needs of the Operation and Maintenance Branch of WD.
39.       The tariff policy for rural water supply has also presented prob-
lems. Existing tariffs are very low when compared with the average incre-
mental cost of supply, and do not cover operating and maintenance costs. The
tariff structure for rural water supplies was introduced in 1971 and consists
of six different scales; the particular tariff to be applied to a new supply
is decided on the basis of consumers' ability to pay, and prevailing tariffs
for neighboring rural supplies. MWD has now established its policy for
the introduction of tariffs based on (i) ability to pay; and (ii) economic
cost of supply. Under these tariffs, a first block of not more than 6 m per
month would be sold at a subsidized price, while prices for any additional
water delivered would be set at levels which would permit recovery of all
operation and maintenance costs (excluding depreciation) for rural water
supply systems taken as a group. The proposed tariffs would recognize the
rural income constraint by allowing small quantities of water to be sold at
subsidized prices, and would at the same time limit water consumption parti-
cularly where the cost of water is high. In the poorest areas, however, water
from communal water points would be provided free of charge. MWD intends to
(i) introduce two-block tariffs acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) adjust the
tariffs on December 31, 1981 and periodically thereafter, but not less than
every three years, to permit current recovery of at least the operation and
maintenance expenditures (excluding depreciation) on all rural water supply
systems taken as a group (Sections 4.04 (a) and (c) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). Introduction of new tariffs acceptable to the Bank would be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 5.01(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
40.       An additional major difficulty facing MWD is the collection of
revenues for rural water supplies; in FY77 actual collections were only 62%
of anticipated revenues, and substantially less than operating expenses. The
responsibility for billing and collection is divided: WD is in charge of
meter reading, while the local administration, falling under the Office of
the President, is in charge of preparing bills and collecting. Poor collec-
tion is generally attributed to lack of competent staff in field offices of
the concerned ministries, and lack of adequate senior supervision. Measures
to improve collections would be implemented under the proposed project and
records would be maintained to monitor amounts charged and collected for the
supply of water through rural water supply systems (Sections 4.04 (b) and (d)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
1/   Canadian International Development Agency, Danish International Develop-
ment Agency, Swedish International Development Authority.



- 12 -
41.       While tariff increases and improvements in revenue collection are
expected to lead to a gradual reduction in the level of subsidies for rural
water supply programs over time, it is now apparent that the economy will
not be able to sustain the high level of subsidy required to meet the objec-
tive of supplying the whole rural population with safe water supplies by the
year 2000 (para 31). During the implementation of the proposed project, MWD
would therefore assess in detail the implications of this objective and by
December 31, 1983 would furnish the Bank for comment its long-range program
for meeting Kenya's rural water supply needs and its plans for financing
such a program (Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Previous Bank Group-Financed Projects in the Sector
42.       The proposed loan would represent the Bank Group's fourth lending
operation to Kenya for water supply. The first Bank loan for a water supply
project (Loan 714-KE - Nairobi Water Supply I) has been successfully com-
pleted. 1/ The Second Nairobi Water Supply Project (Loan 1520-KE) was ap-
proved recently and is in the early stages of implementation by the Nairobi
City Council. The Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project (Loan 1167-KE),
and water and sewerage components of a number of other projects financed by
the Bank Group are being implemented by the Water Department (WD) of MWD. The
Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project experienced delays, particularly in
the early stages, due mainly to weak project administration on the part of WD.
Physical execution of the major parts of the project is about nine months
behind schedule, and some of the smaller components may be delayed by as much
as a year. However performance is now improving and implementation is pro-
ceeding at an acceptable pace. Measures to strengthen MWD under the proposed
project are expected to lead to a continuation in the improvement of the per-
formance of WD under the earlier projects.
The Rural Water Supply IV Program (RWS IV)
43.       RWS IV consists of 65 schemes located throughout Kenya aimed at
supplying safe water to about 1.1 million persons. As in previous RWS pro-
grams, the schemes were selected through a two-stage process. The first stage
consisted of an allocation of funds to each of Kenya's 40 rural districts
in proportion to the unserved population when RWS was initiated in 1970; in
the second stage, District Development Committees selected specific schemes on
the basis of need, willingness to pay for service, equity, potential benefits
and grassroots political considerations. Thus the program includes schemes
selected for each district in order of priority, up to the limits of the
allocated construction funds. Schemes would provide water to the entire
population in the areas they serve.  The Government requested assistance from
the Bank and six other aid agencies for the financing of the program, the
total cost of which is estimated at US$87.5 million. The 65 schemes were
1/   The project completion report has been issued and the Operations Evalua-
tion Audit Report is under preparation.



- 13 -
allocated among the aid agencies and the Bank on the basis of specific pre-
ferences, and geographical considerations, in order to facilitate contracting
and project implementation. In particular, for those aid agencies requiring
tied procurement, the schemes to be financed were concentrated in specific
regions to minimize problems of standardization. In the case of the Bank, the
schemes to be financed were spread over all seven provinces to assist the
Government in providing access to water services in all areas on an equitable
basis, taking into accoun,t the schemes being constructed with assistance from
other aid agencies. Loan applications made to the other agencies - the African
Development Bank, CanadiaLn International Development Agency, Danish Interna-
tional Devetlopment Agency, Japan, the Netherlands, and the U.K. Overseas
Development: Ministry - are in various stages of processing.
44.       Schemes to be financed by other agencies would be implemented inde-
pendently from the Bank-financed project.  However, MWD would coordinate
implementation of the program as a whole, including training. Standardization
of installations would be assured through MWD's review of all designs and
specifications, and in those limited instances where equipment could not be
standardized on a national basis, MWD wDuld ensure standardization in indi-
vidual schemes.
PART IV - TAE PROJECT
45.       The proposed project was appraised by the Bank in April 1977.
Bilateral aid agencies interested in financing portions of RWS IV liaised
with the appraisal team and representatives of three agencies (Canada, Denmark
and the Netherlands) joined the appraisal mission. Following the appraisal
mission, the Bank recommended the appointment of consultants to carry out a
Management Study (para 35) of measures required to strengthen MWD. This study
was completed in May 1978, and a postappraisal mission visited Kenya in June
1978 to update project information and review the work of the management
consultant. Negotiations were held in Washington in October 1978. The Kenyan
delegation was led by Mr. K. A. Ngeny, Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of
Water Development (MWD). A Loan and Project Summary is at the front of this
report, and the Appraisal Report (No. 1687-KE dated October 31, 1978) is being
distributed separately. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is at Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
46.       The Bank-financed project, involving about half of the schemes in
RWS IV, would provide water to a rural population of about half a million, and
strengthen MWD's organization and management capability to plan and execute
expansion programs and to operate and maintain water supply schemes. The
project would consist of:
(a) 33 rural water supply schemes;
(b) strengthening of MWD's operation and maintenance,
and direct labor sections; and



- 14 -
(c) technical assistance for implementation of the recom-
mendations of the Management Study of MWD and prepara-
tion of a fifth Rural Water Supply Program.
47.       The 33 schemes to be financed under the proposed project are located
in areas with degrees of agricultural potential ranging from low through
medium to high. Individual schemes, which were selected by the process des-
cribed in para 43, would serve between 100 and 10,000 households each. The
standard of service in each scheme would be a mix of individual connections,
communal water points (CWP) and kiosks. The percentage of population served
by individual connections in each scheme would depend on economic considera-
tions and demonstrated willingness of users to pay for the connection. Cash
contributions to capital costs would be required from users of individual
connections. Since the amount involved would be very small (probably less
than US$50,000), these costs have not been included in the total project
cost.
48.       As noted above (para 33), the operation and maintenance capacity of
the Water Department (WD) of MWD, the implementing agency, is presently
inadequate. Under the proposed project, capacity would be upgraded by: (a)
providing WD with District and Provincial stores and workshops, additional
equipment, spare parts and tools; and (b) expanding WD's facilities for
training of water operators. These efforts would also be supported by aid
agencies financing separate schemes under the program. The WD's Direct Labor
Section would also be strengthened by provision of additional construction,
transport and communication equipment, spare parts and tools.
49.       Technical assistance would consist of:  (i) implementation of
the recommendations of the Management Study including provision of experts
required for the training of local staff through a program of management
consultancy services which would be reviewed annually with the Bank (para
37); and (ii) preparing feasibility studies of schemes to be included in the
fifth Rural Water Supply Program proposed for 1981-1986.
Implementation
50.       Implementation of the RWS IV program would be the responsibility
of the WD, and would take about six years - from mid-1978 to mid-1984.
Because of the complexity of the program, WD would create, by April 30, 1979,
a Program Monitoring Unit, headed by a Program Coordinator (Schedule 2, Part
D(1) of the draft Loan Agreement).  The Unit would be responsible for coordi-
nation of projects being financed by all aid agencies involved in the program,
and would prepare an annual implementation plan and set up and operate a
monitoring system that would allow periodic comparison of actual performance
against targets, thereby enabling timely corrective action whenever required.
The annual implementation plan would be submitted to the Bank for approval by
April 1 of each year (Schedule 2, Part C(3) of the draft Loan Agreement).
51.       Preinvestment studies for all rural water supply schemes have already
been completed. Engineering studies would be prepared by WD with assistance



-15-
from consultants for the medium and large schemes. In the first stage of
engineering, a feasibility study would be prepared for each scheme, essential-
ly covering: a review of the economic potential of the area and any existing
water supply facilities; Ea marketing study to assess consumer's wishes and
ability to pay for services; a determination of service type and standard;
an identification of the least cost solution to meet future demand; and an
assessment of financial and economic implications of the proposed scheme.
52.       For small schemes of relatively straightforward design, simplified
feasibility studies would be submitted to the Bank for approval together with
detailed design, while for more complex schemes Bank approval of the feasi-
bility studies would be obtained prior to commencement of detailed design.
Withdrawal applications in respect of any water supply system would not be
submitted until the Bank had notified MWD of its approval of the feasibility
study and, if applicable, the detailed design for the relevant system (Sched-
ule 2, Part A(2) of the draft Loan Agreement). After obtaining Bank approval,
the next stage Qf engineering consisting of the detailed design for complex
schemes, or preparation of tender documents and construction for small
schemes would proceed. Detailed designs would be prepared in accordance with
WD's guidelines which contain instructions regarding consumption rate, water
quality, design period, and typical standard structures.  These guidelines are
acceptable to the Bank. These procedures are aimed at ensuring that RWS IV
avoids the problems encountered under the previous programs where schemes were
built on the basis of insufficient data on water resources and water demand,
and too little attention was paid to the desires of consumers.
53.       Medium and large schemes, which are located in highly populated
areas, would be constructed by contractors supervised by consulting engineers.
However, few contractors are likely to bid for small schemes located in
sparsely populated areas and some of these would therefore be built by depart-
mental force account (direct labor) specialized in this field; senior staff of
the Direct Labor Section of WD would supervise construction.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
54.       The total cost of the proposed Bank-financed project (which repre-
sents a portion of RWS IV) is estimated at about US$26.8 million, excluding
taxes and duties estimated at US$3.7 million. The foreign element of the
net cost is US$18.7 million (about 70%). The proposed Bank loan of US$20.0
million would cover 75% of the net project cost, representing 100% of the
foreign exchange costs and 16% (US$1.3 million) of local costs. Local cost
financing is justified inL view of the limitations on domestic resources in
Kenya (para 18). The rem[aining funds required to finance the project (US$6.8
million net of taxes) would be provided by the Government.
Procurement
55.       Construction contracts of US$300,000 or more, and contracts for
equipment and materials of US$100,000 or more would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Equip-
ment and materials supplied under contracts of less than US$100,000 and
construction contracts of- less than US$300,000 would be procured through local



- 16 -
competitive bidding procedures which are satisfactory; total expenditures
under such contracts would not exceed US$3.0 million over the life of the
project. Construction contracts and procurement of equipment and materials
would be grouped together whenever possible; construction contracts would
include the supply of all required materials and equipment for the scheme.
It is expected that most of the pipe would be manufactured locally, but that
equipment would have to be imported. For purposes of bid comparison, a
preference of 15%, or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower, would
be applied to bids from qualified local manufacturers. Civil works are
expected to be executed by local contractors, and participation of foreign
contractors would be minimal. For purposes of bid comparison, a preference of
7.5% would be applied to bids from qualified local civil works contractors.
For works executed by direct labor (para 53), only the necessary construction
equipment, materials and transport would be financed under the project.
56.       Engineering consultants wouldl be selected from among those registered
with WD; there are presently about 20 consultants being used by WD, all of
whom are acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for studies would be of the
lump-sum type as they would be relatively small, well-defined, short-term
assignments. Design and supervision contracts would be based on MWD's standard
Agreement for Design and Supervision. The management consultants have been
selected from among three firms on the basis of evaluation of proposals. The
selection and the contract were reviewed by the Bank. All consultants would
be employed on terms and conditions and in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). The
average cost of consultancy services is estimated to be US$8,000 per man month
for management consultants and US$4,500 per man month for engineering consult-
ants. In order to expedite project implementation, the management consultants
and three engineering consultants for the first schemes are expected to be
appointed prior to approval of the project. The cost of such contracts is
estimated at US$200,000 and retroactive financing of expenditures incurred
after July 1, 1978 is recommended.
Disbursement
57.       Disbursement of funds from the Bank loan would be on the following
basis: (a) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of pipe, equipment, tools, spare
parts, vehicles and training equipment if imported directly; 100% of local
expenditures ex-factory; or 87% of local expenditures ex-store; (b) 65% of
total cost of construction contracts; and (c) 75% of total cost of technical
assistance and consultants.
Audit
58.       MWD's accounts are audited annually by the Controller and Auditor
General of Kenya. A Senior Auditor, assisted by a staff of seven, is assigned
to MWD and three other ministries, and provincial auditors undertake audit of
all Government departments in the provinces. MWD's accounts would continue to
be subjected to an independent audit, and the report of the auditors would be
submitted to the Bank within six months from the end of each fiscal year
(Section 4.02 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
Rates of Return and Subsidies
59.       Although it is extremely difficult to quantify the benefits of
providing rural water supply, a village was chosen as a case study. The
results of this study indicated that rural water supply is well justified in
terms of rates of economic return. However, the financial rates of return on
schemes financed under the project, based on the proposed tariffs are much
lower. Ca:Lculations made for two model schemes indicate that the financial
rate of return for individ[ual schemes would range between 3% and -6% depending
on their type. The first model, which has a positive rate of return, is in-
expensive and technically simple (gravity) while the second is very expensive
(pumping and treatment). Due to the mixture of different types of schemes in
the project, the resulting overall rate of return is expected to be positive.
60.       The tariff proposal on which the financial assumptions are based re-
flects a number of concerns. The structure of tariffs involves a significant
cross subsidy to low potential areas, which we feel is justified on equity
grounds. If the present tariffs were to remain unchanged, the Government
would not have the resources available to adequately maintain existing systems
and could never afford to implement its goal of providing safe water to all
Kenyans by the year 2000. At the same time, tariff increases above those
recommended could seriousLy affect the willingness of rural inhabitants to
utilize the proposed water supply schemes: experience has shown that until
the significant benefits of rural water schemes are demonstrated in practice,
rural inhabitants are not prepared to pay the tariffs implied by full cost
recovery. The proposed tariffs, which represent a two to three-fold increase
over existing tariffs would permit recovery of the operation and maintenance
expenditures of all rural schemes as a group. The annual subsidy per capita
on the types of schemes financed under the project would range from KSh 24 to
KSh 68, depending on the characteristics of the schemes. While even this
subsidy cannot be afforded over the long run it is expected that it will
encourage and support the education of the rural population as to the benefits
of safe water supply, and represents the first step towards establishment of a
more viable long-run tariff structure.
Benefits and Risks
61.       RWS IV will provide safe and reliable water to about 1.1 million people
who are among the poorest segments of Kenya's rural population. Their average
per capita income is estimated to range from US$110 in high potential areas to
less than US$50 in low potential areas, compared to the national average of US$270.
62.       The benefits expected from additional water will vary from scheme
to scheme according to the existing situation with regard to water availabil-
ity and the economic potential of the area. The main potential benefits are
three-fold - the amenity or social benefits, the health benefits and the
production benefits including grade cattle breeding and garden watering. The
supply of convenient, reliable and safe water will result in considerable
relief from the daily drudgery of the traditional Kenyan woman and from
the hardship suffered by the population and livestock in the drier periods.



- 18 -
Production benefits will accrue only where there is a true potential for devel-
opment - dynamic agricultural extension agents, progressive farmers, avail-
ability of credit etc. If they do materialize, these benefits can help to
transform a population stagnating at subsistence levels into a group of rela-
tively affluent food producers. Health benefits would consist of reductions
in water-related diseases including diarrheal disease and cholera, and im-
proved general health conditions (calories saved, time released for better
cooking and child rearing practices etc.). MWD is expected to monitor closely
how the provision of safe water affects the beneficiaries. The expansion of
water systems would not have any detrimental effect on the environment, and
the feasibility studies for schemes to be constructed would also investigate
existing types of sanitation and propose improvements to achieve acceptable
sanitation standards.
63.       Most of the risks associated with this project are related to MWD's
ability to plan, construct and operate rural water schemes satisfactorily.
However, since 1977 MWD has taken a number of steps such as appointment of
management consultants, introduction of operation and maintenance standards,
upgrading of training programs, and initiation of the rehabilitation of
certain systems to improve performance. Measures included under the proposed
project with regard to implementation of financial control mechanisms, an
accelerated training program and other items in the program of management
consulting services, combined with the recruitment of additional trained staff
should substantially reduce these risks. MWD is considered to be the only
institution through which the sector can be soundly developed at present, and
the project deserves support because of the high priority given to the provi-
sion of safe water supplies in the rural areas of Kenya.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Kenya and the Bank,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
65.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions of effectiveness include appointment of the Program
Coordinator, a Cost and Management Accountant and a Training Officer, and
introduction of new tariffs (Sections 5.01 (a) and (b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend thait the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
November 17, 1978



ANNEX I
- 20 -
W4A - SOCIAL IRDICATORS DATA SHEET
ERRtrNCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
KUTA
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. TM.)                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            582.6                                                  SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGCHE
AGRICULTURAL      99.2                                MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /        RCCGION /c  GROUP Ld    GROUP /
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 100.0       160.0    270.0            223.6      182.9       432.3
ENERCY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(RILOGRAMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)     143.0       135.0    174.0             86.7       88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         8.3        11.2      14.4
U"AN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  7.3          9.9      13.0            13.6       15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                       14.0        19.0      25.0            18.4       46.8        42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     84.0       113.0    145.0             53.6      254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         46.0 /f.R  48.4       46.5            44.4       43.6        44.9
15-64 YRS.                         49.2 LJj  48.0        50.9            52.7       53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.8 Lfs    3.6        2.6             2.8        2.9          3.0
POPULATION GRONTS RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.0         3.1       3.5             2.6        2.4          2.7
URBAN                              5.8         6.5       6.1             5.8        4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH SATE (PER THOUSAND)     48.5        49.0      48.7           .46.9        44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     19.8        17.0      16.0            20.6        19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3.4       3.3             3.1         2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        30.9      48.4
USERS (PERGENT OP MARRIED  UMMEN)    ..        2.2        ..             2.5        14.6        14.2
FO0D AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)            101.0       100.0      83.2            94.2        96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIRINENTS)                  103.0        98.0      91.0            90.1        92.3        n.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          75.0        71.0      59.6            55.2        50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANDMAL AND PULSE       32.0        29.0      22.8             17.1       13.9        17.5
CR1LD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE                  1.9        ..               ..        ..          7.5
HeALTH
LIPE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.5        49.1      50.0            43.7        45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          159.0          ..    t29.0             138.4      102.7        82.5
ACCeSS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                         15.0      17.0             22.4       26.4        31.1
URBAN                                        100.0     100.0            66.3        63.5        68.5
RURAL                                .         2.0       4.0             10.4       14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        50.0      55.0             23.9       16.1        37.5
URBAN                                .        85.0      98.0             70.3       65.9        69.5
RURAL                                         45.0      43.0             14.2        3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         10840.OLLih  7810.OA   5800.0 /l.h    21757.5   13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     2290.0/f .h  1470.0jb  1300.0 L.4      3473.8    6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            830.01f     770.0    760.0 Li          645.4     1157.6       786.5
URBAN                               .           ..        ..            172.9      183.3       278.4
RURAL                                .          .          ..          1292.6    1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            .          ..        ..             19.2       19.5        19.2
ROUSINc
AVERAGE SIZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         4.7        ..              4.9        5.2
URJAN                                          4.7                        5.0        4.8
RIAIL                               ..         4.7        ..              4.7        5.3
AVERAGE NHUMBR o0 PERSONS PER ROM
TOTAL                                          ..            ..         ..
URBAN                              2.5/1                            .1.                          2.3
RURAL                               .            .         .
ACCESS TO ELCTRIICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                                .          ..         .               .-       25.9        28 3
URBAN                               .            .         .
RLURAL                                                                                          to. ... 87 1.;



- 21                                                   ANNEX I
RENA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERACES
hUlA                                                   Li
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
hOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME       INCOME
1960 A      1970 1b ESTIATE Lb       RECtOR tc  GROUP Ld    GROUP A
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 47.0        64.0     109.0             52.1       62.9        75.8
FFMALE               30.0        53.0      101.0            37.6        45.9        67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0 11      9.0      13.0             8.0        14.4        17.7
FEMALE                2.0         5.0       10.0             5.0        8.t         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 12.0 L        2.0       2.0              7.2        6.6         7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            42.0        34.0      33.0             43.2       38.5        34.3
SECONDARY                          15.0        21.0      24.0             22.8       19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          ..        30.0      40.0             20.3       36.7        63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          8.0         9.0      10.0              3.9        3.1         7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULkTION                          9.0        48.0      40.0             40.1       31.1        71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         1.5       3.0              2.2        2.8        14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  13.0        14.0       8.0              3.9        6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1.0           ..        ..              1.2        1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FDRCE (THOUSANDS)      3300.0      5100.0 A  6100.0                .          .            .
FENALE (PERCENT)                   34.8        33.6      33.3             32.6       24.2        28.0
AGRICULTIRE (PERCENT)              85.8        90.0 /L   64.0             73.3       60.7        54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 5.1          7.1        ..
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                41.2        40.6      39.2             42.0       39.8        37.8
MALE                                 54.5        53.8      52.3             54.8       53.3         50.3
JDIALE                               28.2        27.4      26.1             27.3       19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3         1.1       1.1              1.2        1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        20.2 1n     ..             25.7       20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEH(LDS    ..         52.6 1     ..             55.1       45.1        48.9
lOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOI.DS     ..         3.9 L      ..              5.8        5.7         5.9
ILOEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        11.7 /n    ..              14.5       16.8         15.7
POVERTY TXARET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     122.0            108.8       88.5        155.9
RURAL                                ..          ..      93.0             74.1       71.9        97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     144.0            124.4      100.8        143.7
RURAL                                ..          ..      78.0             59.6       42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..      25.0             26.8       46.0         22.9
RURAL                                ..          ..      80.0             47.6       48.0         36.7
Rot available
.Iot applicable.
DES
La    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the wat populated country In each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, betwen 1973 and 1977.
/c Africa South of Sahar;   /d  L   Income ($280 or less per capita. 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Incom
($281-550 per capita. 1976);  /f  1962;  La  Based on completa anueration of non-African population,
and on a 10 percent samplei of rural African population age 0-14, 15-59 1 60 years and over respectively;
th  Registered, not all ptacticing in the country;  Li  1972;  LI  Including teacher training at the
third level;  i'k  Labor force age 15-50 years;  /1  Labor force age 15-50;   /i staff estimate;
In urban only.
September, 1978



- 22 -                                                                  ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Nae:  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are popalartio--eighted geo-etric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the mot.t
populated cosntry is oooh grasp.  Coverage of countries among the imdioators depends on availability of data and is not umiform.  DSe to lock of data,
group averages for Capital Surplum Oil Euporterm and indicators of access to water and e-ureta disposal, housing, i-ome distributi-e cud poverty are
sloplo population-weighted geometric means without the eunlusion of extrene values.
LAND AREA (thiosand sq. ki)                                                            Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surfaeo  area comprising land area and inland wateru.                     urban, and rural) divided by their raspeotite nur bar of hospital beds
Agri-olt..ul - Mont revcet estimate of agrivultoral area used temporarily               available En public and private general and npee:aliied hospital aed re-
ar permanettly for coys, pastures, macrat and kitohen gardems or to                   babilitatiom  -entera.  Hospitals are establishments pernanently staffed by
lie falloc.                                                                           at least one physician.  Establishments providing prinoipally oustodial
usre are not included.  Rural hospitals, however, inulude health and medi-
CINP PER CAPITA _(US)   GNP per -apita estimates at morenu  market prices,               mel centere not permanently utEffad by a physioin (but by a medical as-
calculated by same couverston method as World Bamk Atlas (1975-77 baesi);             aistant, nurse, midwife, etu.) which offer is-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                            pruvide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or dischargeu
ENERGY CONSLMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual .  onsumption of conmercial energy                fra.  hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and ligoAte, petrolesm, natural gas and hydru-, nuclear and geo-
__rmal clectritity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                   hOUSING
Average  siz  of household (persons per ho-uehold) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                          A houseshld moneisra of a group of individuals who share  olling qearters
T.ala  poyolatie.v  mid-year (sillion.) - us of J.ly 1; if not available,               and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not bh  included in
average of coo oRd-year esrtnotes; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                         the household for statistical purponse.  Statistical definoitios  af house-
Urbam population (yerci nt of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                  hold vary.
tics; different definitions of arban areas may affect comparability                 Average number of persona per room - total, urban, and rural - Average nor-
of da-a aoongo ounrics.                                                               ber of persass per room Sn all, urban, and rural u-oapied conveotional
Populat on ders4l-                                                                      dwellings, respeotively.  Dwellings exclude mon-permanent str-utsres and
Per _s. i.- Mid-year poyplatium per square kilometer (100 heotareu)                    anoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                      Access ta electricity (percent of dwellingu) - total,  -rban, and r=r.l -
Per sq. i-c. agric-l rtre laud - Computed as above for agricultural land               Conventional dwellings with electricity in lvin.g qoarters as percentage
only.                                                                                 of total, urban, sad rurS1 dwellings respoctively.
Populatio ago structura (percemt) - Children (0-14 years), wirking-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-            BDUCATION
year population.                                                                   Adjusted enrollment ratios
Pocularion growth r.te (percent) - total, and urban - Compmund annual                 Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of  tars! and orban mid-year populati-os fur 1950-60,                    at the primary level as percantagee of respectivelO  primary scohol-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                 populations; normally inclades children aged 6-1  years hut adJsoted fur
Crude birtch rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                   different lengths of primary educ.tion; for c-outries with universal ads-
mid-year population; teo-year arithmeticn   verages esding in 1960 aod                cation enrmliment may exceed 100 perce-t since sine pupilu arv  below or
1970 and file-yea- avecrge eoding in 1975 for most recent estimate.                   ahave the official school age.
Crude death rare (per thousamd) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                  Secondary schoal - total, and female - Computed as above; s-ccndary educa-
year population; ten-y-ar arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                 tion requires at least feur yearn of appruved primary insrrction; pro-
a-d fioe-y-ar average e-ding in 1975 for  most rement estimate.                       videe general vocational, or t-eoher training i-s-rucrio.s for pupiim
Cross reproduction rare- Average nuamhr of daughters a womau will bear                  .ssally of 12 to 17 years of age; curreopondence courses ore generally
Sc her  Iormal -eproductive period if she noperiescus present age-                    excluded.
specific fertilito  rares; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,               Vocatienal enrollment (per-nt of uncondary) - Vocational inotitutiona in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                       dude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate indopendently
Family plunniog - a.ceptora, amnual (thousands) - Annual number of                      or as departmenta of  secondary institutiona.
acceptors of birth-control  devices under auspices of national family              Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and sesn.dary - Tatal  students enrolled in
planoing program.                                                                     primary and nemondary levels divided by numbers of teachers is tle corre-
Family planming - users (percent of married womeu) - Percentage of                      spaodinS le-ela.
sarried wones of child-bearing age (15-44 yearn) who use bireth-cotrol             Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all  .arried women in same age group.                                      a percentage of total adult population aged 15 ypars and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                   CONSUMPTION
Indes of food yrodscrtiun per capita (1979=100) - Index number of per                Passenger cara (par thous.ad populution) - Passenger ours co-priue motor -ars
capIta a-oal pr-duction of ail food conmodites.                                    seating less than eight peersns; encluden ambulances, hearses anm  rilitarp
Per capita supply of calories (perenrt of requirements) - Computed fra.               vehicles.
energy equivolent of net food supplies available in coontry per .apita             Radio receivers (per thossand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic produntion, imports lens             broadcasta to gemeral public per thousand of population; exnluden -licensed
eoports, and chaige- in stock.  Nat supplies esclude animal feed, seeds,             receivers in -ountries and in years when ragistration of radio sets was is
quantitins used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                effect; data for recent years nay not be  -omparable since moot ..ourvies
quiremeoss  tero ectimartd by FA0 based on physiological needs for nor-             abolished lice.ning.
mai activity sod health con.idering environmental temperature, body                TV receivers (per thusnand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to generai
weights, age and sec distributionn of population, atd allowing 10 per-                public per thbsnand population; emcludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cont for waste ut hussehold level.                                                    tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein uuntest of per                Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the overage cirnula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                  ties of "daily general interent newspaper", defined on a periodical publi-
ha-ve.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                cation devoted primarily to renording general mews.  It is considered to
a minim.um allowan,:n of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams               be "daily" if it appears at least four times a weak.
Of erima' acd pulse protein, of which 10 grums should be animal protein.           Cinema annual attendance per capits per year - Based on the number of tirkets
Th.vc standards arc lower thou those of 75 grams of total protein and                 sold during the year, including adnissions to drive-in cinem-s sod mobile
23 grams of aoimal protein as an average for the  -crOd, proposed by                  units.
FAO Is lie Ihird World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from ainial and pulse - Protein supply of food            EMiPLOYMENT
derived fron animals and pulses in gras per day.                                   Total labor fce (           d   - Econominally astive pers--o, including armed
Child (ages 1-(4) -rtality rate (per ths .. and) - Asnaldeaths per  h...-               facse   unemployed bun excluding housewives, st-:i_ots, arc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                            tions in vurioss cunatries are not  -omparuble.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage  f total lubor force.
HEALTHf                                                                                AWri-ultre (percent) - Labor forno in forming, forestry, bucting and fishing
Life expe-tancy  at birth (years) - Average anhber of years of life                     as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; .s.ully five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,               Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manafacurting aod
and 1975.                                                                             electricity, water and gas as percentage of treal labor fume.
.ofumo mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual d-aths of infants under                Particianien  re  (percent) -_total, me  and female - T-tal *male,nd
eYea  ofage Per thoussod live birhtn.                                               0mle -labor force as ye-eosafe u1   f their repc epopulations
Access to safe water (pernent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                Thete are 110's adjasted participatior rates  reflecting ave-try
Numher of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access  to                 structuse of the population. tod long time  -rend.
safe ctuer s-ppiy (-ncluden treated nurface waters or untreated bst LEcnoeo depeen cy ratio - Ratio of population coder 15 ard 6' and oven so
uncontaminated  water nuch as that fran protected boreholas, springs,                 the labor fume in age group of 11-64 aesru.
and sanitary wells) as percenrages of sheir respective popplations.
to on urban areaapuhlic fountain or standpoas  located net more                   INCOME DISTRIBUTION
chat 200 meters from a ho.sa may be considered as beIng within rea-                Perentage of private income (both in sash and kind  receSsed by richest 
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasorable a-ness would                 percent, richent 21 percont, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 pereent
imply that the hosse Eif  or menbers of the household do not have to                  of  ousneholds.
spend a disproportionate port of the day in fetching the family's
water nends.                                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to e-creta disposal (percent of population) - total.  urban, and              Estimated absolute povertv inceme level (1S5$ per c-pita) - urb-a and rural -
rural - Number of pe-pln (total, acbhn, and rural) nerved by excreta                    Absolute poverty income level fs that income lev-l below which a  nii:al
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  E-creta                     nutritionally adequate dint plus esaential -on-f-ud requirements is nmo
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                     affordable.
Iratmntos, of human excreta and waste-water by water-borne syutams                 E.timated relative povertv income level (iUS  per  -auitu) - urban asd raral -
0r the cue of pit privies and similar installations.                                  Relativ- poernty lume  level is that in_ome level less than o. o-htird
Popolarfom per physician - Papulation divided by number of praoticing                    per capita personal income of the country.
poysicisos qualified from a medical school at university level.                    Estimated ponsnion below povertyi... lv                 re    -  rbal
Population per noning person - Popslation divided by number ot                          Percent uf population (urban and rural)  ho are eiti- `ahoutban   pon r" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical uses, urd                        "relative pour" whichaver is grater.
assistans  n urses.                                                                                          e          e 
Eaonoic a-d Social Iota Division
Economic Analysis and Pro-j-tions Department



- 23 -
Annex I
KENYA
Econetc OD-.Loptp t  at.- Sh--t
Actual                 ft.llmlrsre1, Projete                                                           Average Aecial1 Ate of Groth   1976
1972      1975       1974      1975T      1976      1977       1979       1979      1990       1699        1990     196770M A1972-76 197l-AS 196S-90  qh-re
of GDP
A.  Natlon..l A-counta
(Millto USS at 1972 Polo..)
1.  GDP                            2022.6    2155.     2258.3    2272.7    2390.2    2510.5    2662.5    2824.9    2997.1    4052.7          5543.7       6.7      4.3     6.1      6.5    100.0
2.  Gain, from TT                      .       -94.6     -73.6    -105.0       -72.2     102.8       17.1       -8.1     -33.9    -112.6       -163.2        .       .        .        .       3.0
3.  GDY                            2022 6    2061.2    2184 6    2167.7    2318.0    2613.2    2679.9    2816.0    2963.2    3940.2           5330.8       6.9      3.5     6.1      6.4      97.0
4.  Inporrs                         605.2      587.1      665.8     508.4      520.5     668.6      758.0      781.2     826.3    1015.8       1216.3       8.3    -3.7      7.7     5.5      21.8
S.  Epoet.  - volume                 608.3     655.6     621 9      565.9      599.5     639.0      679.6     723.5      768.0    1031.8       1401.1      6.0      1.7     6.2      6.3      25.1
6.  ExP.ort  - TI djusted            560.3     560.8     548.2      460.9      527.2     741.7      696.6     715.4      734.4      919.0      1138.2      6.7    -1.3       6.4     6.1      22 1
7   Reecurta Gap - IT adjuat.d       44.9       26.3      117.6      47.5       -6.7     -73.1       61.3  .   65.5       91.8       96.9        78.1        .       .        .        .       0 3
8.  Total Coteumptiec               1620.8    1681.2    1736.5    1832.3    1895.9    1919.4    2123.8    2240.0    2384.5    3121.7           4234.4       6.7     4.0      5.7     6.3      79.2
9.  Inoe-t.ene                      446.8      406.1     409.8      400.4      417.3     620.8      617.4      642.3     670.9      915.3      1224.4      10.2    -1.7      9.1     6.0      17.5
10. NatIonal Suwiog.                379.2      292.9     379.8      267.6      353.9     632.0      501.5     516.6      514.9      721.0      1006.3     12.3    -1.7      8.2      6.9      14.8
11  Do-eatio SlainO.                401.8      380.0     448.1      535.4      424.1     694.1      556.1      576.8     579.0      818.4      1146.3       7.8     1.4      7.6     7.0      17.7
12. GOP at -urreet USS             2022.6    2362.6    2850.7    3155.5    3410.1    4028.2    4699.4    5339.7    6084.2   11539.7    22139.3             16.8    13.9    14.5    13.9
8.  Scoer  oJA
(Share of CDP at 1972 potl..)
1   TIdo,try                          21.3      21.9       21.8       21.9      23.8       23.3      23,.       24.0      24.2       25.3        27.2       7.8     5.5      7.0      8.0
2,  Agoiwult cre                      32.7      31.4       30.7       30.4      29.6       29.3      29.0       28.9       28.7      28.0        27.2       5.6      1.3     5.6      5.8
3   Servit-r                          46.0      46.6       47.6      47.7       47.6       47.2      47.2       47.2       47.1      46.6        45.6       7.5     4.7      6.0      6.0
C Pricer-
i   Fupoet Pri,  loSer              100.0      117.5     149.4      171.2      187.7     242.9      226.7     236.8      244.4      322.6       450.1        .     17.1      4.9      6.9
2   :0p.. Tol coU deo                100.0     120.6      173.0     203.1      196.1     209.3      221.1      239.5     255.6      362.1       509.3               19.4     7.4      7.1
3   Trr-  of Trodo                   100.0      97.4      86.4       84.3       95.7     116.1      102.5       98.9      95.6       89.1        88.4
"UP Deftor  LOS)                100.0      109.6     126.2      138.8      142.7     160.5      176.5     189.7      203.0      284.7       399.4        .      9.3      7.1      7.0
S.  4-er-Sr Eno       R.-ge Ott
(]SS/Kt)                          2.80       2.85      2.80       2.70      2.40
r.  Sercted 1n-at-oo             1965-70   1972-76   1976-85   1985-90
1.  IC-R                               3 0       4.5        3.6       3.5
2   Itoprt El-at-ito                   1.0      -0.8       1.1        0.8
3.  A-urge DO . i.  suingt Rote   19.0          18 5       20.9      21.1
4.  boerage S. tonal Cooi/nv  OtLt    18 6       16.1     19 .0      18.5
S.  Margotal bttional SavnooeP Oco  22.0        -95        22.9      20.3
6.  Gopotto/CIP                       29.0      2D.2       26.5      24.5
n-.,eatnroo r 'rTe               23.3       19.4      22.7       23.1
P   R-eror  Cup-DY                     3.7       2.3        2.4       2.0
40v. Axnsu I
Cr. Ra3te
E.  Foptoytioe                       1970      1975       1976    1970-76
1.  Liabo    o Poo -   1-1            ..   6,400.000       -
2   Wagr Eapln,-ont               644.500    819,100   857.200    4.9%
F   F,ublc irFinarce                                                                                                   htow.
Of  .Millonl                    969/70    1970/71    1971/72    i972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77
I   Oeconrtno 0oevrnoot                97.9      124.0       141.5      149.0       190.1       226.1      269.3       311.8
2   Re-urre It Cupcn.i'neo             69.4      110 4       120 7      139.6       163.7       207.2      245.4       295.0
3.  Rewurrov"  Surplon                +8 4       +13.5       +12.3       +9.4       +26.3       +18.9      +23.9       +16.8
4   Oonelopo.ent Protect
GA O0.t9t 4 Occer
Mlaoellaneon Receipts              0.4         0.4         0.4        0.6         0.6         0.4         _           _
S.  Poreegt Sorncs                      1.4        0.8         1.9        0.5         3.5         6.6         7.6       19.1
O   ISrp/-sl  Ailohln for
Pinaooieng O7evlopooent
ropodiltores                       I1.3       14.7        15.1        10.5       30.4        25.4       31.5        35.9
7   Deotlp-eno Eooendiltos             32.1       46.5        51.9        61.8       66.4        94.2       127.7      148.9
9   ONerall flef-it                   -21B       _3.L 7      -36L.      -51.3       -36.0       -608.      -96.2      _113W3
9.  F-n-aItKg of tlhe U-i-t:
l-teri.al Lt..-n                10.8        19          11.5       24.7        14.4        22.0       43.1        41.1
Long-tern Sorrotw/n4          13.6         8 1        15.6       21.3       1i.9         15.5       52.8        25.0
stot-t-o.    n--c              5 1        15 0         1.1        6.8        -2.9        12.'       7 2.3       20.6
Lescro                        0.05        0.03       0.02        0.02        -           0.04
drasoes t.i uSth b leoers
n.crea-e -7                   -7.8        -2.4        -8.5       .1,5        -5.6      -18.1       .32.2       -26.3
EAN. CFI-A
Febe-ry 1, 1978



- 24 -
lERYA                                                                          Annex I
Bsalance of PanroetianMd External Axeistancs
(M I lon U$U$)
1972         1973         1974         1975         1976          1977         1978         1979          1980          1985           1990
A.  lunay of Balance of Payment
1.  Etports (Itl. NFS)                         560.0        698.6       1005.5       1038.7        1147.5       1552.4       1540.6        1713.5       1877.2        3328.2         6306.4
2.  Inports (i-l. NFS)                         632.0        752.6       1237.3        1161,3       1149.4       1399.3       1676.0        1870.5       2112.1         3678.7        6704.4
3.  Re......  balInce                          -72.0        -54.0       -231.8       -122.6          -1.9        153.1       -135.4        -157.0       -234.8         -350.6        -398.0
4.  Net Fxctor S-rl-ce Income                  -34.1       -101.9       -101.1       -113.4        -113.8       -129.6       -124.1        -143.5       -165.5         -325.1        -630.3
4:1 Net Interest Pa-ment of  hilch;            -20.1       --21.9        -24.6        -25.9         -22.5        -37.6        -29.1         -39.0        .50.6         -140.0        -332.1
(Interest on Public M8 & LT Louns)    ( -14.5)    ( -16.3)    ( -18.2)    1 -19.6)    ( -22.5)    ( -33.0)    ( -41.3)    (  53.2)    ( -67.9)                   (-159.3)       (-362.2)
4.2 Direct Inne-rneot Income (Net)
4.3 Workers Remittance (Net)             )    -14.0         -80.0        -76.5         -87.5        -91.3        -92.0         -95.0       -104.5       -115.0         -185.1        -298.2
4.4 Other Factor Service InCOme (Net)
5.  Current Tracefern (Net)                     38.1         22.2         19.3          18.4         15.3    .    20.0          20.0         20.0         25.0           25.0          25.0
6.  baisr-e no C -rrent Account                -68.0       -133.7       -313.6       -217.6        -100.4         43.5       -239.5        -280.3       -235_4         -650.7       -20.3.2
7.  prIvate Direct Investment                   34.1         74.7        123.8          42.9         42.9         48.0          53.8         60.3         67.5          119.0         209.7
8.  Cpitral Grxnts                              39.5         39.4         69.9          39.4         40.0         60.0          64.2         68.7          73.5         103.1          144.6
PublIc M b LT Lans
9.  Ybah.rsenects-                              68.7         67.8         74.6          87.7        185.5        255.7         245.6        270.1        298.5          704.3         1560.2
10  Amnorelxst lor                             -10.4        -12.6        -13.8        -13.1         -19.7        -32.5        -42.8         -47.1        -69.9         -231.3        -813.3
Ii. Net Dishar.nentsL/                          58.3         55.2         60.8          74.6        165.8        223.2        202.8         223.0        228.6          473.0          746.9
Othr M    LT Lqj-ns
12. Disbutsemnnt ,                              10.5         18.6         22.7         24.8          14.5          9.0           5.9          1.6          0.8            0.0           0.0
13. A.2ortiotIun-                               -5.7         -5.5         -3.7         -4.0          -7.7         -8.9          -6.4         -6.3         -6.8           -6.7          -7.4
14. Net Disburseent       3/                     4.8         13.1         19.0          20.8          6.8          0.1          -0.5         -4.9         -6.0           -6.7          -7.4
15  Use of IMF Resources-                        O.0         -0.6         53.3          51.6         18.9        -35.0        -35.0           0.0          0.0            0.0           0.0
16  Short-term Capitsi Traesscrions              5.6         15.1         31.1          31.9         33.2         15.0          15.0         15.0         15.0           31.8          36.9
17. Capital Transov-i-os  n.e.i                -49.1        -31.8        -74.2        -27.7         -88.4                        -                   -             -                     -
18. Chdngs In ResLrno-   (- - increase)        -23.2        -31.4         29.7        -15.9        -118.8       -354.9        -60.8         -81.5         -3.2          -69.5        -127.5
8.  Grnts sd Lo-ns Con-itments
1.  Offlclal Grant_4V                           39.5         39.4         69.9          39.4         40.0
2.  Public M 6 LT Loans                         99.4        102.7        170.1         373.2        217.6
2.1  IBRD                                       29.0         34.0         10.4         193.5         31.0
2.2  IDA                                        28.0          ..          33.5          25.5         14.0
2.3  Other MNltilaters1                          ..           1.1          3.6           7.2         10.8
2.4  Gonnrnnents   .                            22.7         66.0        122.6          76.0         33.6
of which centrally
PlaInned economies                        -            0.3
2.5  SOppliern                                   2.3          -             _           47.5         65.8
2.6  Financial Ietitcti-ons                     17.3          1.6           _            8.4         56.6
2.7  Bonds                                       _             _            _            _
2.8  Public Loxos  no.1.                         _             _            _           15.0          5.8
3.  Other M & LI Lu.oas (where svailabl)-/  33.0             23.2          6.9        ' 3.6           7.1
C. Memorandum Items
1.  Grant Element of Total Coennitments         45.5         45.4         66.0          23.8         21.0
2.  Aver-9e Interest (Perceot)                   4.1          4.2          2.1           6.7          6.6
3.  A-erxge Maturity (years)                    29.2         28.6         36.4          24.6         18.1
1/ Includes ftnncing of projected balance of psynec.s deficit (1977-1990) by suppliers' credits.
3d Represects diehorn=enot and repayment of loans for fAC projects of which KyA's share is a notIonal 502.
J/ Net of "Dcarmn9" end "Repaym.ent by Purchse".
4/ Exciodes Technic-l A-siet-nce granca.
3' For 1972-76 repre-enes a notional 50% of loan  o-itatens for EAC poojeots.
6/ For 1972-76 represents only grant si.nent of loans.
EAlN, CPI-A
February 7, 19y8



- 25 -
KEZNYA                                   Annex I
Debt and Creditworthiness-
Actual
1972      1973       1974      1975       1976      1977
A.  Medium and Long-Term Debt (Disbursed Only)
(US$ Million)
1.  Total Debt outstandingj iDOD:  End of Period)i        441.6      514.5     602.8      656.8     807.9    1029.8
2.  Including Undisbursefl/                               674.3      787.9     958.7    1235.0    1401.0    1537.4
3.  Public Debt Service -                                  36.3       39.9      42.1       43.0      57.7       82.4
3.1 Interest                                               20.2       21.7      24.5       25.9      30.3       41.1
4.  Other M & LT Debt Service                               ..         ..
2/
B.  Debt Burden-
1.  Debt Service Ratio                                      6.5        5.7       4.2        4.1       5.0        5.3
2.  Debt Service/GDP                                        1.8        1.9       1.9        1.9       2.4        2.0
3.  Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                  8.9        8.3       7.2        6.4       8.3
C   Termsl/
1.  Interest on Total DOD/TotalDOD                          4.6        4.2       4.1        3.9       3.8        4.0
2.  Total Debt Service/Total DOD                            8.2        7.8       7.0        6.5       7.1        8.0
D.  Dependency Ratios for M & LT Debtf
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                12.5       11.5       7.9        9.7      17.4       18.9
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                       10.0        9.1       6.4        8.2      15.0       16.0
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                       79.7       79.0      82.0       84.8      86.3       84.4
1/
E.  Exposure-
l.  IBRD Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements           34.6      38.5       23.8      53.5       38.8       20.0
2.  Bank Group Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements  42.0         55.6       35.4       59.5      45.6       27.6
3.  IBRD'DOD/Total DOD                                     16.2      19.9       20.6      27.7       31.5       29.4
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD              2/               26.1      32.2       32.9       40.1      43.2       40.5
5.  IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service-                  14.6      19.3       21.6      27.2       38.2      29.4
6.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Servicei/           15.4      20.6       22.8      28.6       39.6       30.6
Outstanding Dec. 31, 1976
Amount          Percent
-,/                    ~~~~~~(US$ Million)
F.  External Debt (Disbursed only)(!
1.  IBRD                                                                169.5           25.6
2.  Bank Group                                                         264.1            39.9
3.  Other Multilateral                                                   10.3             1.6
4   Governments                                                         299.8           45.3
of which centrally planned economies                               0.2              -
5.  Suppliers                                                           35-9             5.4
6.  Financial Institutions                                              21.5              3.2
7.  Bonds                                                                18.4            2.8
8.  Public debt, n.e.i.                                                  11.8             1.8
9   Total Public M & U  Debt                                           661.7           100.0
10. other M & LT Debt-                                                 146.2            22.1
11. Total Public Debt (incl. Undisbursed)                             1237.1           187.0
12. Total M & LT Debt (incl. Undisbursed)                             1401.0           211.7
1/ Includes a notional 50% share of loans to the EAC.
2/ Includes a notional 50% share of debt service on loans to the EAC.
TI Excludes EAC.                                                                      EACPIA
February 7, 1978



- 26 -                                 ANNEX fI
THIE STATUS OF BANIC GROUP OPERATIONS IN KE!AYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of October 31, 1978
US$ Million
AT?unt (Less C  cellations)
breSirf     Year  Borrower   Purpose                             Bank-/  TW    IDA-   Undisbursed
Seven (7) Loans and twelve (12) Credits fully disbursed          96.0            74.1
224        1970  Kenya       Road Maintenance                                   12.6        1.8
826        1972  Kenya       Nairobi Airport                    29.0                        0.6
932       1973  Kenya        Highways                           29.0                        6.4
946       1973  IDB          DFC I                               5.0                       0.6
468        1974  Kenya       Population                                         12.0        1.9
477        1974  Kenya       Livestock                                          21.5       17.9
993       1974  Kenya        Tea Factories                      10.4                        5.1
1093        1975  Kenya       Group Farm Credit                   7.5                        7.5
537       1975  Kenya        Group Farm Credit                                   7.5        4.7
1105        1975  Kenya       Site and Service                    8.0                        8.0
543        1975  Kenya       Site and Service                                    8.0        1.8
565        1975  Kenya       Agriculture - Forestry                             10.0        3.9
1132        1975  Kenya       Agriculture - Forestry             10.0                        6.2 2/
1133       1975  Kenya        Transportation - Pipeline          20.0                        0.3
1147       1975  TRDC         Hydroelectric Development          59.5                       14.3
1148        1975  IDB         DFC II                             10.0                        2.9
1167       1975  Kenya        Mombasa & Coastal Water Supply  35.0                          21.9
1184       1975  Kenya        Education III                      10.0                        9.0
650        1976  Kenya       Integrated Agri. Development                       10.0        8.9
1303-T      1976  Kenya       Integrated Agri. Development                10.0              10.0
1304-T      1976  Kenya       Wildlife and Tourism                        17.0              16.5
651        1976  Kenya       Rural Access Roads                                  4.0        4.0
1305        1976  Kenya       Rural Access Roads                  4.0                        4.0
1389        1977  Kenya       South Nyanza Sugar                 25.0                       23.0
692        1977  Kenya       Agricultural Credit III                            20.0       15.6
1390-T      1977  Kenya       Agricultural Credit III                      5.0               5.0
1438       1977  IDB          DFC III                            20.0                       20.0
722        1977  Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement                          6.0        5.5
1449        1977  Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement         34.0                       34.0
750       1977  Kenya        Small Scale Industry                               10.0       10.0
1520 3/    1978  NCC          Second Nairobi Water Supply        30.0                       30.0
791       1978  Kenya        Second Urban                                       25.0       25.0
1550        1978  Kenya       Second Urban                       25.0                       25.0
797       1978  Kenya        Education IV                                       23.0       23.0
Total                             467.4    32.0 243.7       374.3
of which has been repaid          17.4       -    0.9
Total now outstanding             450.0    32.0 242.6
Amount sold                 11.8
of which has been repaid  8.6   3.2
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA 1/            446.8    32.0 242.6
TOTAL undisbursed                            218.8    31.5 124.0        374.3
I/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/ Includes US$3.9 millionr undisbursed grant participation.
3/ Not yet effective.
Note: This table does not include the Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Project for which a
loan of US$9.0 million was approved on October 31, 1978 since this loan has not yet
been signed,



- 27 -
ANNEX II
B.  Summary Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Guaranteed
by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of October 31, 1978
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.  Year  Borrower  Purpose                   Bank 1/    Undisbursed
------US$ million
Five loans fully disbursed                          93.4
638-EA   1969   EAHC      Harbours                 35.0           1.2
674-EA   1970   EARC      Railways                 42.4          3.1
865-EA   1972   EAHC      Harbours                 26.5           1.1
914-EA   1972   EAPTC    Telecommunications        32.5           5.6
1204-EA   1976   EADB      Development Finance    15.0            8.3
Total                                         244.8           19.3
of which has been repaid                     46.2
Total now outstanding                          198.6
Amount sold                       24.4
of which has been repaid    24.4            0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/                      198.6
Total undisbursed                               19.3          19.3
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
C. Projects in Execution 1/
(As of October 31, 1978)
There are currently 26 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Loan No. 993-KE - Tea Factories: US$10.4 million Loan of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: September 23, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Although international tea prices have dropped from the extra-
ordinarily high figures in 1976/77, growers continue to show considerable
interest in tea as a cash crop. The response to the fertilizer credit scheme
financed by the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC - the cofinancing
partner) for 1978/79 is slightly better than for the 1976/77 season. Yields
continue to rise, and from 1979/80 onwards the appraisal projections are
likely to be exceeded. The project factory building program is behind schedule
and, due to cost escalations, funds will only enable 12 factories to be built
instead of 17 as originally envisaged. The OPEC Special Fund is considering
financing 3 factories under the project, and other sources of funds to finance
construction of the remaining 2 factories under the project are being explored.
However CDC has advanced financing for their Fourth Plan, and by December 1979
a total of 15 factories- (12 under the project and 3 others) will be operative.
The standard of Kenya Tea Development Authority's management continues to be
high, and although the Marketing Department problems are not yet resolved they
are under control. Disbursements are behind schedule due to the delayed
factory building program.
Credit No. 477-KE - Livestock: US$21.5 million Credit of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation has been slow and there have been problems
in organization, cost overruns and pricing. An in-depth review of the project
was undertaken in March 1976; the review mission's report was presented to the
Government in September 1976 and a series of discussions have been held since
that date. The project had been adversely affected by the Government's
failure to raise certain cattle and beef prices to adequate incentive levels
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them.  They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
but a new and satisfactory livestock price structure was adopted in early
1978, removing the most serious constraint to ranch development and viability.
Some progress has been made in organization of the pastoralists in the range
development components, and Government services in ranch water development
planning and in the company ranch sector have been improved. However, prob-
lems continue in that (a) the poor financial situation of many Phase I and
Phase II company ranches continues (although currently under review and
replanning); (b) an effective extension service in the Masai group ranch
areas, which is essential if the project's objectives are to be achieved, is
still not developed adequately; (c) currently high prices have to be paid for
immature steers (which are necessary to enable generation of cash flow) due
to a temporary situation of high demand coupled with an unwillingness by
pastoralists to sell due to good pasture conditions. The project will con-
tinue to be kept under close review.
Credit No. 537-KE/Loan No. 1093-KE - Group Farm Rehabilitation Project:
US$7.5 million Credil- and US$7.5 million Loan of March 26, 1975;
Effective Date: Sept-ember 30, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Cooperation between the various Government ministries and agencies
concerned with the project has improved. However, farm recruitment overall
continues to lag because of legal and social problems; only 16 mixed farms
and 9 coffee farms have been recruited so far compared with appraisal targets
for the third year of Implementation of 65 mixed farms and 18 coffee farms.
Costs of rehabilitating coffee farms have increased substantially. A study
prepared by consultants on the large farm sector is presently being reviewed
by the Government, and may lead to policy changes which could necessitate an
in-depth review of the objectives of the project.
Loan No. 1132-YE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation
Project: US$10.0 million Credit and US$10.0 million Loan of June 27,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The planting program is progressing fairly satisfactorily, but the
cumulative total to date is 18% below target, due to unfavorable weather con-
ditions in 1975 and 1976, shortage of equipment and, in some cases, of labor
(both now remedied).  The building and road construction programs are both
considerably behind schedlule. However, all the backlogs should be made good
during the last 3 years of the project. Progress has been very slow in
implementing most of the covenants of the Credit Agreement, particularly
regarding the program to improve efficiency and production of the sawmilling
sector, the national landl use study, and the gazetting of nature reserves
and new forest reserves. Although action has now been taken to increase
stumpage rates for sawlogs, this action was taken without prior consultation
with the Bank Group. Problems have also arisen with regard to procurement
of vehicles and staffing. Accordingly, the project is being kept under very
close review.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1303T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural
Development Project: US$10.0 million Loan and US$10.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: March 15, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
During the first year of implementation, the focus of the project
changed towards assisting large numbers of subsistence farmers rather than
progressive smallholder farmers. This change has led to a number of diffi-
culties, but the project objective of improving the productivity and incomes
of smallholder farmers continues to be met. The rates of credit recovery and
loanee reparticipation thus far have been disappointing. Active efforts are
now being made to expand and implement the infrastructure components, in-
cluding improvement of input supplies and marketing systems.  Some adjustment
to the administrative framework is required, and discussions on this subject
are ongoing. The Annual Work Plan for FY79 is now under review.
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: US$25.0 million
Loan of April 15, 1977; Effective Date: November 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Agricultural implementation proceeds satisfactorily with only minor
problems. Cane yields are higher than anticipated, probably because of excel-
lent and well-distributed rainfall during 1977 and the first half of 1978.
Building works were delayed due to shortage of cement, but the position has
improved and the factory should be completed on schedule in October 1979.
Recruitment of staff is underway, and training and research programs are under
preparation. A recent Government decision not to increase sugar prices in
1978 was reviewed with the Bank, and agreement was reached that the current
price levels were adequate to provide the necessary incentives to growers.
Credit No. 692-KE/Loan No. 1390T-KE - Third Agricultural Credit
Project: US$20.0 million Credit and US$5.0 million Loan of April 15,
1977; Effective Date: September 14, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The progress of the Agricultural Finance Corporation's (AFC) lending
program has accelerated, and both the small scale and medium scale lending
lines are expected to catch up with appraisal forecasts.  IDA disbursements
for medium scale loans have now started since AFC has recruited a Credit Spe-
cialist, a precondition for commencement of disbursements under this project
component. Loan recovery from Phase I and II projects is satisfactory and
steps are being taken to improve control of utilization of disbursed loans.
The impact of AFC's loans is seen in the diversification of progressive farms
into dairy, pigs, sugar and other new and expanding enterprises.
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement
Project: US$34.0 million Loan and US$6.0 million Credit of June 22,
1977; Effective Date: June 27, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been delayed, predominantly because of
late appointment of consultants. As a result of these delays. some components
are as much as a year behind schedule. Revised cost estimates indicate that
the project is likely to encounter serious cost overruns.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: US$10.0 million Loan
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30 1982
Physical implementation is about two years behind the appraisal
schedule, basically due to delays by the various Committees in approving
sketch designs for the 17 primary teacher colleges. The Covernment's
reluctance to finance technical assistance specialists from the loan
proceeds may further delay project implementation. The sessional paper
on the report of the National Committee on Educational Objectives and
Priorities which was tabled in Parliament in May 1978 is expected to
be discussed in a full Cabinet meeting in the near future. No major changes
in the document are expected. The delays in approving sketch designs are
expected to be overcome and the dialogue with the Government regarding the
hirinp of required specialists is continuing.
Credit No. 797-KE - Fourth Education: US$23.0 millibn Credit of June 7,
1978; Effective Date: August 25, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Credit became effective on August 25, 1978. The Project Unit
Staff are benefitting from experience gained in implementing the Third Educa-
tion Project. Consultant architects have been appointed for the Faculty of
Agriculture and the thirteen Nomadic Primary Schools. Implementation of
technical assistance for the Faculty of Agriculture and the Kenya Institute
of Administration has started.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply; US$35.0 million
Loan of October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1980
Physical execution of the major parts of the project is about nine
months behind schedule, while completion of some of the smaller components
may be as much as 15 moniths late. Delays were due mainly to weak project
administration by the Ministry of Water Development, particularly in the
early stages. Progress has now improved to an acceptable pace although lost
time is unlikely to be recovered. Disbursements have recently improved to
about 80% of the appraisal forecasts. There is an estimated cost overrun
of about 10% (expressed in US dollars) to be covered from Government re-
sources. Institution building is proceeding slowly due to difficulties in
recruiting staff. Steps are underway to audit the accounts of the Coast
Province Water Branch for the first time. Tariff measures taken by the
Government have been satisfactory.



- A2 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply; US$30.0 million
Loan of March 27, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This loan is not yet effective. Good progress is being made on
detailed design and the preparation of tender documents. The first tenders
for supply of equipment were received in June 1978, and tenders for the
first civil works contracts to be financed from the loan are expected to
be invited in November 1978.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 224-KE - Road Maintenance: US$12.6 million Credit of
December 28, 1970; Effective Date: March 18, 1971; Closing
Date: December 30, 1978
The project, about a year and a half behind schedule, is now sub-
stantially completed, with final completion expected by December 1978. The
delay was primarily caused by a slow start in construction of the regional
workshops and camps due to unforeseen difficulties in the acquisition of
sites and procurement of steel. The revised cost estimate of US$16.0 million
is about US$2.1 million below the appraisal estimate because of savings on
staffing costs and equipment and spare parts. There will be a US$1.8 million
savings from the credit funds. This remaining balance will be used for pur-
chase of additional workshop equipment and tools in order to achieve the
project's objectives. A further postponement of the Closing Date to
December 30, 1979 is likely to be required to allow sufficient time for
completion of procurement.
Loan No. 826-KE - Nairobi Airport: US$29.0 million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Construction of the new Nairobi Airport was essentially completed
in December 1977, and it has been open to traffic since March 14, 1978. The
loan is almost 98% disbursed. The airport is performing up to expectations.
The remaining principal problem areas are in hiring and training sufficient
staff for operation and maintenance, both of which are constrained by non-
competitive salary scales and a Kenya-wide shortage of skilled personnel. The
Closing Date is likely to be postponed to December 31, 1979 to allow time for
completion of disbursements against expenditures incurred in connection with
the training program. The project completion report is under preparation.
Loan No. 932-KE - Highways: US$29.0 million loan of September 6, 1973;
Effective Date: November 9, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Implementation started two years behind schedule due to changes in
design standards by the Ministry of Works and financial constraints. In view
of heavy cost overruns, tenders for the construction of two roads were delayed.
Agreement has now been reached to delete the Thuchi-Nbuku (51 km) road from
the project. The Closing Date, which was postponed from December 31, 1977 to
December 31, 1979, is likely to be postponed further to allow time for comple-
ticn ef prcject *-rks, All wnrk ir now ln nrogress except for construction
of the Kisii-Mogonga road. Bidding documents for this road are being prepared
by consultants and should be completed by December 1978.



- 33 -
ANNEX II-
Loan No. 1133-KE - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project:
US$20.0 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date: December 31,
1975; Closing Date: February 1, 1979
Construction was completed in October 1977 and commercial operations
commenced in January 1978 as originally planned. The oil industry, the
Railways and the Kenya Pipeline Company (KPC) have agreed to install central
railroad loading facilities at KPC's Nairobi terminal. Financing of the
US$1.54 million cost is being arranged. KPC has updated the project cost and
financial forecast. The f'inal project cost overrun is only US$9.5 million
or 11%.  The increase is primarily due to escalation in construction costs.
KPC's long-term financial prospects are quite satisfactory although there
could be cash flow problems in the initial few years of operation because of
the preponderance of short: and medium-term loans in the financing package.
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Project:
US$4.0 million Loan and US$4.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Although the Loan/Credit became effective in October 1976, no funds
have yet been disbursed. The project is slightly more than a year behind
schedule, though costs are not expected to increase. Economic evaluations
for the eight districts in which Bank-financed units would be set up have
been reviewed and approved by the Bank; five construction units are now
operating, and start up of the remaining three units is expected by December
1978. Through June 1978, 141 km of access roads had been constructed. Labor
intensive construction methods are being successfully applied and output and
costs are in line with appraisal targets.
POPULATION SECTOR
Credit No. 468-KE - Population: US$12.0 million Credit of April 1,
1974; Effective Date: July 31, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The four-year population project forms an integral part of Kenya's
Five-Year MCH/FP program, FY1975-79. All of the IDA-financed components
of-the project are proceeding satisfactorily. All construction work has
been contracted and 95% of the facilities completed. Supply of vehicles
and furniture and equipment has been contracted and delivery has commenced.
The Nursing Activities study has been completed and the Study of Fertility
Determinants is underway.  The program components financed by other donors
and the Government are also moving ahead and are expected to be completed on
schedule, although program management needs to be strengthened and the quality
of services improved. A postponement of the Closing Date to June 30, 1979 has
been approved to permit completion of construction and procurement.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1147-KE - Gitaru Hydroelectric Project:  US$59.5 million Loan-/
of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: January 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Construction of the project was completed satisfactorily in June
1978 on schedule and within estimated cost. On the basis of contracts
awarded for civil works and electrical and mechanical equipment, present esti-
mates show that the project cost in Kenya shillings is likely to be about 1%
lower than the appraisal estimate. Due to the devaluation of Kenyan currency
in October 1975, however, the project cost saving expressed in US dollar
equivalent will be about 15% of the appraisal estimate. This will result in a
saving in the Bank loan of about US$4.0 million, in spite of the increase made
on June 15, 1977 in the percentage of civil works expenditures to be financed
under the Bank loan from 60% to 80%. At the request of the Borrower, US$3.5
million of the loan has been cancelled. Consultants' studies on possible
alternatives for future development and a long-term power development plan
are being reviewed by the Government and the Bank.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 946-KE - Industrial Development Bank Project: US$5.0 million
Loan of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 26, 1974; Closing
Date: March 31, 1979
The first Bank loan of US$5.0 million to IDB, which became effective
on March 26, 1974 was fully committed in March 1978, two years behind schedule.
This delay is due to the cancellation prior to disbursement of a number of
projects previously approved. As at October 31, 1978, US$4.4 million of this
loan had been disbursed. The Closing Date has been postponed by one year to
March 31, 1979.
Loan No. 1148-KE - Second Industrial Development Bank Project:
US$10.0 million Loan of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 9,
1975; Closing Date: July 1, 1979
The second Bank loan of US$10.0 million became effective on October 9,
1975. The loan was fully committed in August 1978 and US$7.1 million had been
disbursed as at October 31, 1978.
Loan No. 1438-KE - Third Industrial Development Bank Project: US$20.0
million Loan of June 22, 1977; Effective Date: November 10, 1977;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
This loan was declared effective on November 19, 1977. Two sub-projects
have been approved. As at October 31, 1978, US$5.7 million had been committed.
1/ Net of cancellation; US$3.5 million of the original US$63.0 million Loan was
cancelled on October 19, 1978.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of November 28, 1977; Effective Date: June 26, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This loan was declared effective on June 26, 1978. Measures to
increase Kenya Industrial Estates' (KIE) capital have been finalized. Several
key project staff have been recruited, and efforts are underway to fill the
remaining positions. KIE's guidelines for appraisal of sub-projects are now
being reviewed.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 543-KE/Loan No. 1105-KE - Sites and Services Project:
US$8.0 million Credit and US$8.0 million Loan of May 6, 1975; Fffective
Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Infrastructure has been completed for the first 1,000 plots and most
beneficiaries have constructed satisfactory houses. Infrastructure for an
additional 2,700 plots is under construction with tendering underway for
construction of infrastructure for the remaining 2,300 plots. Off-site
infrastructure is nearly completed. Community facilities provision is behind
schedule. One primary school is nearing completion. The remaining five
schools are to be tendered within the next six months. One health center is
under construction, however, the Bank does not plan to disburse against its
costs as its design was too expensive and was not approved by the Bank. The
design of the other health center should be submitted for approval soon.
Technical assistance components are completed or scheduled for completion in
conjunction with the project. Project costs remain close to appraisal esti-
mates although minor cost overruns are foreseen for the remaining components
of the project.
Credit No. 791-KE/Lcan No. 1550-KE - Second Urban Project: US$25.0
million Credit and US$25.0 million Loan of May 5, 1978; Effective Date:
October 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This Credit andl this Loan became effective on October 3, 1978.
Nairobi's Housing Development Department is organized and staffed; Mombasa
and Kisumu are recruiting staff for their Housing Development Departments.
At least one site in each municipality has been acquired, and work can begin
immediately. No major land acquisition problems are foreseen for any of the
other sites although minor problems exist in acquiring one site in Mombasa.
Consultants for detailed design and engineering for some of the sites have
been appointed, with the appointment of others in process. Substantial
progress has been made on all 13 technical assistance components of the
project.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM SECTOR
Loan No. 1304-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: US$17.0 million Loan
of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Preparation for project implementation has been considerably slower
than expected, due largely to delays in recruitment of personnel for the
Project Management Unit (PMU) and the Wildlife Planning Unit (WPU). Project
implementation should now accelerate as officers have recently been appointed
for the PMU. CIDA has expressed an interest in funding WPU posts, and sec-
onded the acting head of the unit for about six months. Preparations for
the Tourism Pricing Study and the Very Large Herbivores Study are proceeding
satisfactorily. A supplementary letter giving more detailed proposals for
anti-poaching operations to be financed by the Loan has been negotiated
and signed, and disbursements on this component can now begin. The Govern-
ment has largely complied with the terms of the supplementary letter but some
details remain to be finalized.
East African Community
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. _/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million Loan
of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness; December 15, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million Loan of
December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: April 16, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school building
and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths and
a ligherage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities and a
1/   Since October 1, 1977,the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this annex. The Closing Dates for Loans 638-EA,
674-EA and 865-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated
to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified under
the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978, as proposed
in the above report (R77-312), we are continuing disburseuleiLLb.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in Tanga.
Construction of all major project elements has been completed. Of the
minor project elements, only two are still under construction, namely the
improvement of lighterage facilities in Tanga and reconstruction of sheds
im Mombasa. Both are expected to be completed before mid-1978. Because of
shortage of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements
have not been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; and moderniza-
tion of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally
financed contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the
exception of the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General
cargo throughput has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam,
and cargo handling productivity has improved with increasing throughput;
however, port labor productivity has stagnateu in Mombasa where general
cargo throughput has declined considerably. The ports of Kenya and Tanzania
are now functioning completely independently of each other. Legislation to
establish a Tanzania Harbours Authority has been enacted, and a Kenya Port
Authority is expected to be established soon. Management of ports in both
countries is competent. Some US$33.8 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.4 mil-
lion of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
undisbursed funds at Octobetr 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given
below:
For Loarn No. 638-EA             (US$ million)
Kenya                            0.7
Tanzania                         0.6
Total                        1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                          1.7
Tanzania                       0.3
Total                      2.0
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: US$42.4 million Loan
of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30, 1970;
Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution of
the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a realLocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to be
used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material. All
three countries have now ienacted legislation to establish their own Railways
Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977
among the various countries concerned is given beiow:



- 38 -
ANNEX II
(US$ Million)
Kenya               2.0
Tanzania            3.8
Uganda              1.9
Total               7.7
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project:  US$32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness - September 19, 1973;
Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All major works other than microwave system construction have
now been completed, despite initial delays caused by staffing and other
problems associated with the reallocation of the headquarters. Funds dis-
bursed to date total US$26.9 million and the balance has been committed for
cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and multiplex telex and tele-
graph equipment. Because of the long lead time required for the microwave
equipment, the project is expected to be fully completed by mid-1979. The
agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1977 among the countries
concerned is given below:
(US$ Million)
Kenya                2.4
Tanzania             3.5
Uganda               0.1
Total                6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7, 1976;
Closing Date - March 31, 1979
Over the last year, the environment within the Community has had a
negative impact on EADB operations.  Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, and there has been some deterioration in
the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio rising to 50%
as of June 30, 1977. However, EADB has been able to retain nearly all its
staff who are both adequate in number and technically competent to continue
the operation of the institution and effect some recovery in the portfolio.
Some US$6.7 million has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance
amounts to US$3.0 million.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN KENYA AS AT
October 31, 1978
Fiscal Year        Obligor               Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968
and 1973       Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels                5.2      0.7     5.9
1970, 1974
and 1977       Pan African Paper Mills  Pulp and Paper    13.1         6.3    19.4
1972           Tourism Promotion
Services                 Hotels              2.4        -     2.4
1976           Rift Valley Textiles
Ltd.                     Textiles            6.3      2.8     9.1
1977           Kenya Comnercial Bank
Ltd.                     Capital Market      2.0       -      2.0
Total Gross Commitments                   29.0      9.8    38.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                     8.6      1.8    10.4
Total Commitments now held by IFC         20.4      8.0    28.4
Total Undisbursed                          2.2       -      2.2



- 40 -
ANNEX III
KENYA - RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:            Seventeen months
(b)  Preparation by:                   Ministry of Water Development and
Consultants
(c)  Initial Discussion with Bank:   July 1975
(d)  First Bank Mission:               November 1975
(e)  Appraisal  Mission departure:   April 1977
(f)  Postappraisal Mission:            June 1978
(g)  Negotiations:                     October 1978
(h)  Planned date of Effectiveness:  April 1979
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions
(1) Detailed annual program of administrative and organizational improve-
ments in MWD would be submitted for Bank approval by April 1 of each
year (para 36).
(2) A Program Coordinator would be appointed to head the Program Moni-
toring Unit (para 37 - condition of effectiveness).
(3) A Cost and Management Accountant and a Training Officer would be
appointed at MWD headquarters (para 37 - condition of effectiveness).
(4) Qualified accountants would be posted at all provincial offices of
MWD by April 30, 1979 (para 37).
(5) MWD would be provided with sufficient funds to meet operation and
maintenance standards (para 38).
(6) During project implementation, MWD would be provided with the
financial resources and personnel required to carry out any new
development program outside the RWS IV program (para 38).
(7) MWD would introduce two-block tariffs acceptable to the Bank, and
periodically revise the tariffs to permit recovery of at least the
operation and maintenance expenditures (excluding depreciation) on
all rural water supply schemes as a group (para 39).
(8) Detailed annual project implementation program would be submitted
for Bank approval by April 1 of each year (para 50).



- 41 -
ANNEX III
(9)  For complex schemes, feasibility studies would be submitted
for Bank approva:L prior to commencement of detailed design and
construction; for small schemes of straightforward design,
feasibility studies and design would be prepared in a single
stage and submitted for Bank approval prior to commencement of
construction. Withdrawal applications in respect of any water
supply system would not be submitted until the Bank had notified
MWD of its approval of the feasibility study and, if applicable,
the detailed design for the relevant system (para 52).






SUDAN                                 IKtA
.;                        RURAL WATEIX SPL 0JYPROJECT
swin Sme
,OYT'AUNG                    / i                                                     .
5                                                          DUKAA N_ 'IAI       g "; \'t                         ;-          /<                        -     B
KA= UMA          NAMADAKi                                                                      N E O T -  A'
(           A                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GtDOMA% t
'odwaro                                                                          B,         TAKABA ,
.= 1 .; l i>?    Lodwar a           * '          KALACHA                                                                          -.AMASAO
KfR10 V/LLAGEWN< ',
!,   - - 249') . - - 3rA   QKARCHEffi   (          \ l                                                            KHOROf OARAR * P; = E T ta S RHA'
i - ~~~~~~~~L OKORI          
ri   0__=   X   +v;                k                  !                   t               <        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HANDAKI > ;5  
:5: = : :r -:  X   MCHEPARPRIA>%                                                                                                  >               >      ,
,J3==3= 0                                               W CHERANOANI  VVAMBA 0
Eidpret                        NG& OLONFO 
*-KV       ..                                                         -.  eu3it,TeA/ {WR
,                           J<1 a 11 KARWU  KAPYONG
9`?  fK H==                DPJDolraf\ 
oo                                                                        M F0 T            I tal
U~~~~~~~~~BR NAR ULY l'- 0aacSCNNA                                                                                                       A
erichoAN]                                                                            :0 aV  r                   F *j
K/ROOf   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~rvk                        o'Vl QGAariAuJ,a
-fl                  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
P.     THANG3A                             DKB
BATH, -                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HULUGHO@0
'K'         \        NAl~~~~~Bh3       IXt.    *~~~~MATINYANI III
FuK RON
I      -j
7L/Mad;NALJKO                                 /                              KENYA TT'A
2J  W     >       ~~~~Lak, AmOb-/I1\ 
0   ~UESlflflIiUpl~yflglA~o'N                                  t'                                                      INDIAN OCEAN
rnv&a        -                                                                                            Malindi         rC
PROYtMa&Mjnu~~~~~~~~~~j$               l~~~~.      U            B~~~AMBA -V/TENCEN/@VI   
-   -   - ~~~~~~A0~~~AL  9 m 5  2                            N~~T~~ UUB/GUO BUGUTA 0     A///                              ARIy
-              -"N           K~~~~~~~ID/AGO//J- 
XC11/CUWT- VIGURUNGANt                                             -      /
NW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EY
' ~   n.7_   a//ear,4&  -
eaehWu   kaufby .                           omas



