Report No. 1687-KE
Kenya                                                                           FILE COPY
Rural Water Supply Project
Appraisal Report
October 31, 1978
Energy and Water Supply Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KENYA
APPRAISAL OF THE RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Currency Equivalents
The official unit of currency in Kenya is the Kenya Shilling. However, in
accordance with the practice of the Kenya Government, budgetary values used
in this report are expressed in Kenya Pounds.
Currency Unit             =  Kenya Shilling (KSh)
Kenya Cents 100           =  KSh 1
Kenya Pound (KE)          =  KSh 20
KSh                       =  US$0.125
K3  i                     =  US$2.50
US$1                      =  KSh 8.00
US$1                      =  KI 0.40
Measurements Equivalents and Abbreviations
I meter (m)               =  39.4 inches = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      2  =  0.62 mile
I square kilometsr (km ) =  0.386 square mile
1 cubic meter (m)         =  35.3 cubic feet (cu. ft.)
1 liter                   =  0.26 US gallon
I cu4ic meter per day
(m /day)               =  35.3 cubic feet per day
lcd                       =  liters per capita per day
Other Abbreviations and Acronyms
C&L                       -  Coopers and Lybrand Associates Limited
CWP                       =  Communal Water Point
CPWB                      =  Coastal Province Water Branch
DDC                       =  District Development Committee
Government                =  Government of Kenya
MF                        =  Ministry of Finance
MLG                       =  Ministry of Local Government
MWD                       =  Ministry of Water Development
O&M                       =  Operation and Maintenance
RWS                       =  Rural Water Supply Program
SIDA                      =  Swedish International Development Authority
WD                        = Water Department
WHO                       =  World Health Organization
Government of Kenya Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
APPRAISAL OF THE RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS   .....                   ..................           i-ii
I.     INTRODUCTION  ...........................................                             I
II.    THE  ECONOMY  .....................                  .... .....   .......  .            2
III.  THE WATER SECTOR .                     .........................                          3-
Geography  and  Climate  ........ . .  ................. .  .                  3
Water Resources  .........  ............................... .                  3
Water  Legislation  ......              .......................                4
Sector  Organization  ......             .................. .                  4
Urban Water  Supply  ................. ...........                             5
Rural  Water  Supply  ......            ...................                    6
Sewerage            ......................................                     6
Financial  and  Technical  Assistance  .........                ...            6
IV.     THE PROJECT                   .......................................                  7
The Rural Water  Supply  IV Program  ..........                 ...            7
Project  Objectives  and  Description  ............                            7
Design of Water  Schemes  .......................                              8
Construction  ........ .........................................               8
Implementation  .................................                              9
Cnost Estimates   ..........................................                  9
Financing Plan ..                                     ..........    10
Procurement  ..................... . .................                       11
Disbursement  ...................... ...........                             12
Environmental  Aspects  ........................ .                           12
V.     THE MINISTRY  OF WATER DEVELOPMENT  ........                 ..     ........         12
Organization  .......               ...........................              12
Management and  Staffing  .....                ..................             13
Performance  of WD  in Rural Water  Supply  .......                          14
Management  Consultancy  Services  ...............                            16
Audit  ...........            ..............................                 16
VI.    FINANCIAL ASPECTS  ......               ............................                  16
Financial  Objectives  ............             ..      ............         16
Accounting  Systems  and  Financial  Control  ......                         17
Financial  Performance  ....                 .....................           17
Financial  Prospects  .............             ..      ............         18
Tariffs .......                                                              18
Financial  Rates  of Return  and  Subsidies  .......                         19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be us d by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
VII.    JUSTIFICATION  ..................... .................                           19
Institution Building  ...........................                        19
Analysis of Benefits  ...........................                        20
Risks  .       .........................................                 21
VIII.       AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ...............                          21



KENYA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
List of Annexes
ANNEX
1    Population by Provinces, Population Density and Projections
2    Potential Agricultural Areas
3    A.  Rainfall Distribution in Kenya
B. Drainage Areas
4    Foreign Financing of Water Development Projects
5    Selection of Water Schemes for the RSW IV
6    List of Water Schemes
7    Terms of Reference of Feasibility Studies
8    Design Procedures and Main Design Parameters
9    Implementation Schedule
10   Schedule of Presentation of Feasibility Studies
11   RWS IV Monitoring Unit
12   Job Description - Public Relations Officer
13   Project Costs Estimate
14   Phasing of Expenditures
15   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
16   Organization Chart of the Ministry of Water Development
17   Proposed Organization Chart of the Ministry of Water Development
18   Project Monitoring Guidelines
19   Ministry of Water Development - Capital Budgets 1975-1980
20   Ministry of Water Development - Recurrent Budgets 1975-1980
21   1977 Recurrent Budget for Rural Supplies
22   Existing Tariffs for Rural Water Supplies
Map IBRD 12919R - Rural Water Supply Project






KENYA
APPRAISAL OF THE RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Summary and Recommendations
(i)       The Government of Kenya has been giving in recent years increasing
priority to rural development.  Along with agriculture, transportation,
education and health projects, it has been recognized that the provision of
safe water supplies had high priority, because of the substantial benefits it
can bring in terms of:  (a) relieving the Kenyan women from the daily drudgery
of carrying water over large distances; (b) improving health and sanitation;
and (c) increasing income through gardening and breeding graded cattle. At
present, however, only about 15% of the rural population has access to safe
water supplies; the balance use traditional sources which are often remote,
polluted, or unreliable.
(ii)      Kenya is generally poor in surface water; a majority of its rivers
are seasonal-shallow ground water is available only in a belt along the ocean
coastline and near the shores of Lake Victoria. About 80% of the country is
arid or semi-arid.
(iii)     The Government of Kenya has requested assistance from the Bank and
six external aid agencies for the financing of the KSh 700 million (US$87.5
million) Rural Water Supply Program IV (RWS IV), which would provide safe
water to a population of approximately 1.1 million. It consists of 65 schemes
located throughout Kenya and selected through an equitable system based on
national and local considerations. After the aid agencies had expressed
their preferences, the 65 schemes were distributed among them and the Bank,
taking into account geographical considerations to facilitate project imple-
mentation.
(iv)      The Bank project would consist of the engineering, materials for
and construction of 33 schemes; strengthening operation and maintenance
ability of the Water Department; and a comprehensive program of Management
Consultancy Services for the Ministry of Water Development which will be
in charge of program/project implementation. The proposed Bank loan of US$20
million would cover the foreign exchange component, estimated at US$18.7
million and a portion of local expenditures, while the remaining local costs,
estimated at US$11.8 million would be financed by the Government. All equip-
ment and materials contracts in excess of US$100,000 and construction con-
tracts in excess of US$300,000 would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding. Contracts under these limits would be procured under
local procedures, which are satisfactory.
(v)       The management of water resources is centralized in the Ministry
of Water Development. The Ministry was created in 1974 and its executive
branch is the Water Department; apart from the administration of the country
water resources the Water Department operates more than 200 urban and rural
water supplies and carries out the principal sector development programs.
In 1970, the Rural Water Supply Program was initiated with the ultimate
objective of providing the whole rural population of Kenya with safe water
by the year 2000.



- ii -
(vi)      The Ministry of Water Development has a poor record in planning,
constructing and operating rural water supply schemes, and the main risks
of the project are tied to its performance. However, management consultants
successfully completed a thorough analysis of the Ministry in May 1978. The
Government accepted their recommendation and decided shortly thereafter to
reorganize the Ministry, strengthen the staff, expand training facilities and
introduce financial control systems. The proposed Bank loan includes a
provision to strengthen the Ministry.
(vii)     Aside from the institution building aspect, the project is essen-
tially justified by the benefits which will accrue to the rural population,
and the high value they attach to convenient and reliable water supplies.
After tariffs are increased and collection processing improved, revenues
will suffice to cover Operations and Maintenance costs of the program as a
whole.
(viii)    The project is suitable for a US$20 million Bank loan.



KENYA
APPRAISAL OF THE RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Kenya has requested financial assistance from
the Bank and six external aid agencies to help finance a KSh 700 million
(US$87.5 million) rural water supply program proposed to provide safe water
to a population of about 1.1 million. A Bank Loan of US$20 million is
proposed to be made to the Government; the other aid agencies would provide
altogether US$45 million, and the balance of US$22.5 million would be provided
by the Government. The program would be implemented by the Water Department
(WD) of the Ministry of Water Development (MWD).
1.02      In recent years, the Government of Kenya has given increasing
emphasis to rural development, which has particularly materialized in the
form of agriculture, health, education and feeder roads projects. Regarding
water supply, a series of Rural Water Supply Programs (RWS) was initiated in
1970, with the objective of providing the whole rural population with safe
water by the year 2000 to improve hygiene and health, relieve Kenyan women
from the toilsome task of carrying water over large distances, and help in
increasing income from animal husbandry. The program now under consideration
for the period 1978 to 1984 is the fourth in the series, and is referred to
as RWS IV.
1.03      Already in 1974, when the Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project
was under preparation, the Government requested that a provision be made in
that loan for the construction of rural water supplies in the coastal area.
At that time, however, very little data were available on Kenya's experience
in relation to the construction and operation of rural water supplies. As a
result it was agreed, that: (i) the Government would undertake a comprehen-
sive evaluation of all past and ongoing rural water projects, as a basis for
the preparation of future rural water supply programs; and (ii) a provision
of US$700,000 would be included in that loan to finance the evaluation study
and the preparation of a rural water supply project. In early 1976, MWD
appointed VIAK, a Swedish Consultant, to undertake the evaluation and to
assist MWD in preparation of RWS IV 1/; the evaluation report of February 1977
provided important inputs for the preparation of the proposed project.
S
1.04      The proposed loan would represent the fourth lending operation to
Kenya for water supply but this project would be the first directed totally
at rural water supply. The Bank has already financed three urban water
supply projects: Nairobi Water Supply I (Loan 714-KE) has been completed;
Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply (Loan 1167-KE), and Nairobi Water Supply II
(Loan 1520-KE) are under implementation. In addition, the Nairobi Urban
project, two Agriculture projects, and two Tourism projects include water
supply and sewerage components. The implementation of the two Nairobi
1/   The consultant was financed by the Swedish International Development
Authority (SIDA).



- 2 -
projects by the Nairobi City lCouncil is satisfactory; performance on the
Mombasa project, implemented by WD, is improving after a weak start. The
water components in the remaining projects are also implemented by WD and its
performance has generally been poor. However, through steps recently taken
by the Government, and improvements proposed in connection with this project,
WD' s performance should improve gradually.
1.05      The project was appraised in April 1977 by Messrs. J. Kozel,
M. Heitner, P. Momal (IBRD), and R. Patel, Manpower Specialist acting as
consultant to the Bank. Representatives of three bilateral aid agencies
(Canada, Denmark and The Netherlands) joined the Bank's appraisal team. While
the Bank and the bilateral agencies are financing independent components of
RWS IV, close liaison has been maintained throughout to ensure harmonization
of objectives. Management consultants were appointed to review the organiza-
tion of MWD and a Bank post-appraisal mission visited Kenya in June 1978 to
update the information and review the work of the management consultant.
II. THE ECONOMY
2.01      Kenya's economic performance since independence has been remarkable,
as real GDP increased by an average 6.6% per annum. Agriculture represented
about 38% of GDP in 1977 and has shown good growth in years with favorable
weather conditions, alternating with disappointing performance in years of
drought or floods. Agriculture remains the single largest sector as it
employs about 90% of the labor force; 1.2 million smallholders, engaged in
subsistence farming contribute over half of the agricultural value added.
Average annual per capita income of the rural population is estimated at
US$90 against a countrywide average of US$270 (1977).
2.02      The 1977 population of Kenya was estimated at 14.2 million of which
88% was rural. As Annex 1 indicates, population distribution is uneven; thus
four Provinces located between Mount Kenya and Lake Victoria account for 70%
of the population, and barely 20% of the land. In high and medium agricul-
tural potential areas 1/, characterized by abundant precipitation (Annex 2),
the population is mainly scattered on individual farms; villages as such,
are rare; instead, small centers constituted by a few shops, a school, a
dispensary, and occasionally a church are more frequent. In the low poten-
tial areas, the population is often nomadic and derives its livelihood from
cattle breeding.
2.03      The efforts of the Government in rural areas have stressed the need
to increase rural incomes and improve the quality of services. Increasing
emphasis has been given to agriculture 2/ (introduction of cash crops, graded
1/   High and medium potential areas account for 90% of the rural population.
2/   Shares of agriculture in total development expenditures grew from 13% in
1969 - 1973 to 22% in 1974 - 1978.



cattle, agriculture credit), transport, education and health. Much impor-
tance has been given to local involvement, which has been particularly
significant since the inception of the District Development Committees (DDCs)
in 1967; they play a major role in the identification and selection of local
development priorities, as well as in the apportionment of available external
resources among sectors and beneficiaries. Provision of reliable water supply
to improve health, to relieve women from water carrying and to enhance cattle
breeding has high priority for the rural population, as the construction of
numerous "self-help" schemes demonstrates. This has also been recognized by
the Government, which since 1970, has devoted considerable resources to the
construction of rural water supply schemes. However, results have not been
up to expectations because of the high costs and relatively sophisticated
technology water supply entails.
III. THE WATER SECTOR
Geography and Climate
3.01      The Republic of Kenya, stretched inland from the Indian Ocean to
Lake Victoria, covers 583,000 km2. Although lying in equatorial latitudes,
the country experiences wide differences in climatic conditions caused mainly
by variations in altitude. Average rainfall is about 450 mm per annum but the
uneven distribution results in vast areas reeeiving less than 250 mm while
hill masses may receive about 2,500 mm (Annex 3). East of the Rift Valley
there are two distinct rainy seasons, from March to May and from October to
December. In the Western and Lake Victoria areas there is effectively no dry
season. Rainfall is high during March - September and low during January -
February.
Water Resources
3.02      Kenya is generally poor in surface water.  Apart from the Nzoia,
Yalla, and Mara rivers in the west and the main courses of the Tana and the
Galana in the east, all the rivers and their tributaries are seasonal.
The major rivers originate from only 5% of the area of the country, where
the rainfall exceeds 1,250 mm per annum. The drainage system consists of
five basins. They are described in Annex 3.
3.03      The groundwater potential appears promising, but considerably more
investigations are required. The main water table is about 80 m below the
surface, but in some areas, particularly along the coastline and almost



everywhere along Lake Victoria, an abundant quantity of groundwater is
available close to the surface. The quality of groundwater is generally
satisfactory; however, in the north and east water is often saline; and
in Nairobi and the Rift Valliey, some groundwater has excessive fluorides.
3.04      The systematic investigation and inventory of all water resources
started in 1976 as a first part of the National Water Master Plan; in succeed-
ing parts the Plan will evaluate development of water demands, present the
technical solutions for development of water resources and propose ways of
water conservation.
Water Legislation
3.05      The Water Act, together with its subsidiary legislation, covers
the broad field of conservation, control, apportionment and use of water
resources. The control of all water resources is a responsibility of the
Minister of Water Development. The Minister's powers to issue permits
for the use of water, and con,trol of abstraction and pollution is exer-
cised by the Water Apportionment Board. Subsidiary legislation provides
a code for its procedures and functions, defines waterworks code for all
water undertakers, and deals with level of water charges and methods of
charging.
3.06      Complementary to the Water Act is the Public Health Act, which
includes many provisions relating to water supply and sewerage from the
health point of view; Local Government Regulations 1963, give power to local
authorities in urban areas to undertake water supply, sewerage and drain-
age works, to maintain waterworks and to make appropriate by-laws.
3.07      The existing water laws of Kenya are adequate and, for the purpose
of the project, no further legislation would be required.
Sector Organization
3.08      The Ministry was established in 1974 and took over all respon-
sibility for the country's water resources from the Ministry of Agriculture.
MWD is the sole agency in the Government with technical expertise in water
affairs as well as the largest water undertaker 1/. It is also in charge of
coordinating water resources development.
3.09      MWD's executing agency is WD.  Special assignments, however, are
carried out by statutory Boards: the Tana River Development Authority is
responsible for planning and coordination of programs designed for optimum
exploitation of water resources in the Tana River catchment; the Mombasa
Pipeline Board is responsible for bulk supply of water to the coastal area
1/   It presently owns and operates water supplies in five municipalities,
110 urban and 90 rural systems.



-5-
from Mzima Springs; the Water Apportionment Board exercises the Minister's
powers to control the right to use water in the country 1/. Major irrigation
developments are the responsibility of the National Irrigation Board, under
the Ministry of Agriculture. The development of hydroelectric power is
concentrated in the Ministry of Power and Communications.
3.10      Several other ministries and agencies are involved in the develop-
ment and operation of water supply facilities. The Nairobi City Council is
responsible for the development and operation of the water supply and sewerage
systems of Nairobi. Five municipalities and two County Councils operate
their urban water supply systems under the direction of the Ministry of
Local Government (MLG). Hundreds of small rural water supply schemes, are
operated - though with varying degrees of success - by the forty County
Councils; Kenya Railways operates about a hundred water schemes supplying
staff houses and adjacent villages. The Ministry of Lands and Settlement
plans and budgets water supply for new settlement areas 2/. The Ministry of
Cooperatives and Social Services administers government grants to all "self-
help" schemes in rural areas, i.e. also to water supply schemes 3/. Finally
the Ministry of Health is responsible for potable water quality surveillance
from the community health point of view, and has been engaged in a demonstra-
tion program for rural water development.
3.11      The development and operation of sewerage systems is the responsi-
bility of the City Council in Nairobi, of MLG in the other larger towns, and
of WD in the other settlements. WD also acts as the agency for MLG in
engaging and supervising the work of consultants on the design and supervi-
sion of sewerage works.
3.12      The fact that several water supply and sewerage systems are owned by
urban councils and are outside of MWD's responsibility is a result of a long
historical process of strengthening local government. The Management Study
(para 5.11) has recommended the gradual transfer of urban water supplies to
local authorities.
Urban Water Supply
3.13      Practically the whole urban population, estimated at about 1.7
million in 1977, is either served from piped water supply systems or has
reasonable access to public systems. The quality of supply depends on the
size of the community and is generally better in the larger towns. Some
towns, with fast population growth have been unable to keep pace with water
demand and are now experiencing periods of serious water shortages. Water
is usually supplied through metered individual connections; usage is not
excessive, ranging from 70 to 160 liters per capita per day (lcd).
1/   The organization of MWD is described in Chapter V.
2/   WD is usually the executing agency for construction.
3/   WD provides limited technical assistance.



-6-
Rural Water Supply
3.14      The 1977 rural population is estimated at about 12.5 million, of
which 1.5 million presently haLs access to an improved water source or piped
water supply. The balance carries water over considerable distances from
natural sources, which are often polluted, insufficient or unreliable. About:
one third of the rural population presently served has individual connections
to their farms, and the balance draws water from communal water points (CWP),
kiosks, 1/ protected springs or wells. Water usage ranges from 50 lcd for
individual connections, to about 10 lcd for others. Maximum walking distance
to an improved water source ranges from 1 km in high potential areas to 4 km
in low potential areas. The level of maintenance of water supply schemes is
generally low causing frequent disruptions of service, but remedial measures
are now under consideration (para 5.09).
Sewerage
3.15      Public systems for sewage collection, treatment and disposal exist
in about 22 urban communities. There are no sewers in rural areas. In the
country as a whole, about 4% of the population use public sewerage systems,
about 4% septic tanks and 40% pit latrines. More than 50% of the population
has no proper sanitation facilities. The City Council of Nairobi is expand-
ing its sewerage system, four municipalities systems are now being expanded
by MLG, while WD is constructing seven systems in smaller towns. Sewerage
systems are always separated from storm water drainage; operation and main-
tenance, generally unsatisfactory, is provided by urban councils. County
Councils, assisted by health inspectors are responsible for supervising
standards of sanitation and refuse disposal in rural areas.
Financial and Technical Assistance
3.16      Various aid agencies have been supporting the sector's important
projects with large loans or grants. Aside from the Bank (para. 1.04),
UNICEF/WHO participated by providing about US$1.5 million to finance about
800 water supply schemes in small rural settlements; the Swedish Government
has supported, with about US$10 million, the first two RWS which include
about 100 water supply schemes and WD's training school; it is presently
financing the preparation of the National Water Master Plan (para. 3.04) and
is also now considering supporiting the rehabilitation program (para. 5.09);
the Governments of Norway and lWest Germany are participating in financing
improvements of water supply and sewerage systems in towns.  Foreign financing
of water supply and sewerage development projects in the period 1964 to 1976
amounts to over US$130 million in loans and grants as shown at Annex 4.
3.17      The sector is also benefiting substantially from technical assis-
tance from aid agencies. In recent years, 60 to 70 expatriate engineers
and other specialists have been seconded to WD, under various aid programs.
1/   Water from CWP is either free or charged at a nominal fee per family;
supply from kiosks is paid for by volume.



- 7 -
IV. THE PROJECT
The Rural Water Supply IV Program
4.01      RWS IV consists of 65 schemes located throughout Kenya which will
supply safe water to about 1.1 million persons. The location of schemes is
shown on map IBRD 12919R. The schemes were selected as in the previous RWS
Programs through a two-stage process. The first stage consisted of an
allocation of funds to each of Kenya's 40 rural districts in proportion to
the unserved population when RWS was initiated in 1970, and funds already
allocated under earlier programs. In the second stage, DDCs (para. 2.03)
selected specific schemes on the basis of need, willingness to pay for
service, equity, potential benefits and grassroots political considerations.
Thus RWS IV includes schemes selected for each district in the order of DDC
priorities, up to the limits of the allocated construction funds. The
methodology used and the criteria applied for the selection of schemes is
equitable; Annex 5 describes this process in detail.
4.02      The 65 schemes were allocated to the aid agencies (para. 1.05), and
the Bank on the basis of specific preferences, and geographical considerations,
in order to facilitate contracting and project implementation.
Project Objectives and Description
4.03      The Bank Project would provide water to a rural population of about
half a million. It would also strengthen MWD's organization and management
capability to plan expansion programs and to operate and maintain water supply
schemes.
4.04      The Project would consist of:
(a) 33 rural water supply schemes;
(b) strengthening of MWD's operation and maintenance, and
direct labor sections; and
(c) technical assistance for implementation of the recom-
mendations of the management study and preparation of
RWS V.
4.05      The 33 schemes are located in all agricultural potential areas and
would supply between 100 and 10,000 households each. The standard of service
in each scheme would be a mix of individual connections, CWPs and kiosks.
The percentage of population served by individual connections in each scheme
would depend on economic considerations and demonstrated willingness of users
to pay for the connection (para. 4.08). The preinvestment studies for all
schemes were completed and the list of schemes with their basic parameters
appears at Annex 6.



- 8 -
4.06      Operation and maintenance (O&M), presently inadequate, would be
upgraded by: (a) providing WD with District and Provincial stores and work-
shops, additional equipment, spare parts and tools; and (b) expanding WD's
facilities for training of water operators (para. 5.06).  Upgrading of O&M
would also be supported by the other aid agencies. WD's direct labor sec-
tion would be strengthened by additional construction, transport, and com-
munication equipment, spare parts and tools.
4.07      The technical assistance would consist of:  (i) implementation of
the recommendations of the Management Study including the provision of ex-
perts required for training of local staff (para. 5.11); and (ii) preparing
feasibility studies of schemes included in RWS V, proposed for 1981-1986.
Design of Water Schemes
4.08      Engineering would be prepared by WD and by consultants.  Medium
and large schemes 1/ would proceed in two stages: in the first stage, a
feasibility study would be prepared for each scheme and essentially cover:
(i) a review of the economic potential of the area; (ii) a review of existing
water supply facilities (if they exist); (iii) a marketing study to assess
particularly consumer's wishes and ability to pay for services; (iv) deter-
mination of service type and standard; (v) identification of the least cost
solution to meet future demand, based on standards of service determined in
(iv) above; and (vi) assessment of financial and economic implications of the
proposed scheme. The terms of reference for the feasibility studies appear
at Annex 7 and are satisfactory.
4.09      Bank's approval of feasibility studies would be a condition of
disbursement for detailed design, and construction. After such approval
has been obtained, the second stage consisting of the detailed design, prep-
aration of tender documents and construction would proceed. The detailed
design would be prepared in accordance with WD's guidelines which contain
instructions regarding consumption rate, water quality, design period, and
typical standard structures aLnd are acceptable. The summary of the guide-
lines appears at Annex 8.
4.10      All medium and large schemes would be entrusted to consulting engi-
neers, from the preparation of feasibility studies up to supervision of con-
struction. WD is presently using about 20 consultants who are acceptable to
the Bank. Studies and design of the smaller schemes would be carried out in
one stage by WD's Planning and Design Division; Bank's approval of engineering
documentation would be a condition of disbursement for construction.
Construction
4.11      Medium and large schemes, which are located in highly populated
areas, would be constructed by contractors supervised by consulting engi-
neers. However, few contractors are likely to bid for small schemes located
1/   Estimated cost more than KSh 3 million.



- 9 -
in sparsely populated areas and therefore some of these schemes would be built
by departmental force account (Direct Labor), specialized in this field; WD's
senior staff of the Direct Labor Section would supervise construction. For
works executed by Direct Labor, only the necessary construction equipment,
materials and transport would be financed under the project.
Implementation
4.12      Implementation of the RWS IV would last about six years -
from mid-1978 to mid-1984. Annex 9 shows the implementation schedule of
the Bank project. Annex 10 shows the proposed timetable of presentation
of feasibility studies and designs (paras. 4.09 and 4.10).
4.13      In view of the large number of schemes in RWS IV, the sizeable
number of sequential steps required to implement each one and an obligation
to coordinate the activities of aid agencies, WD would create by April 30,
1979, a Program Monitoring Unit, headed by a Program Coordinator. The Unit
would prepare an annual implementation plan and set up and operate a monitor-
ing system that would allow periodic comparison of actual performance against
targets, thereby enabling timely corrective action whenever required. The
description of the Unit's duties appears at Annex 11. Appointment of the
Program Coordinator would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
4.14      Presently WD does not have the staff required to undertake the
detailed surveys of demand for water in rural areas (para. 4.08). It was,
therefore, decided to entrust this task to consulting engineers with the
assistance of a Public Relations Officer, yet to be appointed. In addition,
the Public Relations Officer would also ensure that the full benefits of
operating rural water supplies are taken advantage of by, among other things,
initiating and coordinating health campaigns. The Public Relations Officer
was appointed in September 1978, and his job description appears at Annex 12.
Cost Estimates
4.15      The estimated cost of RWS IV is about KSh 700 million (US$87.5 mil-
lion); the cost of the proposed Bank project is estimated at about KSh 244
million (US$30.5 million), with a foreign element of KSh 149 million (US$18.7
million). Detailed cost estimates for the Bank Project appear at Annex 13
and can be summarized as follows:



- 10 -
Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total
-----(KSh million)---       ----(US$ million)-----
1.  Materials & Construction   54        83      137        6.6      10.4    17.0
2.  Engineering                  11        8      19        1.3       1.1     2.4
3.  Strengthening MWD             5       12      17        0.6       1.6     2.2
4.  Technical Assistance          1        3       4        0.2      0.4      0.6
Sub-total                   71      106      177       8.7      13.5    22.2
5. Contingencies
Physical                  10       14       24       1.2       1.9      3.1
Price Increase            14       29       43       1.9       3.3      5.2
Total Expected Cost
of the Project
(i) including taxes    95       149     244       11.8      18.7    30.5
(ii) net of taxes        65      149     214        8.1      18.7    26.8
4.16      For large and medium size schemes, the cost estimates of materials
and construction were based on a unit cost of KSh 680 per capita; for small
schemes, estimates were established on the basis of anticipated source of
supply and range from KSh 0.25 to 0.65 million per scheme. The unit cost
per capita was derived from an analysis of similar projects carried out by
WD in the past and updated to 1979 prices by applying price index of the
Ministry of Works for civil works and of WD for pipes. Engineering costs
have been assessed at 12% of construction costs. Physical contingencies of
10% on materials and equipment and 15% on construction were added. Base cost
estimates are expressed at January 1979 prices. Price escalation for equip-
ment and civil works was estimated at 6.5% and 7.5%, respectively, for 1979,
and 6% and 7% thereafter. Details are at Annex 14.
Financing Plan
4.17      Seven aid agencies have been asked to provide financing for RWS
IV. The loan applications are in various stages of processing. Each of
the financiers would operate iin different areas and their projects would
proceed independently; there iis no linkage between the processing of the Bank
project and the processing of projects of other financiers. The proposed
financing plan is as follows:



- 11 -
Amount
Source of Financing                           KSh million      US$ million        %
(i) African Development Bank                    72              9.0           10
(ii) Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA)                  160             20.0           23
(iii) Danish International
Development Agency (Danida)                 49              6.1            7
(iv) IBRD                                       160             20.0           23
(v) Japan            r                          10              1.3            1
(vi) The Netherlands                             32              4.0            5
(vii) U.K. Overseas De elopment
Ministry (ODM)   q                          37              4.6            5
(viii) Government of Kenya                        180             22.5           26
RWS IV Total                               700             87.5          100
The proposed IBRD loan (US$20 million) would cover 75% of the cost of the IBRD
project excluding taxes (US$26.8 million), including US$1.3 million of local
expenditures; the Government would provide the balance (US$6.8 million). The
loan would be on standard Bank terms for Kenya. During negotiations, assur-
ances were obtained that the Government will provide for 25% of the project's
cost in addition to custom duties and taxes.
Procurement
4.18      Construction contracts in excess of US$300,000 and procurement
of equipment and materials in excess of US$100,000 would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guide-
lines. Equipment and materials under US$100,000 and construction contracts
under US$300,000 would be procured through local bidding procedures which
are satisfactory. Total expenditures under such contracts would not exceed
US$3.0 million over the life of the project. Construction contracts and
procurement of equipment and materials would be grouped together whenever
possible; construction contracts would include the supply of all required
materials and equipment for the scheme. It is expected that most of the
pipes will be manufactured locally but all equipment will have to be imported;
civil works is expected to be executed by local contractors, participation of
foreign contractors would be minimal.  A preference of 7.5% to bids from local
civil works contractors and 15% of the c.i.f. bid price (or the applicable
custom duty, whichever is lower) to bids from local manufacturers would be
applied. Civil works for some small rural water systems in sparsely popu-
lated areas would be carried out by the Direct Labor Section (para 4.11).
4.19      Engineering consultants would be selected from among those regis-
tered with WD (para 4.10); the management consultants (paras. 5.03 and 5.11)
have been selected from among three firms on the basis of evaluation of pro-
posals; the selection and the contract were reviewed by the Bank. The con-
tracts for studies would be of the lump-sum type as they would be relatively



- 12 -
small, well defined, short term assignments. Design and supervision contracts
would be based on MWD's standard Agreement for Design and Supervision.  The
average cost of management consultants and engineers would be US$8,000 and
US$4,500 per man month respectively. The engineering consultants' selection
and contracts would be presented to the Bank for review and approval prior to
signature of the contract. In order to expedite implementation of the project
the management consultant and three engineering consultants are expected to be
appointed prior to consideration of the project by the Board. Retroactive
financing up to US$0.2 million is proposed for expenditure incurred after
July 1, 1978.
Disbursement
4.20      Disbursement of ftnds from the Bank Loan would be on the following
basis:
(a) 100% of the foreign costs of pipes, equipment, tools, spare parts,
vehicles and training equipment if imported directly, 100% of local
expenditures ex-factory, or 87% of local expenditures ex-store;
(b) 65% of total costs of construction contracts; and
(c) 75% of total costs of technical assistance and consultants.
The project closing date would be July 1, 1985.  The estimated schedule of
disbursement appears at Annex 15.
Environmental Aspects
4.21      The expansion of water systems would not have any detrimental
effect on the environment: excreta disposal in rural areas is generally
provided by water independent systems. The feasibility studies (para. 4.08)
would also investigate types of sanitation in residential and institutional
premises and propose improvements to achieve minimum acceptable sanitation
standards.
V. THE MINISTRY OF WATER DEVELOPMENT
Organization
5.01      MWD is headed by a Minister; the Permanent Secretary, who reports
to the Minister, is in charge of executing Government's policies. He is
assisted by a small staff referred to herein as "Headquarters", dealing
essentially with accounting, finance and establishment matters. WD, its
executive branch, prior to formation of MWD had been successively under the
Ministries of Water and Natural Resources, and Agriculture.



- 13 -
5.02      WD is headed by a Director who reports to the Permanent Secretary.
WD is organized in four branches: Development; Operation and Maintenance;
Resources; and Administration. All activities are centralized in Nairobi
except Operation and Maintenance, which is directed from Nairobi but is
mainly the responsibility of seven Provincial Water Engineers. pWD's organi-
zation chart appears at Annex 16.
5.03      Because of the high priority given to water supply, the scope of
MWD's activities increased dramatically in recent years, and it became ques-
tionable whether the existing organizational framework was optimal, takipg
into consideration the tasks ahead. In December 1977, the Government hired
Management Consultants Coopers and Lybrand Associates Limited (C&L) of the
U.K. to conduct a thorough investigation of the Ministry, its organi-
zation, management methods, staffing and accounting policies. The assign-
ment was carried out by 5 U.K. based specialists assisted by 5 Kenyan
professionals from the University and the Government, and was successfully
completed in May 1978. C&L has recommended a reorganization of the Minis-
try, reflecting, inter alia, the need for the Permanent Secretary to control
effectively the different arms of the organization, and to upgrade the plan-
ning/budgeting/monitoring process. The recommendations of C&L have been
accepted by the Government; implementation would begin in 1979 and would
be completed by December 1980. The proposed organization chart appears at
Annex 17.
Management and Staffing
5.04      WD employs presently a total staff of approximately 7,250 including
2,900 employees in the lower categories which are outside the establishment.
They are referred to as "works-paid" staff, having been hired initially on a
temporary basis; they do not receive most fringe benefits of regular civil
service employment and often lack motivation. Out of 90 engineers and other
professionals, 70 are expatriates, usually under two to three years secondment
contracts through technical assistance programs; 35% of the senior posts are
either vacant, or occupied by staff with substandard qualifications.
5.05      WD has set up, with SIDA assistance, a school to train several
categories of sub-professionals and technicians. The curriculum combines
formal courses with on-the-job assignments, and short courses at the Kenya
Polytechnic. The output of the WD school is presently 100 trainees a year,
of which about a quarter ends up in the O&M Branch. This output level is
insufficient for WD's current and foreseeable requirements. Shortage of
staff, equipment, workshops and dormitories have been, so far, the major
constraints. At the higher echelons, while sufficient training facilities
exist for engineers, assistant engineers, accountants, etc., it would appear
that WD has not made enough effort to recruit these graduates.
5.06      While WD's personnel planning practices were deficient in the past,
the C&L Management Study recognized, and MWD now acknowledges, the need to
step up efforts in this area. It is now intended to increase the intake of
fresh engineering graduates to 20 per annum, and at the same time to expand



- 14 -
the training school's output to 185 trainees per annum. It is proposed,
under this project, to finance the expansion of the training facilities of
WD (para. 4.06). It is intended to recruit a Training Officer who would
undertake periodic assessments of MWD's manpower requirements, and set up
training programs accordingly. Appointment of the Training Officer would
be a condition of loan effectiveness. Despite the efforts now envisaged to
increase the proportion of local staff at senior levels C&L has concluded,
and MWD agrees, that in the short run the number of expatriate staff will
have to increase substantially if the development plans now envisaged are
all implemented.
Performance of WD in Rural Water Supply
5.07      WD began to gain experience on a large scale in the planning,
design and construction of rural water supplies only when SIDA made its
first contribution for RWS I in 1970. Particularly in the case of RWS I
and some RWS II schemes, the evaluation study (para. 1.03) found that
schemes were built on the basis of insufficient data on water resources
and water demand, both factors ultimately leading to inadequate design.
Further, little attention was paid to the desires of consumers concerning
quality of supply, location of kiosks and CWPs and willingness and ability to
pay for various kinds of service. Implementation of RWS III showed only
modest improvement. For RWS IV, the terms of reference for feasibility
studies (para. 4.08) require the consultants to collect much more data than
done previously, as well as to prepare market surveys to assess consumer's
needs and willingness to pay. The primary duty of the Consumer Relations
Officer would be to ensure compliance with this requirement (para. 4.14).
5.08      WD is facing major problems in the Operation and Maintenance of
rural water supply schemes already built. The Evaluation Study found that
in a sample of 35 schemes: (i) only about half of the potential consumers
actually used the new systems; (ii) less than half of the schemes provided
a reliable 1/ supply; and (iii) nearly half of the schemes provided water
that could not meet WHO standards. No single factor accounts for this unsat-
isfactory state of affairs. It is due to a combination of the following
factors: (i) poor initial design; (ii) inadequate supervision by field
offices of WD; (iii) lack of workshops, spare parts, transport etc.; (iv)
inadequate financial control mechanisms resulting in misallocation of funds;
(v) insufficient budgetary allocations; and (vi) lack of qualified staff.
5.09      Upgrading the quality of O&M has high priority; without it, only
a fraction of the anticipated benefits of past and present investments would
materialize. In connection with RWS IV the following steps are planned:
1/   A supply is considered reliable if interruptions longer than 48 hours
do not occur "regularly."



- 15 -
(a) The project provides for strengthening the Provincial
Offices of MWD (para. 4.06). Other aid agencies have
also shown interest in financing this item.
(b) Financial control mechanisms (para. 6.05) and proper
budgeting procedures would be established with the help
of the management consultants (para. 5.11); and further
MWD has been asked to recruit a Cost and Management
Accountant for the Head Office and appoint qualified
accountants at all Provincial Offices. Appointment
of the Cost and Management Accountant would be a con-
dition of loan effectiveness, while during negotiations,
assurances were obtained that by April 30, 1979 quali-
fied accountants would be posted at all Provincial
Offices of MWD.
(c) WD has recently prepared O&M standards which will be
used in the preparation of the recurrent and capital
budgets. These standards translate the physical char-
acteristics of schemes (i.e. population served, area
covered, length of pipe, type of supply, equipment,
number and types of connections, etc.) into budgetary
requirements (i.e. size and calibre of staff, chemicals,
fuel, spares, transport, etc.). During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the Ministry of Finance
(MF) would provide MWD with sufficient funds to meet
the established standards.
(d) The expansion of the training facilities (para. 5.06) will
pay particular attention to the requirements of the O&M
Branch.
(e) The details of a rehabilitation program for existing schemes
have been worked out by WD. Three aid agencies (from Canada,
Denmark and Sweden) are financing this item. Engineering
consultants will survey schemes in need of rehabilitation,
make recommendations and, after MWD's approval has been
obtained, will proceed with implementation. Further, mobile
teams will be set up to undertake repairs as needed.
While WD's O&M difficulties are serious, the above steps should help substan-
tially in gradually improving the quality of O&M work.
5.10      County Councils (para. 3.10) and other autonomous rural supplies
have had unforeseen difficulties in running their water supply systems. On
the whole, their performance has proven very disappointing so that, over the
past few years, MWD was asked to take over water supply systems. Often, when
such a take-over took place, no additional staff was allowed, nor was a bud-
getary adjustment made, so that it added to an already heavy burden. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that MF would provide sufficient funds



- 16 -
to meet the established O&M standards for all rural water systems under the
control of MWD (para. 5.09). Further, in view of the already heavy commitments
of the Development Branch, assurances were obtained that MWD would be provided
with the financial resources and personnel to implement any additional project
undertaken prior to completion of this project.
Management Consultancy Servic,es
5.11      Besides the reorganization of MWD, C&L (para. 5.03) has recommended
improved manpower planning practices, accounting/budgeting and financial con-
trol mechanisms, project planning and monitoring methods, and stores manage-
ment. It is proposed, under this project, to finance the implementation of
the proposals of the management consultants in the above areas, and in facil-
itating the introduction of the new organizational framework. Specialized
personnel would assist local counterparts in their area of expertise. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the program of implementation of
the management consultants' proposals would be reviewed annually with the
Bank prior to implementation.
5.12      The performance of ED in relation to project implementation and
institutional improvements will be closely supervised. Proposed monitoring
guidelines appear at Annex 18.
Audit
5.13      MWD's accounts are audited annually by the Controller and Auditor
General of Kenya. A Senior Auditor, assisted by a staff of seven, is assigned
to MWD (and three other ministries). Provincial auditors undertake audit of
all Government departments in provinces. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that MWD's accounts would continue to be subjected to an inde-
pendent audit, and that the report of the auditors would be submitted to the
Bank within six months from the end of each fiscal year.
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Financial Objectives
6.01      MWD, as a ministry does not have financial objectives of the type
one would normally find in a water utility. The broad financial objective of
MWD is that revenues should cover operation and maintenance costs. MWD's
present accounting practices do, not generally permit identification of O&M
costs of individual schemes, nor O&M costs of schemes grouped by type (urban,
rural) or geographical division.
6.02      MWD prepares annually, and MF subsequently revises and approves
3-year 1/ forward budgets for each capital and recurrent item. Budget
1/   It is now envisaged to extend the planning horizon to 5 years.



- 17 -
ceilings are established on the basis of existing commitments, availability
of foreign aid, and economic and financial considerations at the national
and sector levels. While forward budgets are occasionally substantially
modified by annual budgets, they nevertheless provide a major indication
for the short term availability of funds.
Accounting Systems and Financial Control
6.03      MWD operates within the Government budgetary system which is based
on annual cash expenditures and revenues. The distinction between recurrent
and capital expenditures is often arbitrary, e.g. new connections and meters
are considered to be recurrent items.
6.04      MF has established an elaborate set of rules regarding the use of
budget funds. MWD, however, has had difficulties in operating within this
framework, essentially because it does not have sufficient accounting staff
of the right caliber. This has affected its performance adversely with
underspending of capital budget and lack of recurrent funds for O&M (para.
5.08). Newly recruited accounting staff (para. 5.09) should gradually help to
solve this difficulty.
6.05      MWD has to follow cumbersome procedures for payments to contractors
and suppliers; on the other hand, simple financial controls (particularly for
fuel usage, salaries and wages, etc.), have not been instituted, resulting in
misallocations of funds. The management consultants (para. 5.11), together
with the Cost and Management Accountant (para. 5.09), are expected to set up
financial control systems.
Financial Performance
6.06      For MWD as a whole the report of the Controller and Auditor General
provides the actual expenditures by budget item. These data are generally
reliable. For individual schemes, however, data are unavailable or unreliable.
This is essentially due to the lack of proper costing systems.
6.07      Annexes 19 and 20 show MWD's capital and recurrent budgets for
FY1975 - 1978, and the forward budgets. Growth of the capital budget has
been impressive, from KE 6.2 million in FY1975 to K-z 33.6 million in FY1978,
and an anticipated KE 46.9 million in FY1980. MWD's capital budget is now
the second largest in the Government.
6.08      MWD's recurrent budget has also grown substantially.  However,
when compared with the size of facilities now in operation, the rural water
supply budget has relatively declined. This is another indication that
funding of O&M expenditures has been insufficient in recent years (para.
5.08).
6.09      Annex 21 shows for FY1977 the initial request, approved budget,
revised budget and actual results of the rural water supply recurrent
account. It illustrates a major difficulty of MWD, the collection of



- 18 -
revenues. While anticipated revenues were estimated at KE 135,000, actual
collections were only Kh 84,000, or 62%; this compares with operating ex-
penses of Kb 365,000. The responsibility for billing and collection is
divided. WD is in charge of meter reading; the local administration, fall-
ing under the Office of the President, is in charge of preparing bills and
collecting. Payments are deposited in field offices of MF, and credited
to MWD's account. Poor collection is generally attributed to: (i) lack of
competent staff in field offices of the ministries concerned; (ii) nepotism;
and (iii) lack of supervision. MF and MWD senior officers are well aware of
the problem, and have recently prepared specific proposals to improve collec-
tions. The management consultants (para. 5.11) are also expected to assist
in this area. Development in this area would be closely monitored during
project implementation.
Financial Prospects
6.10      WD's future financial position in respect of rural water supply
depends on MF's decisions regarding budgetary allocations. During negotia-
tions assurances were obtained that: (i) the implementation of the RWS IV
would be given high priority; and (ii) sufficient funds would be provided
in the recurrent budget to operate and maintain rural water supplies in
accordance with O&M standards acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.09).
Tariffs
6.11      The present tariffs for rural water supplies were introduced in
1971 and consist of six different scales (Annex 22). The Provincial Water
Engineer (or Officer) decides on the particular tariff to be applied to a new
supply on the basis of an assessment of consumers ability to pay. Normally
his decision is based on income considerations as well as prevailing tariffs
for nSighboring rural supplies. The existing tariffs are very low - KSh 0.5 -
1.0/m , when compared with ths average incremental costs of supply, which have
been assessed at KSh 2 to 6/m , depending on the characteristics of the water
scheme (i.e. gravity or pumping). The existing tariffs, even assuming 100% of
budgeted collection, cover only 37% of direct O&M costs; taking into account
the actual collection record (para. 6.09), actual revenues only cover 23% of
direct O&M costs.
6.12      The Bank and MWD have agreed on the introduction of two-block
tariffs based on:  (i) ability to pay; anq (ii) economic cost of supply.
Under these tariffs, a first block of 6 m  would be sold at a subsidized
price, while a second block would be sold at prices set at levels sufficient
to recover, taking all rural water supply schemes in the aggregate, all O&M
costs (excluding depreciation), starting in the fiscal year commencing July 1,
1979. The tariffs would be adjusted on December 31, 1981, and periodically
thereafter, but not less than every three years. These tariffs would recognize
the rural income constraint, and at the same time, limit water consumption.
Introduction of new tariffs, acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of
loan effectiveness.



- 19 -
Financial Rates of Return and Subsidies
6.13      Financial rates of return, calculated for two model schemes, were
3% and -6%, based on the tariffs agreed at negotiations. The first scheme
with a positive rate of return is inexpensive, technically simple (gravity)
while the second is very expensive (pumping and treatment). Due to the mix of
different types of schemes in the project, the resulting rate of return for
the project is expected to be positive. Annual subsidies 1/ per capita range
from KSh 24 to KSh 68 depending again on the characteristics of the schemes.
Initially only O&M costs, excluding depreciation, would be covered in the
aggregate from water revenues. Total financial subsidies are estimated at KSh
70 million per annum. This level of current subsidies is not unreasonable
considering the high nonfinancial benefits (Chapter VII).
6.14      If the objective of the Government to supply the whole rural popula-
tion with safe water supplies by the year 2000 was to be accomplished, this
would imply a capital investment of about US$900 million over the 1977-2000
period, and a total annual subsidy in the year 2000 of about US$100 million
(at 1977 prices). The economy will clearly not be able to sustain such a high
level of subsidies and therefore the Government's objective is not likely to
be achieved. During the implementation of this project, it is proposed
to assess in detail the implications of this objective, and establish a more
realistic target (i.e. postponement of the time horizon; increased recovery
of costs, etc.).
VII. JUSTIFICATION
Institution Building
7.01      The Government has set up as an objective to provide the whole
population with safe water by the year 2000; 2/ the objective is not likely
to be achieved (para. 6.14). Nevertheless, massive investments are antici-
pated in the sector, and it is, therefore, important that it be developed on
sound economic, financial, and technical foundations. It is expected that
the vast majority of the future schemes will be constructed and operated
by MWD. Even in the case of other sponsors (self-help, County Councils,
etc. - para. 3.10), MWD will have to provide much needed expertise for
planning, constructing and operating such schemes.
1/   Calculated as economic subsidies, i.e. average incremental cost multi-
plied by consumption minus revenues.
2/   At present about 15% of the rural population has access to safe water
(para. 3.14).



- 20 -
7.02       MWD, however, is a weak institution (Chapter V).  Serious defi-
ciencies have been identified at all the levels of its operations. Through:
(i) the introduction of specialized staff dealing with public relations,
training and accounting (paras. 4.14, 5.06 and 5.09); (ii) the introduction
of O&M standards as a basis fEor the preparation of budgets, (para.5.09);
(iii) the introduction of financial control systems (para. 6.05); and (iv)
the strengthening of MWD's Provincial Offices (para. 4.06), the performance
of MWD should gradually improve. The management consultants (para. 5.11)
would assist particularly in the areas of organization, management, staffing
and financial control.
7.03      Greater emphasis will, in the future, be given to the economics
of rural water supplies. Thus schemes in RWS IV will be designed after
the least cost solution to meet anticipated demand has been identified
(para. 4.08); the agreed tariffs (para. 6.12), will permit recovery of all
the 0&M costs, as compared to a very poor performance in recovering these
costs at present (para. 6.11).
Analysis of Benefits
7.04      RWS IV will provide safe and reliable water to about 1.1 million
people, whose average per capita income is estimated to range between
US$110 in high potential areas to less than US$50 in low potential areas.
7.05      The benefits expected from additional water will vary from scheme
to scheme according to the existing situation with regard to water avail-
ability and the economic potential of the area. The main potential benefits
are threefold - the amenity benefits, sometimes referred to as social benefits,
the health benefits and the production benefits including grade cattle breeding
and garden watering. Amenity benefits consist of the supply of convenient,
reliable and safe water resulting in a considerable relief from the daily
drudgery of the traditional Kenyan woman and from the hardship suffered by
the population and livestock in the drier periods. These benefits will
always materialize, to a greater or lesser extent. Production benefits,
however, will only be taken advantage of where there is a true potential for
development, i.e., dynamic agricultural extension agents, progressive farmers,
efficient cooperatives, availability of credit, etc. If they do materialize,
these will help transform a population stagnating at subsistence levels
into a group of relatively afiEluent food producers. Amenity benefits and
production benefits tend to balance since plentiful water, implying lower
amenity benefits from piped water, is associated with higher economic potential
and vice-versa.  Health benefits would consist of reductions in water-related
diseases including diarrheal clisease and cholera. However, the relation
between reduced incidence of disease and the provision of piped water has not
yet been fully demonstrated because health benefits are difficult to isolate;
resistance to water-related diseases is also enhanced by improved nutrition
(milk from grade cows, vegetables from gardens, etc.) and improved general
health conditions (calories saved, time released for better cooking and child
rearing practices, etc).



- 21 -
7.06      It is extremely difficult to quantify the benefits of providing
rural water supply, but available evidence, acquired through the analysis
undertaken by the mission in a particular village chosen as a case study
indicates that the rural water supply is well justified in terms of suffi-
ciently high rates of economic return.
Risks
7.07      Most of the risks associated with this project are related to MWD's
ability to plan, construct and operate rural water schemes satisfactorily. In
order to reduce this risk, MWD has since 1977 already taken a large number of
steps, i.e. appointment of management consultants, introduction of O&M stan-
dards, upgrading training programs, embarked on the rehabilitation of certain
systems, etc.
7.08      Substantial other risks include the ability of MWD together with MF
and the Office of the President to carry out effective tariff policies and
collection methods and implement improved O&M procedures. The implementation
of financial control mechanisms, an accelerated training program and other
items in the program of management consulting services (para. 5.11), combined
with the recruitment of additional trained staff should substantially reduce
these risks.
7.09      Despite these risks the project deserves Bank support because of
the high priority given by lower income groups in the rural areas of Kenya to
the provision of safe water supplies. MWD has proved to be the only institu-
tion through which the sector can be soundly developed at present on a mean-
ingful scale; since substantial investments are anticipated in the sector, it
is important that these funds be well used, and the benefits of new schemes
materialized as anticipated.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      The following agreements have been reached with the Government:
(i) MWD will create a RWS IV Monitoring Unit by April 30,
1979 (para 4.13);
(ii)  The Government will finance 25% of the project's cost
in addition to custom duties and taxes (para. 4.17);
(iii)  MWD will present to the Bank consultants' selection
and contracts for approval prior to signature of the
contracts (para 4.19);
(iv) qualified accountants will be posted at all provincial
offices of MWD by April 30, 1979 (para. 5.09);



- 22 -
(v)  MF will provide sufficient funds to MWD to meet the
O&M standards of the existing schemes and those to be
taken over (paras. 5.09 and 5.10);
(vi)  the Government will ensure that MWD is provided with
adequate staff and financial resources to carry out any
new development program undertaken by MWD until the proj-
ect is completed;
(vii  by April 1 of each year, MWD will present to the Bank
for approval the yearly project implementation programs
(para. 4.13) and the detailed program of implementation of
management consultant's proposals (para. 5.11);
(viii)  MWD's accounts will be subjected to an independent audit
and the auditor's report will be sent to the Bank within
six months from the end of each fiscal year (para. 5.13);
(ix)  implementation of RWS IV will not be affected by arbitrary
budget cuts based on unrelated considerations (para. 6.10); and
(x)  MWD will introduce two-block tariffs, and will periodically
(but not less than every three years) revise the tariffs
to permit recovery of the O&M expenditures on all the
water supply schemes as a group (para. 6.12).
8.02      It was also agreed that, as a condition of loan effectiveness,
MWD will:
(i)  appoint a Program Coordinator (para. 4.13);
(ii)  appoint a Training Officer (para. 5.06);
(iii) appoint a Cost and Mlanagement Accountant (para.
5.09); and
(iv)  introduce new tariffs acceptable to the Bank
(para. 6.12).
8.03      Bank approval of relevant feasibility studies (para. 4.09) would
be a condition of disbursement.
8.04      The proposed project: is suitable for a US$20 million Bank loan on
standard terms for Kenya.



- 23 -
ANNEX 1
KENYA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
A. Population by Provinces and Population Density
a!         1 9 6 9                1 9 7 5                 1 9 8 0              1 9 8 5
PROVINCE        Land area - ______________ _ __________
km2         Pnpulation  Density   Population  Density  Population  Density   Population   Density
thousand    per km2   thousand   per kmy   thousand   ?er km2    thousand    per km2
Central          13,173           1,676        127        2,C00      152        2,350        178        2,760        209
Nairobi             684             509        745          690   1,000           890     1,300         1,140      1,670
Coast            83,041             944         11        1,140       13        1,360         16        1,600         19
N. Eastern      126,902             246          2          250        2          270          2          280          2
Eastern         154,000           1,907         12        2,250       15        2,620         17        3,040         20
Rift Valley    170,000            2,210         13        2,640       15        3,080        18         3,600         21
Nyanza           12,525           2,122        169        2,630      210        3,130       250         3,780        300
Western           8,223           1,328        162        1,650      200        1,980       240         2,400        290
a=s   =-_          __=           ___n  -  A_____       --       _            ..         _=_ 
TOTAL           569,249          10,943         19       13,250       23       15,680        27        18,600         33
-=s_=_   ,   t   ..              ,_.  _____.              ___  l,_  n        s-- -.. 5- ----  ---
a/ Land only; in addition, water covers 13,300 km2.
B. Population Projection
(thousand)
1970       1975        1980        1985       1990        2000
Urban         1,113       1,499       2,021       2,717      3,643       6,421
Rural        10,134      11,752      13,667      15,888     18,459      24,599
._..S  a. s._se .. ... = _      .      _     _      ---     -----a =      sSsE
TOTAL        11,247      13,251      15,688      18,605     22,102      31,020
5=ns          5    5     usa-Se      ma=-s       e_sin ----= -----se-=s
Sources: Kenya Statistical Abstract 1975
IBRD Population Projections in member countries.
july 1978



- 24 -
ANNEX 2
KENYA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Potential Agricultural Areas
Rural water supply schemes selected for feasibility studies are
categorized by WD's Planning Section into high, medium and low potential
areas devised as follows:
(i)  high-potential agricultural area - covers about 70,000 km2
and is generally characterized by an annual rainfall of
more than 1000 mm. The agricultural potential of the zone
is high, particularly in the highlands; it is characterized
by extended cash crops and intensive livestock husbandry;
(ii)  medium-potential agricultural area - covers about 80,000 km
and is characterized by an annual rainfall of between 500 mm.
and 1000 mm. The zone contains most of the large-scale
mixed farming areas. Important crops are maize, wheat and
barley; in smallholder farming can be found cotton, ground-
nuts and oilseeds; livestock can be kept intensively or on
natural grazing;
2
(iii)  low-potential agricultural area - covers about 420,000 km
is characterized by an annual rainfall of less than 500 mm.
Besides large scale ranching the smallholder farms in this
area are oriented to subsistence crop only. It inclVdes
particularly all of Northern Kenya (about 120,000 km )
where the erratic rainfall is the cause for nomadism.
July 1978



- 25 -                   ANNEX 3
KENYA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
A. Rainfall Distribution in Kenya
Average mm/year       % of Land Area       Average mm/year        % of Land Area
0 - 250                27                750 - 1,000               8
250 - 500                35              1,000 - 1,500               8
500 - 750                18              1,500 - 2,000               2
B.  Drainage Areas
Mean Annual
Thous2nd   % of the        Run-off               % of the
No.  Drainage Area      km      Total Area    millions m3           Total Run-off
I   Lake Victoria      49          8.4            7,290              49
2   Rift Valley       127         21.8              806               5
3   Athi River         70         12.0            1,294               9
4   Tana River        132         22.7            4,700              32
5   Ewaso             205         35.1              740               5
KENYA             583       100             14.830              100
1.        Lake Victoria catchment comprises the whole of the area west of
the Rift Valley draining into Lake Victoria and Lake Kioga by numerous
rivers.
2.        Rift Valley catchment is an area of internal drainage discharging
into Lake Turkana in the North and Lake Natron in the South. Within this
area there are several sub-drainage areas discharging into a number of
smaller lakes.
3.        Athi River catchment comprises the southern part of the country
east of the Rift Valley draining the southern slopes of the Aberdare Range
and the flanks of the Rift Valley to the south to form the Athi River which
in its lower reach is known as Sabaki (or Galana) and discharges into the
Indian Ocean. An important contribution to the flow in the lower reaches
is provided by the Tsavo River.
4.        Tana River catchment drains the eastern slopes of the Aberdare
Range, the southern slopes of Mount Kenya and the Nyambeni Range, and dis-
charges into the Indian Ocean. This is the largest river of Kenya.
5.        Ewaso-Ngiro 1/ catchment comprises the northern slopes of the Aber-
dare Range and Mount Kenya. The river continues to the Lorian Swamp which is
the end of its normal flood flow. In exceptionally wet years the flow conti-
nues up to Somalia.
Source: Water Department
July 1978
1/   In lower reach known as Dera River.



- 26 -                                       ANNEX 4
KENYA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Foreign Financing of Water Development Projects
From 1964 to 1976
A. Urban Water Supply - Loans
Year                         Amount        US $ Million       Financing
Project                                Agreement       Currency       in Million       Equivalent         Agency
Nairobi, Sasumua Dam                      1964           US$              2.2             2.2           US Aid
Mombasa pipeline                          1967           Isr.E            1.0              3.5           Israel
Nairobi water supply                      1970           US$               8.3             8.3           IBRD (714 KE)
Naivasha - Suswa water supply             1970           fStg.           0.47               .2          U.K.
Nakuru water supply & sewerage            1973           DM               4.0              1.5          KfW W. Germany
Kisumu water supply & sewerage            1974           DM              10.0             4.0           KfW W. Germany
Mombasa & costal water supply             1975           US$              35.0            35.0           IBRD (1167 KE)
Mombasa & costal water supply             1975           DM              37.0             14.1           KfW W. Germany
SUBTOTAL                                       68.8
B. Urban Water Supply - Grants
Minor urban water supply                  1974          Norw.Kr.         30.0              5.6          Norad
C.  Rural Water Supply - Loans
Rural Water Supply I-a                1970          Sw.Kr.           18.3             4.2           SIDA
Rural Water Supply II-/               1972          Sw.Kr.           20.0             5.3           SIDA
Isiolo Range & Water Development    1974            Can.$             2.6             2.6           CIDA
SUBTCTAL                                       12.1
D. Rural Water Supply - Grants
Rural Water Supply III                1974          Sw.Kr.          100.0            36.9           SIDA
E. Equipment and other Loans
Vehicles                               1973          Jap.Yen         291.0             1.0           Japan Banks
Drilling equipment                     1974          DM                1.7             0.7           KfW W. Germany
SUBTOTAL                                        1.7
F. Equipment and other - Grants
National Water Master Plan            1974          Sw.Kr.           11.0             4.1           SIDA
Drilling equipment                    1975          DM                1.4             0.5           KfW W. Germany
Drilling equipment                    1976          tStg.            0.85             1.4           U.K.
SUBTOTAL                                        6.0
a/ These two loans were subsequently converted to grants.
Source: Ministry of Finance
July 1978



- 27 -                    ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4
KENYA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Selection of Water Schemes for the RWS IV
1.        The RWS Program is one of the Governmental programs to develop
rural water systems. Within MWD itself the Range and Ranch Water Programs
are providing water to nomads and their cattle. The Ministry of Agriculture
has a livestock water program, which helps supply stock owners. The Ministry
of Lands and Settlement has an extensive settlement program which includes
water supply systems for settlers. In addition, self-help activities with
or without Government's support, are developing new water schemes in many
parts of the country.
2.        Among all these development programs only RWS is not tied to a
specific activity or location and therefore requires definite selection
criteria which would help to establish a degree of priority between poten-
tial schemes. When the RWS Program was introduced (1970) MWD decided that
RWS funds would be distributed equitably to each district to avoid the pos-
sibility of eventual preferential treatment of any particular area or tribe
of the country. The distribution of available funds is based on the number of
population with no improved water supply in each district in 1970, adjusted by
allocations already made under previous RWS stages. Practical implementation
variables such as the influence of the optimal size of the scheme, and unequal
cost-per-head of schemes' technical solutions, make it difficult to adhere to
this principle in each stage. The balancing of inevitable differences between
equal-theoretical and unequal-practical distribution of funds is checked and
corrected in every subsequent RWS stage.
3.        At the district level the selection procedure involves a planning
process where DDCs formulate water supply projects in the districts and select
priorities. Each Committee, chaired by the District Commissioner, comprises
members of the administration, district's heads of Government Departments
and representatives of the population. The project requests from different
communities are channeled to DDCs through Location and Development Commit-
tees. DDCs review project proposals listed with basic non-technical infor-
mation and assign priorities. The procedure of assigning priorities, i.e.,
the selection procedure itself, involves the application of several criteria,
which may be complementary or conflicting. In the end it is a result of an
amalgam of the following economical, social and political factors:
(i) need - replacement of the existing polluted sources or
a reduction the walking distance to the source and
increase in its reliability in dry season are con-
sidered fundamental;



- 28 -                    ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 4
(ii) enthusiasm - the general attitude of the population
and level of contributions to all development proj-
ects in the involved area is given a major importance
in assessing the interest in improved water supply;
(iii) equity - all existing and planned development activi-
ties should be, as much as possible, equally spread
among all areas in a district;
(iv) potential benefits - improved livestock, irrigation
of vegetables, etc., have recently been considered as
a selection parameter in high potential areas, with
well developed agricultural infrastructure;
(v) political influence - some Members of Parliament exer-
cise their right to sit in on DDC meetings and support
the interest of their constituents.
4.        Priorities for Government financed schemes are set according to
districts' development strategies. A project considered important by a
Location Development Committees (or Water Association) may rank low in terms
of district priorities. Therefore a willingness to contribute to the project
in cash or kind has not been used as a determining selection factor; however
the peoples' enthusiasm for a water scheme was given particular emphasis as
the Government did not wish to force schemes on unwilling recipients.
5.        Following the selection process a list of schemes for each district
ranked in order of priority is submitted to WD, which on this basis prepares a
preliminary pre-development study for each scheme. Each study consists of
assessment of present and future population, determination of limits of
supply, assessment of possible water source and cost estimates. Should the
first scheme in the priority list prove unfeasible for technical or financial
reasons a second selection is considered and the proposal is referred back to
the DDC.
6.        The construction cost of RWS IV of about KSh 350 million was pro-
posed by WD in relation to the long-term Program plan; this amount has been
distributed to each district. In the process of the adjustment certain dis-
tricts were found to have had excessive allocations in previous stages namely
Nyeri, Lamu, Embu and Marsabit, 1/ and are excluded from this stage; simi-
larly Machakos district, where rural water supply forms part of a separate
1/   The previously carried out projects showed very high cost parameters,
and therefore Lamu and Marsabit districts were later included in RWS IV
with appropriate allocations.



- 29 -                     ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 4
rural development program, presently under preparation, is excluded. Also
the allocation to all North Eastern Province districts is lower because of
substantial water investment under the Livestock Water Program. The dis-
tribution of RWS IV funds appears at page 4 of this Annex.
7.        The priority selection would be verified during the preparation
of each scheme's feasibility study. 1/ The study would, through preparatory
meetings with involved population, check the determined interest of the
majority of population in the improved water supply, and assess the number
of individual connections for which applicants are prepared to make imme-
diate preliminary financial commitments and for which applicant may be
interested in the future. It would also assist the population in forming
communities interested in CWPs. Finally, the meetings would be used to
explain applicable tariffs, assess the population willingness to pay for
water after the scheme is in operation and agree payment procedures and
suitable collection calendar.
8.        If the study finds the population's attitude to one or more of
these important aspects indifferent or even negative, the further processing
of the preparation would be stopped and the selection reconsidered with DDC's.
The meetings would be held with the local leaders, sub-chiefs, chiefs, assis-
tant district officers, etc., and area population; the meetings would be
arranged by the study's engineer in cooperation with the Public Relations
Officer of WD.
1/   Terms of reference appear at Annex 7.



- 30 -
ANNEX 5
KENYA                                               Page 4 of 4
RIJRAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Distribution of RWS IV Construction Funds
Percent of  RWS I-        Allocation  Corrected   Adjustment    Allocation of          Final
national    I - III       plus cr      allocation  for            KSh.400 million    Adjustment
rural        capital     minus         for RWS IV  negative          KSh. '000
population  allocation                              district
unserved                                  X                      Calculated  Final
in 1970                                                 __
Central
Kiambu              4.5          4.1          -0.4           4.9         4.1          14,350    5,000        1.3
Kirinyaga           2.2          2.9          +0.7           1.5         1.2           4,200    9,000        2.2
Muranga             4.5          3.0          -1.5           6.0         4.9          17,150   21,000        5.2
Nyandarua           1.8          0.4          -1.4           3.2         2.6           9,100   12.000        3.0
Nyeri               3.5          9.8          +6.3          -2.8          -               -     12,000       3.0
16.5        20.2          +3.7           12.8        12.8          44,800   59,000       14.7
Coast
Kilifi              3.0          3.3          +0.3           2.7         2.2           7,700    8,000        2.0
Kwale               2.0          1.8          -0.2           2.2         1.9           6,650    6,500        1.6
Lamu                0.1          1.1          +1.0          -0.9         0.1             350    6,700        1.7
Taita Taveta        1.0          1.0            -            1.0         0.9           3,150    4,000        1.0
Tana River          0.5          0.5            -            0.5         0.4           1,400    1,200        0.3
6.6          7.7          +1.1           5.5         5.5          19,250   26,400        6.6
Eastern
Embu                1.8          4.8          +3.0          -1.2          -              -      10,000       2.5
Isiolo              0.2          0.3          +0.1           0.1         0.1             350    3,600        0.9
Kitui               3.5          3.9          +0.4           3.1         2.9          10,150   19,600        4.9
Machakos            7.1          1.2          -5.9          13.0        12.2          42,700       -          -
Marsabit            0.4          1.0          +0.6          -0.2          -               -      3,050       0.7
Meru                6.1          6.0          -0.1           6.2         5.8          20.300   24,000        5.8
19.1         17.2         -1.9           21.0        21.0          73,500   59,250       14.8
North Eastern
farissa             0.6          0.8          +0.2           0.4                       1,400    1,850        0.5
Mandera             0.9          0.9            -            0.9                       3,150    2,400        0.6
Wajir               0.9          0.1          -0.8           1.7                       5,950    2,400        0.6
2.4         1.8          -0.6            3.0                      10,000    6,650        1.7
Nyanza
Kisii               6.9          5.8          -1.1           8.0                      28,000    30,000       7.5
Kisumu              3.7          4.4          +0.7           3.0                      10,500    15,000       3.8
Siaya               3.9          5.3          +1.4           2.5                       8,750   12,000        3.0
South Nyanza        6.8          6.1          -0.7           7.5                      26,250   27,600        6.8
21.3         21.6          +0.3          21.0                      73,500    84,600      21.1
Rift Valley
RRrin,O             1.6          1.5          -0.1           1.7                       5,050    1,70n        0.0
Elgeyo Marakwet    1.6           1.1          -0.5           2.1                       7,350    6,700        1.7
L'a(iAdo            0.8          0,7          -0.1           0.9                       3,150    2,400        8.6
Kericho             4.9          6.4          -1.5           3.4                      11,900   45,300       11.3
Laikipia            0.5          0.1          -0.4           0.9                       3,150   12,000        3.0
Nakuru              2.2          0.7          -1.5           3.7                      12,950    8,700        2.2
Nandi               2.1          1.8          -0.3           2.4                       8,400    9,900        2.5
Narok               1.2          0.8          -0.4           1.6                       5,600    1,200        0.3
Samburu             0.6          1.1          +0.5           0.1                         350    3,000        0.8
Trans Nzoia         1.1          0.4          -0.7           1.8                       6,300    9,000        2.2
Turkans             1.5          0.8          -0.7           2.2                       7,700    7,300        1.8
Uasin Gishu         1.8          1.1          -0.7           2.5                       8,750    9,200        2.3
West Pokot          o.e          1.5          +0.7           0.1                          350    1.200       0.3
20.7         18.0          -2.7          23.4                      81,900  119,600       29.9
Western
Bungoma             3.4          6.2          +2.8           0.6                       2,100    3,000        0.7
Busia               2.0          1.3          -0.7           2.7                       9,450   11,000        2.8
Kakamega            8.0          6.0          -2.0          10.0                       35,000   30,500       7.7
13.4         13.5          +0.1          13.3                      46,550   44,500       11.2
Source: Water Department
July 1978



-31 -
AWNE 6
WEAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Llt.t of atter Schee
~ISTRICT                SCHEME                 GEnERAL imOWITEI mPOtENTIAL -                              ESTIMATES PPULATI00        WATER 02E1AND      POSSIBLE W&TER SOURCE        COOT ESTTEOTS-
e'/.Say                            100~~~~~KS  1000
1977             2000      1977    2000
C-t-oo  Proince
Iteob,,           ~~Batho ItI           SgE5  I inRtdee dcc cUd tRet-           0                   17,000         26,000      Boo    1,500       Oct61 River                       5,500
nt, Stage II abo- 201 of tho
fe1aS .ohece  dleOnbatOs
Klrivpyog.               Ococt                 Sta"  I inoloda  Intake ae  ehon        E                   15,000         23,000      600    1,000       S-tfece  mir0 000
SOT o,f the fOcl sha
Moreoco           ~~Kig-  10            Stag  I  ,ioIdoe intake, Stoat 00    i                      00,000          27,000      900    1,400      So-fe- oce                         .500
Ehont 201 of td. Steal ohecee
diettlb.tioc cyct
Reandaro                Kitten p-             Too  ..horehoOccict,  oRt  to            n                   01,000         16,000      500    1,000      Groud  ctet                      13 DO0
ociocehc-I.no,ot   hr drille.:.
tilifi                   8-b.h-Vitengc1       Oche    oy.toitaioo
nor to Ottoogosot Eooottoo.  N8,000                         12,000      Oat cet.           Not idat-ifi.d                      50
Cote ...olghb-tio  Io-titOt Bach..                           0                    5,000           t.000     Oat -e.            Not Idn-otltd                     3 50
Koc1e                    KiAo...i             Co.t. tOo   f c dc for tho               0                  16,000          Sot eel.   Sot ect.            Rot id-oiftld                    3 500
Lea                      Lcho totYaLtt  1      Sottiesett ..b-e, Stago I              0                     6,000          9,000      250      000      Lce Eroyatto,                     6 000
dltltioe,t   -yct      -d
Tato tIvot               DtAo..               StbhMe    f-to  village end tde          L                      500          1,000       25       50       Sot ide.tified                   1 300
einR  it dry pettod.
Ki-i                     Mettoysol II          Otege I toecdcc, t-eot and    5                            10,000          15,000      500    9000         trfcco wate                    12 000
ehoot 501 of n   final -oh-'.
licreablo  DorAcca           Ott~~1t4 tr xtilhfe   d o.de            L                      200           1,500       35    100        Sholowwel1I 0
Ged-a                 St.b-. Ln for villaga ad onde          L                      600           2,000       45    100        G-ood valt-                         800
ocdiitcLn dr period.
al.th.               Sth    Lc for village end ode           L                       200          1,500       28      75        Shallow  wIts                    I  00
tecto to dry period.
Holgsbo               Oh IeSovill.ge cod ude                 L.                    1,000          1.500   Oat .tet-ctd         Sot ideotitted                    1,300
toning in dry period.
OardeElo             Sthe  O  for vilEac  cd ,,de            I.                    1,E00          1,500   SoS .ceit.td          Eolo-it   -horhlo                  000
tinv to dry perid.
Mavdeva           ~~Taab.               S.he.e1ft.. Jill-aAelj  tmde             L                    1,000          1,500      25       60       Not  ido-iftfld                     330
D-me                 sthev  J. for vIlage and to-do          L.                      500          1.000   Sot -a -tttd         Not idattifted                   1 300
aecic  to doy pe-ld.
oajlr             tlao~.daki            Soha  L. tor village cci.ede             L                      500          1.000   Not ctteitd           Sot idortifiod                  1 300
0.106g in dry penidi.
thovtf ra R            thece Is to illag   Ro  neda           L.                     500          1,000     25        50        Shallow wells                   1 30
t_iv   to dry perid.
Rvenca P-oo..t
Soot  NY...c             Mioogi XdiAtr        Sthe in tar viIlag  end ou-                                   6,600         10,000   270        560        trood wae                          500
Mcct got-            Stare I and 00 twa  i.ltta,              H                   Plod  Stage
rh.apo III           tra-t  ed pert ef diotribo-                                 12,000          18.000   350        700        Lak, 0Vi-toli                      500
Ilgeyt Starcwet  l.o               tvEtel... o-f coistleg eYet            o                    2,000           5,000         00     230      Gtocd oueI 300
laftiNAs           aoN   t 1            it0g  I mniciec ineaM.,                                    15,000           25,000       600   1.200tura-          u- o                  12 030
trecust -d 61 ef dl~ib.tihSl
Nakaro            leheN"ti                     to-   e.. A vtllep      on0-                        10,000           15.000       600      750      Sot idoLittO.d                 6.500
sbk"            S'_oy   t  fee a vItLag   ci           0                    3,000            5,000      tOO       250     Not idootif ted                 1 600
3~~l         Re.a-Na,WareA         Syfl4 to Ear e vlbeg  end              S10,000                              15,000       400      800     Sot Idetifttd                   6 500
r  Towes-Seato                n1~~~~~~i          SyoS-  i. for a        enemt                               16,000           24,000       640   1,200       Sot ideotifiod                10 900
ySetin             ce~Kw                Sol_c  le far villge  -d  -sdi    L,                         1,000           2,500        60      125      Shel1by ooll                   I  530
alas, En ivy perid.
Earto Villa".c        Sob       f.c to   ilag   cad vade     L                    1,500           2,000         60     125      tot idr.ttifid                 I 330
-tent in dry period.
L.kitcooa             sthee  is for  .lgecd o.ada    L.                           5,000            7,600       200     400      Sot idootifled                 2.8000
ceitt  ES dry period.
Neucak                irhootic for oljjaga cod oondo    L                           200              500        00      15      Sha11oo oc11t                  1,300
coio  to dy period.
EoooonO         Songem   oral I       Sta I  I   -oet  ittabe  tHaco                               5,000           8,000      200       400      to-fa-   ae                     .0
cod per of dti-ittb-iw  eyet-
Mbcle Ill             Otcgoe I Vnd 01  -oo  i.ttkh,
-ttctet end nib lOo-e:                 H                      Boo            1,200       36        70     Ednav  Ether                      600
;--tc:14.eItt-; 0' T- a  ~P--ette  Afa
21 Coet cebEeit Jaoost  1979 Prt..c
O   Wrt  Ota  Bopartflot
J.t, 1370



- 32 -                     ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
RURML WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Terms of Reference of Feasibility Studies
The selection of water schemes is based on priorities made by the
Provincial and District Development Committees. The Water Department pro-
vides at this stage reconnaissance/desk studies, identifies area of supply
and prepares preliminary cost estimates. The consultants will receive this
overall introduction together with the terms of reference before commencing
the study. The consultants will work in close cooperation with the Water
Department staff. Chapter 3, in particular, will be finalized only after
it is approved in draft by the Planning Section.
Chapter 1       Background Information
1.   Geographic Background:  area, topography, climate, geology,
hydrology, etc.
2.   Population Assessment:  present population, expected growth
rate, future and ultimate population, land carrying capacity,
centres, institutions.
3.   Economic Background:  major crops, livestock, industries,
crafts and wage employment, cash income, seasonal pattern of
cash availability, etc.
4.   Potential for Economic Development:  existence of cooperative,
caliber of extension agents, availability of credit (including
credit for individual connections) existence of progressive farm-
ers, existence of development projects, self-help activities, etc.
5.   Existing Water Facilities:  traditional sources and existing
water works (with maps and drawings) sources, structures, number
of individual connections, number of stand pipes, pipelines, water
quality, total production, consumption and leakage, population
served by the various sources, etc.).
6.   Existing Demand Patterns:  peak demand, walking distances to
sources, water use at the source including livestock consump-
tion, amounts carried home, existence of water carriers and
their tariffs, consumption of institutional consumers, etc.
7.   Existing Water OrganiLzations:  operation and maintenance pro-
cedures, manpower situation and requirements, breakdown of
direct cost of service, present water tariffs, billing pro-
cedures and financial results over the past three years, list
of major assets (original and depreciated value).
8.   Existing Sanitation and Hygiene:  type of sanitation in
residential and institutional premises, general health
level, incidence or water-borne disease, proposals for
improvements to achieve minimum sanitation standards in
conjunction with the proposed water supply, etc.



_ 33 -                     ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
Chapter 2      Marketing Study (will be done in cooperation with the
Water Department and supported by local meetings with
the leaders and future users)
1.   Willingness to Pay:  past and present revenue collection record,
and assessment of the population preparedness to commit funds at
time of meetings.
2.   Proposed Strategy:  analysis and acceptance by the users of
proposed standard of service, proposed tariffs, proposed
revenue collection procedures and enforcement measures.
3.   Demand Forecast:  verification with the users of forecast
for periods of 5, 10, 15 and 20 years by consumer category
and type of use for the proposed standard of service.
Chapter 3      Proposed Project
1.   Existing Facilities:  proposals for improving and upgrading
existing water supply facilities, to optimize their use, and
reduce wastage and leakage.
2.   Alternative Sources:  identification and evaluation of exist-
ing and alternative future water sources, with due regard to
appropriate technology, time estimates for their development,
recommended investigations, surveys and measurements (with
detailed time and cost estimates).
3.   Project Description:  based on the results and data for the
least cost solution as obtained in previous investigations, 1/
alternative of phasing, construction schedule and cost analy-
sis, exact definition of supply area, etc.
4.   Operation and Maintenance:  detailed description of satisfac-
tory operation and maintenance procedures with cost estimates
and additional staffing requirements in all categories, level
of inventory, type of transport, etc.
5.   Financial Projections:  year by year projections consisting of
source and application of funds, income statements and balance
sheets and extending at least two years after expected completion
of the water scheme with all supporting assumptions (water pro-
duced and sold, expected tariffs, consumption of fuel, etc.).
6.   Average Incremental Cost:  will be calculated on the basis of
the above projections of costs and water consumption.
1/   A separate preliminary report may be required if extended field inves-
tigations would be expected.
July 1978



- 34 -                     ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 4
KENYA
RURALI WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Design Procedures and Main Design Guidelines
1.        The Project's engineering preparation would require two principal
changes from present routines. The first change concerns the feasibility
studies. The old format of the feasibility studies was very simple, mainly
descriptive. The feasibility studies required for the Project would be more
extensive, and much more detailed in hydrology and hydrogeology for select-
ing a water source; besides technical aspects of proposed least cost solution
they would analyze the economic background of population. Through promotion/
marketing investigation they would also assess the
population requirements concerning supply standards and willingness to pay
for water during system's operation. The terms of reference of feasibility
studies are shown in Annex 7. The second change concerns the stages of design
preparation. The designs were previously prepared in preliminary and detailed
design stages, where the preliminary design, based on the feasibility study
of the old type, was expected to analyze possible technical alternatives and
recommend, and often include, additional investigations concerning hydrology,
hydrogeology, soil conditions, surveying and mapping, chemical analysis and
others. The detailed design was then prepared for a selected alternative.
The new design documentation would require the investigations and evaluation
of possible alternatives, all to be prepared in the stage of the feasibility
study except, probably, the surveying. The detailed design could proceed
immediately after the feasibility study of the scheme is approved. The sur-
vey, if required, should be made during the detailed design. In particular
cases, when extended field investigations would be required, a feasibility
study may be split into a preliminary report consisting mainly of a descrip-
tive part and a final report, which would describe the proposed scheme's
solution on the basis of detaiLed investigations. Also, in cases when a
need is substantiated, particularly in schemes with complicated distribution
systems, a preliminary design analyzing possible alternatives to a bigger
detail may be prepared. WD would decide on the preparation of design in each
case during the feasibility study stage. Schemes with advanced technical
documentation could continue with further processing only after the analysis
of population's economical background and investigation of required standard
of service and population's willingness to pay for water during scheme's
operation would be completed and approved.
2.        The schemes' studies and design would be prepared by WD's Plan-
ning and Design Division either through department forces or through employ-
ment of firms of consulting engineers. The preparation and/or approval of
feasibility studies is a responsibility of the Planning Section of the



- 35 -                     ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 4
Division, while all design stages are a responsibility of the Design Section.
In principle, both sections would concentrate the departmental forces on
execution of smaller schemes particularly those planned to be constructed
by departmental direct labor' (force account); therefore these studies and
designs would be simplified. The design would consist of a short report,
drawings, list of materials and costs estimate but would not include specifi-
cations and bills of quantities. Feasibility studies and the design of major
schemes would be prepared by firms of consultants.
3.        WD requires each consultant to be registered, which entails a
local operative office, appropriate staff, experience and a registration
of one employee as a qualified engineer under the Water Act by the Water
Appointment Board. The Division provides regular monthly supervision of
consultants' design progress, during which it advises on design and approves
particular design decisions.
4.        All studies and designs prepared either by WD or by consultants
would follow the design guidelines 1/ containing compulsory instructions,
recommendations and other technical data, calculation diagrams and check-
lists of investigation activities. The compulsory instructions concern
primarily population projections, consumption rates and variation, water
quality, service pressure, and design periods. Possible deviations from
these instructions and parameters should be approved in each case by WD.
5.        The values of design parameters are related to the agricultural
potential quality of the scheme's location, i.e. to the economical position
of population. For the purpose of determining which design parameters are
applicable in a particular scheme, the scheme first has to be categorized
by WD into one of the potential agricultural areas shown in Annex 2.
6.        The design guidelines comprise the following compulsory design
of rural water systems:
(i) population projection - should wherever possible be based
on physical development plans. Where no such plans exist
the following growth rates are applicable: 2% per annum
in low, 3% in medium and 4% in high potential area.
(ii) consumption rates - population and livestock in a design
area is supplied by individual connections (IC), CWP,
kiosks, and cattle troughs. The following basic consump-
tion rates are to be used:
1/   WD's Design Manual.



ANNEX 8
- 36 -                    Page  3 of 4
Type of Consumption           Unit                Design Quantity
Individual Connection
Persons           litres/person/day                 50
Grade cattle      litres/livestock unit/day         75
CWP/Kiosks
Persons           litres/person/day                 25
Grade cattle      litres/livestock unit/day         50
The number of population expected to use water from the
system, and the number of ICs and CWPs would be assessed
through detailed investigation of consumers in the sup-
plied area during the feasibility study stage. However,
the following general principles should be considered.
CWP should not serve more than about 250 persons per
tap; the walking distance to CWP should be maximum
1 km in high and 3 km in medium potential areas;
minimum distance between CWP should be about 0.5 km;
no CWP should be located within the market or rural
center.
(iii) consumption variation and storage - the peak factor for
areas served by ICs varies between 1.8 and 10 for popu-
lation between 2000 and 10. The factor may be reduced
where individual storage is provided. For bigger number
of population the design would investigate and demon-
strate the suitability of the factor used. CWP and
kiosks should be designed for 12 hours continuous flow
of 10 1/minute for each tap. The overall storage vol-
ume would balance only peak variations; no provision
would be made for the system's breakdowns or for fire
fighting.
(iv)  water quality - the physical and chemical quality is
recommended to be at least in accordance with maximum
permissible levels published by WHO. 1/ Where it is
economically impracticable to supply water to the
consumers through a piped distribution network and
where reliance has to be placed on individual wells,
1/   International Standards for Drinking Water; World Health Organiza-
tion, Geneva 1971.



- 37 -                   ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 4
bores and springs, the standards may not be attainable.
From a bacteriological point of view, everything possible
should be done to prevent pollution of the water particu-
larly by proper protection of sources. When surface
water, treated or untreated, from an unprotected river,
reservoir or lake is used as a source of supply it should
be disinfected, preferably by chlorine.
(v) service pressure - should not exceed 6 kg/cm2, except
where undulating terrain makes it necessary to allow up
to 15 kg/cm2. A minimum pressure of 1 kg/cm2 should be
maintained during peak conditions.
(vi) design period - recommended to be 20 years (ultimate
demand); structures such as treatment plant and reser-
voirs, and also trunk mains could be in bigger schemes
designed for a shorter period, preferably for 10
years (future demand). Economic consideration should
form the basis for feasible phasing of the implementa-
tion.
7.        A number of technical parameters, procedures, ways of calculation
of particular parts of the water system, selection of construction material,
etc., are recommended by WD and included in its Design Manual; repeated
structures as storage tanks (size from 10 to 100 m3), CWPs, valve chambers,
fences and gates, staff houses, office-stores, septic tanks, etc. were also
prepared by WD in form of typical drawings and both the drawings and the
Design Manual would be used by the design engineers in the process of design.
Starting from the RWs IV Program the design engineers would also discontinue
the current practice of using different national standards and change to
standards of the International Standards Organization (ISO). Any deviation
from this new practice would have to be approved by WD.
July 1978



38 -
KENYA                                                               ANNEX '
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1978/79          1979/80           1980/81           1981/82      |     1982/83          1983/84
I I II IIIj IV  -I       I  I IV      I IIJ                              IF    IIIV  -]73RHi iv  j  I I I
Matinyani                  'M m I Ia  sIi I I I I I                                                       _   _-
Bamba-Vitengeni            - WIm II __aaaWaas                                                       -         M__
Marmanet            _          A     mmmiii  mmmiii I          W_
Kargung-Kapkorok                              mmmm_. laa a  a v___                                                           _
Naivasha-Longonot                  v.a e  sammli l l         :-                                                         - L
Bungoma Rural I                    raiii I i                    _                         _
Ganze                               r _    mum         i  A          _                             _  _ 
Kikoneni                           '_        *mmmmmmmmmPt{         ,                               _  -  a
Wanguru                                 m_   mummmmmu   _ -                                              -          _
Mbale III                          '        a mIiIVA        i
Mirogi Ndhiva                         _      Iimmmmisrll c    _                   - ,
Kigumo                                      1     iiii m,I I                                                    - _
Lake Kenyatta                               V          iiJiiiis  iisii ie _
Gedoma                                      _      Imwi n I I I I I z  5   -  _  _
Takaba                                       _t_lJlov a aa.aaYz    
Wardeglo                                    L__mii           l s  a
Lekwa                                       L    _ a  s.    a  mmmiil
Subukia                                     _d_Imip'. m m i i               _
Durkana                                     1inr'w.          1 mmiii.
Hulugho                                     PI'dU .iUiP' miii   _ _
Khorof Harrar                                 rAI  IJ I I I I * I i  _
Cherangani                                  Fr        mimmA       mi iANIF1ar1 2
Kakuma                                                     _aaa                   _
West Karachuonyo III                                  w     a mm i   i          x_                                    _  _  _  
Kerio Village                                        -     __    iiii.ii'.W4UP 
Lokitaurng                                                     mm_ I I I I a a a v 'A     O ^
Namadak                                                     . _
Kalacha                                                          _ "||w'                            _
Handaki                                     i                           mii a a_
Damasa                                                         r_      **samong        - -  
Dukanotu                                                            au mJmi.-
Bathi III                                                     1WA_  111101C - -  -  -         _-__-
Bahati                                                        i    _i  mm... m .. m_.m
Key
-A_      Feasbility Study                            Construction
mIImima  Design                             m  M E  Maintenance
PWIAVAA Tendering                                                                       World Bank -19124



- 39 -
KENYA                      ANNEX 10
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Schedule of Presentation of Feasibility Studies and Detailed Design
Date by which Feasibility
Study is to be furnished                Name/Location
to the Bank                             of Water Scheme
December 1, 1978                        1.   Matinyani
2.   Bamba-Vitengeni
March 1, 1979                           3.   Marmanet
4.   Kargung-Kapkorok
July 1, 1979                            5.   Naivasha-Longonot
6.   Bungoma Rural
7.   Wanguru
December 1, 1979                        8.   Mirogi Ndhiwa
January 1, 1980                         9.   Kigumo
10.   Lake Kenyatta
March 1, 1980                          11.   Cherangani
July 1, 1980                           12.   West Karachuonyo
January 1, 1981                        13.   Bathi III
March 1, 1981                          14.   Bahati
Date by which Feasibility
Study and Detailed Design are
to be furnished to the Bank
March 1, 1979                           1.   Mbale III
March 1, 1980                           2.   Ganze
3.   Kikoneni
July 1, 1980                            4.   Gedoma
5.   Takaba
6.   Wardeglo
7.   Lekwa
8.   Subukia
9.   Durkana
10.   Hulugho
11.   Khorof Harrar
January 1, 1981                        12.   Kakuma
13.   Kerio Village
14.   Lokitaung
15.   Namadak
July 1, 1981                           16.   Kalacha
17.   Handaki
18.   Damasa
19.   Dukanotu



-40 -                       ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
RWS IV Monitoring Unit
1.        The implementation of the Program would be a complicated task,
considering the number of water schemes (65), the different procurement
regulations of the various financing agencies, total financial volume and
given implementation period of five years. RWS IV is now at a preliminary
stage of preparation and MWA) would require for its orderly implementation the
elaboration of detailed annual plans and close monitoring devices.
2.        The monitoring system would be set up by the RWS IV Monitoring
Unit (MU) and use one of the modern planning techniques; MU would be headed
by the Program Coordinator responsible to the Deputy Director-Development,
and would have direct contacts with all WD's Divisions and Sections involved
in RWS IV implementation; it would have no direct management authority.
3.        Monitoring of RWS IV is understood to consist of the continuing
assembly and analysis of information which would:
(i) allow coordinatiorn of RWS IV activities in different
sections of WD;
(ii) facilitate operational decisions by WD's management
at all levels;
(iii) allow comparison of actual and predicted RWS IV per-
formance;
(iv) keep MWD and financing agencies informed of RWS IV
progress; and
(v) allow coordination of different financing and procure-
ment requirements of aid agencies.
4.        The methodology for collecting, analyzing and presenting monitoring
data to WD's management would be the responsibility of MU. The selection of
techniques and parameters should be guided by the following aspects:
(i) monitoring data must be available on time and with
sufficient frequency to assist management in coor-
dinating and running RWS IV;



ANNEX 11
- 41 -                     Page 2 of 2
(ii)  analysis of data and reporting to WD management should
be a simple routine operation, preferably made by a
computer; and
(iii)  user and purpose of any collected and reported infor-
mation should be clearly defined in advance.
5.        The design of data collection for RWS IV monitoring should recognize,
that the principal objective is coordination of mutual timing of:
(i) preparation of schemes' feasibility studies;
(ii)  water sources investigation;
(iii)  preparation of market studies;
(iv)  preparation of design by consultants and WD;
(v)  tendering procedures;
(vi)  construction by contractors and by WD; and
(vii)  procurement of material for construction and strength-
ening of operation and maintenance capacities in
Provinces.
6.        The annual plan should form a basis for preparation of the budget
in appropriate heads for a particular financial year and should help WD to
reduce the mid-year budget variations to a minimum. It should also initiate
timely preparation of trained manpower for operation and maintenance of com-
pleted schemes.
July 1978



- 42-                      ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
RUALk WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
MINISTRY OF WATER DEVELOPMENT
Job Description - Public Rclations Officer
Background
1.        The public relations officer should have at least a B.A. in socio-
logy or economy, preferably in both. He should have at least five years ex-
perience in the field of rural development in Kenya including close contact
with the rural population.
Scope of Work
2.        The office of the public relations officer would be located in
Nairobi but the job would require frequent field visits. He would be part
of the Operation and Maintenance Division of the Water Department but would
have numerous working contacts with the Development Division.
3.        The public relations officer would be responsible for marketing
and promoting MWD services and for establishing satisfactory relationships
with consumers on rural water supply schemes.
4.        The public relations officer should be in close contact with con-
sultants from the preliminary investigations up to the feasibility study
for all projects. He should brief, advise and support them with regard to
the marketing aspects of the study and should give his final clearance to
the marketing chapter of the feasibility study. Detailed actions would
include:
(i) issuing updated guidelines for co'summer relations studies;
(ii)  participating in the dialogue with consumers (meeting
with chiefs and subchiefs, barazas, individual inter-
views, etc.);
(iii) explaining MWD tariff policies and revenue collection
procedures to the consultants and reviewing their
proposals before they are submitted to the con-
sumer.



-43 -                      ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
5.        The public relations officer would be responsible for encouraging
sound water consumption for domestic use as well as for commercial use -
specific tasks could include:
(i) initiation of health campaigns specifically geared
to basic hygiene in relations to water use; and
(ii) initiation of projects using piped water such as
grade cattle breeding, etc.
July 1978



- 44 -                     ANNEX 13
KENYA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Prolect Costs Estimate
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total
----KSh million----   ----US$ million----
1.   Water schemes:  materials
and construction
Equipment, Pipes and Specials    14         68      82     1.7    8.5   10.2
Civil Works                        40       15      55     4.9    1.9    6.8
2.   Engineering
Feasibility Studies & Design        6        4      10     0.7    0.5    1.2
Supervision of Construction         4        2       6     0.5    0.3    0.8
Preparation of RWS V                 1       2       3     0.1    0.3    0.4
3.   Strengthening MWD
O&M Equipment                       1        5       6     0.1    0.7    0.8
Training School Equipment:           1       3       4     0.1    0.4    0.5
Direct Labor Equipment               1       4       5     0.1    0.6    0.7
Buildings                           1        1       2     0.1    0.1    0.2
4.   Technical Assistance
Management Consultancy Services   1          3       4     0.2    0.4    0.6
Sub-total                     70     107    177      8.5   13.7   22.2
5.   Contingencies
Physical                           11       13     24      1.4    1.7    3.1
Price Increase                     14       29     43      1.9    3.3    5.2
Total Expected Cost
of the Project
(i)  including taxes         95      149    244    11.8   18.7   30.5
(ii)  net of taxes            65      149    214      8.1   18.7   26.8
July 1978



- 45 -
KENYA                                       ANNEX 14
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Phasing of Expenditures 1/
(in KSh million)
1978/79     1979/80      1980/81      1981/82      1982/83     1983/84      Total
1. Schemes Construction
Pipes and equipment; Base Costs                                      13.0        36.5         24.4          8.1        82.0
Physical Contingencies                                                2.0         5.5          3.6          1.2        12.3
Price Increase                                                        2.3         9.7          8.6          2.9        23.5
Sub-total                                                      17.3         51.7         36.6         12.2      117.8
Civil Works; Base Costs                                               8.6        24.4         16.3          5.4       54.7
Physical Contingencies                                                1.3         3.6          2.5          0.8        8.2
Price Increase                                                        1.3         5.3          5.1          1.7       13.4
Sub-total                                                      11.2         33.3         23.9          7.9       76.3
2. Engitteving
Feasibility Studies and Design              1.4          5.0          2.9         0.5           -                       9.3
Supervision of construction                  -            -           0.9         3.1          1.8          0.5         6.3
Base Costs                                  1.4          5.0          3.8         3.6          1.8          0.5       16.1
Physical Contingencies                      0.2          0.7         0.6          0.5          0.3          0.1        2.4
Price Increase                               -           0.4         0.6          0.9          0.6          0.2        2.7
Sub-total                              1.6         6.1          5.0          0.5          2.7         0.8        21.2
Preparation of RWS 7;  Base Costs                        1.5          1.7                                              3.2
Price Increase                                           0.1         0.3                                               0.4
Sub-total                                           1.6         2.0                                               3.6
3. Strengthening MWD
061 equipment                                            3.0          3.0                                              6.0
Training School equipment                                2.0          2.0                                              4.0
Direct Labor equiptent                                   2.5          2.5                                              5.0
Base Costs                                               7.5         7.5                                              15.0
Physical Contingencies                                   0.7         0.7                                               1.4
Price Increase                                           0.5          1.0                                              1.5
Sub-total                                          8.7          9.2                                              17.1
Provincial and Training School
Buildings; Base Costs                                  1.0         1.0                                               2.0
Physical Contingencies                                   0.2         0.2                                               0.4
Price Increase                                           0.1         0.3                                               Q.4
Sub-total                                           1.3         1.5                                               2.8
4. Technical Assistance
Management Consultancy Services             2.5          2.3                                                           4.8
Price Increase                               -           0.2                                                           0.2
Sub-total                              2.5         2.5                                                           5.0
TOTAL                                  4.1        20.2         46.2         9-0        63.2         20.9      244.6
1/ Base Costs in January 1979 prices.
PriCe Increase Assumptions
1979      1980       1981      1982       1983
Price increases on:
(i) civil works %                     7.5        7         7          7         7
(ii) aquipment  7.                     6.5        6         6          6         6
Annual price increase factors for    1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84
(i) civil works                      0.075       0.15      0.23       0.31      0.31
(ii) equipment                        0.065       0.13      0.19       0.27      0.27
Annual price increase factors for financial years are calculated by compounding the
rates of price increase in prior calendar years.
July 1978



- 46 -                     ANNEX 15
KENYA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year               Disbursement           Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                 During Quarter             at end of Quarter           _
 ---__- -US$ thousand-----------------
1979/80
September 30, 1979                   200                          200                  1
December 31, 1979                    300                          500                  3
March 31, 1980                       300                          800                  4
June 30, 1980                        300                        1,100                  5
1980/81
September 30, 1980                   700                        1,800                  9
December 31, 1980                    700                        2,500                 12
March 31, 1981                       700                        3,200                 16
June 30, 1981                        800                        4,000                 20
1981/82
September 30, 1981                1,400                         5,400                 27
December 31, 1981                 1,400                         6,800                 34
March 31, 1982                     1,400                        8,200                 41
June 30, 1982                     1,500                         9,700                 49
1982/83
September 30, 1982                1,500                        11,200                56
December 31, 1982                  1,500                       12,700                 64
March 31, 1983                     1,500                       14,200                 71
June 30, 1983                     1,500                        15,700                 78
1983/84
September 30, 1983                   850                       16,550                 83
December 31, 1983                    850                       17,400                 87
March 31, 1984                       850                       18,250                 91
June 30, 1984                        850                       19,100                 95
1984/85
September 30, 1984                   450                       19,550                 97
December 31, 1984                     -                        19,550                 97
March 31, 1985                        -                        19,550                 97
June 30, 1985                        450                       20,000                100
July 1978



00- 
0'l        t!C
>0                   If        
zo                |d                 * 
iS~~~~~~~ 0 0 0



- 48 -
KENYA
RURAL WAITER SUPPLY PROJECT
Proposed Organizational Chart of the Ministry of Water Development                                                     ANNEX 17
Z     MINISTER
ASSISTANT I-ITFTL~~~~~~~~                  ASSISTANT MINISTER~
17~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                         -                        -3-i
r-IAE RTASSN  C| EFA DEEL T OP                      TIG^.IOENT
|  1E  F', -&  OI TORINGASS MAINTENA CE ENGIPE R                                                                     WATER RESOURCES ENGINEER            DEPUTY SECRETARY
TEAS OF FINANCIAL                                                                   LE IAL  MECHANICAL                     HEAD OF                    PEAS OF MANPOWER
PROGRAMMINGB& RUDGETING      DEVELOPMENT ENGINEERF             MAINTENANC ENCI                                          GROUNDWATER SERVICES           PLANNING & DEVELOPMENT
PLANNINGh MONITORING  |        DESIGN ENGINEER                                      ,ELECTRICAL& MECHANICAL                 READ OF                      PRINCIAO
SENIOR URBAN WATER h                                          STATIC PLANT              READ OF WATER QUALITY  I
SEWAGE DESIGN ENGIN                                              ENGINEER                             CONTROL            CHIEF SUPPLIES EFFICER
SENIOR RURAL WATERIPICPAFNN
DESIGN ENGINEER                                     d   TRANSPORT MANAGER           HEAD OF WATER RES URCES            PRINCIPAL FINANCES
SENIOR SURVEYOR                                         WORKSHOPS MANAGER                                                 CHIEF ACCOUNTANT
PLANNING A APPRLISNAL    _    SENIOR DRAUGHTSMAN
CONSTRUCTION ENGINEER                                                                                                         AINISTRATIO 
CONTRACTS ENGINEER
DIRECT LABOR ENGINEER
PROVINCIAL ENGINEER
| NYANTA   |     :WESTERN         CENTRAL           EASTERN         RIFT VALLEY        N EASTERN  |           I=k Il
PROVINCIALAOMINISTRATIOI     |     PROVINCIAL WORKS
MANAGER                     SUPERINTENDENT
PROVINCIAL              | PROVINCIAL TERNICAL|
ACCOUNTANT    J              SERVICES OFFICER
SPROVINCIAL                     PROVINCIAL
PERSONNELOFFICER j             TRANSPORTDFFCER
PROVINCIAL                     PROVINCIAL
G SUPPLIES OFFICER    I   |  WORKSROP MANAGER                                                        BWED ReE - 19125



- 49 -                     ANNEX 18
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Monitoring Guidelines
In view of the particular nature of this project, the usual public
utilities indicators do not always apply. Project supervision will concen-
trate on: (i) construction of schemes financed under the proposed loan;
(ii) Operation and Maintenance of existing schemes; (iii) accounts and
finance; (iv) training of staff; and (v) progress of institutional reform.
1.        Construction of Project
a.   Evaluation of actual progress against planned targets (Annex 9
provides the project implementation schedule).
b.   Comparison of schemes costs (those used for appraisal purposes
are at Annex 6) with actuals.
2.        Operation and Maintenance
a.   Review of schemes with serious O&M difficulties (i.e. quality
or reliability of supply).
b.   Classification of such schemes by Province, and by cause of
failures (staff, lack of spare parts, lack of supervision, etc.).
c.   For these schemes, comparison of budget and actual expenditures.
d.   Progress in metering.
3.        Accounts and Finance
a.   District by District review of revenue due and actual collections.
b.   Review of adequacy of funds provided for O&M against O&M standards.
c.   Progress in preparation of costing system.
4.        Training
a.   Staff under training will be monitored annually under the following
headings: (i) Engineers; (ii) Technicians; (iii) Craftsmen; and
(iv) Accounts and administrative staff.
b.   Progress in Kenyanization against targets.



ANNEX 18
- 50 -                      Page  2 of 2
5.        Organization Reform
a.   Review of the performance of the manageilent. conzt.t't  agai-^t
agreed work program,.
b.   Review of program over the next year, a,nd coi*parison with initbi
program.
c.   Review of impact of consultancy services on MWD's performance.
July 1978



- 51                                           ANNEX 19
- KENYA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Ministry of Water Development
Capital Budgets
(K6 Thousands)
Actual                     Forward Budget (1977)
Year Ending June 30                          1975    1976      1977      1978        1979      1980      1981
Headquarters, Provincial and District
Offices                                    485      536       362       905       1,450    1,675    1,700
Rural Water Supplies
House Allowances, RWS                                17        20        22          23        23       23
Planning Design and Research RWS
I, II, III and IV                      362       190       400      410         650       650       650
Transport                                   30       43        50        50         148      170       200
Plant and Equipment                          5        -         5        39         105       120      140
Construction of Buildings                   -         -        -         -           -         -        -
RWS I                                      115      103        72        70          80        -        -
RWS II                                  1,068    1,220        185       200         197        10       -
RWS III                                    500    1,624    3,800    2,650         2,207    3,408    1,443
RWS IV                                      -        -         -        475         275    1,850    4,200
Construction of Water Supplies
(Settlement)                           162       262       160      100         200       200       200
Subtotal                             2,242              4,692    4,016        3,S85    6431    6,856
Water Supply for Livestock Development   1,003    1,285    1,017    1,556            3,190    2,105    2,470
County Council Water Supply                   145       145      145       200         100       100        -
Self-Help Water Supplies                      175      135       187    1,832        3,300    2,500    2,400
Mombasa Pipeline Board                        538       709       361       -          650        50        50
Mombasa and Coast Water Supplies              525    6,114    5,490   11,950        10,100    7,800        500
Water Resources and Pollution Control         290       668      728    1,050          477       583       576
Urban Water Supplies                          378       994      640    2,525        2,300    3,250    4,350
Sewerage and Sewerage Research                 81       546      372       408         417    1,708    1,750
Water Conservation                             57       343      100       463         480       600       500
Miscellaneous Water Programs                  321       457      962       566         866    1,025    1,060
SRDP                                           -        120       22        -           -         -         -
Training School                                -         -        47       106         122       200       200
Tana River Development Authority               -        256    1,594    8,021       17,000   17,000   12,000
Rehabilitation of Water Supply                 -         -        -         -          970    1,000    1,200
Integrated Program                             -         -        -         -          228       905    1,400
TOTAL                                6,240      15,767    16,719    33,598   45,535   46,932   37,012
Source: Ministry of Finance
July 1978



-52-                                             ANNEX 20
KENYA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Ministry of Water Development
Recurrent Budgets
(KL Thousands)
Forward
Approved                Request  Approved  Budget
Year Ending June 30                            1975    1976    1977    1978        1979       1979      1980
Gross Expenditures
Ministry Headquarters                                   81      166     499       269       215        225
Water Department - Headquarters,
Provincial & District Offices              798   1,306   1,422   1,560    2,508    1,608         1,749
Rural Water Supplies
Transport Operating Expenses                 9      15       37       50        74       63         80
Travelling & Accommodation Expenses          5        7       9       12        14       16         20
Fuels                                       34      52       65       72        92      110        132
Chemicals                                    6        7      10       14        19       17         23
Purchase of Water                            7      -        -        -         -        -          _
Uniforms and Clothing                        2        4       4        5         6         7         8
Purchase of Meters                           4        8      10       13        26       17         21
Maintenance of Installations                24       42      57       76       100       96        123
Works Paid Staff - Maintenance Work         87     115      121      125      260       146        200
New Water Connections                       13      22       17       30        30       35         42
Subtotal                               191      272      330     397         1                  680
Monbasa Pipeline Board                        146      183     126      149       160       191       220
Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply              973   1,305   1,599   1,581    1,777    2,12-7-    2,295
Water Resources and Pollution Control          57       76     177      198       499      209        228
Urban Water Supplies                          409      529     629      709       943      816        932
Sewerage and Sewerage Research                 16       18      18       20        19       20         21
Water Conservation                             59       -       -        -         -        -          _
Miscellaneous Water Programs                    7       20      22       24        31       25         29
Training of Water Staff                        -        73      89      114       116      111        122
Subtotal                               6      2,204 2   .66        0 2   3.545    349 9  3,847
Total Gross Expenditures             2,656             4,578   5,251    6 943    5,829       6 0
Appropriations in Aid
Rural Water Supplies                          120     159      154      117      118       239        308
Urban Water Supplies                          723   1,095   1,279       954       850    1,805      2,161
Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply            1,104   1,503   1,635   1,792    2,563    2,302         2,534
Miscellaneous                                 230      307     347      305       540      395        453
Total Appropriations in Aid          2 177   3,064   3,415   3 168    4,071    4 741         5,456
NET EXPENDITURE                                  479      799   1,163 2           2,872    1,088       1 014
Source: Ministry of Finance
July 1978



ANNEX 21
KENYA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Ministry of Water Development
1977 Recurrent Budget for Rural Supplies
(KS Thousands)
Actual
Expenditure                            Request    Approved    Estimate    Expenditure
Transport Operating Expenses         30,500       37,450       37,450       40,425
Travelling and Accommodation         11,000        9,000        9,000         8,293
Fuels                                70,000       65,000       65,000        73,934
Chemicals                            10,000       10,000      10,000         4,063
Uniforms and Clothing                 4,000        4,000        4,000         3,460
Purchase of Meters                   10,000       10,000      10,000         8,871
Maintenance of Installations         67,000       57,000       57,000        67,250
Works Paid Staff                    121,000      121,000     121,000       147,731
New Water Connections                17,000       17,000      17,000        10,941
Total Gross Expenditure KS       340,500     330,450      330,450       364,968
Appropriations in Aid
Sale of Water                       135,000     135,000      135,000        83,989
New Connections                      17,000       17,000      17,000        11,680
Miscellaneous                         1,800        1,800        1,0          1,049
Total Appropriations in
Aid Kb                           153,800     153,800      153,800        96,719
NET EXPENDITURE K                      186_,700     176,650      176,650       268,249
SOURCE: Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Water Development
July 1978



_54 -                      ANNEX 22
KENYA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Existing Tariffs for Rural Water Supplies
(KSh)
Classification 1/                   1         2        1      2         1     2
Individual Connections
Monthly Flat Rate 2/               6        7        8.50   10       12.50   15
Price per m                      0.50    0.60    0.70    0.80    0.90    1.00
Monthly Minimum Charge             4        4.50    5.80    6.50    7.00    8.00
Communal Water Points
Monthly Rate per Family            2        2        2       2        2       2
Licensed Retailers
Price per m3 Paid by
Retailer                          0.35    0.60    0.60    0.70    0.70    0.80
Price per m  Paid by
Consumers                         2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50    2.50
1/   The existing classification dates from 1971 and is solely based on
consumer's ability to pay.  No clear guidelines, however, exist on
the attribution of a specific tariff to a newly commissioned scheme.
The decision is left normally to the Provincial Water Engineer.
2/   Unmetered connection.
Source: Kenya Gazette.
.



lo.
SUDAN
KENYA
-7                                                RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
/A_
7io                                                                DURKANA                         ETHIOPIA
KA KUMA           IVAMADA K
GED
I-A KA IIA
Lodwar o                          KALACHA                                                                             DAAfASA
KERIO VIL
Marsabit o
KHOROFHARAR
LOKO
'UGANbA,
0
HANDAK(d
-EPARERIA
>
Kit*
'o             'p                          WAMBA 0
6\MATUNOA              Lak,,
5'                  ABaringo
0 tl 'E'
ldoret      'KWA
'E                            OLDONYO
'YYULA      -\*KA R G ldoV G  KAPKOIVG
TARA-W-0          0  ORATAT                                 isiuiu
Ft AX             MARMA
0     lElVj'RE                                f
KIPSASAK                                                0 TIGANIA U
Meru o                                                       WARDEGLO
OK'
K                            RA9A
It                                                         K,
Kericho                                       0   IRIAN5ANI II
HfLL                                     ESURRU
Embu
Ny,71 i
0             Muranp 0
\,WWWURYCZ                                          DU
KANOTU
KINANGOP.
1THANGA
THI Ifpz-                                                                                    qULUGHOO
0 MA TINYAW It
NAIROBli?
EUKARO
ORIdO-L. 74A
2T%
Ike Magadi                                                                                        %jv
N-1-Al"
NA UKOPI                                                             LAKE KENYA TTA
L.k, Amb-li
moor- R"w- MT%
A04tmmu T& rqoj
INDIAN OCEAN
NA`rfat,MCAF.,
HAMBA -VITENGEN10
PR(lViNCIALBOUNDARIES                                                   0
.ZA -KALAMBUTE                   GAIVZEO
,<URUNGV-8UGUTAo
-INTERNATIONAL BOUNIIAtfl"                                                                                                         A F R I C A
KINAGONI-
CHIGUTU-VIGURUNGAfVl
0
ombasa     4'1-
KrzN
0                                    120
MiLES                                                                                     KIKONEftIt                              -cl
Ki LOFAETLE RS                                                do
'M    160    200
40                                        W,
40'



