Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23368
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-39270; SCL-3927A; SCPD-3927S; PPFB-P2380)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF USS30.0 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
ARGENTINA
FOR A
MINING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
November 1, 2002
Mining Department of the World Bank Group
Country Management Unit: Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = Argentine Peso
AR$1.00 = US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00 = ARS1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BUD                  Unified Mining Information System
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
COFEMIN              Federal Mining Council
DIA                  Environmental Impact Declaration
DNM                  National Mining Directorate
DNSG                 National Geological Service Directorate
DPM                  Provincial Mining Directorate
EIA                  Environmental Impact Assessment
GPS                  Global Positioning Systems
GIS                  Geological Information Systems
IHA                  Environmental Impacts report
INTEMIN              Mining Technical Institute
NGO                  Non-governmental Organizations
PASMA                Mining Sector Development Technical Assistance Project
PCU                  Project Coordinating Unit
PMI                  Public Mining Institution
PSR                  Project Status Reports
QAG                  Quality Assurance Group
SEA                  Sector Environmental Assessment
SEGEMAR              Argentine Geological and Mining Service
SINATEM              National System of Mining Technology
SM                   Secretariat of Mines
SSM                  Under Secretariat of Mines
SUIM                 Unified Mining Information System
UGAP                 Provincial Environmental Management Units
UGAN                 National Environmental Management Unit
WB                   World Bank
Vice President:  David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Myma Alexander/Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager/Director:  Peter van der Veen
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Gotthard Walser



ARGENTINA
MINING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT TECHICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               9
6. Sustainability                                                                  11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 14
9. Partner Comments                                                                15
10. Additional Information                                                        15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              29
Annex 8. Borrower's Summary Report                                                 30
Map IBRD 27034






Project ID: P006055                                       Project Name: MINING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
T.A.
Team Leader: Gotthard Walser                              TL Unit: COCPD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: November 1, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: MINING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT T.A.                 L/C/TF Number: CPL-39270;
SCL-3927A;
SCPD-3927S;
PPFB-P2380
Country/Department: ARGENTINA                                            Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/29/1994                             Effective:  12/07/1995        12/07/1995
Appraisal: 03/27/1995                                 MTR:
Approval:  07/25/1995                              Closing: 06/30/2001          06/30/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA/UNDERSECRETARIAT OF MINES
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Axel van Trotsenburg                       Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:       Peter Van der Veen                        Alfonso Sanchez
Team Leader at ICR:  Gotthard Walser                           Aura Garcia de Truslow
ICR Primary Author:   Sati Achath; Gotthard Walser
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU-Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main objective of the project was to develop and support, through an institutional development
technical assistance, the government's policy, regulatory and institutional reforms which encourage the
expansion of private investment in mining in an environmental sound way. The project was aimed to help
build the capacity needed at the federal level and in six participating Provinces (Catamarca, La Rioja,
Mendoza, Salta, San Juan and San Luis) for the efficient administration of mining rights. It was also
expected to establish adequate environmental safeguards for mining operations; strengthen services that
support mining growth, including the public provision of reliable geological and mineral information, and
support divestiture of mining interests held by provinces.
The six provinces selected to participate in the project were those actively implementing the sector reform
and located within the most prospective mineral area of the country. A "PASMA" (acronym of the project
name in Spanish) Agreement was signed in 1995 between the federal Government and the six Provinces to
formalize the policy and implementation principles along which the project would be carried out. The
choice to include only six and not all the 23 Provinces was made because of the historical complexity of the
relationships between the federal and provincial States regarding the management of mineral resources. As
stated in the Argentine Constitution - mineral resources belong to the Provinces. The successful
implementation of the project led in 1998 to a second operation (loan 4242-AR) involving the 17 remaining
Argentine provinces.
The objectives of the project were clear, realistic and consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board on May 4, 1995, which stated that "Bank support for private sector
development would also be provided through the strengthening of institutions providing assistance in
mining development".
The project aimed to facilitate increased foreign and local investment in mining to develop Argentina's
hitherto underdeveloped mineral potential. It was also aimed at technologically updating the quality and
enhancing the usefulness of government services supporting mining and growth, and develop a better legal
framework, including a revised mining code, improved and unified concession procedures and secure tenure
provisions through the Unified Mining Cadastre. In addition, the project would also help develop technical
services to enhance the productivity of small and medium-scale mining. Finally, the project would help
develop mechanisms throughout the sector to ensure adequate capabilities and technological skills for the
application of environmental safeguards in mining and related activities. Overall, by strengthening the
geological infrastructure and mining rights tenure security, the project expected to strengthen the enabling
environment for overall sustained growth in mine development activities, which once established, were
likely to continue.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no formal revision of the original project objective, as it is stated in the MOP and the Loan
Agreement However, as in several contemporaneous mining projects in other countries (see for example
the Ecuador ICR, dated December 2001), socio-economic issues related to mining development were
increasingly integrated into the project at about mid-term of its implementation (mid 1998). This trend
followed the growing worldwide awareness at the end of the last decade by communities and companies
alike regarding the need of deeper community involvement to optimize the potential contribution of mining
to local and regional socio-economic development
- 2-



3 3 Original Components:
The project consisted of the following four components:
*   Policy Development Component (US$1.4 million or 4 percent of the base cost) to ensure the
consistency of mining sector policy with the country's overall economic liberalization efforts, to
continue the modernization of the legal framework; and to develop tools for its implementation,
including procedures for the provincial administration of mining rights and appropriate environmental
norms and standards.
*   Policy Implementation Component (US$16.6 million or 47 percent of the base cost) to help develop
the management capacity of the federal Secretariat of Mines (SM) and sector agencies in the selected
provinces, including their cadastral and registry systems and advisory services, as well as the
mechanisms to monitor and enforce environmental management. It was also to finance relevant skills
transfer, training and divestiture efforts.
*   Support Services Component (US$16.1 million or 45 percent of the base cost), to build up the
geological infrastructure in support of private investment decisions: geological and thematic mapping; a
sector data bank and public information network; mineral and market statistics and promotion
facilities; and a geological repository facility. Provisions for a selective support of laboratory; and,
*   Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) to oversee the project implementation (US$1.4 million or 4 percent
of the base cost).
The project financed consulting services and contract works, computer equipment and software, field and
office equipment and vehicles, training, incremental operating costs (for establishing and strengthening
functions), and the necessary upgrading of facilities.
The components were closely related to achieving the objectives. Their design was well-prepared and based
on relevant lessons learned in other T.A. projects experience, in the country and in the mining sector, in
Argentina as well as in other Latin American countries. The Bank's experience in the mining sector reform
also facilitated in preparing a realistic project design (see for example WB Technical Papers No 345 "A
Mining Strategy for Latin America and the Carribean" and No. 405 "WB Group Assistance for Minerals
Sector Development and reform in Member Countries").
3.4 Revised Components:
The main components have not been revised. However, two activities under the Support Services
component were partially or totally cancelled. (i) Upon delivery of the National Geological Repository
design study, a decision was made not to go ahead with the actual building of this facility due to its
foreseen high operating and maintenance costs. In addition, the location of a suitable site proved to be a
difficult task. And (ii), as a result of the study carried out under the Policy component on how best provide
support to the important sector of Small and Medium-scale mining Enterprises (SMmEs), the decision was
made not to implement the Research & Development subcomponent as designed during preparation, which
included mainly the modemization of state laboratory and investigation equipment and facilities.This option
had been considered in the MOP. The study showed that management capacity building, networking and
access to information were more imortant factors to support the developpment of SMmEs, and a new work
plan was designed and implemented along these recommendations.
In addition, activities related to the contribution of mining to social development were initiated during the
second half of project implementation. They included participatory diagnostics studies on socio-economic
impacts of an existing mining operation - Bajo de la Alumbrera in Catamarca - and development of
- 3-



procedures to be applied in future projects - Veladero-Pascua Lama in San Juan - allowing all stakeholders
to understand and manage such impacts; and to optimize benefits at the community, provincial and national
levels. These activities were planned and implemented in parallel with - and mainly funded under the second
mining TA loan ("PASMA II").
(Note that both projects represent private investments and did not benefit from any direct support from the
"PASMA" project. However, MIGA was mvolved in the Bajo de la Alumbrera mine).
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not do an official assessment of the project's quality at entry.
Nevertheless, the ICR finds the quality at entry, on balance, to be satisfactory. As mentioned in the earlier
section, the project objectives were consistent with the country assistance strategy and the Government
priorities and met the critical needs of the mining sector. Since SM had the technical capacity, the quality
of project design was generally adequate to meet the project's overriding objective.
The definition of objectives and project design had benefited of a fruitful cooperation between the
Government of Argentina (GOA) and the Bank, initiated in 1992 with the preparation of a mining sector
review (WB report 11704-AR, 1993), following the government decision to liberalize, modernize and open
to private investment the mining sector, as part of the overall market economy policy reform initiated in
1990. Along the lines of actions recommended by the Bank's report, the govenmment initiated an ambitious
and comprehensive reform program, including the release of all mineral resources controlled by the federal
authorities. The program yielded quickly positive results in attracting investments (see charts in Section 4.1
below). Following the approval of a Bank PPF in 1994, the federal Secretariat of Mines (SM) continued its
work on reforms in parallel with project preparation. The government formulated in 1995 a Sector Policy
and Strategy document, reconfirming its role as a facilitator of private-led mining activities.
During preparation, findings and recommendations from the sector review as well as from the project
comprehensive Sectoral Environmental Assessment (1995), were considered and incorporated into the
project design. The project preparation also used a participatory approach by consulting and coordinating
closely with the six provincial administrations as well as with industry branch organizations, trade
associations, miners unions and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). All institutional aspects were
also safeguarded. The development and implementation indicators, i.a. the expected mining investments
level by project end, were selected prudently and proved to be achievable without change (see annex 1).
The project was complex by virtue of its interface between the federal govermment and the provinces, a risk
which was minimnized through the decision to involve only selected Provinces commited to the reform. In
addition, the project took into account what was deemed to be the main risk factor to successful
implementation. The main risk was that of sustaining the provincial stance for reform. While participating
provinces had already expressed their readiness, and had been closely involved in project preparation, (i)
the political commitment could have changed; and (ii) the establishment of reliable provincial
administrative capacity during implementation could have been more difficult than planned. To address (-)
above, an Agreement was signed by the federal government with six participating provinces whereby all
parties were committed to implementing the project, including the Unified Mining Cadastre. Regarding (ii)
above, there was some flexibility in the project's strong institutional component to respond to changing
needs, with a technical advisory capacity at the federal level, that could help guide and support the
development of managerial and administrative capacities at the provincial level (and that could help expand
such activities to other provinces later), and training (on-job and formal) addressing such specific needs.
From an implementation point of view, the assessed targeted times for achievements of outputs were
ambitious and did not take enough into account factors such as "resistance to changes" regarding
institutional re-organization; or terrain/climatic constraints for the setting-up of the cadastral reference
- 4-



system in the High Andes.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project succeeded in achieving its project objectives. It is considered as one of the most successful
mining sector reform projects that the Bank has financed in recent years. It has put Argentina on the global
mining map as an attractive destination for private investment and diversified the economy. The project
assisted the government to implement its policy, regulatory and institutional reforms with the goal of
encouraging the expansion of private investment in mining in an environmental sound way. The project also
helped build the capacity needed at the federal level and in selected provinces for the efficient
administration of mining rights. Major outcome and achievements of the project are:
(i) Legalframework. The project succeeded in modernizing the mining sector's legal and regulatory
framework, which now even includes a number of best practice examples such as the Environmental Law
for Mining, the Mining Investment Law, the Mining Treaty with Chile regulating the many across border
activities, and the Unified Provincial Regulatory Procedures.
(ii) Institutional Framework. To improve services to the mining industry as well as the capacity to monitor
its performance and compliance with regulations and norms, a high priority has been given to the
modernization of the public mining authorities, particularly in the provinces. With great success
throughout the country, mining agencies were restructured, work processes and methodologies streamlined
to improve efficiency and quality, infrastructure modernized, and modem technologies and equipment
introduced. Special attention has been paid to the training and motivation of personnel, emphasizing the
need to implement a cultural change, from closed and control-heavy mentalities to a more open and
client-oriented behavior.
Argentina - Mining cadastre and management of property rights
The establishment of a mining cadastre, which integrates the regulatory,
institutional, and technological aspects of mineral rights administration, is
the comerstone of a mineral resource management aimed at optimizing the
contribution of mining to regional development. The granting of mining
titles, founded on transparent procedures and on unequivocal location and
limits of mineral properties, guarantees the security of tenure for investors.
The World Bank-supported technical assistance program to set up a modem
cadastral systems in Argentina has been particularly successful and led to
many improvements. Computerized granting and monitoring procedures,
strictly mirroring existing regulations, speed up processing times and limit
the opportunities for "arbitrary" interventions. Set-up of mining rights data-
bases, linked to the procedures management system, allow the accurate and
precise location (using GPS and GIS technologies) of mining properties in
real time, a key factor for security of tenure and avoiding legal conflicts. In
addition, displaying the information on the Intemet allows the government,
as well as communities and investors, to foresee and mitigate potential
conflicts between mineral resources exploitation and other land-uses,
including conservation of protected areas
Text Box 1
(iii) Mining Cadastre. A particularly positive achievement of the project is the successful set-up of a
modem mining cadastral management system (see also Text Box 1). The project addressed the different
- 5 -



aspects - legal, institutional and technical - in an integrated manner. Unified Procedures were prepared
under the umbrella of the Federal Mining Council, and have been approved by all provinces. A reliable and
updated mining cadastre has been established, which includes the setting up of a complementary geodetic
reference network in remote areas, the precise location of all existing mining rights using modem GPS
technology, eliminating legal problems such as superposition or inaccurate positioning of rights. At the
provincial public mining offices, computerized management systems, mirroring the existing procedures, are
operative. In provinces where the new technology is fully implemented, a mining title application can be
processed in less than 15 minutes.
(iv) Environmental Management. With the support of the project, mining environmental units have been
established in all provinces to monitor and control enforcement of the regulations and train personnel. Since
February 1997, when the law became effective, 3640 environmental impact assessments (ELAs) have been
prepared by mining companies and processed by the UGAPs until December 2001, at an estimated cost of
US$7 million, an amount greater than the total mining investments in 1992. To provide an adequate
reference framework to evaluate possible future impacts, baseline studies have been carried out in mining
regions all over the country.
(v) Geological and Mining Information Infrastructure. Today, about 75 percent of the country is covered
by 1:200,000 geological maps, which represents enormous progress. Metallogenic maps and other valuable
thematic information (including large parts of the country covered by airbome geophysics and regional
geochemistry) that are valuable for investment have been prepared. A modem computer based information
network has also been established to share geological, environmental, statistical, legal and other data
between federal and provincial agencies. Most of the information is also available worldwide through the
intemet.
Argentina - Mineral Exploration           Argentina - Mineral Production Values
Investments
c 1500-                    115i120q,111299
~~ 150          iiol~11030  140       .2
_ 100              80    .100 80    100        1000417434481492513543
50-4 7 15 23mEEImE.                      0 500-         ....mEIIIII
0         I6EEEE
-                          c' n t  e (D s X 01 0
_ _ _ o    O) O     01 0a °>
Years                                        Years
Argentina - Mineral Exploitation           Argentina - Mineral Export Values
Investments
c 1000                         71692 723
sO 800               708 658                .2 01                       565 7
6001                           j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~6001-
= 4200  1 1 1 51 1mU' 200 -
0i
O4 Om a Ul) to r- c~o~ 0)  0
Years                                        Years
With the existence of a congenial legal and institutional framework, the project has succeeded in promoting
private investment and increasing mining production. Today, more than 55 foreign mining companies are
active in Argentina, compared with four in 1990 and total private investment has increased in exploration
- 6-



from US$4 million in 1991 to more than US$100 million/year since 1996; and in total investment from
US$70 million in 1994 to US$370 million in 2000 (source: Subsecretaria de Mineria). Several important
mining operation projects have started production (eg. Salar del Hombre Muerto, Bajo de la Alumbrera,
Cerro Vanguardia) and as a result, mineral production has increased from US$341 million in 1992 to
US$1,073 million in 2000 and, in export value, from US$60 million in 1994 to US$700 million in 2000
(see Graphs above).
4.2 Outputs by components.
A. 1.  Legal framework The unified "Nuevo Cuyo" procedures for the efficient administration of mining
rights were approved by the Provincial legislative chambers. The final draft of the new Mining Code
project was completed by the end of 1997. The draft, aiming at integrating in a consistent way the many
amendments passed during the 90s to the original 1875 cod, went through a longer than expected ownership
and consensus-building process and could not be sent to Congress before project closing. However, this
process did not end at project completion and a final proposal is currently (October 2002) under
preparation.
A.2    Sistema Nacional de Tecnologia Minera (S1NATEM). The diagnosis, design and implementation
phases of this subcomponent as well as the training program orientated to mining SMEs were completed.
B. 1. - Public Mining Institutions. Based on the institutional design and recommendations of the study
prepared by Swedish Geological AB (09/97), detailed operational procedures and manuals were prepared
by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) at the Under-secretariat of Mines (SSM), and the respective
provincial entities. The implementation of the new organizational set-up and procedures - including the
installation of an integrated computerized management system - was very successfully completed in all six
provinces participating in the project. Detailed arrangements for guidance, adjustments and monitoring
after completion of the first implementation phase was also set up. The management of the systems
installed by the project, as well as all infrastructure and equipment, were officially transferred to the
provincial authorities in December 2000. At the federal level, the Undersecretariat of Mines, (SSM), and
the Argentine Geological and Mining Service (SEGEMAR) were strengthened, but reform was not as
deep as in the provinces, partly due to multiple restructuring of the Ministry of Economy and Public
Works.
B. l .(a) Institutional Infrastructure. Facilities rehabilitation works as well as purchase of office and field
equipment in all six Provinces and at the federal SSM were completed. With respect to SEGEMAR, the
purchase of map production facilities, vehicles, field and office equipment were also completed.
B. l.(b) - Training. Most of the institutional management training planned under this program were
provided in an integrated manner together with the implementation of the institutional reform (see also
section 8, lessons leamed). The fiscal training program, including series of workshops organized both at the
federal level and in each of the participating provinces as well as the publication of the training materials,
was also completed and very successful.
B.2 - Mining Cadastre. All works related to the setting-up of the geodetic mining reference network and the
GPS survey of the existing mining claims were completed and the data - as well as the related information
and management system - officially were transferred to the six provinces. All planned procurement
(hardware and software, Global Positioning System equipment (GPS), vehicles and others) and training
were also completed. A computer system for administration of mining rights, based on the present
procedures, has been developed and installed. The system is now operational in all project provinces.
- 7 -



An Asset for Competitiveness - From Hodgepodge to Streamlined Environmental
Management Process
In 1995. the federal government of Argentina, assisted by the World Bank and with the
support of the 23 Provinces, streamlined its previous mix of federal and provincial laws
and regulations applicable to mining activities by proposing Federal Mining Environment
Law which was approved unanimously by Congress. The Law requires full and complete
environmental impact statements and mitigation plans in order to initiate and continue
exploration and exploitation activities. The importance of well-defined and uniform
requirements for environmental permitting of mining projects in a federal country such as
Argentina, where the mineral resources are under the responsibility of the Provinces,
cannot be understated. At the time the law was passed, Argentina was undergoing a boom
in both exploration and mining development. The new law helped companies by
streamliing the permitting process, thereby removing discretionary behavior on the part
of the provincial authorities that had delayed projects or filling a legal void which had
caused major uncertainties for the making of investment decisions. This also eliminated
discriminatory treatment of operations, depending on their location. To apply the law and
its regulations, provincial environmental management units were established, trained and
equipped in all 23 Provinces with the support of the WB. At the same time, the federal
government, together with the Provinces, undertook an innovative environmental
information project to collect, process and provide to the public air, soil and water, fauna
and flora baseline data in existing and prospective mining areas. This provides companies
with ready-made information and, more importantly, set baseline ambient standards
against which mining projects can be monitored
Text Box 2
B.3 - Enviromnental Management (see also Text Box 2). The complete legal and regulatory framework has
been approved. Provincial Environmental Management Units (UGAPs) are now processing on a routine
basis the Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) presented by the mining companies, and grant
environmental permits ("Declaracion Ambiental"). In addition to the training provided under the
institutional subcomponent regarding work procedures and administrative tools, courses and workshops
have been held on environmental management principles and methodologies in relation to mining activities,
as well as on specialized issues (e.g. tailings management, mine closure and others). These activities did
address specific needs, to update the technical and processing capacity of the UGAPs, as well as to
systematize evaluation criteria of ElAs and to adjust procedures. Monitoring plans and procedures were
developed, and baseline surveys were completed, providing the necessary information to assess properly
impacts which might be caused by mining operations. An Environmental Information System has been
developed, as part of the overall National Mining Information System (SUIM, see below). Baseline and
monitoring data collected under the project have been input in the system's databases.
C. I - Geological information. Different programs of this subcomponent were completed successfully.
Products, working methodologies, organization, procedures and norms were established and are
operational. Digital geological and thematic maps are now produced on a routine basis. The airbome
geophysical survey work was completed by June 1999 and all scheduled maps were produced (see annex
1).
C.3 -Unified Mining Data Banks (BUD). BUD units are operative in all federal and provincial institutions
participating in the project. The scope of the component was broader than originally planned, as it included
the development and installation of computerized integrated administration management system at the
provincial mining institutions. Relevant sector infommation has been loaded in the mining web site,
- 8-



including mining concessions, environmental data and more. (Towards the end of the project, the system
was renamed as Unified Mining Information System (SUIM)
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
While the calculation of NPV or ERR figures is difficult to apply to a technical assistance project, it is
useful to summarize some of the macro-economic results for the mining sector in Argentina and to compare
them to what was predicted in the original appraisal document:
Macro-economic Impacts (US$ million)
- Low Case      i     ediuniCase .  4       High Case     -|
Gross     Exports    Gross     Exports     Gross     Exports
,Predicted 2004 (SAR)   -   1,045      457       1,657      1,032      2,056      1,312
Actual-Z000         -       1,114      692
Projected 2006    -     ,.                                             2,240      1,635
The predictions in 1994 were based on a ten years time horizon for a low, medium and high case scenario.
As can be seen, five years after the project has started the gross production and exports figures already
exceed the low case projections. The predicted figures in 2006 could exceed the high case scenario,
providing the mineral market prices stay around reasonable levels. The project did not directly invest in
these projects, however the progress made on the cadastre, information systems, mining and environmental
laws has made these investment possible.
4.4 Financial rate of return.
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact has been significant, especially at the provincial level. Each
of the six provinces has now a well-functioning provincial mining directorate, with sufficient administrative
capacity, responsible and responsive to the needs of the private sector. The staff in these offices interface
regularly with private sector for activities such as processing applications and issuing permits. The project
has also equipped these agencies with modem tools and equipment (e.g.GPS and GIS), trained staff for
using up-to-date technologies and developed the environmental management and mining rights
administration capacity. At the federal level, the project succeeded in strengthening key functions such as
production of maps, geological information, legal documentation and economic evaluation. See Section 6
for an assessment of the sustainability of this development.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Steep decline of global commodity prices in 1998, did not directly affect existing operations, including
exploration ones, in Argentina, but indirectly it affected the expected outcome of the project. For instance,
had the price of gold increased, it was likely that two additional mines (e.g. the Agua Rica project in
Catamarca or the Veladero-Pascua Lama in San Juan), as expected in the SAR would have been
developed. However, interesting enough, the fallout of the East Asia crisis in 1997, as well as the reduced
-9 -



access to financing on international markets for "junior" companies, certainly affected mining investments
in Argentina but did not impact exploration or investments but not as dramatically as in many other
emerging mining countries (see charts in Section 4.1 above).
Resistance to reform. Such resistance, mostly from traditional and national mining groups and interests,
did not affect the project activities, but had an impact on a few of the implementation objectives. For
example, even though a final draft of the new Mining Code project was completed by the end of 1997, the
necessary consensus building process to implement before sending it to Congress proved to be more
complex and time consuming than expected, due to this factor. (However, the proposed legislation is
gaining an increased support and this particular implementation objective could still be achieved within the
near future. A simplified Mining Code would certainly increase the attractiveness of Argentina for mining
investment, but has not so far significantly affected decisions to invest in mining.)
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control
Consistent government policy, despite change of administrations, was a positive factor which facilitated
smooth project implementation.
The economic slowdown in the country during the second part of the project (which closed a few months
before the political problems and near collapse of the economy at the end of 2001) adversely affected the
availability of counterpart funding for implementation since early 1999. This problem had a moderate
negative impact on this project, as most objectives were achieved until 2000 (however, they caused
significant financial difficulties to the second operation, see separate ICR).
Local interests opposed to changes at the provincial level, in a few cases, delayed activities supporting the
sector reform. Examples include delays in San Juan regarding the re-ordering of mining rights file. Also, an
unilateral position from the Catamarca govermnent opposed the province to the federal and the other
provinces on the issue of mining royalties calculation. This situation affected somewhat the credibility of
the sector image regarding fiscal and regulatory stability and uniformity, which is one of the strong
argument for attracting mining investment, particularly because Bajo de la Alumbrera, the first major mine
development in Argentina, and a flagship of the country's mining reform benefits, is located in Catamarca.
However the ability to solve this issue through the established institutional mechanisms - the Federal
Mining Council - does certainly represent a very positive indicator of the level of maturity reached by the
Argentina sector authorities.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The SM established an efficient project coordination unit, fully conmmited to the reform and aware of the
importance to optimize the participation of the provinces in sector management to ensure its success.
During the entire preparation and implementation period there has been only one project coordinator and
this ensured the stability of the PCU as well as continuity and consistence in the implementation of the
project operations. The PCU played a critical role as interface between the federal and provincial
authorities and the WB, and was instrumental to the success of the reform implementation.
Overall the activities in Provinces could be implemented without major problems and the provincial
agencies demonstrated commitment to the project objectives.
All main objectives were achieved (see Section 4), although with some delays by comparison to the initial
time targets (see annex 1). In addition to the perhaeps optimistic assessment of time necessary to implement
reform activities (see Section 3.5), some of the delays originated in the difficulties for the implementing
agency during the initial months to adjust to the WB procedures and timing regarding procurement. The
PCU took then corrective measures, strengthening its organization in terms of capacity and procedures.
- 10 -



Regarding contracts implementation, only one case has to be mentioned of a contractor's unsatisfactory
perfornance in relation to the setting-up of the geodetic mining reference network and the GPS survey of
the existing mining claims in four provinces due to the firm's operational and managerial problems. This
activity caused delays in the setting up of the mining rights management system; it could be completed
thanks to a close monitoring of the PCU.
Difficulties from part of the federal agencies - mostly SEGEMAR - to respond to the spirit of the reform in
terms of (i) consensus process with the provinces through COFEMIN regarding the definition of priorities
and products; (ii) institutional restructuring and the definition of a clear role regarding the provision of
information infrastructure - role of the State - versus the provision of services to the industry and
community - role of the private sector; and (iii) clear focus on the generation of well-defined products
responding to clients needs instead of widespread and changing activities driven by staff preferences.
Again, the institutional mechanisms set up under the reform process helped to reach an agreement between
the parties. However, the situation caused delays in the implementation of some of the activities or even, to
some extent, the cancelation of the geological repository program without possibility to define options at a
time when counterpart funds became a scarce resource. The strengthening of the mapping and the
information components were not affected by this situation.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total cost of the project executed at closure amounted to US$ 35.97 million. This is about US$ 4.03
million (-10.01%) less than the US$ 40 million estimated in the MOP. The difference is mainly due to a
reduction in the scope of activities as a consequence of reduced counterpart funds since 1999 (see 5.2
above), including the cancelation of the support to an upgrading of mining related laboratory facilities
(SINATEM sub-component) and of the building of the geological repository infrastructure. With the
exception of the two mentionned sub-components, all implementation objectives could be achieved. The
Bank financed about US$ 28.18 million (78.3%), and the Government contributed about US$ 7.79 million
equivalent in local costs (21.7%).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainibility of the project is rated Likely, because the federal and provincial governments have
adopted and maintained a policy conducive to mining sector development - as shown by the continued
support to the Federal Mining Agreement as well as by the commitment of the Federal Mining Council
("COFEMIN"), even under the difficult present circumstances -; and because they made significant
progress towards the establishment of an enabling legal and institutional framework and are demonstrating
commitrnent to follow-up on the results and recommendations of the project.
However, the long term fnancing of all functions in many provinces and most certainly at the federal level
needs to be ensured through the definition of reliable financing mechanisms such as those developed in
other Latin American countries (for example in Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru, where a percentage of the
proceeds from land fees and services are allocated to the institutions responsible for the sector
administration or the provision of the information infrastructure). The total amount needed to implement all
functions defined and developed under the project to properly manage the sector is estimated at no more
than about US$ 1.2 million per year for the six provinces involved under the project (and about US$ 4
million for all 23 Argentine provinces), including maintenance and renewal of infrastructure (but not
salaries), which broadly corresponds to the annual mining-related proceeds from services and land fees.
However, while the resources have been identified, proper arrangements have yet to be made to ensure the
- 1 1 -



channeling of those resources to finance functions and/or institutions such as (i) environmental monitoring -
in the case of all Provinces; and (ii) basic functions (mining rights administration and environmental
permitting) in many provinces with less resources or with no specifically allocated sources (for example,
Catamarca, Mendoza and a few other provinces do have a percentage of oil and/or mining generated
revenues allocated to sector administration). Also, the Geological Survey depends more than 90% on the
federal budget and any arrangements should include the financing of its mapping functions.
Until the end of 2001, the sustainability of the basic functions was likely considering that the federal
government's commitment to continue its support to the sector both financially and in important policy
reforms. However, sustainability of the project at the provincial level would mainly depend on the
reasonable availability and allocation of resources by the provincial govemements to the mining
administrations. Due to the prevailing economic crisis in Argentina and the resulting budget cuts,
sustainability is doubtful in certain provinces, particularly in those where mining is not a critical activity.
There are also specific concerns regarding the full sustainability of some key functions after project closure
such as the continuity of federal environmental management unit (UGAN) responsible to coordinate the
sector policy regarding environment and to provide assistance and advice to the provinces when needed. A
year after project closure, and after a series of administration changes, UGAN appears to be still
adequately staffed and in capacity to fulfill its mandate, which would indicate that the environmental
awareness and cultural changes have reached deep enough during project implementation to maintain the
reform achievements even during situations such as the present day overall political and financial crisis.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
At the provincial, and in a number of cases at the federal level as well, the project focused its activities on
the development of on-the-job capacities and procedures directly linked to the fulfillment of core functions
related to the application of laws and regulations, functions which will continue beyond closure. In that
aspect, the transition from project supported to regular operations has been smooth and work plans are
well-established for the long term.
However, as discussed under 6. 1, arrangements remain to be made to ensure the full financial sustainibility
of all functions in all provinces.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during the identification of the project was satisfactory. The mining sector review
prepared by the Bank provided the appropriate background and opportunity for the Bank and the
government to map out the joint program of the project. Project preparation was well organized and
satisfactory. The Bank, which had a team with a good skill mix, brought in the state of the art expertise
into project design. During the project appraisal, the Bank assessed the project's risks and benefits. The
Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and appraisal.
7.2 Supernision:
The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory. Since the Bank had
allocated sufficient budget resources, the project was adequately supervised. Over the five years of project
implementation, there were 21 supervision missions, about 4 missions per year. The Bank - client
- 12 -



relationship was very cordial and productive. There has been continuity of Bank staff involved. Supervision
teams included specialists in mining economics, mining law, private sector development, environment,
geology and institutional development.
The Bank took a firm and dynamic role in the supervision of the project implementation, and showed
flexibility to adjust the project to the client's needs, for example regarding the increased importance of
training activities or the decision to cancel the originally planned upgrade of laboratory facilities
(SINATEM). Aide-memoires were regularly prepared and transmitted, which alerted the Government to
problems with project execution and suggested remedies in a timely manner, in conformity with Bank
procedures. The Form 590s and Project Status Reports (PSRs) realistically rated the perfornance of the
project both in terms of achievement of development objectives and project implementation. Whenever
delays in implementation occurred, the Bank was able to define concrete steps and a timetable for putting
the program on track.
Extemal consultants were used for specific aspects of certain project components. Bank staff worked
closely with the Government and the implementing agency and provided them with extensive assistance, in
terms of providing suggestions for drafting the laws and regulations, reviewing legal drafts, and giving
technical comments.
7.3 Overall Bank performance.
Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and
implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation.
The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. During the preparation
stage, the Borrower displayed a strong level of commitment to the objectives of the project. The
government officials and staff of the implementing agency both at the federal and provincial levels worked
closely with the Bank's project team on a continual basis, with full cooperation and enthusiasm.
7.5 Government inmplementation performance.
The government's implementation performance was satisfactory. The government consistently maintained
its commitment throughout the implementation. It had established an effective project implementation unit
and the day to day implementation of the project was very smooth, particularly considering the challenge to
actively engage provincial authorities and staff in a long ranging reform. The country's prevailing
economic crisis led the project to suffer from counterpart funding problems towards the end of the project.
The project was demanding to the Borrower in the initial stages of implementation. Since the project was
the first of its kind in the mining sector, SM had the onerous responsibility of translating the government
strategy into a real-life implementation. The process of putting into effect the Agreement signed by the
federal govemment and the provinces was also a challenge to the Borrower. Although the six provinces
were to follow the Agreement, due to change of administration in the provinces, there were at times
disagreements between some of the provinces and the federal government, especially on fiscal matters or
mining rights administration. All such issues could be solved through the Federal Mining Council set up at
the early stage of the reform process.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
- 13 -



Performance of the SM was satisfactory. It had a highly trained and motivated staff. The federal PCU was
well organized and effective in dealing with procurement, disbursement, progress reports, and in
maintaining proper records of the project. At the provincial level, performance was satisfactory barring the
initial stage of the project until the provincial agencies were convinced of the project commitment to
achieve its objectives and trust could be established. Changes of the federal administration at the end of
1999 caused a slow down of the project implementation activities until the new team could pick-up the
pace.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
*   Creating the right enabling environment is very important. The major lesson of the project is that, by
creating the right enabling environment and responsive institutions to interface with the private sector,
would result in a positive response for investment making a significant contribution to the country in
terms of mining exploration and job opportunities.
*   Integral approach to sector development. The Argentina mining TA provides yet another example of
the importance to approach sector reform in an integrated, instead of a piecemeal way. This lesson
applies both to the project as well as to the component levels, as discussed e.g. in text boxes 1 and 2
regarding the development of mining rights and environmental management capacity, respectively.
*   Government commitment is essential to success. The success of the project was mainly due to the
original political support from the highest levels of the govemment, both at the federal and provincial
levels.
*   Strong sector work helps project preparation. The process implemented in Argentina for the mining
sector reform has been consistent and - almost - a best practice case. The Bank was able to effectively
discuss with the govemment the sectoral reforms and the significance of the project because of the
mining sector review done prior to the project preparation. This also gave sufficient time for both the
Bank and the government to design the project very thoroughly.
* Consistency in the political agenda is a key factor for the project's success. In a country like
Argentina with a strong federal system, consistency in the political agenda of federal government and
provincial governments is a crucial factor for the project's success. By signing an agreement between
the federal government and provincial governments, the project could maintain continuity in sector
policy despite changes in administration both at the federal level and the provincial levels. Another key
factor for the project's success was the consistency of the sector reform with the general economic
reform.
*   A well-defined interface ensures smooth project implementation. Establishing a well-defined
coordination between the federal and provincial implementing units, strong leadership and active
participation of provincial implementing agencies and stability are also important factors for a project's
success.
*   Institutional strengthening process. The strategy adopted under the project to implement the
institutional capacity building was particularly successful considering the traditional mistrust between
federal and provincial authorities and the following sequence was followed: (i) based on the
institutional mandate, as defined by the agreed sector policy and the prevalent regulations, an overall
- 14-



institutional model was designed with the participation of most stakeholders (provincial and federal
authorities and clients); (ii) in each of the provinces, a participatory diagnostic of the existing
institutions was carried out and the reformed institutions and business processes were designed to
respond both to the provincial specificities; (iii) a detailed implementation plan - including training,
set-up of procedures, often computerized, purchase of equipment and rehabilitation of facilities - was
designed, again in a participatory way; (iv) the process of equipment purchase, training and
rehabilitation of the facilities was then implemented in a swift and well-coordinated way. The process
contributed to create a positive institutional momentum which proved to be an important part of the
"cultural change" which is a somewhat difficult to quantify but nevertheless important outcome of the
project.
*   The project successfully laid new grounds in mining sector. The project results have been to create
new benchmarks not only concerning project implementation, but also with respect to various areas
such as mining cadastre, land management, and environmental management Lessons and experiences
could be applied also to other sectors in Argentina, for instance hydrocarbons.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowver/implementing agency:
The Borrower's summary report can be found in Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable
10. Additional Information
Not applicable
- 15 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
MAIN INDICATORS: MATRIX OF KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES AND TIMED TARGETS
(AE   After Effectiveness - 12/07/1995: from Annex 7 of MOP)
Main           Project       Expected Output/impact         Timing                   Outputs
Objectives     Component                                       Targets
Activities                                      AE
Encoutage        A. 1 Legal     A. Reformed Mining Code and    24 months    Draft new Mining Code and regulations
Private          Framework      regulations                                 ready about 18 months AE. Mimng Code
Investment in    Development                                                not yet sent to Congress, but under
Mining                                                                      review at Mining Committee. Unified
Regulations approved by 23 Provinces 48
months AE. Overall, legal and regulatory
framework are competitive on a
worldwide basis. Best practice regarding
Mining Treaty with Chile and
I_Environmental Law.
B.2 Mining     A. System fully operational in  24 months   System fully operational in six Provinces
Cadastre          the six participating provinces          about 48 months AE
C Support
Services       A. Geological Infrastructure:
a)  Fully operational mapping   12 months   a)   Map production procedures fully
set-up                                       operational about 24 months AE
b)  Production of maps:                      b)  Maps produced (cumulative 1996-
-   I0 geol and 10 sets of      18 months        2001):
thematic maps                            *   Geological::
-   15 geol. And 15 sets of    30 months     -   95 at 1:250,000
thematic maps                            -   25 at 1:100,000
-   17 geol. And 17 sets of    42 months     *   Thematic:
thematic maps                            -   8 natural risks (1:250,000)
-   18 geol. And 18 sets of    60 months     -   5 environmental baseline
thematic maps                               (1:250,000)
-   Cumulative product: 60     60 months     -   617,000 linelan airborne geophysics
geological maps                          -   30 geochemical (1:250,000)
-   Metallogenic map of Argentina
(1:2,500,000) + book
-   Open file reports, publications etc..
B. Sector Data Bank: fully     24 months     B. SNIM operational about 48 months
operational                              AE
Develop          B.3            A. Baseline data in participating  36 months  A. Baseline data established about 48
Environmental    Environmental      provinces established                        months AE
Management       Management
Framework,                      B. Monitoring Program          12 months
Procedures and                      established and operational at           B. Monitoring Programa established
Instruments for                     National and Provincial levels              and operational at provincial and
Mining Activities                                                               federal levels about 48 months AE
- 16 -



ACTION PLAN - IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE OF KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES (1)
(from Attachment A, A'nnex 2 to the MOP; AE - A      ter Effectiveness (12/05/1995)
Timing
Government       Project Component      Expected Results/Impact     Targets        Achieved Results/Impact
Objectives      Activities (Comp.)                                   AE/
Respons.
Agency
Provide         A. Legal Framework      * Reformed Mining Code     - 2 yrs./ SM  - See Table above
Appropriate     Development (A. 1)
Legal           I. National level       * Mining Code Regulations  - 2 yrs /SM  - See Table above
Framework to    2.  Provincial level    * Provincial Regulations   - I yr./ Prov.  - Unified Regulations approved - 4
Mining                                                             - 2 yrs./    yrs AE
3.  Development of      * New environmental norms  Prov.        - Regulations approved - 3 - 4 yrs
environmental          and standards                        AE (varying acc to province)
standards
Strengthening   B. Framework definition
and             (B l)
modemization    1. National level       * Restructured SM          - 2.5 yrs /  - Reorganized and strengthened (as
of sector                                                          SM           SSM - 4 yrs AE
institutions    2. Geological Service   * Geological Service with               - Autonomous status lyr. AE, re-
responsible of                            independent administrative  - 3 y*s/SM  organized and strengthened 4 yrs
implementing                               function, satisfactory to            AE (lack formalization of new
the mining                                the Bank                              intemal structure)
policy and law  3. Provincial level     * Restructured DPM                       - Restructures 3 to 4 years AE (acc.
- 2.5 yrs /  to province)
Prov.
C. SM and DPM           * Upgraded facilities and  - 2 5 yrs/    - Achieved - 4 yrs AE (acc. to
rehabilitation and         provided equipment fully  SM, Prov    agency and province)
equipment to upgrade       operational
work facilities (B. I)
D. SINATEM analysis:    * Actions plans (including  - I yr/ SM/  - Assessment completed 2 yrs AE.
studies about Demand       details of document flows,  INTEMIN   Recommends mainly the
and Supply                 definition of areas of               implementation of management
responsibility, issues                capacity building programs for
identification and                    mining SMEs as a key factor to
proposed system                       support the development of the sub-
improvements to resolve               sector (see below)
them)
E. Design of detailed   * Systems, training and    Throughout    - Achieved; fiscal training was a
training program          testing fully operational  project life/  special success. Sustaunability after
composed of four                                    SM/Prov.     project closure planned but not
different subprograms                                            ensured due to un-availability of
(B.l)                                                            resources
I. National level
2. Provincial level
3. Fiscal
4. SINATEM
-17-



ACTION PLAN - IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE OF KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES (2)
(from Attachment A. Annex 2 to the MOP; AE - After Effectiven ess (12/05/1995)
Timing
Government      Project Component      Expected Results/Impact     Targets       Achieved Results/Impact
Objectives      Activities (Comp.)                                  AE/
Respons.
Agency
Strengthening   F. Implement the Mning  * Procedures and action   - Before     - Overall design achieved before
and                 Cadastre to           plans (incl. details of  effectiven./  effectiveness Model and operation
modernization       strengthen minig      documents flows,        SM/Prov.     plan completed I yr. AE. Detailed
of sector           nghts and simplify    definition of areas of               system design, includmg
institutions       the granting of        responsibility in document           computenzed admimstrative flows
responsible of      concessions making    handling for granting,               and data bases (SRM: Minmg
implementing       it more transparent.  transferring, converting or           Register System) completed 2 yrs
the muning          Composed of four      terminating concessions;             AE. Installation completed - 3 yrs.
policy and law      different,            assessment and registry of           AE;. procedures adjusted to new
(cont.)            interconnected         concession payments;                 Unified Regulations 4 years AE.
subprograms (B.2):    exact positioning; issues            "Mining" geodetic network and
1. document handling      identification and                   survey of all existing mining rights
2. legal, financial and   proposed system                       completed - 4 yrs AE (acc. to
economic data          improvements to resolve               province)
3. positioning,           them)
surveying, plotting  * System fully operational  - 2 yrs     - Achieved 4 yrs AE
and map preparation  * Systems training         Throughout   - Completed
4. title registry       * Systems testing          Throughout   - Completed and continued after
closure
* Linkage with BUD/ SUIM   - 3 yrs      - Achieved at project closure
Promote and     G. Environmental       * Provincial regulations    - I yr      - Regulations ready I yr. AE
support the     monitoring and control    ready and monitoring                 (formally approved - 2- 3 yrs AE
systematic      system (B.3)              teams set-up at national             (varying acc. to province). Teams
development of                            and provincial levels                 set-up: UGAN before effect.;
environmentally                           satisfactory to the Bank              UGAPs I yrs AE;
sound mining                           *  Design the monitoring    - I yr.     - Monitoring programs designed as
activities                                program satisfactory to the          result of baseline surveys; - 4 yrs
Bank                                 AE (original schedule not realistic)
1. Establish baseline data  * Complete the baseline at  - 3 yrs.  - Completed 4 yrs AE (terrain and
provincial levels                    climatic factors)
2. Develop monitoring   * Monitoring work in the   Throughout   - Achieved dunng project
program                 field                                implementation. Sustainability after
closure not ensured due to scarce
economic resources
3. Establish monitoring  *  Visit main monitonng   - At the     - Partially achieved at national level
work routines and       areas to discuss program  beginning of  and in Catamarca, Mendoza and
procedures to           with communities at     monitoring   San Juan provinces.
implement the           national and provincial  work and
program                 levels                  penodic.
thereafter
* Feedback to SM and DPM   - I yr.      - Partially achieved
enforcement functions
Resp.: SM/Prov.
- 18 -



ACTION PLAN - IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE OF KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES (3)
(from Attachment A, Annex 2 to the MOP; AE - After Effectiveness (12/05/1995)
Timing
Government      Project Component       Expected Results/Impact     Targets        Achieved Results/Impact
Objectives      Activities (Comp.)                                   AE/
Respons.
Agency
Support mining  H. Provide complete and                            /DNSG
policy              accurate geological
management          and other thematic
and private         maps (C. I)         * Systematic regional
investment in   1. Design of detailed     geological mapping of the             - Map production procedures fully
the mining        work program            PASMA region. Production              operational about 24 months AE
sector             including field work,  of at least 60 1:250,000
analytical work and    scale maps and                         - Maps and reports produced
map processing         corresponding reports.                 (cumulative 1996-2001) > 60 (see
- 10 geol and 10 sets of   - 1.5 yr      Table above)
thematic maps
- 15 geol. And 15 sets of  - 2.5 yrs
thematic maps
- 17 geol. And 17 sets of  -3.5 yrs.
thematic maps
- 18geol. And 18 sets of   - 5 yrs
thematic maps
2. Assessment of        * List and program equipment  - I yr/    - Completed 2 yrs AE
agencies'skills and    needed to support mapping  DNSG
facilities, and        activities
upgrading proposals  * Staff training program    Throughout   - Completed
(a) equipment
(computer-wares,
instruments, fumiture,
vehicles); (b) train
staff and provide
educational materials.
3. Geological repository  * Recover, analyze and record  - 4 yrs/  Project design and feasibility study
program                existent geological       DNSG         completed 3 yrs. AE.
information at national and            Program cancelled
provincial levels
1. SINATEM (according
to studies under A 2)
(C.2)
1. Practical application  * Increase productivity,  3 yrs./     - Cancelled on basis of study under
of research program    specifically of small and  INTEMIN     A.2 (see above)
medium companies
2. Technological        * Assist private sector with  Throughout  - Management capacity building
development program    specific problems regarding  project life/  and technological etc.. support
production and            INTEMIN      program designed according to
commercialization, and                 study under A 2 and implemented
provide information about              starting 3 yrs AE
advances and changes in
technology, markets,
environmental issues, etc..
- 19 -



ACTION PLAN - IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE OF KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES (4)
(from Attachment A, Annex 2 to the MOP; AE - After Effectiveness (12/05/1995)
Timing
Government      Project Component      Expected Results/Impact     Targets        Achieved Results/Impact
Objectives      Activities (Comp.)                                  AE/
Respons.
Agency
Support mining  J. Mining information
policy              and promotion                                 /DNM:
management          system (C.3) to:
and pnvate      1. Set up data bank for  * Specific information for the  - 2 yrs.  - Completed 4 yrs. AE
investment in     mming                 private sector and other users
the mining      2. Prepare analysis of  * Increase opportunities and
sector            international minerals  alert in advance about  - 2 yrs.     - Done on a continuous basis
markets and studies of  potential changes in mining          throughout project life and
vanous export         activities                             continues after closure
possibilities
3. Device and carry out  * Availability of accurate
public education      information               Throughout   - Completed (mcl. among others an
campaigns                                                    itinerary public exposition);
4. Prepare and         * Provision of helpful                  continues after project closure
disseminate various   infomraion                Throughout   - Completed and continues after
bibliography,                                                project closure
directories and other
information at the
national and
international levels
S. Prepare and         . Private investment       - I yr. And  - Completed; publicafion updated -
disseminate "Mining    promotion publication    periodic.    2'nd year
Investor's Guide"                               thereafter
6. Prepare conference  * Private investment
and audio-visual       promotion                Throughout   - Completed and continues after
material                                       l             project closure
K. Data Bank (C.3)      * Complete data bank       5 yrs./      - Achieved. 5 yrs AE. However
Implement the BUD to   * The provision of complete  SM/PCU      sustainability and maintenance not
strengthen sector        and accurate geological,              fully ensured at project closure,
information at the       mning and other specific               both at federal and provincial levels
national and international  sector information in real
levels                  time
1. Definition of types  * BUD data system          I yr.        - Completed according to schedule
and uses of infornation  applications. Global network
and requwrements and   definifion (hardware and
specifications for     software), norms, manuals
equipment, software    and formats
and staff training
2. Definition and
presentation of the  * Global network operational.  2 yrs     - Completed 3 yrs AE
BUD structure.         On-going systematic input of
Cadastre and           information into the system
environmental
information will be
integrated into the
system
3. Geology, topography,  * Systematic system for   4 yrs.       - Completed according to schedule
satellite imagery,     information inputs
geophysics, geochem.,  *Global network operating
cartography, and other  * Availability and distribution
data entered into the  of useful information
system                                          I
-20-



ACTION PLAN - IMPLEMENTATION SCHIEDULE OF KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES (5)
(from Attachment A, Annex 2 to the MOP; AE - After Effectiven ess (12/05/1995)
Timing
Government      Project Component       Expected Results/Impact     Targets        Achieved Results/Impact
Objectives      Activities (Comp.)                                   AE/
Respons.
Agency
Strengthen      L. Project coordination  * PCU fully operational   Throughout   - Fulfilled
sector              (D )
institutions to  I Project coordination  * Complete staffing       - At         - Fulfilled. At project start 3 staff; at
implement the     (PCU) set-up                                     effectiveness  end up to 6 staff on PASMA I
PASMA project                           * Start PCU procurement    - I mth AE   - Achieved
* Develop work routines    - By          - Progressive development of
(including contract      effectiveness  routines. Procedures fully
processing system)                     operational 1.5 years AE
2. Implementation,      * Developing monitoring and  - Quarterly,  - Progressive development of
monitoring and         supervision system/project  mid-term and  routines. Procedures fully
supervision            accounts and records     yearly        operational 1.5 years AE. All
reviews       reports presented on time.
3 Administnng project   * Contract management for  - According   - Fulfilled, with some initial delays
procurement and        procurement and          to project    due to progressive development of
contractmng of         consultants              schedule      routines. On track about 1.5 yr AE
consultants
4. Arranging for project  * Auditors selected/     - By Sept.    - Fulfilled
audits                 reappointed              each year 95-
99
* Audits prepared          - Yearly      - Fulfilled, but audits generally
since         overdue
effective.
- No later    - Fulfilled but generally overdue
* Audits sent to Bank      than 6 mths
after end of
cal. Year
5. Set-up special account                          - At          - Fulfilled
* Special account fully    affectiveness
operational
6. Periodic project                                - I" 18       - Fulfilled on-time
review               * Confirmation of project   months AE
progress and possible     and yearly
adjustmnents             thereafter
- 21-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Esti'mate    Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Compohent            US$ million  US$ million
A. Sector Policy Development
A.1 Legal framework                                0.60           0.56          93.3
A.2 SINATEM                                        0.80           0.92           115
B. Policy Implementation
B.l Public mining institutions                     5.60           6.34          113.2
B.2 Mining Cadastre                                7.20           8.96          124.4
B.3 Environmental management                       3.80           4.19          110.3
C. Support Services
C.1 Geological information                        10.70           8.11           75.8
C.2 SINATEM                                        1.80           0.30           16.7
C.3 Unified Mining Information System              3.60           3.63          100.8
D. Project Coordination                            1.40           1.31           93.6
PPF                                                0.80           0.80           100
UNDP management fee                                               0.85
Total Baseline Cost                               36.30          35.97
Price Contingencies                               3.70
Total Project Costs            40.00         35.97
Total Financing Required            40.00          35.97
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method        
Expenditure Category-    ICB       ProCu        M thod2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
NCB,-       Other'
1. Works                     0.00         2.00        8.90         0.00         10.90
(0.00)       (0.70)       (7.90)       (0.00)      (8.60)
2. Goods                     5.90         1.10        1.50         0.00         8.50
(5.20)       (0.90)      (1.30)        (0.00)      (7.40)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00        9.70         0.00         9.70
(0.00)       (0.00)       (8.80)       (0.00)      (8.80)
4. Training                  0.00         0.00         3.40        0.00         3.40
(0.00)       (0.00)       (2.10)       (0.00)      (2.10)
5. Incremental costs         0.00         0.00        6.70         0.00         6.70
(0.00)       (0.00)       (2.30)       (0.00)      (2.30)
6. PPF                      0.00          0.00        0.00         0.80         0.80
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.80)      (0.80)
Total                     5.90         3.10        30.20         0.80        40.00
(5.20)       (1.60)      (22.40)       (0.80)      (30.00)
22 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival et
Pirocuemet Me6thod
Expenditure Category                      NCB M                       N B.F.     Total Cost
1GB ~      NP~          Other      _____
1. Works                        7.36          1.56          0.05          0.13          9.10
(6.32)        (0.48)        (0.01)        (0.00)        (6.81)
2. Goods                        3.55          0.00          3.76          0.00          7.31
(3.18)        (0.00)        (3.83)        (0.00)        (7.01)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00          13.26         0.85          14.11
(0.00)        (0.00)        (11.71)        (0.00)       (11.71)
4. Training                     0.00          0.00           1.09         0.00          1.09
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.37)        (0.00)        (0.37)
5. Incremental costs            0.00          0.00          3.56          0.00          3.56
(0.00)        (0.00)         (1.48)       (0.00)        (1.48)
6. PPF                          0.00          0.00          0.80          0.00          0.80
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.80)        (0.00)        (0.80)
Total                        10.91          1.56         22.52          0.98         35.97
(9.50)        (0.48)        (18.20)        (0.00)       (28.18)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component and Subcomponent (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisail
Component and           Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
Subcomponent                                      B
.-Bank     Govt                                   CoF.    Bank    Govt.  CoF.
A. SectorPolicy          1.07      0.46                1.29      0.19             120.6   41.3
A.1 Legal framework      0.40      0.20               0.40       0.17             100.0   85.0
A.2 SINATEM              0.62      0 26               0.89       0.02             143.5   7.7
B. Policy Implementation  13.86    4.49               14.87      4.62             107.3  102.9
B.1 Public mining        4.20      1.94               4.29       2.05             102.1  105.7
institutions
B.2 Mining Cadastre      6.25      1.73                7.10      1.86             113.6   107.5
B.3 Environmental        3.41      0.82                3.48      0.71             102.1   86.6
management
C. Support Services      13.35     4.44               10.28      1.75              77.0   39.4
C.1 Geological information  9.20   2.65                7.07      1.04              76.8   39.2
C.2 SINATEM              1.59      0.41                0.15      0.15              9.4    36.6
C.3 Unifled Mining       2.56      1.38                3.07      0.56             119.9   40.6
Information System
D. Project Coordination  0.91      0.61                0.93      0.38              102.2  62.3
PPF                      0.80                          0.80                       100.0
UNDP fees                          0.00                          0.85                     0.0
Note: in the above table, the components amounts include the subcomponents costs.
- 23 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
-24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
January/94                  2   1 Planner, I Sector Manager
June/94                     5   1 Planner, I Mining Economist,
1 Mining Specialist, I
Environmental Specialist, I
Institutional Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
November/94                 7   1 Planner, I Mining
Economist, 1 Mining
Specialist, I Economist, I
Environmental Specialist, I
Financial Analyst, I
Institutional Specialist
March/1995                  3   1 Planner, I Environmental
Specialist, I Sector Manager
Supervision
November/95                 2   1 Planner, I Mining               S             S
Specialist
April/96                    2    1 Planner, I Mining Economist,   S             S
June96                      2   1 Planner, I Mining Specialist    S             S
November/96                 I   I Mining Specialist               S             S
January/97                  I   I Environmental Specialist        S             S
March/97                    I    I Planner                        S             S
May/97                      2   1 Planner, I Mining Economist     S            HS
September/97                4    1 Planner, I Mining Specialist,  S            HS
I Mining Economist, I
Environmental Specialist
November/97                 I    I Mining Specialist              S            HS
December/97                 3   1 Mining Specialist, I Mining     S            HS
Economist, I Environmental
Specialist
April/98                    3    1 Mining Specialist, I Mining    S            HS
Economist, I Environmental
Specialist
July/98                     3   1 Mining Specialist, I Mining     HS           HS
Economist, I Environmental
Specialist
October/98                  I   1 Mining Specialist               HS           HS
December/98                 4    1 Mining Specialist, I Mining    HS           HS
Economist, I Environmental
Specialist,1 Procurement
Specialist
April/99                    4    1 Mining Economist, I Mining     HS           HS
Specialist, 2 Sector Managers
- 25-



October/99                  4    1 Mining Economist, I Mining     HS            HS
Specialist, I Environmental
Specialist, I Procurement
Specialist
December/99                 I    I Mining Specialist              HS            HS
July/00                     3    1 Mining Specialist, I Mining     S            HS
Economist, I Procurement
Specialist
August/00                   2    1 Mining Specialist, I            S            HS
Procurement Specialist
December/00                 5    1 Mining Economist, I Mining      S            HS
Specialist, IEnvironmental
Specialist, I Procurement
Specialist, I Financial Specialist
May/2001                     I   I Mining Specialist               S            HS
ICR
August/2001                 3    1 Mining Economist, I             S            HS
Mining Specialist, Sector
Manager
December/2001               2    1 Mining Specialist, I            S            HS
Environmental Specialist
May 2002                      1  1 Mining Specialist               S            HS
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              46.4                       225.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                   22.5                       115 6
Supervision                             95.3                       425.5
ICR                                      12.4                       52.3
Total                                   176.6                      819.1
- 26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substanbal, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
C Macro policies                      O H OSUOM O N        * NA
Ol Sector Policies                    * H  OSUOM ON        O NA
O Physical                            O H *SUOM O N O NA
Oi Financial                          O H  OSUOM O N O NA
FL Institutional Development          0 H * SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Environmental                       O H *SUOM ON O NA
Social
Oi Poverty Reduction            O H OSU*M O N O NA
Li Gender                       OH O SU O M ON       * NA
O Other (Please specify)        O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Private sector development          * H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Public sector management            0 H * SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Other (Please specify)              OH   OSUOM      ON   * NA
- 27-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
El Lending                                          OHS * S      OU     OHU
O Supervision                                       OHS * S      0  U   O HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS       O U    O HU
6 2 Borrower performance                            Rating
L Preparation                                       * HS OS      O U    O HU
O Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 O HS OS      O U    0 HU
LI Overall                                          OHS OS       0 U    O HU
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Argentina - Mining Sector Review (Report 11704-AR, June 30, 1993)
2. Sectoral Environmental Assessment (SSM, September 1994, revised version March 1995)
3. Staff Appraisal Report for Argentina Mining Development Technical Assistance Project dated June 29,
1995 (Report No. P-6617-AR)
4. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports;
5. Project Progress Reports;
6. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project; and
7. Borrower's Evaluation Report dated December 21, 2001.
- 29 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Summary Report
The Argentine mining sector reform initiated in 1992 is a success. It is expected that many of its
achievements will be sustainable - in spite of the difficult economic and political situation prevalent at the
time these lines are written (December 2001) -; and that the process to further improve conditions for sector
growth and contribution to socio-economic development will continue.
Background
Ten years ago, in spite of a favorable geology and well-established mining neighbors such as Brazil,
Bolivia and Chile, there were only a few mines, most of them small-scale operations in the non-metallic
(industrial minerals) sector. In 1992, with support of the World Bank, the Government of Argentina
assessed the mining sector's deficiencies and the country's geological potential. The sector's historical poor
performance was due to a number of factors, including:
*  Long term macroeconomic instability;
* Interventionist role of Government in the sector;
* Weak administration by provincial governments;
 Conflicts between the Federal and Provincial authorities regarding mining development policy;
* Huge differences regarding regulations and enforcement between provinces; for example, different types
and rates of royalties;
* Difficult access by private investors to large potential mining areas held by federal or provincial state
agencies;
*  Outdated legal frameworks and cumbersome, unclear or discretionary concession and cadastral
procedures;
* Lack of security of tenure for mining rights;
* Outdated and inefficient institutional framework; and,
* Lack of a basic geological information.
Objectives of the reform.
Based on the sector diagnostic, as well as on the recognition of the worldwide application of the market
economy and of the globalization of the industry, in 1993 the Government formulated a mining policy in
line with the broader national economic policy reform-initiated in 1990-and started a reform strategy for
environmentally and socially sound private mining development. The strategy aimed to:
* Encourage private investments and stability, while avoiding earlier wasteful promotion schemes or
subsidies;
* Ensure that the sector contributes to sustainable economic and social regional development;
* Promote consensus regarding mining policy between federal and provincial authorities, through the
creation of a Federal Mining Council;
* Better define the respective responsibilities of the provincial and federal mining authorities and of the
private sector; divest state owned mrining interests and restructure and modemize the sector agencies -
emphasizing the role of the State as a regulator - and improving access to mineral land;
*  Modernize the legal framework by amending the Mining Code and promulgating complementary
legislation, establish procedures and non-discretionary administration for the granting of mining rights
and enforcement of environmental regulations, and homogenize regulations and enforcement across
provinces; and,
* Create an autonomous geological service to produce the required base line data and establish an easily
accessed nationwide information network.
The objectives and content of the reform, as well as its implementation process, were designed on the basis
- 30 -



of a policy framework agreed between Provinces and the Central government, and formalized under the
1993 Mining Federal Agreement, and with the support of most stakeholders. The close involvement of the
provinces authorities was a pre-requisite to success, as they are the constitutional owners of the mineral
resources and responsible for their administration.
Implementation and achievement of objectives
In 1994, the Government requested a loan to the WB to develop provincial and federal capacities and
infrastructure needed to put into practice the reform. At this time, it was decided to design the first PASMA
as a pilot project, involving the federal and six provincial authorities, which became effective in December
1995. The reason was to test the selected modernization methodology, before, if successful, to extend the
experience to the rest of the country (a second loan was requested in 1997 for this purpose).
The project design was based on the following pillars: 1) the modernization of the legal framework, 2) the
strengthening of the institutional capacity at the federal and provincial levels, 3) the improvement of the
administration of mining rights, 4) the development and set-up of an environmental management system, 5)
the improvement of the geological information infrastructure, and 6) the set-up of a sector-wide publicly
available information system.
Mining legal and fiscal framework The current legal framework has proved to be efficient in attracting
private investment and supporting the development of environmentally sound mining activities. During the
preparation and implementation of the project, nine laws were prepared and passed by Congress. Some of
the most important ones include: the Investment Law (1993), improving investment conditions within the
sector and providing fiscal stability; the Federal Mining Agreement Law (1993), defining the consensus and
commitment between Provinces and Nation regarding sector development policies and management; the
Environmental Law for Mining Activities (1995), incorporated as part of the Mining Code and establishing
clear rules for investors regarding EIAs, norms and procedures; and the Mining Treaty (2001) with Chile,
setting the rules for the development of the many ore deposits lying close to the border of both countries. In
addition, under the umbrella of the project, all provincial mining authorities (six from PASMA I and 17
from PASMA 11) have established unified mining procedures for the granting and management of mining
rights.
One of the objectives of the project, to pass a modernized Mining Code, was partly achieved. A draft
project was prepared and distributed to all stakeholders for analysis and comments. Discrepancies from
conservative sectors delayed progress and did not permit to send the project to Congress. However, the
consensus building process continues and the proposed law is gaining an increasing support. An important
lesson is the need to involve all sectors and actors at an early stage of development through an open
process, as demonstrated in the case of the unified mining procedures.
Institutional capacity development. The project completed the modernization of the 6 provincial mining
agencies and 2 mining courts (Catamarca and Salta Provinces), in terms of streamlining the organizations
with the new functions, introducing modern technologies, training staff and improving infrastructure and
equipment. At the federal level, the Undersecretanat of Mines, the Environmental Management Unit
(UGAM), the Mining Directorate and the Geological Survey (the autonomous status of the Survey has been
approved, however the new structure has still to be formally confirTned) were similarly strengthened,
equipped and staff trained in order to fullfil their functions in line with the new role of the State. Another
important achievement of the reform is the institutionalization of the Federal Mining Council (COFEMIN)
where the State policy for sector development is discussed and agreed between the 23 Provincial and the
Federal authorities. Following the example of the public sector, the private sector unified and strengthened
its representation structure at the national and, in some cases, provincial levels.
Institututional strengthening traditionally constitutes a challenging process and the main constraints
-31 -



included (i) the initial lack of trust from the agencies staff with respect to the federal government's
commitment to fully implement the reform as well as (ii) resistance due to the fear that such reform would
be linked to staff reduction. In-depth dialogue from an early stage to promote ownership with the reform
objectives, combined with the timely and coordinated implementation of the different components - design,
training, infrastructure, set-up of operational procedure and follow-up - were key factors towards a change
of attitude - from defensive to service oriented - and the implemention of a more efficient sector
management. In addition, flexibility in adjusting the overall institutional model to the customary and, to
some extent, regulatory particularities of the different provinces has been an important factor to success.
Unified mining cadastre system. The scheduled mining cadastre works have been completed. They
included (i) the set-up of a complementary mining geodetic network, linked to and strengthening the
national network, (ii) location and GPS measurement of all mining properties; and (iii) set up of a
computerized mining concession granting and management system was put in place in the six provinces,
using off-the-shelf software applications. The relevant information is available on the intemet. All involved
staff have been trained in GPS technology and use of GIS and of related databases, both at workshops and
on the job, using the infrastructure and equipment purchased under the project. Lessons learned include: (i)
a critical prerequisite consists in the detailed inventory, clean-up and updating of the existing cadastral
infonnation, before starting the set up of a new system; (ii) computerized cadastral management systems
improve the strict and transparent application of the mining law and its procedures and enhance security of
tenure; (iii) a particularly systematic planning effort and a rigorous supervision of contracted works to be
carried out in such remote and difficult terrains as the Andes reduces the risk of failure in location
calculation or building up of reference sites.The precise positioning of properties, transparent granting and
cancellation procedures and public availability of the related information enhance security of tenure and
represent fundamental conditions to attract investments as well as for the orderly development and sound
management of the mining sector.
Mining environmental management system. An environmental law for mining activities was drafted with
the support of the project, during preparation, and passed in 1995. Its regulations and norms have been
enacted in all six provinces, and guidelines prepared. Six provincial environmental management units
(UGAPs), responsible for the evaluation and approval of EIAs, as well as for the monitoring and the
enforcement of the law and regulations, were established. In most cases, the UGAPs respond to the
provincial mining authorities. However, the review of EIAs involves in all provinces the participation of
authorities from other involved sectors. A federal mining environmental unit (UGAM) was set-up as well,
providing policy coordination and legal and technical advice to the UGAPs and to the federal authorities.
Environmental baseline studies in selected mining areas of every six provinces were completed, and the
data input into a GIS based information system, available through internet. Monitoring environmental
programs to be carried out periodically by the UGAPs have been set up, the data entered in the databases.
These monitoring components should provide an efficient tool, quite unique so far in Argentina, to assess
the sector environmental performance. However, they are probably the most sensitive to financial crisis and
their sustainability will depend more than other systems (including the environmental permiting procedures)
established under the project on the availability of sufficient resources.
In addition, as part of the PASMA II project, activities and studies on the socio-economic and
environmental impacts of large scale mining operations on communities have been carried out in the
Catamarca and San Juan provinces. A methodology has been developed regarding (i) how to assess such
impacts and (ii) how to approach from the point of view of the different stakeholders the development of
such projects.
Important lessons include: (i) the development of an environmental legal and institutional framework is an
important pre-requisite for mining investment as it established clear rules; it has been widely accepted by
- 32 -



all stakeholders and contributes to the development of the sector without environmental conflicts; (ii) to
prevent environmental conflicts and impacts, it is critical to involve all stakeholders (state, private sector,
the communities with mining activities and NGOs), with clearly defined roles and methodologies; and (iii)
the dissemination of information and communication with the involved communities is critical for the
development of mining operations and their contribution to local development..
Geological infrastructure. The Geological Survey (SEGEMAR) has achieved the production goals defined
at project start in terms of published maps and documents, as a result of the successful set-up of
state-of-the-art and efficient procedures to generate and disseminate earth sciences information. Important
lessons include: (i) clear definitions of priorities and long term planning in terms of products and areas -
based on consultations with the clients (so far mainly provincial and municipal authorities as well as mining
companies) within a well-defined policy framework - induced a more systematic production and improved
quality and relevance of the information; (ii) the selected capacity building methodology, based on actual
production goals under the responsibility of the agency's staff, supported by mainly on the job training
provided by consultants from advanced geological surveys, has contributed to develop a strong ownership
of the reform objectives within this field, which translated into the development of efficient work
procedures and performance; and (iii) the public availability and dissemination of quality information has
enhanced SEGEMAR reputation of reliability and - to some extent - demand. The sustainability of
full-capacity activities in a period of economical crisis cannot be ensured. However, the present functions
and structure of the institution, constituted by a strong and limited core staff responsible for the planning,
coordination, storage, retrieval, processing and dissemination of the national geo-information, while the
mapping or data gathering activities are mostly contracted out (universities, consultants), should mitigate
the risks of regression to a pre-PASMA situation.
National mining information system (SNIM). The project completed the design and set-up of the SNIM
linking, through intra-/intemet, federal and provincial databases, such as legal, geological, cadastral,
environmental, statistics, promotion and others, related when relevant to GIS based on a unified digital map
of Argentina, developed in cooperation with IGM. This component provides an excellent tool for land
management, including but not limited to mining development, to the govemement, to the private sector and
to all sectors of the society. While transferred from the project to the respective authorities, SNIM requires
a strong coordination which could not be fully consolidated during implementation. The operation of this
system might also be more sensitive than others developped under the project to the availability or not of
sufficient ressources. It represents an essential factor for success in attracting investors, achieve
transparency and sustainability of mining sector development.
Support of the World Bank
The World Bank (WB) has played a critical and positive role in the implementation and success of the
mining reform in Argentina. It provided an in-depth assessment of the mineral sector at inception, on the
basis of which the federal and provincial authorities could design an effective development policy. The WB
then provided policy, technical and financial assistance to implement the sector reform in an effective way,
in a constant and open dialogue with the implementing agencies, with the Ministry of Economy, the Chief
of Cabinet Office, the provincial govemors, representatives of the private sector and of the civil society.
Performance of the federal and provincial authorities
The successive federal and provincial governments have been supportive of the sector development policy
and reform, and, as a consequence, of the project implementation continuity. Such support is a key factor in
the successful achievement of the reform, and of the PASMA project, objectives. The deterioration of the
economic situation during the last couple of years of project implementation has affected the level of
activities in a few cases, principally due to the progressive reduction in availability of counterpart funds,
but did not impact the outcome. However, the impact of the present crisis on the sustainability of some of
- 33 -



the achievements, such as environmental monitoring and the information system, remains to be seen.
Conclusions
The success of the Argentina mining sector reform is based on several factors, including, (i) a continuous
political support from all stakeholders; (ii) the initial in-depth analysis of the sector problems; and (iii) the
selected approach integrating the legal, institutional and information infrastructure aspects.
At the level of the project as such, success was due to (i) a strong link and support between the political
authorities and the teams responsible for the coordination and implementation of the activities; (ii) clear and
concrete objectives and tasks easy to monitor; (iii) efficient planning, management and monitoring; and (iv)
open and constant dialogue between stakeholders.
The main issue for the future is related to the sustainability of the project achievements and to the needed
continuity to further deepen the reform. A most important requisite will be a strong political support which
would allow a clear leadership and consensus based actions through plans and programs to maintain and
continue to develop the changes initiated under the project. As part of such plan and programs, is the
definition of reliable financial mechanisms to support critical functions of public mining agencies. The
completion of the mining code reform is also strongly related to this issue. Most important would be to
continue the work initiated under PASMA to develop activities aiming at improving the integration of
mining projects to the socio-economic development of communities, including, among others, the
development and implementation of improved consultation and participatory mechanisms, community
driven development linked to mining, mine closure mechanisms, coordination with other sectors (e.g.
infrastructure development and others) in order to optimize the economic benefits from the mining sector
development, particularly at the local and regional levels. We express our wishes that the World Bank can
continue to provide its support and help our country to deepen the social aspects of the mining reform.
Buenos Aires, December 21, 2002
Dr. Carlos Saravia Frias
Undersecretary of Mines
- 34 -



IBRD 27034
_   . . 70° '  BOLIVIA  /    60'     Z                      50'
PARAGUAY
/ l 'c (DTjumon C HA C O> i
f          , | ~~~~~~~~Sniago@  Resisincia1      BRA  ZI L
J  E     51 s  SANTIAGO,              S/
30 ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   ~  A
30
-                    Sant0  j  C  O R D osa S Santa Re
\  ^  _          \      Pa~~~~~ ~  ~~~~~ran6   C
z                 )rsIRoo 4J< 5
_                                           U R
40                                        ASSISTANCE PRTBUENOS AIREOJCT
/   ,._ - ~~~~~~~~ a i _ ~~~LaPlt )  
Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~at Ro        BUENOS                P I 
L 2  tLA      MarPdeloto  /
< * 0 W  \ Z  RPA M PA  OBaPhoa BlPnce
9 0Neqe A R G                              E N   T I N A
Z      RIO              MINING DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL
_40° ',             NEGRO          gJASSISTANCE PROJECT                 
D  t         t   Potaq~~~~~~ones
} gS , . . -Z~~~~~VIdMO       F    Pro ject Provinces
o   Selected Cities
I f I v     ~~~~~~~Rawn I/ 
w  E  CHUBUT  >             @   Province Capitals
®   National Capital
Q'3                          Province Boundaries
International Boundaries
MILES 0  1 00 200  300 400  soo
I           I     I
2  }  CRUZ  )        KILOMETERS 0  200   400   600   800
FALKLAND ISLANDS
;7                 ~~~~~~~(MlALVllNA5)
50D   Lo fflRIo Galleao  eg7J)     The boundaries, colors, 50
denominations ond any
S       A l$PUf CNCESNtN SOVrSELNTYOVF]THE other information  shown
A 01UtE ONCENINGSO0ffifONTY OVFSTE   tis m 
ISLANDS EXISTS EETWE4N ARGENtINA WHICK CLAI.S  on  this   mo  do  not
\ y#>  5   [)   ~~~THIlS SOIrFIrFlYN AND TIIF U K WHICH ADAMSIIStCS  imply, on  thoar  f
ro« \ g/ {1_ 1\  r~HE ISEANDS       The WrdBank Group,
sanyi judgmenat on tthe legal
Usia or any endorsement
IE R RA             bo undaries.
DEL
80'               70°      FUEGO    6,-              °0
_  I  I                        .   _
status~      MA 1f an9trr5oy









Report No.:        23368
Type:     O



