Report No. PIC501
Project Name                   Argentina-Mining Sector Development (@&)
Region                         Latin America & the Caribbean
Sector                         Private Sector Development
Project ID                     ARPA6055
Borrower                       Government of Argentina
Implementing Agency            Mining Secretariat
Undersecretary of Mining
Daniel Meilan
Av. Julio A. Roca 651, 2 piso
1322 Buenos Aires, Argentina
Tel. 349-3271/4
Fax 349-3273
Final PID Date                 May 30, 1995
Appraisal Date                 Oct/Nov. 1994
Board Date                     July 18, 1995
1.   Country and Sector Background:    Partially supported by a
formidable reform and an ambitious privatization program, Argentina's
current macroeconomic program is resulting in price stability and
economic growth unknown for decades in the country. As sustained future
growth hinges on an expanding and dynamic private sector, the
Government's new role is to avoid distortions that repress and misguide
private economic activities, and to provide an enabling institutional
and regulatory framework for their development, among them mining. A
1993 Bank Mining Sector Review, done with Swedish and Finnish
collaboration, showed mining is far below the country's potential (less
than 0.5w of GDP, 1 of exports). Sector production is mostly divided
between many small non-metallic operations--aost 400 of them in the six
provinces of Catamarca, Chubut, Jujuy, Mendoza, Salta and San Juan.
Three producers of metallic minerals account for over 80 percent of the
country's production; two others account for 75t of gold mined.
Argentina has large areas of favorable geology which are largely unknown
due to the paucity of exploration activity. To achieve the sector's
potential, annual investment in exploration, now less than US$10
million, should be over US$45 million. The Review recommended that:
Government encourage private investment and avoid inefficient promotion
schemes; the federal and provincial levels define better their
responsibilities, divest from mining interests and restructure their
sector agencies; legal provisions be revised to provide simple,
enforceable procedures and minimal administrative discretion for both
the concession of mining rights and the application of health, safety
and environmental safeguards; and an independent geological service be
established. Three laws approved in 1993 improve the mining investment
and institutional frameworks, and create the Geological Survey.
Divestment of mining reserves has started. Yet other important reforms
are needed to foster environmentally sound, competitive private mining.
2.   Project Objectives:   The main objective of the project is to



develop and support policy, regulatory and institutional reforms--
including provincial divestiture--that encourage the expansion of
private investment in mining in an environmentally sound way. Provinces
administer mining rights, hence the project would help, at the federal
level and in six provinces: build the capacity needed for a fair and
efficient administration of mining rights; establish adequate
environmental safeguards; and strengthen the technical infrastructure
and services that support mining growth, including the public,
transparent provision of precise and reliable mineral information.
3.   Project Description:   The project has four components.   (i) A
Policy Development Component, providing consultancies to support the
consistency of the mining sector policy with the country's overall
economic liberalization efforts, and to review and develop the legal
framework and tools to enable its implementation, including rules and
procedures for the provincial administration of mining rights, and
appropriate environmental norms and standards. (ii) A Policy
Implementation Component to develop the administrative capacity and
installations of the Mining Secretariat and sector agencies in six
provinces, including their cadastral and registry systems and related
advisory services, a mining data bank and public information network,
and the mechanisms to monitor and enforce environmental management. It
would also finance relevant skills transfer, training and divestiture
efforts. (iii) A Support Services Component would support private
investment decisions by financing: geological and thematic mapping;
mineral statistics and promotion facilities; a geological repository and
ancillary facilities; and the discrete, focussed strengthening of the
mineral and geological laboratory system. (iv) A Project Coordinating
Unit (PCU) to oversee project implementation. The project finances
consulting services and contract works, computer equipment and software,
field and office equipment and vehicles, training, incremental operating
costs and the necessary upgrading of facilities.
4.   Project Cost and Financing:   Total cost of the project is estimated
at US$40 million equivalent, of which about 74 percent is foreign
exchange. A Bank loan of US$30 million is contemplated, and the Federal
and Provincial Governments would finance local costs.
5.   Implementation Arrangements:   The Secretariat of Mining (SM), at
the Ministry of Economy would be responsible for overall project
coordination, and for components that strengthen federal policy,
legislation and agencies (National Directorate of Mining, Mineral Data
Bank and Information Network, Geological Survey, Repository and Lab
system). As provinces administer mining rights, they will implement the
cadastre and registry systems and environmental control mechanisms. Six
provinces will participate: Catamarca, Salta, Mendoza, San Luis, San
Juan and La Rioja, the last four under a regional scheme "Nuevo Cuyo",
whose aim is to develop a homogeneous mining regulation, cadastre and
administrative set-up. The Project Coordination Unit established in SM
for preparation purposes will continue to coordinate federal and
provincial subcomponents, monitor and supervise, and handle consultancy
arrangements, procurement and disbursement. The project would be
implemented in five years.
6.   Project Sustainability:   The project would support competitive
- 2-



sector growth by creating appropriate conditions for mining development
and to attract long-term private investment. The legal and
institutional framework and technical infrastructure and services that
it will foster will assist in expanding and diversifying the country's
economy and exports. Services provided at the national level will be
improved. Selected provinces are ready to do the proposed reforms and
strengthen their administrative roles. Once in motion, these activities
should catalyze further reforms and sector growth in other provinces as
well.
7.   Poverty Category:   N.A.
8.   Environmental Aspects:   A Sectoral Environmental Assessment was
done during preparation of this environmental category "B" project.
Given the limited mining to date in Argentina, there has been little
concern for related environmental issues. The Mining Code includes
mostly safety provisions, and only two articles deal with environmental
protection. However, environmental considerations increasingly permeate
local policy and action, and general environmental laws and provisions
are being discussed or implemented at all levels, providing an
opportunity for establishing a well designed framework for
environmentally sound mining. The Project will help develop: (i) an
Environmental Management Program for the mining industry as a whole to:
set priorities and timetables for establishing standards and procedures
and the supporting institutional structure; address how to bring
existing mining up to acceptable standards; and establish requirements
and procedures for new operations--all with clearly defined reporting
and responsibilities; (ii) the provincial administrative capacities to
implement and enforce the Program, including requirements that new mines
do baseline studies as a reference to measure the impact of mining and
prepare mitigation action plans, before mine development is approved;
and (iii) environmental baseline studies in each of the six
participating provinces.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



