Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3927-AR
Loan Agreement
(Mining Development Technical Assistance Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 18, 1995
LOAN NUMBER 3927-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 18, 1995, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower's Congress enacted Law No. 24196, dated April 28, 1993 
(the Mining Investment Law) which provides the investment regime for mining activities 
in the territory of the Borrower, including several fiscal incentives for private 
investors;
(B)
the Borrower entered into the Acuerdo Federal Minero dated May 6, 1993 
(the Acuerdo Minero) with all its Provinces, for the purposes of establishing the 
policy framework for the Borrower's mining sector, an agreement ratified by the 
Borrower's Congress by means of Law No. 24228, dated July 7, 1993;
(C)
the Borrower's Congress enacted Law No. 24224 dated June 23, 1993, (the 
Mining Reorganization Law) which provides for the geological mapping of the Borrower's 
territory;
(D)
the Borrower has entered into the following Acuerdos Federales Para La 
Implementacion Del Proyecto De Apoyo Al Sector Minero (PASMA) (the Acuerdos PASMA), 
for the purposes of establishing common principles and guidelines for the 
implementation of the Project: (i) with the Province of Catamarca, on December 30, 
1994; (ii) with the Province of La Rioja, on December 29, 1994; (iii) with the 
Province of Mendoza, on December 27, 1994; (iv) with the Province of Salta,
on December 26, 1994; (v) with the Province of San Juan, on December 22, 1994; and 
(vi) with the Province of San Luis, on December 28, 1994;
(E)
the Bank has received a letter dated June 12, 1995, from the Borrower, 
describing the Borrower's policy and strategy for its mining sector; and
(F)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
Page  2
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United 
Nations."
(c)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"DNM" means Direccion Nacional de Mineria, the Borrower's National 
Directorate of Mining;
(b)
"DNSG" means Direccion Nacional del Servicio Geologico, the Borrower's 
National Directorate of Geological Surveys;
(c)
"DPMs" means Direcciones Provinciales de Mineria, the Mining Directorates 
of the Participating Provinces (as hereinafter defined) or an agency that performs 
similar functions;
(d)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which begins on January
1 and ends on December 31 of each year; 
(e)
"Implementation Program" means the program set forth in the letter from 
the Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith (Supplemental Letter No. 1);
(f)
"National Protected Areas" means the areas of national parks, natural 
reserves and natural monuments governed by the Borrower's Law No. 20351, dated May 12, 
1980, including the parks of El Rey, Baritu and Los Cardones;
(g)
"Participating Provinces" means the Provinces of Catamarca, La Rioja, 
Mendoza, Salta, San Juan and San Luis, or any other Province that has signed an 
Acuerdo PASMA, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; 
(h)
"PCU" means the unit referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
 
(i)
"Project Coordinator" means the coordinator referred to in Section 3.04 
(b) of this Agreement;
(j)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the Project preparation advance 
Page  3
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to a letter from the Bank dated April 7, 
1994, countersigned by the Borrower on July 14, 1994, pursuant to the Borrower's 
Decree 1129, dated July 13, 1994;
(k)
"Provincial Protected Areas" means the areas of provincial parks, natural 
reserves, and natural monuments within the jurisdiction of the Participating 
Provinces, where the legislation of the Participating Provinces prohibits all, or 
establishes restrictions on, mining activities;
(l)
"SINATEM" means Sistema Nacional de Tecnologia Minera, the Borrower's 
National System of Mining Technology; 
(m)
"SM" means Secretaria de Mineria, the Borrower's Secretariat of Mining; 
and
(n)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of thirty million Dollars 
($30,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
Page  4
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Secretary of Mining at the Ministry of Economy and Public 
Works and Services, or any other person designated in writing by him/her, is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action 
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through SM, with the participation of the Participating Provinces, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate managerial, 
administrative, mining and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable the Participating Provinces to participate 
in the carrying out of the Project; and
(ii)
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with the participation of the Participating Provinces in 
the carrying out of the Project.
(c)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program.
Page  5
(d)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall allocate in each of its annual budgets, and make 
available promptly as needed, the counterpart funds required for Project 
implementation, including the minimum amounts set forth in the letter from the 
Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith (Supplemental Letter No. 2) for all fiscal 
years of Project implementation other than the first, provided, however, that
any such amount (as well as the amount set forth in Section 6.01 (b) of this 
Agreement) not utilized in the budgeted Fiscal Year shall be reallocated to subsequent 
Fiscal Years, as may be required for the efficient execution of the Project, pursuant 
to the Borrower's budgetary provisions.
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the Acuerdo Minero and the Acuerdos PASMA, in such a manner as to:
(i)
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank;
 
(ii)
comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and
 
(iii)
achieve the objectives of the Project.
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General  Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than December 31, 1999 or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a 
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, designed 
to ensure the continued achievement of the Project's objectives;
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan; and 
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Bank's comments 
thereon.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, at all times until completion of 
the Project, a Project coordination unit with functions and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the following functions and 
responsibilities:
(i)
preparation of the reports referred to in Section 3.07 of this 
Agreement;
(ii)
carrying out the procurement of goods, works and consultants 
services required for the Project; and
(iii)
overseeing the general administration of the Project, with respect 
to withdrawals, accounting and auditing.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the PCU is, at all times during the 
execution of the Project, headed by a Project coordinator, with qualifications, 
experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, assisted by 
qualified staff in adequate numbers.
(c)
The Borrower shall retain, at all times until completion of the Project, 
an accounting firm, with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, such 
firm to assist the PCU in all matters related to the accounts required under the 
Project, pursuant to the provisions of Article IV of this Agreement.
(d)
Without limitation or restriction upon other provisions of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the discharge of the functions of the PCU 
and the Project Coordinator.
(e)
Pursuant to the Acuerdos PASMA, the Borrower shall cause each 
Participating Province:
Page  6
(i)
to appoint and retain, until completion of the Project:
 
(A)
provincial Project coordinators with qualifications, 
experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to 
the Bank; and
(B)
qualified staff in adequate numbers, to assist the aforesaid 
coordinators;
(ii)
to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the discharge of the functions of 
their respective provincial Project coordinators; 
(iii)
to adopt environmental regulations for mining activities, 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iv)
to assign qualified environmental specialists for all the 
functions related to environmental management of mining activities 
within the respective Participating Province.
Section 3.05. With regard to the services of the consultants to be hired under 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program, the Borrower shall and 
shall ensure that the Participating Provinces, through the PCU:
(a)
promptly after the completion of each service, furnish to the Bank a copy 
of the consultants' findings and recommendations;
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such findings and 
recommendations; and 
(c)
review and implement the recommendations of such consultants, taking into 
account the Bank's comments thereon.
Section 3.06. With regard to the training programs to be carried out under the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program, the Borrower shall and shall 
ensure that the Participating Provinces, through the PCU:
(a)
furnish to the Bank, for its approval, the contents, schedule, selection 
criteria, and number of participants of the respective programs;
(b)
carry out such training programs in accordance with the contents, 
schedule and selection criteria approved by the Bank; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request, on the results of each such training program and the 
benefits derived therefrom.
Section 3.07. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
not later than February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each 
year during the execution of the Project, starting in May 15, 1996, furnish to the 
Bank, for its review and comments, a report on the progress achieved in the execution 
of the Project with regard to the preceding quarters ending December 31, March 31, 
June 30 and September 30, respectively, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
may reasonably request; and
(c)
on or about twenty-four months after the Effective Date, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a report 
integrating the result of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section (including the reports referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section), on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended 
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date.
Section 3.08.  Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through PCU, shall:
Page  7
(a)
not later than December 15 of each year during the execution of the 
Project, starting in 1996, review, in conjunction with the Bank, the progress achieved 
by the Borrower and the Participating Provinces in the implementation of the Project 
during the previous calendar year, such review to be based on the progress reports 
referred to in Section 3.07 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
on or about thirty months after the Effective Date or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish, review with the Bank the report referred to in Section 3.07 
(c) of this Agreement; and
(c)
as a result of any of the above reviews, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the reports referred to in 
Section 3.07 of this Agreement and the Bank's views on the matter.
Section 3.09. Not later than three years after the Effective Date, according to 
the recommendations of the studies carried out under Part B.1 (a) (i) of the Project, 
the Borrower shall carry out a restructuring program of the Borrower's geological 
service, satisfactory to the Bank, all as provided in the Implementation Program.
Section 3.10. At all times until completion of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
exchange views with the Bank on any proposed modification of the legal 
framework for the Borrower's mining sector; and
(b)
pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 20351, dated May 12, 1980, ensure that 
no permits for mining activities are issued that may affect materially and adversely, 
in the opinion of the Bank, the National Protected Areas.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such Year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
Page  8
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the Mining Investment Law or the Mining Reorganization Law or their 
corresponding regulations or any provision thereof, shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, 
materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower or any of the Participating 
Provinces to perform any of their respective obligations or undertakings set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement or in the Acuerdo Minero or in the Acuerdos PASMA, as 
the case may be;
(b)
the Borrower shall have enacted legislation that may affect, in the 
opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower or any of 
the Participating Provinces to perform any of their respective obligations or 
undertakings set forth or referred to in this Agreement or in the Acuerdo Minero or in 
the Acuerdos PASMA, as the case may be;
(c)
the Borrower or any of the Participating Provinces shall have failed to 
perform any of their respective obligations or undertakings under the Acuerdo Minero 
or the Acuerdos PASMA, as the case may be;
(d)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Borrower or any of the Participating Provinces will be able to perform any of 
their respective obligations or undertakings under the Acuerdo Minero or the Acuerdos 
PASMA; and
(e)
any of the Participating Provinces shall have issued any permit for 
mining activities in the Provincial Protected Areas: (i) prior to the completion of 
the respective study under Part B.3 (c) (i) of the Project, which affects or may 
affect a Provincial Protected Area; or (ii) after the completion of the respective 
study, which affects or may affect, materially and adversely in the opinion of the 
Bank, such Provincial Protected Area.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) or (e) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower shall have established and staffed the PCU, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
the Borrower shall have allocated in its annual budget the amount set 
forth in Supplemental Letter No. 2 for the first Fiscal Year of Project 
implementation; and
(c)
all action shall have been taken by the Borrower in order to permit that 
Page  9
the procurement of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to 
in this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the action referred to in 
Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement has been taken and no other action on behalf of the 
Borrower is required for the procurement of goods and services in accordance with the 
provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement.
Section 6.03. The date January 17, 1996 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided by Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Economy and Public Works and Services of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia y Obras
   y Servicios Publicos
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA 
121942-AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 248423 
(RCA)
Washington, D.C. 
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentine Republic, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Jose Armando Caro Figueroa
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  10
    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated              % of
                           (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Consultants'              $7,650,000         74% of local ex-
    services                                     penditures for ser-
                                                 vices of consultants
                                                 domiciled within the
                                                 territory of the Bor-
                                                 rower and 100% of fo-
                                                 reign expenditures for
                                                 services of other
                                                 consultants
(2) Contract Works            $6,900,000         85%
(3) Goods                     $6,600,000         85% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 and 100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures
(4) Incremental               $2,200,000         37%
    Operating
    Costs
(5) Rehabilitation              $600,000         33%
    Works
(6) Training and              $1,800,000         100% of foreign
    educational                                  expenditures; 46% of
    materials                                    local expenditures
(7) Refunding of                 750,000         Amounts due
    Project                                      pursuant to
    Preparation                                  Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                      of this Agreement
(8) Unallocated               $3,500,000
        TOTAL                $30,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "Contract Works" means services contracts for the execution of 
Parts B.2, B.3 (c), C.1 (a) and C.1 (b) of the Project, including laboratory services, 
geophysics and geology works and cadastre positioning benchmarks;
Page  11
(d)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means expenditures for the 
operation and maintenance of facilities required for the Project, including: (i) 
office supplies and general maintenance; (ii) services rendered by public utilities; 
(iii) operation and maintenance of office equipment financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan; (iv) domestic and international travels and per diems of its management and 
personnel; and (v) rental fees; and
(e)
the term "Rehabilitation Works" means upgrading of mining administration 
facilities under Part B.1 (a) (ii) of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000, may be made in 
respect of Categories (1) through (6) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures  before that date but after 
October 18, 1994.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures:
(a)
for goods, works, training and the services of consulting firms under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent;
(b)
for the services of individual consultants under contracts not exceeding 
$50,000 equivalent; and 
(c)
all Incremental Operating Costs,
 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to develop and support regulatory and 
institutional reforms that encourage the expansion of private investment in the 
Borrower's mining sector; (b) to assist in building the capacity of the Borrower and 
the Participating Provinces for an efficient administration of mining rights, 
including continuing the divestiture of mining interests held by the Participating 
Provinces; (c) to establish adequate environmental safeguards for the Borrower's
mining sector; and (d) to strengthen support services in the Borrower's mining sector, 
including the provision of precise and reliable information on mineral resources.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Policy Development
 
1.
Legal Framework Development
 
(a)
Drafting of modern mining legislation and regulations for the Borrower 
and the Participating Provinces.
(b)
Preparation of uniform procedures for administration of mining rights, 
including award of exploration permits and mining concessions.
(c)
Drafting of training manuals for officials of the Participating Provinces 
dealing with mining legislation, regulations and procedures.
2.
SINATEM Studies
 
Carrying out of studies aimed at:
(a)
determining the supply and demand for the existing mining research and 
development services in the territory of the Borrower; and
(b)
analyzing the present and potential roles of small and medium mining in 
the territory of the Borrower, identifying the respective issues and proposing 
solutions.
Part B:
Policy Implementation
Page  12
1.
Institutional Capacity Development
 
(a)
Carrying out of an institutional framework development program 
comprising:
(i)
the definition of an institutional model for the mining sector of 
the Borrower (including the geological service) and the 
Participating Provinces; and
(ii)
the upgrading of the facilities of SM's central offices and 
selected regional offices, DNM, DNSG, DPMs and other agencies of 
the Participating Provinces.
(b)
Carrying out of a training program for officials of the Borrower and the 
Participating Provinces active in the mining sector and environmental matters, aimed 
at:
(i)
enhancing their managerial and technical skills;
 
(ii)
building their capacity on taxation, accounting and financial 
issues relevant for the enforcement of the Mining Investment Law 
and other fiscal provisions affecting mining activities; and
(iii)
assisting agencies of the Borrower and the Participating Provinces 
involved in SINATEM: 
(A)
to adjust their roles to the new institutional policies; and
 
(B)
to participate in the implementation of other parts of the 
Project.
2.
Cadastre and Registry System
 
Transformation of the Participating Provinces' existing physical registries into 
modern mining cadastres.
3.
Environmental Management
 
(a)
Preparation of:
 
(i)
environmental regulations, norms and standards for mining 
activities in the Participating Provinces;
(ii)
instructions on the preparation of environmental impact 
assessments;
(iii)
instructions on the procedures related to prospection and 
exploration works;
(iv)
registries of consultants and laboratories capable of performing 
environmental work; and
(v)
technical manuals on environmental practices and procedures.
 
(b)
Strengthening of the environmental management capacities of the 
Participating Provinces for:
(i)
participating in the formulation and application of environmental 
legislation, regulations, norms and standards;
(ii)
developing and applying methods for participating in the 
processing of exploration permits and mining concessions, ensuring 
that the requirements of environmental assessment and management 
programs are complied with and promoting public participation in 
the approval of such permits or concessions; and
(iii)
establishing appropriate monitoring, supervision and control 
procedures regarding environmental management programs, and 
occupational health and safety standards in the mining sector.
(c)
Carrying out of studies, aimed at:
Page  13
(i)
gathering, obtaining and analyzing the necessary information 
(including information on environmental matters such as baseline 
studies that will be conducted in each Participating Province) to 
be used in the preparation of domestic environmental norms and 
standards, and to assist the Borrower in making decisions with 
respect to the location of mining facilities;
(ii)
developing multidisciplinary research methodologies to be applied 
in environmental analyses in the Borrower's mining sector; and
(iii)
strengthening the research capacity and human resources available 
for environmental issues related to mining activities.
Part C:
Support Services
 
1.
Geological Infrastructure
 
(a)
Carrying out a geological mapping program, including, inter alia:
 
(i)
strengthening and modernizing DNSG's geological map production and 
facilities;
(ii)
supporting the systematic geological mapping of previously 
unmapped or inadequately mapped areas in the territory of the 
Borrower, including the digitalized production of about 60 
1:250,000 scale maps and 10 1:100,000 scale maps covering some 
550,000 square kilometers of the Andean Cordillera, first within 
the Participating Provinces, and the publication of professional 
quality packages of data and maps;
(iii)
providing on-the-job training of DNSG's geologists in modern field 
mapping and map production techniques; and
(iv)
providing geological information necessary to attract mining 
investments.
(b)
Carrying out of a geophysics and mineral resources mapping program, 
including, inter alia:
(i)
developing DNSG's capacity:
 
(A)
to gather, process and interpret mineral resources and 
geophysical data; and
(B)
to produce about 60 1:250,000 scale and 10 1:100,000 scale 
digitalized mineral resource maps covering some 550,000 
square kilometers of the Andean Cordillera, first within the 
Participating Provinces, and related maps and reports; and
(ii)
supporting mineral resources assessments and airborne geophysical 
surveys of regions with high mining potential, through, inter 
alia, the provision of on-the-job training and the acquisition and 
utilization of the equipment required therefor.
(c)
Design and implementation of the Borrower's geological repository, 
including its required physical infrastructure.
2.
Research and Technology
 
Pursuant to the recommendations of the studies carried out under Part A.2 of the 
Project, reorientation of the SINATEM's research and development activities, including 
the corresponding functional and organizational reforms and the modernization of the 
required facilities and equipment.
3.
Information Infrastructure
 
(a)
Design and implementation of a unified mining information system to 
manage the collection and interpretation of mining information at the provincial, 
national and international levels, including the information obtained under other 
parts of the Project.
Page  14
(b)
Dissemination, in an integrated manner, of the information gathered under 
both parts B.3 (c) and C.3 (a) of the Project, through:
(i)
preparation, publication and distribution of:
 
(A)
a statistics yearbook and reports;
 
(B)
periodic mining investors' guide;
 
(C)
periodic newsletters, directories and opportunities 
bulletins;
(D)
printed and visual materials for educational or business 
presentations; and
(E)
technical manuals and sector studies; and
 
(ii)
participation in international mining trade shows and conferences.
 
Part D:
PCU
 
Operation of the PCU.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
 
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 2001
through April 15, 2010                
$1,500,000
 
And on October 15, 2010                     
$1,500,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
Page  15
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the Loan on the day of
prepayment multiplied by: 
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Two-stage bidding procedure
 
The bidding procedure for computer hardware and software shall be carried out in 
two stages, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Limited International Bidding
 
Contract Works estimated to cost $8,900,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, 
which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, 
regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Goods (other than computers) estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent but 
Page  16
more than $100,000 equivalent per contract and $1,100,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, and Rehabilitation Works estimated to cost $2,000,000 equivalent or less in 
the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. In the procurement of goods in 
accordance with this Part C.2, the Borrower shall use standard bidding documents 
acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Shopping (National and International)
 
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract and $1,500,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, and training materials may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract for goods or works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of more than $100,000 the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
3.
To the extent possible, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed 
consulting firms in preference to individual consultants for the provision of 
consultants' services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  17
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,700,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $5,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Page  18
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for Eligible 
Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
