Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 18732-VN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 72.8 MILLION
TO THE
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
FOR THE
MEKONG DELTA WATER RESOURCES PROJECT
March 15, 1999
Rural Development & Natural Resources Sector Unit (EASRD)
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of July 1, 1998)
Currency Unit               Vietnam Dong
$1.00                  =   VND 13,000
VND 1.00                =   US$0.000077
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BRTL               -     Barinh Taliem Subproject
CERWAS             -     Center for Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation (MARD)
CPO                -     Central Project Office
CWIP               -     Commune Clean Water Improvement Plan
DARD               -     (Provincial) Department of Agriculture and Rural Development
EAP                -     Environmental Action Plan
GOVN               -     Government of Vietnam
IMC                -     Irrigation Management Company
IRP                -     IDA's on-going Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2711)
MARD               -     Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
MDMP               -     Mekong Delta Master Plan
MOF                -     Ministry of Finance
MPI                -     Ministry of Planning and Investment
MRC                -     Mekong River Commission
O&M                -     Operation and Maintenance
OX                 -     Omon-Xano Subproject
PAF                -     Project Affected Families
PCERWAS            -     Provincial Center for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
PPC                -     Provincial People's Committee
QP                 -     Quanlo-Phuonghiep Subproject
RAP                -     Resettlement Action Plan
RWSS               -     Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
SBV                -     State Bank of Vietnam
SIO                -     Subproject Implementation Office
SMT                -     South Mang Thit Subproject
TN                 -     Tiep Nhat Subproject
TDP                -     Tertiary Development Plan
Vice President:  Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director:  Andrew D. Steer, EACVF
Sector Manager:  Geoffrey B. Fox, EASRD
Task Team Leader:  Mei Xie, EASRD



Socialist Republic Of Vietnam
Mekong Delta Water Resources Project
Table of Contents
PAGE NO.
A.  Project Development Objective ...........................................................2
1.        Project development objective and key performance
indicators .................................................2
B.  Strategic Context ..........................................................2
1 .       Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ...............................                  2
2.        Main sector issues and Government strategy .......................................                2
3.        Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ......                         3
C.  Project Description Summary ..........................................................3
1.        Project components .................3.....................................3
2.        Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ............                        4
3.        Benefits and target population .......................................................5
4.        Institutional and implementation arrangements ...................................                 5
D. Project Rationale ..........................................................8
1.        Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection.                                        8
2.        Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other
development agencies                                      .9
3.    Lessons learned and reflected in project design.                                                      9
4.   Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .10
5.   Value added of Bank support in this project .10
E.  Summary Project Assessment ..........................................................                       10
1. Economic .10
2. Financial .11
3. Technical .11
4. Institutional .12
5. Social .14
6. Environmental .15
7.  Participatory approach .16



PAGE NO.
F.  Sustainability and Risks..........................................................................                                        16
1.           Sustainability ......................................................                                                     16
2.           Critical risks ......................................................                                                      17
3.           Possible  controversial aspects ...................................................                          ...           18
G. Main Credit Conditions .........................................................                                                           18
1.          Effectiveness ......................................................                                                       18
2.           Dated  covenants ......................................................                                                    18
H.  Readiness for Implementation  ...............................                                     ..........................              19
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .........................                                                                                    20
ANNEXES
Annex 1. Project Design Summary .21
Annex 2. Detailed Project Description .24
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs .32
Annex 4. Economic and Financial .33
Annex 5. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .47
Table A.          Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ............... .................                                          50
Table A1.  Consultant Selection Arrangements ................................................                                          51
Table B. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review   ..    52
Table C.    Allocation  of Loan  Proceeds ..........................................................                                   52
Annex  6.           Project Processing  Budget and  Schedule .............................                           ................         53
Annex  7.           Documents in  Project File .........................................................                                      54
Annex  8.           Statement of Loans and  Credits .........................................................                                 55
Annex 9.   Vietnam  at a Glance .........................................................                                                     57
Annex 10.  Social Impact Summary .........................................................                                                    59
Annex  11.   Environmental Review   Summary .......................................................                                           66
Annex 12. Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Component ..................................                                                      73
MAPS
Project area and subprojects: IBRD 29653, 29654, 29655, 29656



Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Mekong Delta Water Resources Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Date: March 15, 1999                              Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Mei Xie
Country Manager/Director: Andrew Steer            Sector Manager/Director: Geoffrey Fox
Project ID: VN-PE-4845   Sector: Agriculture / Natural  Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable
Resources                                          Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan      Program of Targeted Intervention:  []  Yes  [x ]  No
Project Financing Data             [   Loan   [x ] Credit []    Guarantee  [           Other
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: SDR 72.8 million (US$101.8 million equivalent)
Proposed terms:                       [   Multicurrency  [   Single currency, specify in US$
Grace period (years): 10         []   Standard       [   Fixed          [        LIBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (USSm):
Source                           Local          Foreign             Total
Government                                              32.3             -             32.3 (22%)
IDA                                                     36.8            65.0          101.8 (69 %)
Beneficiary contribution                                13.5             -             13.5 (9 %)
Total        82.6            65.0          147.6 (100 %)
Borrower: The Government of Vietnam (GOVN)
Guarantor:
Responsible agency: Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):   1999     2000      2001     2002     2003    2004    2005
Annual      0        11.1     24.2     29.2     24.6    8.0      4.7
Cumulative      0       11.1     35.3     64.5      89.1    97.1    101.8
Project implementation period: 6 years Expected effectiveness date: 5/31/1999  Expected closing date: 06/30/2005



-2-
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (Annex 1):
The project objective is to increase agricultural production, reduce rural poverty, improve
living conditions in the project area, and facilitate sustainable water resources development and
management in the Mekong Delta.  The project would support integrated water resources
development by completing and improving irrigation, drainage, flood protection, and salinity
intrusion control. This would allow multiple cropping in areas that are now limited to a single wet
season crop or to unstable two crops. The project would provide clean water to a rural population
that does not have quality water supply for drinking and domestic uses, and support community
participation in water delivery.  It would also support the establishment of an appropriate
institutional framework for improved water resources planning, management and monitoring.
Performance indicators are: (a) increase in triple and double cropped areas; (b) increase in water fee
collection; (c) increase in number of people served with clean water and improved sanitation; (d)
formulation and adoption of a policy statement and preparation of an options paper for an improved
institutional framework for Delta-wide water resources management; and (e) establishment of a
Delta-wide water resources management body.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (Annex 1):
CAS document number: 18375-VN. Date of latest CAS discussion: September 22, 1998
The CAS places great emphasis on IDA support for accelerated rural development and
income generation for alleviating rural poverty through, inter alia, development and improvement of
infrastructure such as irrigation and rural roads. Nearly 80% of the country's population and 90% of
the poor live in rural areas. Thus rural development is essential for growth and poverty reduction.
The sector goal is to assist the GOVN in accelerating rural development, increasing agricultural
production, raising rural incomes, generating employment and improving management of natural
resources, of which water resources form an important part. The CAS also recognizes the
importance of water supply in improving rural living conditions. The proposed project would help
achieve these sector related CAS goals.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Water Resources Sector Review for Vietnam (1996), which was jointly carried out by
the GOVN and external agencies including ADB, FAO, UTNDP, NGOs, and the Bank, reviewed key
issues in the water sector and highlighted the inadequate and deteriorated irrigation and flood control
infrastructure, and the importance of proper water control for agriculture and rural development.
Despite high levels of rainfall, irrigation is the backbone of Vietnam's rice agriculture and accounts
for over 90% of total water demand. The Water Sector Review called for priority to be given to
investments in completion and rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure to increase the efficiency of
existing systems at relatively low cost, rather than expanding new areas.
The Government Decision No. 99 (1996) by the Prime Minister called for increasing
agricultural productivity and improving water control in the Mekong Delta and highlighted it as a
high priority of the Government in the 1996-2000 public investment program. The country's new
Water Law (May 1998) has adopted the framework for integrated water resources management
among sub-sectors, based on hydrological boundaries. This is in line with the Bank's Water
Management Policy (1993). The Delta is Vietnam's rice bowl and one in five Vietnamese lives in
the Delta. The Delta's agriculture, which accounts for nearly 30% of national GDP, 40% of
agricultural production and more than 80% of rice export, will continue to play a key role in
supporting the country's economy and in the alleviation of rural poverty. Sustainable development of



the Mekong Delta is central to achieving the country's targets for sustained growth. Although the
Delta produces the bulk of Vietnam's rice, there are areas in the Delta where the farmers are among
the country's poorest people. Salinity and acidity related poor drinking water supply conditions,
hard living conditions caused by flooding and inundation, and inadequate rural transport, all
compare unfavorably with other areas in the country. Further, there is currently no Delta-wide body
to address the emerging and potential problems in Delta-wide water management.  The
Government's strategy for the inner part of the lower Delta is to support public investment to
improve water control and other services and raise production levels and rural incomes to reach
those of the mid-upper Delta. In the coastal areas of the lower Delta, the strategy is to support
brackish and marine aquaculture development and protection of coastal resources. These strategies
are strongly supported by the CAS and the Bank's Rural Sector Strategy for Vietnam (1998).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project strategically addresses two major issues in the water sector in Mekong Delta: (a)
Need for Integrated Water Resources Management. Although there has been a large increase of
triple cropped areas in the mid-upper Delta where freshwater is available all year round, in the lower
Delta, growth options are severely constrained by sea-water intrusion into the agricultural area,
which limits the availability of freshwater in the dry season, and by annual inundation and flooding
due to poor drainage. A key requirement in enhancing the productivity of the agricultural sector and
increasing the living standards of rural population, especially in the lower Delta, is to improve and
rehabilitate water control infrastructure-salinity intrusion, irrigation, drainage, flood protection and
rural drinking water supply. This called for design of an integrated approach. (b) Absence of a
Delta-wide Institutional Framework.  There are emerging problems in Delta-wide water
management. The recent Water Law stipulates water development and management based on
hydrological boundaries and provides a window of opportunity to initiate the process of establishing
a Delta-wide body for water management. Given the importance of the commitment of the 12
provinces in the Delta to the establishment of such a body, a consultative and participatory approach
is envisaged under the project.
The broad criteria, which guided the choice of the proposed project and its scope and design,
are: (i) consistency with the thrust of the Water Sector Review and the Mekong Delta Master Plan;
(ii) Government priorities for regional poverty alleviation; (iii) economic and environmental
viability; (iv) readiness; and (v) implementation capacity.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for description and Annex 3for cost):
The proposed project would support: (i) Improvement of water resources infrastructure in
five subproject areas (which are divided by hydrological boundaries) with a total area of 535,000 ha
(about 14% of the Mekong Delta in Vietnam). All subprojects are in the lower Delta, except the
Omon-Xano (OX) subproject which is in the lower end of the mid-Delta. The basic approach to the
subprojects in the lower Delta is to prevent salinity intrusion with sluice gates on canals serving the
agricultural areas, together with improvement of existing irrigation systems. This would create a
fresh water environment to allow an additional crop to be grown in the dry season. Improvement of
drainage in the wet season would secure the second or third crop. Existing canals would be enlarged
where necessary and the density of secondary canals would be increased to improve water delivery
capacity for both irrigation and drainage. The OX area is above the salinity line and freshwater is
available all year round. The main aim there would be to improve flood protection and drainage
through extension of embankments, building of drainage control sluices, and completion of
secondary canals. The project would facilitate local water and land transport through improved
canals, and embankment and canal connected rural roads. It would also finance land acquisition,
resettlement and compensation incurred due to the above works. (ii) Provision of domestic water



- 4 -
supply through wells, pumps and piped systems for remote and scattered small communities in water
short-areas, and sanitation improvement.  (iii) Establishment/strengthening of water resources
planning, management and monitoring in the project provinces and in the Delta, and of project
management at central, provincial, commune and farmer levels.
Component              Category     Cost Incl.    % of     IDA-      % of IDA-
Conting.    Total   financing    Financing
(US$ m)              (US$m)
1. Improvement of Water         Physical       131.6      89 %       87.8        67%
Resources Infrastructure
Primary canal systems            ..          54.3       37%       48.1        89%
Secondary canal systems          ..          22.6       15%       20.6        91%
Tertiary canal systems           ..          12.7       9%          -          0%
Embankments, bridges, roads      ..          19.7       13%       17.9        91%
Land acquisition, PAF       Compensation     21.0       14%         -          0%
resettlement and compensation
PAF training, DMS, etc.     Institutional     1.2       1%         1.2        100%
2. Improvement of Rural Water    Physical,      5.7       4 %        3.9        68 %
Supply and Sanitation          Institl.build.
Clean water provision         Physical       5.1        3%         3.7        73%
Improving sanitation          Physical       0.6       0.4%        0.2        33%
Institl.build.
3. Institutional Support      Institl.build.    10.3      7 %        10.1        98%
Strengthening of Delta-wide    Institl.build.  0.9      1%        0.9        100%
water resources management
Improvement of              Institl.build.   0.4       0.3%       0.4        100%
environmental monitoring
Engineering design,         Management       6.8        5%        6.6         97%
management, supervision
Training, TA for            Institl.build.   2.2        2%        2.2        100%
implementation, RAP monitoring   Management
Total        147.6      100%      101.8        69%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would support an integrated approach to improving water resources
management systems through salinity intrusion control; provision of freshwater; flood protection;
improvement in drainage, navigation and transport; and improvement in clean water provision and
sanitation for the rural population. It would support enhancements of the water quality and flow
monitoring networks and improved institutional framework for Delta-wide water resources



management (section E.4 and Annex 2). The project would support water sector policies relating to
decentralization of management systems, and improved cost recovery for both irrigation systems
(Annex 4) and clean water supply systems. The GOVN is preparing a National Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation Strategy, with the aim to gradually move to full cost recovery and a demand-
responsive approach that provides consumers with the levels of service that they want and are
willing to pay for. Through implementation of the rural water supply component, the project would
pilot and test some of the ideas of the evolving national strategy, including community demand-
driven clean water provision, community based participatory planning and management, and greater
cost recovery of both capital investment and system O&M (Annexes 2 and 12).
3. Benefits and target population (see Annex 4):
Although the Mekong Delta as a whole is not the poorest region in Vietnam, large parts of
the project area are relatively poor compared to the Delta average. Among the 20 project districts, 12
have higher poverty rates than the average of the Delta, and in 3 districts poverty is higher than the
average of the country. Another recent poverty report shows that the project covers six out of eight
poorest districts in the Delta that are also ranked among the poorest country-wide. The project will
also benefit ethnic minorities: about 21% of project area households are Khmer andHoa people.
The direct benefits would accrue to the population in the project area through increase in agricultural
production, flood protection, drainage improvement, better road and water transport, provision of
clean water supply and sanitation, and increased rural employment through agricultural
intensification. The indirect benefits would accrue from processing, marketing and distribution of
increased agricultural production; sustainable management of the Delta's water resources through
establishment of an appropriate Delta-wide institutional framework; delivery of more efficient
irrigation services through strengthening of IMCs; and improved sustainability of irrigation services
through enhanced participation of beneficiaries in the planning, implementation and O&M of
irrigation infrastructure, and through increased water fee collection.
The quantified benefits include: (i) the increase in agricultural production (0.5 million ton of
paddy at full development in year 2008, and production of a variety of non-rice crops) due to
increase in cropping intensity to 2.1 with the project, compared to 1.7 in 1997 and a projected 1.8
without the project; this would benefit directly about 610,000 people; (ii) increased on-farm
employment generation (about 80,000 person-years per annum); and (iii) expanded coverage of
clean water supply and sanitation (to about 280,000 un-served or under-served rural population).
Taking into account the fact that some families would derive more than one benefit, about 45-50% of
the 332,000 farming households in the project area are expected to be direct beneficiaries (about one
million people). In addition, a substantial number of rural and urban households would have non-
quantified benefits, including: (i) indirect, off-farm employment generation from processing,
marketing and distribution of the increased agricultural production; this will benefit owner-operators,
tenants as well as land-less laborers; (ii) protection of property and agricultural crops, and improved
living conditions, and access to education and health facilities in the flood season through flood
protection and drainage; (iii) increased employment through project civil works construction; and
(iv) improved water resources planning and management at the Delta-wide, provincial and farm
levels. A gender analysis shows that there are no significant constraints on project benefits accruing
to women. Indeed, women, as the primary collectors and managers of water in most households,
would benefit in particular from more convenient access to safe water and sanitation facilities, which
would mean savings in time and effort for them, and better family health status resulting from
adoption of improved hygienic practices.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements (see PIP):
Oversight. To coordinate implementation, an Inter-Ministerial Project Steering Committee
will be established (section G.l.a), with the Minister or Vice-Minister of MARD as the chair. The
Committee will include representatives from MPI, MOF, SBV, as well as chairmen/vice-chairmen of



- 6 -
concerned PPCs. The TOR for the Steering Committee were reviewed by IDA during negotiations
and found satisfactory. GOVN will delegate responsibility for project implementation to MARD
which will act through its Central Project Office (CPO), which will be assisted by the relevant
departments and subsidiary agencies at central and provincial levels. The Vice-Minister of MARD in
charge of water resources construction will be appointed Project Director. The CPO Director will be
the Project Manager (section G. 1 .c).
Overall implementation. Project coordination will be based on the successful implementation
structure designed for the on-going IDA-IRP, with some modifications. CPO, established under
IRP, will be responsible for overall coordination to ensure that project implementation is in line with
the Credit Agreement. It will be responsible for coordinating and approving the annual work plans
of the Sub-project Implementation Offices (SIOs) and PCERWASs; procurement planning;
budgeting; procurement under ICB; reporting to IDA on physical and financial progress; processing
disbursement applications and SOEs; managing the special account; and facilitating technical
assistance services, institutional strengthening and training. CPO will be responsible for monitoring
implementation of RAP and EAP. Experienced CPO staff in the areas of resettlement, procurement,
and accounting will be stationed at SIOs at the start of the project to helpSIO staff get familiar with
IDA procedures, and may be demobilized after SIOs are judged to have gained sufficient
knowledge. Staff experienced with rural water supply & sanitation (RWSS) will be recruited (or
seconded from CERWAS) to help coordinate implementation of the RWSS component. They will
review the Commune Clean Water Improvement Plans (CWIPs) submitted byPCERWASs, monitor
the project related activities and keep up-to-date accounts of PCERWASs.
Component implementation. MARD will entrust implementation of project components
(except tertiary canal development, RWSS and a part of institutional strengthening) to two SIOs--
MARD's existing Hydraulic Construction Management Board in Vinh Long for the SMT subproject,
and the Hydraulic Construction Management Board in Can Tho for all other subprojects (section
G.l.c). SIOs, acting as resident project engineer, will be responsible for construction planning;
preparation of bid documents for submission to CPO for prior review; tendering of small contracts
and NCB; contracting, supervising and controlling the quality of construction; and implementation
of EAP and RAP. They will be assisted by CPO, CPO's consultants and provincial agencies. SIOs
will contract out the detailed engineering design of civil works to engineering design companies.
DARDs, as part of their current mandate, will participate in the technical discussion of detailed
engineering designs, assist SIOs in legal matters relating to land acquisition and compensation, and
provide agricultural extension services and farner training.
IMCs (where they exist) and DARDs (where IMCs do not yet exist), in consultation with
concerned stakeholders, will prepare and implement annual tertiary development plans (TDP) in
their respective provinces. Following the practice in the Mekong Delta, earthworks of tertiary canal
and on-farm development will be constructed by beneficiaries through their own labor contributions
wherever secondary canals are in place. CPO consultants will assist IMCs and DARDs in preparing
the TDP using Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) technique. The TDP will be approved by the
concerned PPCs before being sent to CPO. IMCs will also be responsible for O&M of completed
primary and secondary canals and structures financed under the project (except for some large
maintenance works, which will continue to be handled by DARD, since IMCs are not yet properly
equipped to handle these), and for collecting water fees.
MARD will entrust PCERWAS for implementation of the RWSS component (section
G.l.c). PCERWAS will provide technical support to communes for preparing CWIPs (including
information necessary for communes to make informed choices among feasible technical options,
levels of service, costs for water supply improvement, financing options for capital investment, and



-7 -
O&M arrangements). It will also help communes develop skills and organizations for operating and
maintaining simple water supply systems. CWIP will be submitted to provincial RWSS Committees
where they exist (or PPC where RWSS committees do not exist) for approval. Each PCERWAS will
consolidate CWIPs and submit them quarterly to CPO for review and budget allocations. It will
prefinance, with Government funds, the works approved by PPC and agreed with CPO. It will
contract engineering consultants to prepare detailed designs, andwill be responsible for construction
supervision and quality control with participation from the communes in co-signing for acceptance
of detailed engineering designs and completed civil works before payment is made to the
contractors, and for administration of repayments from the communes and use for other needy
communes. PCERWAS will sign Memoranda of Understanding with the Provincial Women's
Unions (PWU) to conduct participatory hygiene promotion, health training, campaigns at the
commune and household level, and to manage revolving funds for the construction of sanitation
facilities (see Annex 12 for details).
MARD will entrust CPO to implement the institutional support component. CPO will hire
consultants to assist it in project supervision, in support to IMCs and farmer groups, and in carrying
out the two studies--improving hydraulic modeling and strengthening Delta-wide water management
(section E.4 and Annex 2). It will be responsible for preparing project training plans for staff in
MARD, CPO, SIOs, PCERWASs, DARDs and IMCs and for farmers (section G.2, covenant-1).
Detailed TOR for technical assistance for project supervision and the two studies, and for training
plans were reviewed by IDA and included in the PIP. For the second study--strengthening of the
water resources management framework--a two-phase approach will be adopted. The Inter-
Ministerial Project Steering Committeewill be responsible for policy decisions regarding Delta-wide
water management. Since the project covers only six of the 12 provinces in the Delta, a provision is
made that, whenever delta-wide issues are discussed, the Steering Committee would invite all Delta
PPCs, and other relevant agencies such as the Vietnam National Mekong Committee (NMC) to its
meetings. Before the commencement of Phase-I, the Steering Committee will agree on the TOR, and
confirm cooperation from all the provinces for the various aspects of the study. Phase-II would only
proceed after a Delta-wide body is established. The body would decide on specific studies and
technical advice to be funded in this phase, based on the priorities it determines for Delta-wide water
management. The establishment and effectiveness of the Delta-wide body will require strong
ownership of the process by the public and private stakeholders in the Delta provinces. Participation
of stakeholders in the process (assembling data, raising provincial concerns, and drawing
recommendations) is, therefore, essential. The precise mechanism for the extent of participation
(including formation of a coordination team or working group, workshops, seminars, etc.) will be
determined by the Steering Committee at the start of the study.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing. CPO will be responsible for financial
management, reporting, supervision and arranging for auditing of all project activities. A Special
Account will be set up under the project for the IDA credit in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA,
and will be managed by CPO. Financial records will be kept for all project-related expenditures
using accounting principles and practices acceptable to IDA. An action plan to improve the financial
management capacity (section E.4) was agreed with the main implementing agencies and included in
the PIP. The project accounts will be audited annually (section G.2, covenant-2).
Monitoring and evaluation. The project will have a 6-year implementation period.
Monitoring of project activities will be maintained at overall, subproject and provincial levels. CPO
will monitor and evaluate the physical and financial progress of the project, based on periodic
progress reports from SIOs and PCERWAS. Semi-annual reports will be submitted for IDA review
(section G.2, covenant-3).  CPO has set up a monitoring system under the IRP to track project
implementation, costs, budgets, procurement and disbursement. This monitoring system will be



- 8 -
improved and fully computerized under the proposed project to monitor the physical progress,
project impact (through beneficiary surveys and impact assessments), and the agreed performance
indicators, and to update the PIP periodically. CPO, with the assistance of its consultants, will install
the improved system in SIOs and PCERWAS by early 2000 (section G.2, covenant-4). Indicators
(Annex 1) to help assess project impact have been agreed with CPO. Project outputs and impact,
based on the indicators, will be reviewed by IDA supervision missions during the mid-term review
(early 2002) and at completion (mid-2004). An implementation completion report will be prepared
within six months after the Credit closes (section G.2, covenant-5).
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Project areas. Four subprojects in the lower Delta and one in the mid-Delta were selected
based on a set of economic, social and environmental factors (section B.3). Two additional areas,
both in the upper Delta, were originally proposed to be included in the project: one in the Plain of
Reeds, where severe acid sulphate soils are dominant, and one in the deep-flooded area. They were
rejected due to: (i) the uncertainties regarding the potential environmental impact of reclaiming
severe acid sulphate land; and (ii) the potential impact on fish migration and the lack of flood
planning for the Delta's deep-flooded areas. The area adjacent to the QP subproject area, Phase-III,
was included in the feasibility study. However, the major part of the land has severe acid sulphate
soils and is currently used for brackish water shrimp farming. Conversion of the area into fresh water
farming would eliminate all the shrimp and cause farmers to switch to paddy or fresh water fish
farming. This could substantially reduce the income of successful shrimp farmers. The economic
and social tradeoffs were unclear, and the suitability of land for such conversion was also
questioned. This area was, therefore, excluded from the project after reviewing potential socio-
economic, agronomic and environmental impacts.
Design concepts. In the lower Delta, a favorable water regime for agricultural production
requires structures to control sea-water intrusion, and there are few alternatives to the basic design
concepts. The Mekong Delta Master Plan (MDMP) studied numerous land and water development
scenarios, and recommended the subprojects among priority investments that could bring substantial
socio-economic benefits without significant adverse impacts on the Delta environment. The
subprojects--SMT, QP, BRTL and TN--would complete the on-going salinity control and drainage
improvement works, which were initiated over the last decade. In the feasibility study, variants such
as the capacity and location of canals and sluices to minimize costs and resettlement impacts were
considered through mathematical modeling within the basic project concept.
The OX subproject is located at the downstream end of the shallow-flooded area in the mid-
Delta. Heavy rainfall, low land elevations, and the prevailing hydraulic regime of the Bassac river
imply that without a water control system, adequate drainage is impossible, and the area and
population will continue to suffer from flooding and depressed production. The MDMP studied
three options, and main canal protection was recommended due to its positive impact on agriculture
and property. During project preparation, a new option was reviewed to exclude the northern part of
the subproject from the proposed water control system to reduce costs and resettlement impacts.
During consultations, the affected provinces and local people rejected this option due to the fact that,
in the northern area: (i) yields of the autumn-winter paddy crop are low (2.8 tlha, compared to a
potential of 4t/ha) and uncertain due to annual floods; (ii) farmers themselves have built field bunds
to protect against floods but the bunds are not high enough nor adequate; (iii) heavy rains cannot be
drained in a timely manner; and (iv) flood protection works would benefit not only agriculture but
also improve rural livelihoods. Thus, the option recommended by the MDMP was chosen.



-9-
Implementation alternatives. An alternative implementation arrangement for the RWSS
component through the SIO was considered to make coordination simpler. It was rejected as it goes
against the principle of decentralized management and adds an administrative layer which could
cause delays in disbursement and implementation.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
Sector                        Project           Latest Supervision (Form590) Rating
Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Reservoir/irrigation development      Dau Tieng Irrigation        Closed             S
(south-central Vietnam)              FY 78 (US$60 million)
Irrigation rehabilitation, O&M    Irrigation Rehabilitation FY94    S                S
improvement (north-central VN)         (SDR 67 million)
Coastal resources development and      Coastal Wetlands       To be approved         Na
protection (Mekong Delta)            FY99 (US$52 million)
Inland navigation                      Inland Waterways             S                S
FY98 (US$85 million)
Rural credit support                     Rural Finance              S                S
FY97 (US$122 million)
Agricultural support facilities, IPM,  Agricul. Rehabilitation      S                S
crop diversification                 FY95 (US$96 million)
Rural transportation                    Rural Transport             S                S
FY97 (US$55 million)
Other development agencies
UNDP/WB/MRC: Land and water         Mekong Delta Master Plan    Completed
resources planning                         (MDMP)                  1993
ADB: Agricultural support, rural    Rural Sector Development     On-going
roads, irrigation, water supply
Netherlands: Mekong Delta-wide     Mekong Delta Groundwater    Started in 1998
groundwater investigation, modeling         Study
SIDA/DANIDA/MRC: Delta acidity    Mekong Delta Water Quality     On-going
and water quality monitoring              Monitoring             (1987-)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in project design:
IDA has extended two credits for irrigation development in Vietnam. Drawing on the
PCR/PAR and an OED review in 1995 of the Dau Tieng project, an OED paper "Irrigation in
Southeast Asia", and on the experience from the on-going IRP and similar water resources projects
in India, China, the Philippines, etc., the following lessons were incorporated in the preparation of
this project:
* Adequate design of the project's major works prior to project implementation is essential to
ensure timely implementation. During preparation, substantial attention and resources were



- 10-
devoted to ensure that detailed engineering design and bid documents for the first year of project
implementation were prepared before credit approval (section H).
* External technical assistance in procurement and construction supervision is necessary because
of CPO's relative inexperience with ICB procedures and inadequacies in the quality control of
construction. This lesson was identified during IRP preparation. To improve quality at entry,
technical assistance was given to the GOVN during preparation in areas of environmental
assessment, resettlement, procurement planning, economic analysis, and hydraulic modeling.
Continued technical assistance would be provided under the project for implementation.
*  Measures to ensure timely and effective tertiary development are needed to capture the
maximum development benefits, and sophisticated O&M routines should not be imposed on
farmers. A tertiary development component has been included in the project to support the
construction of simple structures, and farmers would contribute labor to earthworks (sections
C.4 and E.4).
*  Institutional and policy support to central, local agencies and farmer groups is important to
project success. The project provisions in this regard are detailed in section E.4.
*  It is important to have beneficiary participation in project planning and implementation. This
was an important part of project preparation (section E.7) and will be so for implementation
(section C.4).
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Prime Ministerial Decision No. 99 specifically indicated that the improvement of water
resources infrastructure in the Mekong Delta is of high priority in the 1996-2000 public investment
program and for external donor support. Strong borrower commitment is evidenced by the fact that
project preparation and design are well advanced and bids for 1999 works are under preparation
(section H), and the institutional arrangements for implementation are in place (section C.4). The
Borrower has requested retroactive financing for works started in 1998. CPO organized a pre-
project training workshop in July 1998 on procurement for subproject staff, and is planning two pre-
project training courses on resettlement policy, procedures and IDA requirements in early 1999, for
representatives from SIO, DARD, communes and PAF.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Insufficient domestic resources and the large investment requirements of this project
necessitate external financing. In the absence of IDA support, the construction of salinity control
and irrigation improvement works will continue, but at a much slower pace, with disparate
interventions dependent on the availability of Government funds. During project preparation,IDA's
involvement helped improve the technical, social and institutional aspects by drawing on
international experience, and by introducing participatory project planning at commune levels.
During project implementation, IDA's involvement is likely to facilitate an integrated approach to
water resources development and management, and a more effective monitoring and evaluation of
project impact. IDA's presence is also expected to play a catalytic role in mobilizing donor support
for the establishment of a Delta-wide mechanism to improve water management. Innovative
implementation arrangements for demand-driven services and community-participation will be
introduced for rural clean water provision. Moreover, given the large number of project-affected
people due to land acquisition, the application of IDA's resettlement guidelines will ensure fair
treatment of PAF, close supervision and adequate monitoring.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic (Annex 4): [x] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ 168 million; ERR= 30%
The ERR of the project is relatively high due to sunk costs in the form of a large number of
existing unfinished or deteriorated water infrastructure which the project would complete or
rehabilitate. It is calculated on 89% of project base costs plus physical contingencies. The ERR



- 11 -
ranges from 15% to 45% for different sub-projects. Sensitivity analysis shows the robustness of the
ERR under various adverse scenarios. However, the ERR is quite sensitive to a delay in the
realization of benefits (a two years' delay in benefits would lower the ERR to 12%), which may be
caused chiefly by delays in completing tertiary canals. Implementation of tertiary development
would, therefore, need to be closely monitored during supervision (sections C.4, E.4, and G.2,
covenant-9).
2. Financial (Annex 4):
Typical crop and farm budgets were constructed to estimate the impact of the project on
farm income. Farm budgets cover owner-operated farms of average size in the five sub-project areas
(between 0.87 ha in OX to 1.65 ha in QP). For each sub-project area, the farm budgets show
different improvements, such as a change from seasonal (rainfed) rice to double rice with irrigation,
from double rice to triple rice, or to double rice with one upland crop. As shown in Table below,
farm households cultivating triple rice or double rice plus an upland crop will have substantial
increases in income. These income increases will make it feasible to achieve higher cost recovery as
it will be necessary to introduce water fee collection in one province and increase it in all project
provinces to a level adequate to cover at least the cost of incremental O&M of project-financed
water infrastructure (see discussion of cost recovery in Annex 4).
Net Financial Benefits From Increased Cropping Intensit_y for an Average Far of 1.25 ha
Without (1998 prices)          With (1998 prices)       Incremental  Increase
Cropping     US$/year         Cropping        US$/year    US$/year       %
Seasonal Rice       229    Double Rice               626         397        173
Seasonal Rice       229    Triple Rice              1137         908        396
Seasonal Rice       229    Double Rice/Corn         1030         801        349
Seasonal Rice       229    Sugarcane                 609         380        166
Double Rice         625    Triple Rice              1137         512         82
Double Rice         625    Double Rice/Corn         1030         405         65
3. Technical:
The design and construction of irrigation canals and sluices is well established in the
Mekong Delta, and this experience has been reflected in project preparation. Irrigation, drainage and
local water transport systems share the same canals and waterways in the Delta, which are
hydraulically operated by tides from the South China Sea and the Gulf of Thailand. No centrally
controlled pumps or large regulators exist. The Delta's water delivery system differs from
conventional irrigation systems in upland areas, where accurate surveys, careful design, check drop
structures and outlets at frequent intervals are required and need to be maintained. All that is needed
in the Mekong Delta is a ditch branching off from secondaries and connecting to the field. At the
field level, low-lift pumps are commonly used by farmers in the Delta to control water in and out of
their fields according to crop needs. They pump water for irrigation during the dry season when the
water level in the canals is lower than the field level, and, in some places, for drainage during the
rainy season when the tidal drain is inadequate. Sluices for seawater intrusion control have vertical
swing gates, which are regulated automatically by differences in the hydraulic heads at the gates
created by each tide. They have been successfully used in the Delta and in the project area. The
manual operation of the sluices during changes of seasons and at necessary intervals for flushing or
transport is simple. However, they require a certain degree of technical knowledge in order to
control upstream water levels, to accommodate drainage requirements and flushing needs, and to
reduce the impediment to local transport. This is an area where improvement could be achieved
through better hydraulic modeling and training of the operating staff. Technical assistance will be
provided under the project.



- 12 -
Combating seawater intrusion in the dry season has been a major topic of study by the
MDMP (1993), as excess withdrawals could result in increased saltwater intrusion in the lower
reaches of the Mekong, which could reduce freshwater availability and adversely affect agriculture
in these areas, in which this proposed project is located. The MDMP recommended minimum
additional withdrawals (compared to the 1991 situation) in the lowest flow month of April. Since the
MDMP, two major events have occurred that put the above constraint in a new perspective. First,
the development of rice cultivation in the Delta has been at the high end of early projections. As a
result, the GOVN has invested in measures to prevent salinity intrusion further inland and to protect
the agricultural zone in the downstream parts of the Delta. Second, short duration, 90-day rice
varieties have been introduced in recent years and are now widely used by farmers in the Delta. This
has given farmers more flexibility regarding the time of seeding. In particular, summer-autumn rice
can start in early May, instead of April, which is the lowest flow month. Hence, irrigation demand in
April for the current level of rice production is much less than anticipated in the MDMP (e.g. in the
west Bassac region, the actual water demand is now only 83 cms, compared to 388 cms in 1991).
Together, these two events have had positive impact on combating saline water intrusion in the
Delta and on the sustainability of rice production, not only in the project area but also in other
downstream areas of the Delta. Hydraulic modeling simulated that, with the project, all intakes
would be within acceptable saline levels for irrigation in the critical dry months. A water quality and
flow monitoring component has been included in the project to verify the model's predictions, and to
monitor changes in saline intrusion.
Water availability is strongly correlated with saline intrusion in the Delta during the dry
season.  Mean flows in the Mekong River range from 33,340 cubic meters per second (cms) in
September to 2,500 cms in April. In January, the peak irrigation period for the dry season (winter-
spring) crop, the mean flow is 7,300 cms and the 1-in-10 year flow is 7,100 cms, compared to the
total demand of about 1,500 Cms now in the Delta. Incremental water use, with the project, is
expected to be 112 cms, a negligible amount compared to the Mekong flow. There is sufficient water
to meet the demands of irrigation and other uses. For the lowest flow month of April, mathematical
modeling simulated that the incremental water requirement of the project would be about 21 cms,
less than 1% of the Mekong flow even under a condition of 1-in-10 year low flow. Water demands
in the OX subproject area are actually expected to fall as a result of the project. Improvements in
drainage would save farmers the cost of pumping in the wet season, and would at the same time give
farmers confidence to delay the planting of the autumn-winter rice. In turn, farmers could delay
planting of the summer-autumn rice to wait for the rain in early May and save the pumping cost of
dry season irrigation in March/April. Hydrological modeling showed that more than adequate water
supplies would be available in all subproject areas.
Scheduling of construction was carefully planned, taking into consideration the cost-
effectiveness of the water control systems, agricultural needs of the project area, budget allocations,
land acquisition and resettlement needs, and contracts management capacity of SIOs.
4. Institutional:
Implementation management: The institutional arrangements for implementation, described
in section C.4, have worked well in the on-going IDA-IRP. CPO staff are now familiar with IDA
requirements. With additional staff, CPO should have adequate capacity to implement the project.
PCERWASs have substantial experience in implementing UNICEF RWSS programs. The SIOs
have managed considerable irrigation construction and land acquisition in Government funded
projects. However, they have limited experience with internationally funded projects, and would
need to be trained, especially in procurement and resettlement. For this reason, CPO has arranged,
using government funds, three pre-project training courses--one for SIOs in procurement and two for
representatives from SIO, DARDs, communes and PAF on resettlement (section D.4). At the start of



- 13 -
the project implementation, CPO would station its staff in the subproject areas (section C.4).
Technical assistance and training would also be provided for supervision, management and specific
technical areas. With these measures, implementation capacity is not foreseen as a major risk.
Financial management: The financial management system in CPO was found to be
generally adequate under the IDA-IRP. Independent audits of the IRP accounts have not shown
major problems.  During preparation, IDA also carried out an assessment of the financial
management capacity of the implementing agencies and found the accounting systems in CPO, SIOs
and sample PCERWASs to be generally satisfactory, with regard to the materiality of expenditures at
various levels. Certain weaknesses were identified, particularly in one SIO. An action plan, as part
of PIP, has been agreed with the main implementing agencies to remedy these weaknesses, improve
accounting and financial control systems and practices, establish acceptable procedures for financial
reporting, and define the account coding structure (section G.2, covenant-6).
Water management: The project's institutional interventions would address water
management issues at the Delta level, the provincial level, and the farmers' organization level:
(a) Delta Level: Intensive development has been occurring in the Delta in recent years
which is at the higher end of the range projected in MDMP. Some of the current and potential
problems are: increased water usage in upstream provinces impacting on dry season supplies of fair
quality water in lower provinces; flood mitigation proposals in upstream provinces having possible
adverse impacts on adjacent areas and a change in downstream flow behavior; drainage schemes
having potential adverse impacts on adjacent areas or on lower provinces; changed sluice gate
operation leading to good impact on one province and potential adverse impact on another; water
planning in one province maximizing local benefits but achieving less than optimum on an inter-
provincial basis; and inadequate O&M for major works in one province leading to adverse effects in
others. There is no mechanism at present to bring together all affected parties on a regular basis so
that a common understanding of these problems can develop and acceptable solutions found. These
existing and emerging conditions clearly point to the need for some forn of Delta-wide water
management coordinating and regulatory agency. The opportunity for creating such a body is
presented by the recently-enacted Water Law, which calls for an integrated approach to water
resources management based on hydrological boundaries, and MARD is planning to use the Mekong
Delta as one of the three pilot areas. The project would use this opportunity to assist the MARD in
this endeavor through: (i) the formulation and adoption of a policy for improved water management
in the Delta; a study of options for the institutional framework and consultation with stakeholders on
a preferred option; and, if a Delta-wide body is approved by the GOVN, drafting of decrees on
implementation arrangements, preparation of an institutional support program and action plan for
capacity building under the new arrangements, and undertaking of priority studies identified by the
new Delta-wide body; and (ii) provision of overseas study tours for relevant central and provincial
government officials to see examples of river basin management.
(b) Provincial Level: According to existing decrees, Irrigation and Drainage Management
Companies (IMCs) are expected to be autonomous and self-financing using collection of water fees.
In four of the six project provinces, IMCs have been recently established and are collecting water
fees (in one province, water fee is being collected although there is no IMC). The remaining two are
expected to be set up soon. However, they are under-staffed, under-funded, and weak in technical
and financial management. Not only water fee collection is totally inadequate to cover the O&M
needs, but the expenditures (water fees plus budgetary subsidies) by the provinces on O&M of water
infrastructure are far below requirements (details in Annex 4). There is also a fragmentation of and
unclearly defined responsibility for O&M. It is recognized that the development of self-financing
IMCs can only be achieved in the long run, and the role of DARD, and the district, commune and
village level administration, in O&M will, therefore, continue in the foreseeable future. With this



- 14-
recognition, the project will: (i) support the establishment of IMCs in Bac Lieu and Kien Giang
provinces (section G.2, covenant-7(a)); (ii) support the introduction of water fees and gradual
increase in self-financing of the IMCs through an increase in water fee collection in all six
provinces (section G.2, covenant-7(b) and 7(c)); (iii) provide consultancy to assist in preparation of
an IMC Improvement Plan (section G.2, covenant-8), which will include, inter alia, a review of the
structure of existing IMCs and recommendation on streamlining or reorganization if needed; analysis
of the desirability of establishing Boards for the IMCs, and having farmer representation on the
Boards; and an assessment of the efficiency of the IMCs based on the need for O&M and for
operating sluices, and recommendation on improvement measures and procedures. If requested by
the provinces of Bac Lieu and Kien Giang, the consultants will also assist them in setting up IMCs;
and (iv) provide local and overseas training to IMC staff to improve IMC performance in the
technical and financial aspects of water management.
(c) Farmers' Organization Level: Although various forms of farmer groups exist throughout
the Delta, their strength, dynamism and role in tertiary development and O&M vary. There are
significant differences in official views in the provinces regarding the need for formal or informal
farmer groups and their potential role vis-a-vis commune and district administration in irrigation
infrastructure construction, O&M and water fee collection. Given these differences among the
provinces, and the fact that the project area is only a small part in some provinces, a uniform,
project-wide approach to farmer irrigation management is not considered appropriate at this stage.
Thus the project would support development of farmer groups in a decentralized manner by the
provinces through preparation and implementation of annual tertiary development plans (TDP)
(section G.2, covenant-9). This will enable farmers to assume full responsibility at the tertiary level,
and to play a gradually increasing role in O&M of secondary canals and structures. The TDP (see
Annex 2 for details) will include information on, inter alia, inventory of existing farmer groups;
need (if any) for formalizing and/or strengthening existing and establishing new farmer groups; need
(if any) for formal contracts between the farmer groups and the IMC (or communes where the IMC
doe not exist) for tertiary canal development and maintenance; timetable of activities relating to
strengthening farmer groups; and training plan for farmers (emphasis being on water management,
financial management, and agricultural training for non-rice diversified crops, and taking into
account the special needs of women, particularly for preparing them for leadership roles in farmer
groups, and of Khmer people). The project will provide consultancy support to assist the provinces
in the preparation of TDP. The consultants will also propose to the provinces pilot programs for
increasing farmer groups' involvement in O&M of secondary canals and structures and water fee
collection, where relatively strong farmer groups exist.
5. Social (Annex 10):
Land acquisition. The population in the project area is about 2.3 million. Overall, the social
impact of the project is expected to be highly positive (section C.3). The main potential adverse
imnpact relates to land acquisition from project affected families (PAF). Due to enlargement and
excavation of over 3,000 km of canals and embankments, and building or repair of 188 control
sluices, land acquisition and leasing would total 3,960 ha, of which only 30% (1,217 ha) would
constitute permanent losses to water bodies, canals and structures, and the remaining 70% temporary
occupation of land during the period of construction.
Impact. In the Mekong Delta, people have tended to settle densely along the river levees
and canal banks, creating typical ribbon settlements stretching tens of kilometers. Due to this pattern
of settlement, land acquisition would affect 34,004 PAF (8% of the population in the project area).
An estimated 1,655 PAF would be relocated, mostly within their existing communes or villages.
The remaining 32,349 PAF would loss partial assets, but would not be displaced. The impact
analysis reveals that: (i) over 93% of PAF are farmers, and thus are expected to get significant
agricultural benefits from the project; (ii) almost complete existing registration of agricultural lands



- 15 -
will strengthen the rights of the PAF and effectively limit the possibility of encroachment; and (iii)
the impact on the majority of PAF would be a loss of small strips of land that represent around 5% of
their current landholding. Although this loss is expected to be offset in economic terms by
productivity gains resulting from the project and higher land values due to access to supply of
freshwater, compensation will be provided to the PAF in line with the Bank OD 4.30. A majority of
PAF welcome the project, as they see the benefits that would result from improved water systems for
their farmns and families.
Throughout preparation, attention was given to protecting the interests of people to be
adversely affected by the project. Socio-economic surveys and three detailed door-to-door
inventories and consultation were carried out to determine the exact impact on PAF. Changes in
engineering designs to adjust structural layouts, bypasses and alternative locations were made to
minimize the adverse impact of land acquisition, and these changes have reduced the number of PAF
significantly, especially those to be displaced. A Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was prepared (a
summary is in Annex 10), with a policy framework for resettlement, corresponding entitlements for
various categories of PAF, budget provision and implementation arrangements. The RAP is
generally in line with the OD4.30, and is satisfactory to IDA. The RAP has already been approved
(on January 4, 1999) by the Vice-Minister of MARD. All provinces have set up operational
resettlement departments and resettlement committees-from provincial and district to commune
levels. SIOs have had considerable experience in resettlement activities over the past decade. CPO,
which is the implementing agency for the on-going IDA credit on Irrigation Rehabilitation Project,
has gained considerable experience with IDA resettlement requirements. It has started training SIO
and DARD staff to implement the RAP. During project implementation and detailed measurement
surveys, effort and adjustments will continuously be made in detailed engineering design to further
minimize the adverse impact on PAF. Close monitoring and supervision will also be provided
(section G.2, covenant 10).
In accordance with IDA OD 4.20, an Ethnic Minority Development Plan (EMDP) was
prepared (summarized in Annex 10). The main ethnic minority in the project area is the Khmer
group, representing 19% of the project population. The Khmer people live mainly in Tra Vinh and
Soc Trang provinces. As the project area is mostly inland from the coast, the majority of the Khmer
enjoy a higher living standard, due to better agricultural and market opportunities, compared to those
living closer to the coast, although the Khmer land holdings are generally smaller and incomes lower
than those of the majority Kinh group. In the project area, almost all the Khmer people are paddy
farmers, practicing the same farming activities as the Kinh. Thus, they would be among important
project beneficiaries and would benefit from the project in the same way as the Kinh. However,
since Khmer farmers often rely exclusively on agriculture for their income, whereas Kinh farmers
tend to have a more diversified income, the project could prove especially significant for Khmer
farmers. Consultation with the Khmer, as well as the Kinh, took place during preparation. Khmer
leaders and officials participated in project planning. There is full endorsement of the project from
farmers belonging to different ethnic groups. The EMDP includes programs to: (i) help the
minorities better benefit from the project; and (ii) mitigate the adverse impacts of land acquisition,
by ensuring that special attention is given to the Khmer PAF, including targeted extension support
for production, better information dissemination, and rehabilitation and compensation of Khmer
according to their cultural preferences. In the project area, UNDP also has a Poverty Alleviation
Program for assisting the Khmer group.
6. Environmental assessment (Annex 11):  Environmental Category: B
This is an Environmental Category B project since the development under the project was
found to have relatively limited potential for adverse impact, and for those potential adverse impacts,
there exist reasonably straightforward and well-known mitigation measures. In the project area,
virtually all the land is already used for agriculture, infrastructure and settlements, and the project



- 16 -
activities would not impact upon critical natural habitats. The main potential environmental issues
that were reviewed include: (1) leaching of acids; (2) conversion of seasonal, brackish water areas
into year around freshwater areas; (3) reduction of flood-plain fisheries; (4) impact on water quality
due to increased application of agro-chemicals; (5) increased tidal levels due to sluice gate and
embankment construction; and (6) disruption of canal transport due to sluice closure. Each of these
potential impacts and their mitigation actions for each sub-project were identified in a
comprehensive environmental review and are documented in environmental and fisheries reports
(see Project Files). Annex 11 summarizes the specific nature of each impact and provides a synopsis
of the mitigation and implementation arrangements that will be used under the project. It also
summarizes the planned monitoring programs, to be financed by the project, for water quality and
quantity, and for fisheries, and identifies technical assistance to be provided for integrated rice-fish
culture to replace fisheries losses.
7. Participatory approach ( Annex I0):
a. Primary beneficiaries will be farmers in the project areas. The secondary beneficiaries
will be traders and land-less laborers who will benefit from increased production and rural
employment, and officials in the line and implementation agencies who will benefit from
institutional strengthening under the project. During preparation, participatory approaches were
used, mainly the Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA), and consultations with stakeholders at
provincial, districts and commune levels in the form of planning meetings, workshops, field and
household visits, farmer interviews, and social surveys. The feedback from the consultations
provided basis for adjustments to the engineering design and for the formulation of EAP and RAP to
mitigate the potential adverse project impact. Despite the substantial number of people affected by
land acquisition, a majority of PAF surveyed welcomed the project, but emphasized fair and timely
compensation. PRA focused on commune level consultation and participation through workshops in
subproject areas, village meetings and farmer interviews at selected communes. Its purpose was to
inform the communities and assess the perception of the project among farmers. The feedback
highlighted, inter alia: (i) a strong demand for capital investment in agriculture, irrigation/drainage
and flood protection infrastructure, and the farmers' desire for an early completion of the project; (ii)
farmers' desire for tertiary control structures linking to secondary canals; (iii) farmers' willingness to
take part in the management of tertiary systems; (iv) concerns about poor rural water supply and
women's health; and (v) concerns of shrimp farmers in converting to freshwater farming. The
feedback has influenced project design in such aspects as location of canals, embankments and
sluices; rural water supply arrangements; implementation arrangements; support for tertiary
structures; and treatment of shrimp farming. During implementation, beneficiary participation will
take the form of farmers responding to a more favorable water regime by contributing to the
development of tertiary and on-farm systems, and community-based activities in clean water
provision and sanitation improvement.
b. Other stakeholders. During preparation, meetings and exchange of information took
place with local universities, research institutes, provincial and district Women's Unions, NGOs,
local staff from UNICEF and UNDP in the provinces, ADB, Mekong River Commission, Vietnam
Mekong Committee, and bilateral donors. Information was exchanged with teams working on other
IDA projects. Continued collaboration with stakeholders during implementation is planned.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Despite some risks (section F.2), the project appears sustainable from the technical,
agronomic, institutional, financial, and economic points of view.
The technical solutions for water resources works are well-practiced in the Delta, as



- 17-
considerable development has already taken place over the last decade using local expertise. The
project structures are spread over a large area and, therefore, any errors in design, construction or
operation will be localized and easily corrected. Implementation supervision by international and
local consultants, and updating of the hydraulic model to improve the efficiency of sluice operation,
would ensure relatively high technical standards.
Agrononic issues are fairly minor. Rice, the main project output, will continue to be
attractive in the Delta for a long time to come, given reasonably good world rice price forecasts, and
availability of markets and technological packages. But there are general risks involved in triple
cropping of rice, including pest build-up and removal of soil nutrients. The rice varieties, which are
increasingly used by farmers in the Delta, are resistant to major pests like rice blast and brown plant
hopper. Together with the increasing use of IPM (being supported by FAO and IDA), these varieties
will have a positive effect on sustainability of rice cultivation in the project area. As for the rice
marketing system, the incremental rice production from the project area could strain the system in
the next few years. Although the sharp increase in rice production in the Delta in recent years
suggests that public and private supporting services are largely effective in providing credit, inputs
and marketing, the rice marketing system is under-funded, particularly with regard to milling,
drying, storage and transport facilities. This results in a deterioration of grain quality and farn-gate
prices lower than they should be. Policy-induced inefficiencies in rice marketing result from
controls on internal and foreign trade, including parastatal monopoly in exporting, and price
controls. Out-moded and inadequate port facilities and the poor trading skills of the parastatals
result in relatively low export prices. The GOVN is working with DANIDA and FAO on improving
rice marketing infrastructure, and with ADB and IFPRI on policy reform. This project was,
therefore, not considered an appropriate vehicle to address the rice marketing issue.. Further, the
project will give farmers an opportunity to grow non-paddy crops in the dry season, and thereby
lessen their market risks. As for the upland crops--mainly maize, sugarcane, and vegetables--the
domestic prices are attractive, and marketing, particularly of maize and sugarcane, is not a problem.
However, cultivation of double rice and an upland crop is still in the early stage, and the ongoing
pilots need to be closely monitored during supervision.
Institutionally, the project will use existing agencies (CPO/SIO for water infrastructure,
PCERWAS for rural water supply and sanitation, and provincial DARDs/IMCs for O&M of major
water infrastructure) (section C.4 and E.4). Further, consultancy support would be provided to
improve institutional capacity, and strengthen farmer groups for a larger role in development and
O&M of water infrastructure. Financially, the net returns from increased agricultural production
under the project would be quite attractive (Annex 4) and would sustain farner interest, and efforts
would be made under the project to increase water fee collection to provide for incremental O&M of
project-financed infrastructure (section E.4). The economic viability of the project does not appear
in doubt, and sensitivity analysis shows the robustness of the ERR (Annex 4).
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                Risk                Risk Minimization Measure
Ratin~____________________________
Annex 1 "from outputs to objective"
Major agricultural support systems--  N  No project specific measures are needed, as deficiencies in
credit, marketing, inputs-are not        the support services are being addressed by other IDA
functional, and the rice marketing       projects and other multi-lateral institutions.
system, in particular, is under strain due
to incremental rice production.____  __



- 18-
Major natural disasters occur affecting  M   Although the 1997 typhoon was devastating, typhoons are
the project area, such as typhoons,       rare in the Mekong Delta. The project design standard
extreme low flow or extreme floods from   reflects 1/20 year floods for embankments, and 1/10 year 5-
the Mekong.                               day maximum storm for drainage capacity.
Sluices are not properly operated; canals    M   The project will provide training/TA; a study on upgrading
and sluices are not maintained            hydraulic modeling to improve sluice operations;
adequately.                               strengthening of IMCs; support for increasing water fee
collection to increase O&M resources; and support for farmer
participation in O&M.
Lack of political commitment of GOVN  M   While the commitrent of the GOVN does not appear to be in
to implement the Water Law, and of the    doubt, the commitment of the Delta provinces is yet
Delta provinces to make joint effort      unknown, and will be built up through a consultation process.
towards coordinated Delta water
management.
Provincial governments are not willing to   M   Consultation and dialogue will be carried out regularly
reorganize/streamline IMCs and expand     during supervision and consultancy assistance will be
farmer participation in O&M               provided.
Annex 1"from components to outputs"
Implementing capacity of CPO, SIOs,   N  Consultancy assistance would be provided.
and PCERWASs turns out to be weak.
Counterpart funding is delayed, and    S  RAP costs have been cautiously estimated. IDA financing
affects construction schedule, especially  share is 91% for civil works, and will also cover part of RAP
since land acquisition and compensation   costs (including monitoring and training). GOVN is putting
is a substantial part of counterpart      high priority on the counterpart funds issue under this
funding.                                  project. Further, close monitoring and supervision would be
_____________ _ _.___  Wprovided.
Tertiary canal earthworks are not carried    M   Preparation of annual tertiary development plans is required,
out or delayed.                           and their implementation will be closely monitored.
Communities are not willing to share  M   National RWSS policy is moving towards full cost recovery;
capital and maintenance costs and         and PCERWAS will be responsible for implementing the
responsibilities.                         component and assisting the communes in preparing CWIPs
with technical assistance from CPO consultants.
Overall Risk Rating          M  I
Risk Rating - H (High), S (Substantial), M (Moderate), N (Negligible)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects: None.
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness:
a. GOVN to establish the Project Steering Committee (section C.4).
b. CPO, following the Bank consultant guidelines, to hire an independent agency to carry
out the monitoring of RAP (including EMDP) implementation.
c. MARD  to appoint CPO  as the main project implementation agency with overall
coordination responsibility; MARD to appoint the two SIOs for implementation of
irrigation, drainage and flood control activities in the respective subproject areas;
MARD to appoint the six PCERWAS for implementation of the RWSS component; and
MARD to appoint Project Director and Project Manager (section C.4).
2. Dated Covenants:
1) By September 30 of each year, starting 1999, CPO will submit to IDA for approval a
training plan for local and overseas study tours, training courses and workshops for the
following year (section C.4).  The training would include programs at central,



- 19 -
provincial, project and farmer levels.
2) The project accounts (including the Special Account and the Statement of Expenditures)
will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and audit reports
will be forwarded to IDA within six months after the end of each year (section C.4).
3) CPO will submit, by March 31 and September 30 each year, for IDA review semi-
annual progress reports of works and activities carried out.
4) CPO will improve the monitoring system, which was set up under the IDA-IRP (Cr.
2711), to track project physical progress, costs, budgets, procurement and disbursement;
to regularly update the PIP; and to monitor and evaluate the agreed performance
indicators. The improved monitoring system will be installed at CPO, SIOs and
PCERWASs by March 31, 2000.
5) An implementation completion report will be prepared within six months after Credit
closing.
6) CPO will prepare a manual of accounting instructions, acceptable to IDA, by June 30,
1999, incorporating the financial management actions specified in the PIP (section E.4).
CPO will, in the execution of the project, ensure compliance with these accounting
instructions, and with procedures acceptable to IDA.
7) (a) IMCs will be established in Bac Lieu and Kien Giang provinces by September 30,
1999 and June 30, 2001 respectively;
(b) By December 31, 2001, water fees will be introduced in Bac Lieu province, and will
be adequate to meet incremental O&M needs of project-financed water
infrastructure in the province; and
(c) By December 31, 2001, total water fee collection in Tra Vinh, Vinh Long, Soc
Trang, Can Tho and Kien Giang provinces will increase to a level adequate to meet
at least the incremental O&M needs of project-financed water infrastructure in those
provinces (section E.4).
8) By December 31, 2001, CPO will prepare, with the assistance of its consultants, and
submit for IDA review, an IMC Improvement Plan relating to their mandate, structure,
operational efficiency, and need (if any) for farmer representation at various levels of
the IMC; and propose pilot programs for increasing farmer groups' involvement in
O&M of secondary canals and structures, and water fee collection (section E.4).
9) By August 31 each year, starting 1999, each provincial DARD will submit to CPO an
annual Tertiary Development Plan (TDP, approved by PPC) for the following year. By
September 30 of each year, CPO will submit for IDA review the TDP, and
revise/implement the TDP taking into account IDA's comments (section E.4).
10) By September 30 each year, starting 1999, CPO will furnish to IDA: (i) for approval, an
irrigation subproject-based RAP implementation annual plan for the following year,
prepared in accordance with the RAP, which includes the number of PAFs to be
affected, detailed measurement surveys, valuation of assets, estimated cost, budget
allocation, preparation of resettlement sites where necessary, and a time-table to
implement such plans prior to commencement of works; and (ii) for review, a RAP
implementation progress report from CPO and an assessment report by an independent
monitoring agency of the resettlement work done in the previous year.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[x1 The engineering designs for the first year's project implementation are complete, including three
sluices, two canals, and one bridge in SMT subproject; eight secondary sluices, four secondary



- 20 -
canals, one segment of embankment, and boat-lifts in OX subproject; and one main canal in QP
subproject. Retroactive financing is expected for part of the works started in 1998.
[x] Bid documents for the first year's project implementation are ready. Standard bid documents
agreed under the IRP will be used. Five NCB packages were prepared as part of the project
feasibility study, and are pending for MARD approval.
[x] CPO submitted a draft PIP for IDA review, which was discussed during negotiations, and the
revised PIP of February 25, 1999 was agreed between IDA and the Borrower.
I- Compliance with Bank Policies
[x] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies, i.e. OD4.30 onInvoluntary Resettlement
and OD4.20 on Ethnic Minorities (details in section E.5 and Annex 10); OP/BP 10.02 on Financial
Management (details in section E.4); and OP 7.50 "International Waters" (see below).
The Mekong River has six riparians-China, Myanmar, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia and
Vietnam. The project is located in the down stream end of the River, before the River empties into
the sea. The project qualifies for the exception to notificationallowed in para.7(a) (i) and (ii) of the
OD 7.50 "International Waters", as: (i) it is an on-going scheme, with minor additions or alterations;
and (ii) the increase or decrease in water withdrawal as a result of the project will not change the
project's nature, or expand its scope and extent as to make it appear a new or different scheme.
However, OP 7.50 requires compliance with existing agreements among the riparians. Contact with
the Mekong Secretariat confirmed that the above Mekong Agreement requires notification and
consultation among riparians prior to proceeding with major diversion schemes. Recognizing that
Vietnam in the case of this proposed project is in the downstream end of the Mekong River, the
Mekong Secretariat suggested that in accordance with the Agreement, GOVN should, in the spirit of
good will and cooperation, inform the MRC Joint Committee about the project. MARD and the
Vietnam National Mekong Committee sent an official notification with project summary and maps to
the MRC Joint Committee on March 16, 1998. The National Mekong Committee also copied the
above project information to China and Myanmar.
Task Team Leader: AfrMei Xie (EASRD)
Sector Manager:                o         )
Country Director:



- 21 -
PAD Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Page I of 3
Annex 1
Vietnam: Mekong Delta Water Resources Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and   Critical Assumptions/Risks
Evaluation
Sector-related CAS     Continued reductions in poverty   Regular policy    (Goal to Bank Mission)
Goal:                  rates in rural areas         and sectoral     Overall economic stability of the
dialogue with the  country
Reduce rural poverty and  Increased IDA lending to rural   Government
support accelerated rural  and natural resources                     Government remains committed
development, including   management                 Comparison of   to rural development and to
irrigation infrastructure                            census indicators  reduction of poverty.
Development of water resources  from sources of
Support Government's   in an integrated way and moving  Government and  Government remains committed
commitment to          towards river basin /hydrological external agencies  to sustainable natural resources
sustainable management  boundary-based planning and                  management
of natural resources   management                    ESW Evaluation
Project Development    la. Proxy indicators for      CPO's           (Objective to CAS Goal)
Objective:             increased agricultural       beneficiary      la. 1 No major decline in world
production, incomes and      surveys and      rice price (risk negligible: see
1. Increase agricultural  employment; and reduced rural   progress reports  sensitivity analysis in Annex 4)
production, reduce rural   poverty:
poverty and improve                                  MARD's and      la.2 No major decline in farm
living conditions in the  1997  early 2002 mid 2004  DARD's          gate prices of upland crops, such
project area through   Triple rice crop (ha):       statistical reports  as maize, sugarcane, vegetables;
integrated water          53,100  60,000   75,000                    and availability of markets and
resources development.   Double rice plus upland (ha):  Evaluation by    technological packages (risk
0    10,000   30,000    IDA during mid-  negligible: Section F and
term (early 2002)  sensitivity analysis in Annex 4)
and completion
(mid 2004)      1 a.3 No significant delay in
reviews         tertiary development (risk
moderate: sensitivity analysis in
Progress reports   Annex 4; and TDP in Annex 2)
from CPO
lb. Water fee collection (at                  lb. Political willingness to
least doubling by early 2002,                 introduce water fee collection in
compared to 1997 baseline                     one province and increase water
figure of 17 billion Dong) as an             fee collection in the other five
indicator of increased fnancial   PCERWAS'    provinces (risk moderate).
capacity of provinces to provide   progress reports
adequate O&M of project-                     lc. Demand-driven approach
created water infrastructure.  Evaluation by  succeeds; communes have the
IDA at mid-term   capacity to prepare and
1 c. Provision of clean water  and completion   implement Clear Water
and improved sanitation to rural              Improvement Plans (risk
households (110,000 households                moderate)
by early 2002 and 280,000
households by mid-2004).
2. Support sustainable    2a. Issuance of a policy   Progress reports  2a./2b. Commitment by GOVN
water resources        statement and preparation of an   by the CPO  to implement the Water Law (rsk



- 22 -
PAD Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Page 2 of 3
management in the Delta  options paper on integrated  consultant team    negligible); and commitment by
water resources management for                the Delta provinces to make joint
the Delta by end 2000.                        effort towards coordinated Delta
water resources management (risk
2b. Establishment of a Delta-                 moderate).
wide water resources
management body through a
consultation process by early
2002.
Outputs:               Fresh water available for     CPO surveys and  (Outputs to Objective)
1. Saline water intrusion  irrigation in presently saline  assessment
into the project area  areas affected by sea water   reports          1. Major agricultural support
reduced; freshwater    intrusion during the months of                 systems such as credit, marketing
supply for irrigation  low river flows.              Field inspections  and input supply are largely in
secured.                                             and fanner       place in the project area (risk
Drainage capacity in the area is  interviews by  negligible); and rice marketing
2 Drainage capacity in   improved shown by SIWP      IDA supervision  system, in particular, responds
the area is improved.  monitoring of flow levels during  missions     adequately to incremental rice
October as representative month.              production (risk moderate).
3 Flood risk in the                                  DARD statistical
project area mitigated.    The maximum water level in  reports        2. No major natural disasters
October in OX subproject is                   affect the project area, such as
4. Access to safe      lower inside the area compared    SIWP         typhoons, extreme low flow,
drinking water and better  to outside by project completion   environmental    extreme floods from the Mekong
sanitation for dispersed   (by some 80 cm at the KH9  and river flow  (risk moderate).
rural population       upstream sluice and some 25 cm   monitoring
improved.              at the KH9 downstream sluice).  reports        3. Sluices are properly operated;
canals and sluices are maintained
5. Environmental and   Coverage for rural clean water                 adequately (risk moderate).
river flow monitoring  supply is increased (currently
network improved.      30-60%).                                       4. Provincial governments are
willing to streamline IMCs and
6. Implementation of the  Thirty environmental and river              expand farner participation in
Water Law initiated in    flow monitoring stations are                O&M (risk moderate).
the Mekong Delta by    upgraded by early 2002.
strengthening delta-wide                                              5. Commitment by GOVN to
institutional framework    A policy statement on an                   implement the Water Law (i
for integrated water   improved Delta institutional                   negligible); and commitment by
resources planning and    framework for integrated water              the Delta provinces to make joint
management.            management is adopted.                         effort towards coordinated Delta
water resources management (risk
7. Delta hydraulic     Delta hydraulic models (flows,                 moderate).
modeling improved.     salinity, floods) are upgraded.
8. Project management   Training programs (seminars,
capacity at central,   workshops, study visits) are
provincial and commune  carried out for project staff in the
levels strengthened.   central and provincial levels, and
IMCs and farner groups  for farmers and IMCs, and TA
strengthened.          provided.
Project Components:    Inputs:                                        (Components to Outputs)
(see Annex 2)          Construct or rehabilitate 188  CPO semi-
1. Complete and        primary and secondary sluices.   annual progress   1. Adequate implementing
rehabilitate water                                   monitoring       capacity of CPO, SIOs, and
resources development   Improve and excavate 2,633 km   reports.      PCERWASs; and construction on



- 23 -
PAD Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Page 3 of 3
works (incl. irrigation  main, primary and secondary                  schedule (risk negligible).
and drainage, salinity  canals.                      Two SIOs'
intrusion control, flood                             quarterly        2. Timely counterpart funds
protection)            Develop 112,000 ha of tertiary    progress reports.  available, especially for land
canals and on-farm systems.                   acquisition and compensation
la. Improve primary                               Disbursement    (risk substantial).
water delivery system  Extend and upgrade 368 km of   records.
canal embankment.                             3. No significant delay in tertiary
lb. Improve and                                   Audit reports.    development (risk moderate: see
complete secondary     Build 65 km of access roads                    sensitivity analysis in Annex 4;
water delivery system  connecting to sluices and canals  IDA field    and TDP in Annex 2)
inspection and
lc. Develop tertiary    Build or upgrade 112 canal  supervision    4. Demand-driven approach
and on-farm system     connected rural bridges and 67   reports.      succeeds; communes have the
boatlifts.                                    capacity to prepare and
Id. Build and extend                                               implement CWIPs and are willing
canal connected roads  2a. Provide clean water to                    to share capital and O&M costs
and embankments        dispersed, small and remote rural              and maintenance responsibilities.
communities by constructing                   (risk moderate).
2. Expand and improve   small-scale piped water supply   PCERWAS'
rural water supply and    systems and point source   progress reports.  5. No major natural disasters
sanitation             supplies.                                      affect the area, such as typhoons,
extreme low flow or extreme
2a. Clean water      2b. Undertake sanitation and                  floods from the Mekong (risk
supply program         safe water awareness campaigns                 moderate).
and hamlet-level participatory
2b. Sanitation       hygiene education.
improvement program
2c. Construct basic household-
level sanitation facilities.
2d. Design and undertake
research on appropriate
household-level sanitation
technologies.
3. Institutional support   3a. Consultancy, TA and   Progress reports
for Delta water planning,  training                  by the CPO
monitoring, and                                      consultant team
management; for project  3b. Install/upgrade 30
implementation; and for   monitoring stations for water
strengthening of IMCs    quality/flow network.
and farmer groups.                                  I                I                              I



- 24 -
PAD Annex 2: Project Description
Page I of 8
Annex 2
Vietnam: Mekong Delta Water Resources Project
Detailed Project Description
1.    The Mekong Delta. The Mekong Delta covers an area of 45,000 km2, of which 39,000
km2 lies within the borders of Vietnam (Map 29653). The Mekong River, as it enters Vietnam
from Cambodia, splits into three main branches before entering the sea, the Bassac, the Co Chien,
and the Cua Dai. The Mekong is a typical monsoon river with high flows from July to September
and receding flows until the low months of March and April. The Tonle Sap in Cambodia acts as
natural reservoir that regulates the flow of the Mekong. Water flows into the Tonle Sap in the
flood season and out of the lake in the dry season. Many man-made canals, some of them dating
back more than a century to open the area for settlement and agriculture, traverse the Delta.
2.    In terms of its water regime, the Delta can be divided into the upper Delta, the middle
Delta, and the lower Delta. In the monsoon season, the upper Delta is flooded in most years to a
depth of one to two meters, but the mid-and lower Delta are only shallow-flooded by the Mekong
and its branches. As the flow in the Mekong recedes in the dry season, salt water enters the
lower Delta. In April, the month of lowest river flow, the salt/fresh water interface reaches some
60-70 km from the coastline. In the lower Delta, salinity intrusion limits farmers to a single wet-
season crop of rice because the water in the canals is too saline for irrigation in the dry season. In
the upper and mid-Delta, the water quality is suitable for year-round irrigation and large areas
have been developed for double and triple cropping of rice.
3.    The 12 provinces in the Delta have 2.7 million ha of agricultural land, of which 2 million
ha is rice land. In the fresh water areas, most farmers raise more than one crop of rice, but in the
areas affected by saline intrusion the farmers are limited to a single crop. Where farmers grow
three crops, annual production from a single ha of 15 tons of paddy (un-milled rice) is not
uncommon. For the Delta as a whole, the planted area of rice grew from 2.2 million ha in 1985
to 3.4 million ha in 1996. In the same period, paddy production has grown from 7 million tons to
15 million tons (1997). Other crops take up 0.7 million ha, of which field crops (maize, sugar
cane, oilseeds) account for 0.4 million ha and the rest is tree crops mainly in household plots.
4.    Irrigation and Drainage. The hydraulic systems of the Mekong Delta are unusual in
that irrigation and drainage are controlled by complicated tidal influence from two directions--the
South China Sea (semi-diurnal) and the Gulf of Thailand (diurnal). The amplitude varies
between 3 m in the South China Sea to 0.5 m in the Gulf of Thailand. The systems are in contrast
to typical gravity irrigation that involves a diversion dam or a pumping station to raise water to a
level from which it can flow by gravity canals. In the Delta, it will be extremely costly, and pose
many technical and social problems, to create a gravity system.  Irrigation and drainage in the
Delta is founded on the many natural and man-made channels that serve as primary and
secondary systems. The farmers, sometimes with help of local governments, have constructed
tertiary channels from which they irrigate their fields. During the dry season when the water
level in the canals is below ground level, and the tides are not high enough for irrigation, farmers
use their own low-lift-pumps to bring water to their fields. The same channels and waterways
that provide water for irrigation also serve as drains. At the end of the flood season, water drains
from the farmers' fields mostly by gravity. But, in some areas, farmers who triple crop have to
drain their fields with low-lift pumps.



- 25 -
PAD Annex 2: Project Description
Page 2 of 8
5.    The supply of water from the branches of the Mekong is more than sufficient to meet the
demands of irrigators and other users. The only water constraint is in the lower Delta during the
months of saline intrusion -- a problem that will be addressed by the proposed project. Water
allocation on a large scale between different areas is unfeasible and in fact unnecessary; periodic
closing of the main waterways will require large structures and cause interference with water
transportation. But within individual subprojects, some degree of water management control is
needed. For example, in the areas there are structures to protect the areas from flooding that
require coordinated operation of the control gates. In the lower Delta, there is a need for
centralized management of the operation of the sluices to control salt-water intrusion and to
promote drainage.  At the farm level, several factors make water management simple, effective
and largely under the control of the individual farmers. First, the farm plots are laid out in such a
way that each farmer is able to pump from a tertiary whenever he needs water. This means that
farmers have considerable freedom in their choice of crops and crop calendars. Second, the
secondaries and tertiaries are sized to permit the movement of small boats and, therefore, they
have ample capacity to deliver water as well as providing some daily storage.
Component 1: Improvement of Water Resources Infrastructure (US$131.6 million)
6.     General. The proposed project would cover five subproject areas (maps) with a total
area of 535,000 ha (about 14% of the Mekong Delta in Vietnam). The subprojects South Mang
Thit (SMT; 225,680 ha), Quanlo-Phuonghiep (QP; 178,900 ha), Baring-Talim (BRTL; 31,000
ha) and Tiep Nhat (TN; 54,000 ha) are in the lower Delta. The Omon-Xano subproject (OX;
45,430 ha) is in the middle Delta. Each area is an independent hydraulic unit.
7.    An in important objective of the subprojects in the lower Delta is to exclude salinity
intrusion by building sluice gates on waterways entering the agricultural areas. This will create a
fresh water environment that will allow crops to be grown in the dry season. Without salinity
control, farmers on large areas are at present limited to a single wet-season rice crop. With the
project, there will be a considerable increase in double cropping of rice and also some increase in
the triple cropped area. Farmers will also have the opportunity to grow upland crops in the dry
season as an alternative to rice.
8.    In all of the subprojects, existing main, primary and secondary canals will be improved to
provide for more rapid and effective drainage. Some new secondaries will be built to enhance
water delivery, and tertiaries will be built where necessary. The same channels and waterways
that provide water for irrigation also serve as drains. Existing embankments that protect land
from high flood levels will be extended and upgraded, to also carry rural roads.
9.     The basic design of sluices is now standardized throughout the Delta, but the widths of a
sluice and the number of gates vary according to the size of the waterway and the drainage area
upstream of the sluice. The sluices are of the type with vertical axis swing gates, and can be
operated automatically by hydraulic heads created by each tide, or semi-automatically with
manual intervention, depending on the operating modes. In the dry season when the river flow
levels are low and outside salinity levels are high, the gates are kept mostly closed and opened
periodically to freshen the water in the upstream gates. In the wet season, the gates can be set to
open at low tide to drain water and to close at high tide. In addition to salinity control, the sluices
would improve drainage significantly by removing large net excess outflows to the sea at each
tide cycle.



- 26 -
PAD Annex 2: Project Description
Page 3 of 8
10.   Work on the main and primary canals will consist mainly of restoring them to their
original condition in places where years of silt build up have reduced the cross section. The
canals would have a design bottom width of 7-12 m and bottom levels of -3 m MSL, but some
would be wider or deeper. This design is based on mathematical models of the entire subproject
system and of the Delta. Secondaries serve about 500-1000 ha and are typically spaced about 2-3
km apart. They are generally made about 12 m wide with bottom widths of up to 6-7 m, and 2-3
m deep to accommodate small boat traffic. Although the canals serve dual purposes of irrigation
and drainage, the latter determines the size of the canals. Navigation also influences the design
capacity. These canals would be openly connected to main canals or provided with small
culverts or water control gates, depending on land elevation relative to prevailing water level
fluctuations in each subsystem. Small secondary culverts with slide gates would be provided to
connect the secondaries to tertiary canals. Tertiaries would be developed in areas where
secondary systems have been improved or developed and dry season cropping is to grow. They
are usually placed at intervals of about 250m, with a bed width of about 1-m, and a depth of 1-1.2
m, and serve about 25-50 ha. Farm holdings are arranged so that each farmer has direct access to
a tertiary. During the low flow season when the water level in the canals drop to below the field
level and tides are not high enough to reach the field, low-lift pumps are commonly used by
farmers (para.4), either by individual farm households or by a group of farmers. The pumps are
of low costs, and locally made. They are also used for boat engines. Parts and maintenance are
widely available. Farmers apply various types of simple structures, such as small cross dams
with earth and straws, when they need to store water in the field. The tradition in the Delta is for
farmers to build and maintain tertiaries.
11.   Embankment would be extended or upgraded to join the existing embankment to provide,
in combination with the sluices, a defense line against flooding and saline intrusion from the main
rivers during periods of severe storms and high tides, and to close off smaller canals connected to
the main rivers. It would generally have a top width of 4-6 m and would also serve as rural
roads. Small culverts along the embankments connecting to smaller canals would be built or
repaired for flushing. Access roads would be constructed to facilitate building of the sluices.
Materials from dredging of canals would be used to improve canal embankments that would
serve as rural roads, to improve local transport. Bridges would be built or upgraded in connection
with the sluices and canal improvement works. The project also includes boatlifts (capable of
transferring small boats of up to 2 tons) and landing stages at the sluices to pass small boats when
the sluices are closed. The existing and proposed water control works in the subprojects are
summarized in the attached Table.
12.    South Man Thit Subproject (US$67.5 million). It lies between the Bassac and the Co
Chien and is bounded by the SMT river to the north where freshwater intakes are located (Map
29654). The central and southern part of the area suffers severely from seawater intrusion in the
dry season, and from inundation in the wet season in depression areas. These constraints limit
the scope for intensified agriculture and increasing farm income. To overcome the constraints,
the concept of the subproject is to make use of the large daily variations in water levels created
by tides on the main rivers surrounding the area. The tides are high enough to convey fresh water
from intakes in the SMT River in the north towards the central and southern areas, and drain
excess water to the South China Sea, provided that canal capacities are sufficient. This will be
combined with salinity control structures in the south to prevent intrusion of seawater unsuitable
for irrigation, and thus to increase freshwater supply. Since mid 1970s, construction of saline
sluices and improvement of the canals have started in a piece meal fashion. With the project,



- 27 -
PAD Annex 2: Project Description
Page 4 of 8
farmers in virtually all of the subproject area will be able to triple or double crop. The sluices
and the dredging of the canals will also reduce flooding in the late monsoon months.
13.   A mathematical model study carried out during the feasibility study finds that all
waterways south of the SMT have to be gated to prevent salinity intrusion. The salinity
simulation models used during project preparation specified the critical boundary conditions as:
(i) tide and wind data of 1990 that led to unusually severe saline intrusion conditions, equivalent
to 1-in-1 0 year low inflow from the Mekong; and (ii) upstream irrigation demand consistent with
annual paddy production of 20 million tons, compared to 15 million tons at present. Hydraulic
modeling simulated that, with the project, all intakes would be within acceptable saline levels for
irrigation in the critical dry months, even under the severe conditions described above. A water
quality and flow monitoring component has been included in the project to verify the model's
predictions, and to monitor changes in saline intrusion (para. 21).
14.   Omon-Xano Subproject (US$20.2 million). The subproject is located above the saline
line in the mid-Delta where freshwater is available all year round (Map 29656). Most secondary
and tertiary canals already exist. Its main aim there is to provide flood protection and drainage.
Floods up to 1 m occur every year between August and October. These are caused by a
combination of heavy rains, limited drainage capacity of the canals, and high water levels in the
Bassac.  These conditions severely hamper- local population from  increasing agricultural
productivity and living standards. In particular, yields of the summer-autumn rice crop are held to
about 2.8t/ha, compared to a potential of 4 t/ha if the flood constraint were to be removed. To
cope with the above situation, in some places farmers have gradually heightened their field bunds
to prevent inundation before harvest of the autumn-winter crop. However, the bunds are neither
high enough nor adequate. During the flooding every year, local life is disrupted. Without a better
water control system, sufficient drainage is impossible and the local population will continue to
suffer from the hardship. The works will include (a) three drainage control sluices to connect the
two existing primary canals; (c) small sluices at the junctions of the secondary and primary
canals; and (c) flood levees that will also serve as a rural road. The water control concept of the
subproject follows the recommendations of MDMP and the Delta's flood control strategy. With
the project, the living conditions of local population would be improved, the yield is expected to
increase and production more stable. In the central and southem parts of the subproject, double
cropping could shift to triple.
15.   Quanlo-Phunghiep, Barinh-Taliem and Tiep Nhat Subprojects (US$43.9 million).
The three subproject areas are adjacent (Map 29655), divided by main canals. Most of the areas
are located in one province at the downstream end of the Bassac River close to the coast.
Although they are each an independent hydraulic unit, their hydrological and hydraulic
conditions, development constraints, and design concepts are similar. The aims of the subprojects
are to complete a system of works that will prevent salinity intrusion in the dry season, and
enhance drainage in the wet season.
16.   The QP lies east from the Bassac and extends in a broad tract of land parallel to the
coastline. Some sluices have been built in the 1990s and these have already had an impact on
agriculture. Three primary canals will be enlarged to bring additional water to the subproject
area. Nang Mau 2 extends from the Bassac to the Nga Nam Phu Loc, which joins the main QP
canal and then runs through the subproject area. It is to be widened from 10 to 13 m and
deepened by one meter. Hoa Binh crosses the project area and joins the Song Cai, the large river
that comes in from the Gulf of Thailand. It is to be widened from 12m to 16 m and deepened



- 28 -
PAD Annex 2: Project Description
Page 5 of 8
from -1.5 to -3 bed level. Cai Trau Phu Loc joins the Nga Nam Phu Loc to the Cai Trau Sluice.
It is to be widened from 10 to 13 m and deepened by one meter. A mathematical model has
confirmed that these canals will provide a year round supply of fresh water to QP and adjacent
areas. The BRTL and TN subprojects adjoin QP to the east. Some of the sluices there were built
some 40 years ago and will be repaired and new sluices will be built to complete the works
needed to prevent salinity intrusion, and canals will be upgrade to facilitate drainage and water
delivery. Without salinity control, farners are at present limited to wet-season rice cultivation.
With the project, there would be a considerable increase in dry-season irrigation, leading to
double and triple cropping. Farmers would have the opportunity to grow upland crops in the dry
season as an alternative to rice. Returns on investment are expected to be the highest in those
areas which at present have few other investment opportunities and would remain undeveloped
without freshwater.
Table: Works Under the Project
Items                Units  South Mang    Omon      Quanlo-/1    Total
Thit       Xano     Puonghiep    Project
Primary Sluices                13         3          10          26
Prinary Canals        km      222.5       -        242.5         465
Embankment            km       105       119       197.9        421.9
Bridges X                      67         -          42          109
Secondary Sluices              92        32          14          138
Secondary Canals      km       461       95.5       963        1,519.5
/1 Includes Barinh Ta Liem and Tiep Nhat,
17.   Land and Other Asset Acquisition, Compensation and Resettlement (the cost is
included in each subproject cost). The project works will require acquisition of land of 3,963 ha,
of which 70% (2,747 ha) will be occupied temporarily during construction and 1,216 ha will be
permanent losses to water bodies, canals and structures (Annex 10). Subproject land losses are
summarized in the Table below. A resettlement action plan has been prepared and its
implementation is estimated at about US$22.5 million, including 10% contingencies, and will
cover compensation, rehabilitation allowances, skill and income generation training for PAF,
staff training, equipment, detailed measurement surveys, external monitoring and administration.
Subproject       Land acquisition (ha)  Permanent (ha)     Temporary (ha)
SMT                  1,399                 402                997
OMXN                   324                  285                39
QLPH                  1,091                218                873
BRTL                  684                   165               519
TN                   465                  146                319
Total                3,963                1,216              2,747
Component 2: Improvement of Rural Water Supply/Sanitation (US$ 5.7 million)
18.    Despite its rapid development, the Mekong Delta remains among the most under-served
areas in the country as regards clean rural water supply with coverage estimated at between 30-
60%, including the project area. Coverage with safe sanitation facilities is expected to be even
lower. The incidence of water and sanitation-related diseases is high, particularly among women



- 29 -
PAD Annex 2: Project Description
Page 6 of 8
and children. A principal constraint to improving health status is poor knowledge, attitudes, and
practices regarding hygiene.
19.   The project will provide clean water for remote small villages and hamlets and dispersed
rural population, and will thus complement other RWSS programs in the project area. It will
finance construction of small-scale piped water supply systems serving about 50 - 150
households, and point source supplies (rainwater catchment systems, hand pumps, and small
water filtration systems) for dispersed settlements. It will also support sanitation and safe water
awareness campaigns and hamlet-level participatory hygiene education to improve hygiene
behaviors and increase effective demand for safe human waste disposal. The project will provide
seed money to set up revolving funds for construction of basic household-level sanitation
facilities. The exact mechanism will be worked out by CPO and PCERWAS with the approval of
the Government.
20.   For implementation of the water supply activity, the project will pilot and test some of the
ideas of the evolving National RWSS Strategy, including: (i) demand-driven planning; (ii)
community based participatory planning and management; and (iii) better cost recovery.
Communes will first prepare Clean Water Improvement Plans (CWIP) (or commune-subproject)
that stipulate the type of water supply they want and are willing to pay for. Technical assistance
will then be provided to the communes to allow them to make informed choices among feasible
technical, cost and financial options. Technical options currently cover small piped schemes for
hamlets supplied from boreholes with electric or diesel pumps and 2-3 m3 elevated tanks with
house connections; boreholes with hand pumps; rainwater storage jars; and surface water
filtration units.
Component 3: Institutional Support for Water Management and Project Implementation
(US$10.3 million)
21.   Improving Water Management Framework (US$1.3 million). The aim is to develop
proposals for strengthening of Delta-wide water resources management institution (US$0.43
million). This study would consist of two phases. Phase-I would carry out a quick inventory of
water resources infrastructure and plans in the Delta provinces; identify major coordination issues
relating to inter-provincial water management; prepare a policy framework statement on
integrated water management for the Mekong Delta, in line with the new Water Law, and draft an
options paper for strengthening the institutional framework. The policy framework and the
options paper would be developed through close discussions with the provinces, to build
ownership. The options paper would be submitted to the Project Steering Committee for
approval, before drafting of decrees on implementation arrangements for a Delta-wide body for
improved water management. Preparation of an institutional support program for capacity
building under the new arrangements and outlining of an action plan for the implementation of
the option selected would conclude Phase-I. Phase-II would start after a Delta-wide body is
established. The "body" would decide on studies/technical advice to be funded in this phase,
based on the priorities it determines for delta-wide water management. Phase-II could possibly
include a Mekong Delta Water Sector Profile; a Water Resources Data Directory based on GIS,
improvement of water management models, special studies, and pilot water resource management
improvements. Indicative TOR are included in the PIP. The project would also finance
improvement of hydraulic modeling for operations of sluices (US$0.44 million). This study
would update the models developed during MDMP, and provide an analytical tool for the future
Delta-wide water management body. The water quality and flow monitoring (US$0.43 million)



- 30 -
PAD Annex 2: Project Description
Page 7 of 8
network would be improved as part of implementation of the environmental management plan
(Annex 11).
22.   Strengthening Institutional Capacity at Central, Provincial, IMC and Farmer Levels
(US$2.0 million). The project will (i) support the establishment of IMCs and introduction of
water fees in Bac Lieu province; and (ii) support adequate O&M expenditures on project-
financed water infrastructure and gradually increasing self-financing of the IMCs through an
increase in water fee collection in all six provinces.
23.   CPO  will hire consultants to assist it in supervision of construction quality,
implementation of RAP and EAP, and institutional strengthening. The consultants would be
stationed in Hanoi and the subproject sites in Can Tho and Tra Vinh. The consultants will: (i)
Assist CPO in preparation of an IMC improvement plan, including review of the structure of
existing IMCs (company, district and sub-station levels), and recommendation of streamlining or
reorganization, if needed; and analysis of the desirability of establishing Boards for the IMCs,
and having farmer representation on the Boards or at the district or sub-station levels; and an
assessment of the efficiency of the IMCs in O&M of canals and operating sluices, and
recommendation on appropriate improvement measures. (ii) If requested by the provinces of Bac
Lieu and Kien Giang, assist them in setting up IMCs. (iii) Provide local and overseas training to
IMC staff and management to improve the IMC performance in the technical and financial
aspects of water management. (iv) Carry out the two studies mentioned in para.21. (v) Assist
IMCs and DARDs in the preparation of the tertiary development plan (TDP), and propose to the
provinces pilot programs for increasing farmer groups' involvement in O&M of secondary canals
and structures and water fee collection, where relatively strong farmer groups exist. The project
would also support training for central and provincial officials for the water resources
development and institutional strengthening components, and provincial officials and
beneficiaries for the rural water supply and sanitation component.
24.   Specifically, the TDP should include: (a) location and ha of tertiaries to be developed in
the following year, construction schedule and estimated costs (labor, material and machinery); (b)
financing for development and O&M as agreed with farmers or farmer groups; (c) projected
water fee collection; (d) number, structure, functions and status of existing farmer groups, and
coverage; (e) the need, if any, for formalizing (registering and legalizing) the existing farmer
groups for tertiary or secondary level O&M; the need, if any, for setting up new groups; (f) the
need, if any, for formal contracts between the farmer groups and the IMC for tertiary canal
maintenance; (g) timetable of activities for strengthening and/or formalizing existing farmer
groups, and establishing and operationalising new groups, including signing of formal contracts
(if needed) with the IMC or commune for tertiary canal maintenance; (h) role of DARD, IMC,
commune and village in tertiary development (including formation or strengthening of farmer
groups) and subsequent O&M; and (i) type of training to be provided to the farmers and farmer
groups.
25.   Project Design and Supervision (US$6.6 million). Consultants, procured by CPO
(US$3.3 million) would carry out engineering design. This is based on Government standard rate
of 4% of the costs for works, and would also include supervision during construction to ensure
that works follow the design requirements. MARD's Construction Department would check the
quality of the design works. SIO would hire local consultants to assist in procurement,
construction supervision, auditing, resettlement and environmental aspects of project
implementation (US$1.1 million). The project would finance vehicles and office equipment



- 31 -
PAD Annex 2: Project Description
Page 8 of 8
(US$0.8 million) needed for project administration and implementation, and incremental
operating costs (US$1.5 million) for CPO, SIO and PCERWAS.
26.   The project would support hiring of an independent monitoring agency (US$0.2 million)
specialized in social sciences to assess implementation of RAP (including Ethnic Minority
Development Plan) under Component 1. The agency would submit to CPO periodic assessment
report and recommendations concerning critical issues.



- 32 -
PAD Annex 3: Project Cost Summary
Page I of I
Annex 3
Mekong Delta Water Resources Project
Estimated Project Cost Summary (US$ million)
Project Component                                  Local      Foreign   Total Base Cost
I. Improvement of Water Resources Infrastructure     64.0      49.5         113.5
South Mang Thit Subproject                        31.0       26.9          57.9
Omon Xano Subproject                              10.2        7.5          17.7
Quanlo-Phuonghiep Subproject                       5.8        5.9          11.7
Barinh Taliem Subproject                           2.7        2.5           5.2
Tiep Nhat Subproject                              14.3        6.7          21.0
II. Rural Water Supply and Sanitation                 2.3       2.6           4.9
Clean water provision                              1.7        2.6           4.3
Improvement of sanitaion                           0.6        0.0           0.6
mI. Institutional support & development               6.3       3.1            9.4
Water management framework study                   0.0        0.8           0.8
Environmental monitoring                           0.4        0.0           0.4
Project management, design, supervision            5.6        0.5           6.1
Training, TA, RAP monitoring                       0.3        1.7           2.1
Total Base Cost                                     72.5      55.2         127.7
Physical Contingencies                             6.0        5.2          11.2
Price Contingencies                                4.1        4.6           8.7
Total Project Cost                                   82.6       65.0        147.6



- 33 -
PAD Annex 4: Economic Analysis
Page I of 14
Annex 4
Vietnam: Mekong Delta Water Resources Project
Economic and Financial Analysis, Cost Recovery, and Fiscal Impact
Project Benefits
1.    The project would help increase agricultural production, reduce rural poverty, improve
living conditions in the project area, and facilitate sustainable and integrated water resources
development and management in the Mekong Delta. The direct benefits would accrue to both rural
and urban population in the project area through increase in agricultural production, flood
protection and drainage, improved rural transport, provision of clean water supply and sanitation,
and increased rural employment through agricultural intensification. The indirect benefits would
accrue from processing, marketing and distribution of increased agricultural production;
sustainable management of the Delta's water resources through establishment of an appropriate
Delta-wide institutional framework; delivery of more efficient irrigation services through
strengthening of IMCs; and improved sustainability of irrigation services through enhanced
participation of beneficiaries in the planning, implementation and O&M of irrigation infrastructure,
and through increased water fee collection. The quantified benefits include: (i) the increase in
agricultural production and income (paras. 2-4); (ii) increased on-farm employment generation
(para. 5); (iii) expanded coverage of clean water supply; and (iv) indirect, off-farm employment
generation. Based on these quantified benefits about one million people (45-50% of the 332,000
farming households in the project area) would be beneficiaries. This figure is estimated as follows,
taking into account the fact that some families would derive more than one project benefit: (i) about
107,000 families on 129,000 ha of agricultural area, which would have an increased cropping
intensity (average farm size about 1.2 ha); (ii) about 80,000 families (some of them landless)
benefiting from increased on-farm employment; and (iii) about 50,000 families benefiting from
clean water supply. In addition, a substantial number of rural and urban households would have
non-quantified benefits, including: (i) families benefiting from processing, marketing and
distribution of the increased agricultural production, (ii) protection of property and agricultural
crops, and improved living conditions, and access to education and health facilities in the flood
season through flood protection and drainage; (iii) increased employment in project civil works
construction; and (iv) improved water resources planning and management at the Delta-wide,
provincial and farm levels.
2.    Impact on Agricultural Production, Exports and Prices. Both rice and diversified
(upland) crops production will increase under the project. Incremental paddy production due to the
project would reach 0.5 million tons (equivalent to about 0.33 million tons of rice) at full
development in year 2008, as a result of a considerable increase in the area cropped during the dry
season. The yield increase in the wet season due to better drainage and increased use of higher-
yielding rice varieties and fertilizers, which are conservatively assumed to take place even without
the project, and, therefore, not included in the economic analysis, and some increases in cropping
intensity without the project, also not included in the economic analysis, would account for a
production increase of 0.65 million tons of paddy. The combined increase in paddy production in
the project area would, therefore, be about 1.15 million tons (equivalent to about 0.75 million tons
of rice) at full development (total 3.45 million tons of paddy, compared to 2.30 million tons in
1997). The incremental 0.50 million tons of paddy under the project would be produced due to the
increase in cropping intensity to 211% with the project, compared to a projected 179% without the
project (167% in 1997). The area on which cropping intensity would increase is estimated to be
129,000 ha.



- 34 -
PAD Annex 4: Economic Analysis
Page 2 of 14
3.    Since Vietnam is now among the top three exporters of rice, and increases in domestic
consumption over the next decade are not projected to absorb the increased production from the
Mekong Delta and other parts of Vietnam, most of the projected incremental production of 0.33
million tons under the project and 0.75 million tons in the project area is likely to be exported.
Even assuming that all of the 0.33 million tons would be exported, this would be only 1.6% of the
current world rice export of 20.2 million tons, and 1.5% of the projected world rice export of 22.2
million tons in year 2005. It is difficult to say with definiteness whether this incremental export
(mainly low quality rice) from Vietnam would have any impact on world prices. However, in the
worst case scenario, the world prices of lower quality rice (with some concurrent impact on high
quality rice) could decline by 1-2%, since the world import demand elasticity is estimated at -1.0.
In the economic sensitivity analysis done for the project (see para. 11 and Tables 4 and 5 for
details), the change in world prices was considered: a decline of 1-2% in world prices would have a
negligible impact on project economic viability. The net foreign exchange earnings from rice
exports of about 0.33 million tons would be about US$ 63 million per annum in year 2008 (in
addition, net foreign exchange savings from non-rice crops would be US$ 9 million per annum) in
1998 constant dollars.
4.    The main benefit of the project would be an increase in income from agriculture. In some
areas, farmers will shift from single wet season rice to double rice. In other areas, they would
move from double cropping of rice to triple cropping of rice or two rice crops plus one upland crop,
such as corn and vegetables. In addition, the area under semi-perennial and perennial crops such as
sugarcane and fruit trees would also be expected to increase with the project. This increase in
cropping intensity and in perennial crops will mainly be achieved by making freshwater available
during the dry season in the project areas, where saltwater now intrudes into the canals from the sea
or where no secondary and tertiary canals exist up to now. In some areas, the increase is made
possible by improved drainage and protecting land from the floods from the Bassac and from
flooding by seawater during high tides. The production of diversified crops would form a
substantial part of project benefits. This is consistent with the Government policy not to encourage
a third rice crop to avoid soil nutrient losses and possible pest build up. While current prices of
non-rice crops (mainly corn, sugarcane and vegetables) likely to be produced in the project area are
quite attractive, and projected to remain so (the sensitivity analysis in Tables 4 and 5 shows that
even with a fairly steep fall in prices, the project remains economically viable), and markets,
particularly for corn and sugarcane, are not a problem, the technological packages for double rice
plus upland crops are still being demonstrated to farmers in some pilot areas, and the success of
these pilots in inducing farmer adoption needs to be closely monitored during project
implementation.
5.    Impact on Rural Poverty. Although the Mekong Delta as a whole is not the poorest
region in Vietnam, large parts of the project area are relatively poor compared to other areas in the
Delta. Among the 20 project districts, 12 have higher poverty rates than the average of the Delta,
and in 3 districts poverty is higher than for the average of the country. These estimates are based on
data from the IFPRI study "Mapping Poverty and Agro-Ecological Potential in Vietnam" (1998),
which assesses poverty based on a comprehensive set of indicators, including household
expenditures, household size and composition, education and ownership of assets. Another poverty
report by the Government (1998) shows that the project covers 6 of the 8 poorest districts in the
Delta that are also among the poorest in Vietnam. The project would contribute to the alleviation
of rural poverty by directly increasing the productivity and incomes of about 107,000 farming
families or about 610,000 people on about 129,000 ha on which cropping intensity is expected to
increase. The project would also alleviate rural poverty by generating employment opportunities
through on-farm and related off-farm activities. The incremental on-farm direct employment as a
result of increased cropping intensity is estimated at about 79,750 person-years (@250 person-days



- 35 -
PAD Annex 4: Economic Analysis
Page 3 of 14
per annum) at full development. This will benefit owner-operators, tenants as well as landless
laborers. In addition, benefits would be derived from processing, marketing, and distribution of the
increased agricultural production, and substantial employment would be created due to civil works
under the project. A gender analysis shows that there are no significant constraints on project
benefits accruing to women. Indeed, women, as the primary collectors and managers of water in
most households, would benefit in particular from more convenient access to safe water and
sanitation facilities, which would mean savings in time and effort for them, and better family health
status resulting from adoption of improved hygienic practices. Experience with the provision of
rural drinking water supply and sanitation services in the Mekong Delta supported by UNICEF has
shown that these services bring substantial and sustained benefits on a cost-effective basis. The
project will also benefit ethnic minorities: about 20% of project area households are Khmer and
Hoa people.
Farm Income Analysis
6.     Typical crop and farm budgets were constructed to estimate the impact of the project on
net economic benefits, net financial benefits and cash income (Appendices 1 and 2 show two
examples of project farm budgets). Farm budgets show different improvements, such as a change
from seasonal (rainfed) rice to double rice with irrigation, from seasonal rice to sugarcane, from
double rice to triple rice, and from double rice to double rice with one upland crop, such as corn.
Table 1 compares net financial benefits for farm budgets without and with the project, based on
data shown in Appendix 3.
Table 1: Net Financial Benefits From Increased Cropping Intensity for an Average Farm of 1.25 ha
Without (in 1998 prices)       With (in 1998 prices)     Incremental  Increase
Cropping     US$/year         Cropping        US$/year    US$/year       %
Seasonal Rice      229    Double Rice               626          397        173
Seasonal Rice      229    Triple Rice               1137         908        396
Seasonal Rice      229    Double Rice/Corn          1030         801        349
Seasonal Rice      229    Sugarcane                 609          380        166
Double Rice        625    Triple Rice               1137         512         82
Double Rice         625    Double Rice/Corn         1030         405         65
Note: Net financial benefits are net of labor costs (including family labor). The detailed calculation of net
fnancial benefits is shown in Appendices I and 2 for double rice as well as for double rice and corn. The
values in those Appendices refer to I ha, while the values in Table 1 above refer to an average farm of 1.25
ha.
Land Use With and Without the Project
7.     The present land use and the estimated future land use with and without the project is
shown in Table 2. The economic analysis is based on the projected land use with and without the
project. The project would facilitate a significant intensification of agricultural production.



- 36 -
PAD Annex 4: Economic Analysis
Page 4 of 14
Table 2: Present and Future Land Use in the Project Area
Land Use                                        Present      Without      With       W-WO
1997       Project     Project
Gross area (ha)                                532,973      532,973     532,973
1. Agricultural area"                     413,361      413,359      411,830     -1,529
(a) Annual/semi-perennial crops     361,507      357,630     349,290     -8,340
- Triple cropping 3/           53,105       80,777     161,135     80,358
Triple rice            53,105       62,277      100,135     37,858
Double rice + upland      -         18,500      61,000      42,500
-Double cropping              171,775      166,694     133,255    -33,439
Double rice            171,775      166,694     133,255    -33,439
-Single cropping              136,627      110,159      54,900     -55,259
Rice                   116,648      91,551      25,600     -65,951
Sugarcane 21           19,979       18,608      29,300      10,692
(b) Perennial crops (fruit)          51,854      55,729       62,540      6,811
2. Forest                                   5,095       5,095        5,095        0
3. Fishery                                 18,321       18,321      18,321        0
4. Special use land                        96,198       96,198      97,727      1,529
5. Other                                    1,886       1,886        1,886
Cropped Area                               691,346     741,607      872,355    130,748
Cropping intensity                          167%         179%        211%
1/ The agricultural area declines by 1,529 ha, which is replaced by special use land increases due to
construction and improvement of canal and structure works.
2/ The slight decline in the area under sugarcane without the project is due to acid-sulfate soils, whose
condition is expected to improve with the project.
3/ Upland crops include corn, various beans and vegetables.
Economic Analysis
8.     The overall economic rate of return (ERR) of the project is estimated at 30 %, with a net
present value (NPV) of US$168 million at a discount rate of 12 %. The rate of return is influenced
by substantial sunk costs in the form of existing unfinished or deteriorated water infrastructure
which the project would complete or rehabilitate. The ERR is calculated on 89% of project base
costs plus physical contingencies (the excluded costs are taxes and duties: US$8.9 million; rural
water supply and sanitation component: US$5.8 million; and TA for environmental monitoring and
water management studies: US$1.3 million). As shown in Table 3, rates of return vary among sub-
projects:
Table 3: Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Net Present Value (NPV) for Sub-Project Areas
Subproject           ERR            NPV (US$ mil.)
SMT               31%                  90.9
OX                28%                 23.2
QP                45%                 38.3
BRTL               31%                 12.6
TN                15%                 3.4
Total             30%                 168.4
9.     The calculation of the ERR is based on the following main assumptions:



- 37 -
PAD Annex 4: Economic Analysis
Page 5 of 14
(i) Even without the project, an increase in yields will occur due to increased use of improved
rice varieties, fertilizers, etc. (Appendix 3), as well as a limited increase in cropping
intensity due to works completed prior to the project. These benefits are included in the
without project scenario. The benefits with the project included in the ERR calculation
are, therefore, conservative in that no yield increases over and above the without scenario
have been included.
(ii) As there are no significant distortions in the rural labor market, the average market wage
rate for hired labor (VND 25,000 or US$1.9/day) has been used in the analysis. The same
rate has been used for the imputed value of family labor. Since the project is not so large
as to significantly alter the demand for labor relative to its supply, the wage rate in rural
areas is not expected to change as a result of the project.
(iii)As the exchange rate of the Vietnamese Dong is not considered significantly distorted, a
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 1.0 has been used for the analysis. If a SCF of less
than 1.0 was used, the rate of return would increase, as most project outputs (rice, corn,
soybeans, sugar, etc.) are tradeable, while a substantial share of project inputs (mainly
labor) are non-tradable.
(iv) The economic prices for the main agricultural products and inputs used are export parity
price for rice and import parity prices for sugarcane, corn, soybean, fertilizers, etc. based
on the World Bank's commodity price forecasts of August 1998 for the year 2010 in 1998
constant dollars. For rice, Thai 5% broken was used as the reference. The price of Thai
5% broken rice is projected to decline from US$ 281/ton in 1997 to US$ 263/ton in year
2010 in 1998 constant dollars. Since Vietnamese rice exports are a mixture of high,
medium and low grades, a quality discount was applied to the projected price of Thai 5%
broken. Based on an average actual export price for Vietnamese rice of about US$240/ton
in 1997, the discount was calculated to be about 14% (Appendix 7).
(v) The costs of resettlement are included in the analysis in two ways: first, the agricultural
area in the with project scenario - compared to the without project scenario - is lowered by
the area to be acquired by the state for project infrastructure works. Second, the costs of
the resettlement action plan - excluding the costs for the acquisition of agricultural land -
are included in the investment costs (compensation of structures and crops, compensation
for loss of homestead land and for temporary loss of agricultural land, and subsistence and
transport allowances). A sensitivity analysis was also undertaken including the costs for
the acquisition of agricultural land rather than excluding the benefits from acquired land:
the ERR is about the same in both cases.
(vi) The costs of TA for environmental monitoring and water management studies (US$1.3
million) were excluded as their benefits would accrue to the Delta as a whole and can not
be quantified. All other institutional development costs (project supervision, design,
technical assistance, training, and incremental costs) were included in the analysis.
(vii)The rural water supply and sanitation component accounts for less than 4% of project
costs, and its benefits could not be easily quantified. Thus neither the costs nor benefits of
this component were included in the ERR calculation.
(viii)The time needed to reach full crop development in areas provided with water
infrastructure is estimated to be five years after the completion of the infrastructure both
for the with and without project case. The increase up to full development is assumed to
be linear (20% per annum).
(ix) In the base case, although the full cost of improved transportation (bridges, roads, boat



- 38 -
PAD Annex 4: Economic Analysis
Page 6 of 14
lifts and canal waterways) to be provided under the project (10% of the project base cost
plus physical contingency) has been included, no benefit has been included since it could
not be quantified. This underestimates the rate of return of the project.
10.    Sensitivity Analysis.  The project economic viability is most sensitive to a delay in the
realization of benefits, which may be caused principally by delays in completing the tertiary
irrigation infrastructure or in farmers' slow response to the freshwater available for intensified
cropping. The latter factor is not expected to be the case, given the response from farmers in the
project area where freshwater has been made available. The preparation and implementation of
tertiary development would, therefore, need to be closely monitored during project supervision.
The ERR is also relatively sensitive to a decrease in the price of rice, although the decrease has to
be much more drastic than currently anticipated. The project is less sensitive to an increase in
investment costs or a decrease in the prices of non-rice crops.
11.    A one year delay in the realization of benefits will reduce the ERR to 17 %, and a delay of
two years will push the ERR just below the threshold of economic viability (12 %). A decrease in
the farm-gate price of paddy of 10 % will reduce the ERR only to 27 %; the same decrease in the
farm-gate prices of non-rice outputs would change it to 28 %; and a 10 % decrease in the prices of
all outputs would lead to an ERR of 24 %. The switching value for a decrease in the price of rice is
49 %, corresponding to a real world market rice price of US$ 122/ton. A 10 % increase in
investment costs and costs of operating and maintaining canals and sluices would reduce the ERR
only to 28 %.
12.    Since the ERR of Tiep Nhat sub-project (15%) is the lowest among the five sub-projects,
and since there is some uncertainty about the build up of benefits (10,000 ha under double rice plus
one upland crop by full development, compared to zero ha at present), additional sensitivity
analysis was carried out for this sub-project. If only 5,000 ha instead of 10,000 ha are cultivated
with double rice plus one upland crop by year 2008, the ERR would still be 13%. Although the
sub-project remains economically viable under unfavorable scenarios, it would require close
supervision during implementation.
13.    Table 4 summarizes the sensitivity of ERR for different scenarios:
Table 4: Sensitivity Analysis
Variable changed                      ERR
Base Case                                              30.4 %
20 % decline in the farm-gate price of paddy           23.4 %
10 % decline in the farm-gate price of paddy           27.0 %
10 % increase in the farmn-gate price of paddy         33.9 %
20 % increase in the farm-gate price of paddy          37.3 %
20 % decline in the fann-gate prices of non-paddy crops  25.2 %
10 % decline in the farn-gate prices of non-paddy crops  27.9 %
10 % increase in the farm-gate prices of non-paddy crops  33.0 %
20 % increase in the farm-gate prices of non-paddy crops  35.6 %
20 % decline in all farm-gate prices                   17.8 %
10 % decline in all farm-gate prices                   24.3 %
10 % increase in all farm-gate prices                  36.4 %
20 % increase in all farm-gate prices                  42.4 %
1o % increase in investment and O&M costs              27.7 %
20 % increase in investment and O&M costs              25.5 %
20 % lower imputed value of family labor               34.2 %
20 % higher imputed value of family labor              26.6 %



- 39 -
PAD Annex 4: Economic Analysis
Page 7 of 14
1-year delay in realization of benefits               17.1 %
2-year delay in realization of benefits               11.8 %
14.   The switching values (percentage change of variable needed to reduce the Net Present
Value below zero) are as follows:
Table 5: Switching Values
Variable changed          Switching Value
Decline in price of paddy        - 49 %
Decline in all fann-gate prices    - 28 %
Increase in investment and O&M costs  + 139 %
Delay in realization of benefits  24 months
Cost Recovery
15.    Background.  O&M  tasks undertaken by the Mekong Delta provinces are limited
compared to other regions in Vietnam because of the presence of few flow control or diversion
structures and absence of large pumping stations. Consequently, farmer's payment of water fees are
lower than in other regions in Vietnam: 30-50 kg of paddy/ha/year (US$4-6) in the Mekong Delta,
compared to the average 119 kg/ha/year for the whole country (the national water pricing
guidelines, which aim at full recovery of O&M cost, differentiate among pumping, gravity, and
gravity supplemented by pumping systems, with the range for gravity systems being 180-260
kg/ha/year (US$22-3 1) for different seasons; however, in the Mekong Delta, the assessed charge
for water supplied from diversion canals is only 50% of the above rates, and actual collection is 20
to 50% of the assessed rates). Because of the largely open hydraulic system and low payment of
water fees by the farmers, reorganization and restructuring of provincial water resources
management is considered less urgent by Mekong Delta provinces. Irrigation and Drainage
Management Companies (IMCs) exist in Soc Trang, Vinh Long and Can Tho provinces since
1995; in Tra Vinh, the IMC was established in February 1998; and Bac Lieu and Kien Giang
provinces are preparing to establish IMCs soon. Unlike other areas in Vietnam, where in some
provinces many IMCs have been set up, provinces in the Mekong Delta have created or intend to
create only one IMC per province. While it may be appropriate at this early stage of IMC
operation in the Mekong Delta, it does deviate from the Government policy to establish IMCs
along hydraulic boundaries. Table 6 presents some data on IMCs in the four project provinces.
Table 6: Selected Data on IMCs in Project Provinces
Company   Area served  Staff (number)  Water fee    Water fee   Water fee    Water fee
(ha)                   collection   collection   collection  equivalent to kg
(m VND)    (USD)    (USD/ha)   paddy/ha/yr
Vinh Long    81,000         135         6,000     462,000       5.7          48
Tra Vinh     57,000         64         1,200      92,300       1.6          13
Can Tho     170,000        112         4,600      354,000      2.1          18
Soc Trang    227,000        79         5,600      431,000       1.9          16
Source: MARD and data supplied by provincial IMCs and DARDs to Bank pre-appraisal mission in June
1998. No IMCs have as yet been established in Kien Giang and Bac Lieu.
16.   Water Fees. Water fees are being collected in Vinh Long, Tra Vinh, Soc Trang, Can Tho
and Kien Giang provinces (Table 6). Kien Giang province, not shown in Table 6 since no IMC has
been established there, has collected about 7 billion Dong in water fees annually in recent years.
Bac Lieu province has not yet introduced water fees. Table 7 below provides details of water fee
and agricultural tax collection in 1997 in the four provinces.



- 40 -
PAD Annex 4: Economic Analysis
Page 8 of 14
17.   Agricultural Taxes. Farmers are subject to a variety of taxes. Annual tax on cultivated
land (called agricultural tax or land use tax) is determined by the provinces in accordance with the
tax rate system stipulated by the central government. Agricultural land is categorized into 6
classes, depending on soil fertility, location, topographic conditions, climatologic conditions, and
irrigation and drainage conditions. For annual crops and aquaculture land, the tax rate ranges from
50 kg/ha/year for the lowest class (6) to 550 kg/ha/year for the highest class (1). The tax rates for
perennial crops are higher for each class. However, in order to facilitate tax collection and avoid
complaints, provincial governments generally establish a common agricultural tax rate for the
whole province. For the project area, this rate currently stands at 200/kg/ha/year (US$25).
Additional levies on farmers may include a contribution for social security of 10-20 kg/ha/year
(US$1.2-2.4), a typhoon-and-flood protection fee of 1.5 kg/ha/year (US$0.2), a contribution to
infrastructure development amounting to 30% of the agricultural tax (US$8.3), and land and
housing tax of 10-20 kglha/year (US$1.2-2.4). Official total tax burden per ha per year is US$36-
38 (although exemptions are easily and frequently granted on the basis of poor harvests, typhoons
or other calamities). For a typical farmer benefiting from irrigation and drainage, the total tax
burden is about seven times the water fee payment. As shown in Table 7 below, the amount of
agricultural taxes collected by the provinces is 10 to 30 times the water fee collection. Although,
as stated earlier, a common agricultural tax rate of US$25/ha/year is being collected, and increased
value of land as a result of irrigation and drainage is, therefore, not being recovered, a significant
potential exists for the provinces to recover part of this increased value by collecting a higher rate
from farmers benefiting from irrigation and drainage.
Table 7: Agricultural Tax and Water Fee Collection in 1997 (billion Dong)
Province           Agricultural Tax        Water Fee
Tra Vinh             31.85                 1.2
Vinh Long            56.81                  6.0
Soc Trang            69.94                 5.6
Can Tho             70.33                  4.6
Bac Lieu            25.20                   --
Kien Giang            n.a                   7.0
Source: Infonnation supplied by IMCs and provincial DARDs to the Bank pre-appraisal mission in
June 1998 and appraisal mission in October 1998.
18.    O&M Expenditures. Since O&M of the irrigation and drainage infrastructure is currently
being done by a variety of agencies, including IMCs, DARDs, and district and commune
authorities, and farners or farmer groups (for tertiaries), accurate figures for O&M expenditures
are not available. Some rough estimates are, however, presented in Table 8 below. As Table 8
shows, the O&M expenditures vary a great deal among provinces, with a very low level in Tra
Vinh, and a relatively high level in Can Tho. In general, O&M expenditures are low compared to
requirements, since they have to depend primarily on budgetary subsidies, given low water fee
collections (the total O&M expenditures in Tra Vinh, Vinh Long, Soc Trang, Can Tho and Kien
Giang provinces in 1997 are estimated at about 45 billion Dong, compared to the water fee
collection of about 24-25 billion Dong). The incremental O&M cost as a result of the project is
estimated at about 24 billion Dong or US$1.86 million (Table 9). It is clear that meeting this level
of O&M expenditure requirement will place a heavy burden on the provinces involved, unless
water fee collection is substantially increased. It will, therefore, be necessary to obtain an
assurance from the Government that water fee will be introduced in Bac Lieu province, and water
fee collection in all project provinces will increase to a level adequate to cover at least the cost of
incremental O&M of project-financed water infrastructure.



- 41 -
PAD Annex 4: Economic Analysis
Page 9 of 14
Table 8: Rough Estimates of O&M Expenditures in 1997 (billion VND)
Province                            By IMC                          By Others '
For Operation '/  For Maintenance       Total
Tra Vinh             0.5                1.2             1.7             2.0
Vinh Long             0.7               6.0              6.7             n.a.
Soc Trang             1.4               3.0              4.4             4.0  3/
Can Tho              1.2               ---              1.2            15.8
Bac Lieu             ---               ---              ---             n.a.
Kien Giang            ---                ---             ---             8.0
Source: Information supplied by IMCs and DARDs in June 1998 to Bank pre-appraisal mission.
n.a. = not available
1/ Includes sluice operation and all other staff and operating costs.
2/ Maintenance (dredging) of big secondaries handled by DARDs (implemented through
construction companies), and district and commune authorities.
3/ Total expenditure on secondary development was 9 billion Dong (including routine
maintenance, new excavation, and completion of on-going works). Routine maintenance
was estimated at about 4 billion Dong.
Table 9: Incremental O&M Expenditure Expected as a Result of the Project
Project area     Agricultural land Incremental O&M    Incremental    Equivalent water
(ha)        (USD million) '/  O&M/ha (USD)  fee (kg paddy/ha)
1. South Mang Thit         171,441            0.91             5.31               44
2. 0 Mon - Xa No            38,804             0.37             9.54              79
3.QuanLo PhungHiep         130,530             0.17             1.30              11
4. Ba Rinh Ta Liem          26,585             0.14             5.27              44
5. TiepNhat                 44,471             0.27             6.07              51
THotal             411,831            1.86
Source: Feasibility Study estimates.
1/ The incremental O&M cost per annum is calculated as a percentage of investment costs as follows:
1% for earthwork on primary canals; 2% for bridges, roads and embankments; 2.5% for sluices;
2.3% for earthwork on secondary canals; 3% for culverts at tertiary offtakes; and 5% for boat
lifts and culverts in embankments.
19.    Farmers' Capacity to Pay. Farm incomes in the Mekong Delta have risen steadily in
recent years. Implemicitation of the project will create a more enabling environment for further
increases in farm incomes. As shown in Table 10 below, incremental incomes from project
implementation would be more than sufficient to enable farmers to pay higher water fees. Full cost
recovery for O&M of infrastructure created under the project is possible in the medium term even
with water fee alone, and certainly with a combination of water fee and agricultural taxes (if they
capture part of the incremental value of land provided with irrigation and drainage). However, for
this to happen, it will be necessary to deliver an effective and efficient O&M program, and expand
involvement of farmers and farmer groups in management of water resources.
Table 10: Incremental Value of Production
Subproject   Present    Present value      Future            Value of         Incremental
agricultural  of production   agricultural      production          income
area (ha)       (US$)      area w/project      w/ project         (USD/ha)
(ha)             (USD)
SMT         171,837    45,044,720        171,441         77,911,773            192
OX           39,130    5,024,936         38,804         12,840,260            200
QP          130,979    32,825,665       130,530         44,108,170            85
BRTL          26,751     3,751,281        26,585          8,431,429            176
TN          44,664    4,272,230          44,471          9,087,362            108
Source: Calculations based on feasibility study estimates



- 42 -
PAD Annex 4: Economic Analysis
Page I of 14
Fiscal Impact
20.   The counterpart funding for the project is not expected to impose a heavy fiscal burden on
the central government. The counterpart funding is estimated at about US$32.3 million, of which
about US$9 million are taxes and duties. The net funding is thus about US$23 million, or about
US$4 million per annum. The total irrigation budget of the central government for 1998 is about
US$180 million, of which US$22 million is the counterpart funding for ODA projects. The project
will thus result in a 20% increase in the counterpart funding for ODA irrigation projects, but only
about 2% increase in the overall central budget for irrigation. As for provincial governments, the
incremental fiscal burden will result only from the O&M requirements after construction (about 24
billion Dong or US$1.86 million per annum for the six provinces combined), since the primary and
secondary canals and structures, flood protection, bridges, etc. will all be financed by the central
government, and the tertiaries are expected to be entirely financed by the farmers. However, if
water fees are introduced in Bac Lieu province and water fee collection increased in all project
provinces, as envisaged under the project (para. 18 above), there will be only a negligible
incremental fiscal burden on the provincial governments.



- 43 -
PAD Annex 4: Economic Analysis
Page 11 of 14
Appendix 1: Farm Budget for Double Cropping--Winter-Spring Rice and Summer-Autumn Rice (per 1 ha)
Items                          Unit  Present      Future          Present         Future w/p
Quantity    Quantity   Benefit/Cost (US$) Benefit/Cost (US$)
(1) Gross Benefits: Rice        kg    7,475        9,500           1,003             1,276
Economic Farm Cost
Planting Seed                 kg      503         380             93                 71
N                             kg      194         240             86                107
P205                          kg      59          80              21                 28
K20                           kg      13          60               4                 17
Pesticides                   US$      17           17             17                 17
Herbicides                   US$       3           5               3                 5
Pumping                      US$      120         90              120                90
Threshing                     kg    7,475        9,500            40                 51
Sundry Items                 US$       9          11               9                 11
Land Preparation             US$      39          39              39                 39
Cleaning & Bundling          US$       6           6               6                 6
Levelling/raising bed        US$       6           6               6                 6
Family Labor                 MD       170         180             245               259
Other Expenditures           US$      10          16              10                 16
(2) Total Economic Farm Cost                                       699                723
(3) Net Economic Benefits      US$                                 304                553
= (1) -(2)
Transfer Payments
Water Charge                 US$                                   4                 8
Agricultural Tax/Levies/Fees   US$                                44                 44
(4) Total Transfer Payments    US$                                  48                52
(5) Net Financial Benefits     US$                                 256                501
= (3) -(4)
Family Labor                                                       245                259
(6) Net Farm Cash Income                                           501                760
1. Farm Budgets may vary slightly according to land mapping units, mainly concerning fertilizer use.
2. The future net financial benefit of US$ 501/ha equals US$ 626 for an average farm of 1.25 ha shown in Table 1.



- 44 -
PAD Annex 4: Economic Analysis
Page 12 of 14
Appendix 2: Farm Budget for Triple Cropping--Rice and Corn: Autumn-winter rice, winter-spring rice and
spring-summer corn (per I ha)
Items                         Unit  Present      Future        Present          Future
Quantity    Quantity    Benefit/Cost   Benefit/Cost (US$)
(US$)
Gross Benefits
Rice                          kg    8,912       10,750          1196            1349
Corn                          kg    6,000       6,700          665               720
(1) Total Gross Benefits      US$                               1861             2069
Economic Farm Cost
Planting Seed                 kg     513        390            115               92
N                             kg     393        420            175              187
P205                          kg     157        180            55                63
K20                           kg     33          90             9                23
Pesticides                   US$    22           22            22                22
Herbicides                   US$      3          5              3                5
Pumping                      US$    147         117            147              117
Threshing                    kg    8,912       10,050          48                54
Sundry Items                 US$     12          16            12                16
Land Preparation             US$    60           60            60                60
Cleaning & Bundling          US$      6          6              6                6
Levelling/raising bed        US$      6           6             6                 6
Other Expenditures           US$      14         24             14               24
F.amily Labor                MD    340           360           489               518
(2) Total Economic Farm Cost  US$                               1161             1193
(3) Net Economic Benefits                                       700               876
= (1) - (2)
Transfer Payments
Water Charge                 US$                                4                 8
Agricultural Tax/Levies/Fees    US$                             44               44
(4) Total Transfer Payments    US$                               48               52
(5) Net Financial Benefits    US$                               652               824
= (3) - (4)
Family Labor                 MD    340           360           489               518
(6) Net Farm Cash Income      US$                               1141             1340
1. Farm Budgets may vary slightly according to land mapping units, mainly concerning fertilizer use, land preparation
and pumping.
2. The future net financial benefit of US$ 824/ha equals US$ 1030 for an average farm of 1.25 ha shown in Table 1.



- 45 -
PAD Annex 4: Economic Analysis
Page 13 of 14
Appendix 3: Net Economic Benefits and Yields for Various Crops
Net Benefits (US$/ha)             Yields (t/ha)
Present   Without    With         Present     wo/p & w/p
Triple Cropping
Winter-Spring Rice             371       481         481         5.4          6.3
Summer-Autumn Rice             165       361         361         3.9          5.5
Autumn-Winter Rice              127      160         160         3.5          3.8
Corn                           202       235         235         6.0          6.7
Mungbean                        140      202         202         1.1          1.3
Soybean                         (2)      208         208         1.5          2.6
Double Cropping 11
Winter-Spring Rice             226       320         320         4.3          5.0
Summer-Autumn Rice              78       232         232         3.2          4.5
Single Cropping
Seasonal rice                  185       205         205         3.0          3.3
Perennial crops /
Semi-perennial crops
Sugarcane                      305       535         535        50.0          67.5
Oranges                       1,330     1,896      1,896        12.5          16.0
Other fruits                   415       797         797         6.0          9.0
1/ Double cropping is an average of several combinations of rice crops.
2/ Future with and without the project have the same yields for all subprojects except OX where yields wo/p are
expected to be lower than w/p due to flooding.



- 46 -
PAD Annex 4: Economic Analysis
Page 14 of 14
Appendix 4: Projected Cropping Calendar for South Mang Thit Sub-Project Area
Winter Spring       Summer-Autumn /         Autumn Winter
Spring-Summer
Triple Rice                   Dec.-March            March-June              June-Oct.
Double-Rice Upland        Jan.-April (Upland)       May-August              Sept.-Dec.
Double Rice                   Dec.-March            May-August
Seasonal Rainfed Rice                               June-January
Appendix 5: Projected Cropping Calendar for QLPH, BRTL and TN Sub-Project Areas
Winter Spring       Summer-Autumn /         Autumn Winter
Spring-Summer
Triple Rice                   Dec.-March            May-August              Sept.-Dec.
Double-Rice Upland            Nov.-Feb.         March-June (Upland)         June-Oct.
Double Rice                   Nov.-Feb.             May-August
Seasonal Rainfed Rice                               June-January
Appendix 6: Projected Cropping Calendar for OMXN Sub-Project Area
Winter Spring       Summer-Autumn /         Autumn Winter
l___ ___ ____ ___ ___  _________Spring-Summer
Triple Rice                   Dec.-March            May-August              Sept.-Dec.
Double-Rice Upland         Jan.-April (Upland)      May-August             August-Nov.
Double Rice                   Nov.-Feb.             May-August
rSeasonal Rainfed Rice                               June-January
Appendix 7: Calculation of long-term farn-gate price for rice (US$/ton)
1. 2010 Rice Price Forecast by World Bank in 1990 prices      263.3
US$ Inflation from from 1990 to 1998 (MUV)                 14.8%
2. 2010 Rice Price Forecast in 1998 prices                     302.3
Discount for Vietnamese rice (see below)                  -14.4%
a. - Free-On-Board HCMC/Can Tho Port price                   258.6
- Port Charges                                              7.5
b. - Wholesale price in Mekong Delta                         251.1
- In-province transport                                     2.0
- Wholesaler's margin                                       16.5
c. - Ex-mill/Factory price                                    232.6
- Miller's/Processing margin                                30.8
+By-product value (local)                                   25.7
-Losses from drying & processing                            10.5
-Dealer's margin                                            10.5
d. - Economic price of rice                                  206.5
e. Conversion factor from paddy to rice                       0.65
f. -Economic farm-gate price of paddy                         134.2
Calculation of discount for Vietnamese rice:
Actual 1997 world market price for Thai 5 % broken             280.5
Average 1997 export price for lower-quality Vietnamese rice    240.0
Discount for Vietnamese rice                                  -14.4%



- 47 -
PAD Annex 5 Procurement/Disbursement
Page I of 6
Annex 5
Vietnam: Mekong Delta Water Resources Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The Bank guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (published in
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996; and September 1997) would be applied to
IDA-financed procurement of works and goods. For ICB and NCB, the Bank SBD would be
used. CPO would be responsible for procurement through ICB and contracting of TA, and would
delegate to SIOs procurement of works through NCB. Contracts for consulting services would be
procured in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in
September 1997 (Consultant Guidelines). The procurement profile is shown in Table A.
Works of US$114.7 million would be required to support improvement of irrigation,
drainage, saline water intrusion, flood control, navigation and rural water supply. They would
mainly include canal dredging and excavation, construction or repair of sluices, bridges and canal
connected roads, and tertiary development. The works would be scattered over 5,350 km2 in 6
provinces of the Mekong Delta and would be carried out over 6 years. The density of population
living along the canals is high, thus land acquisition and compensation is expected to be
substantial. Construction under any contract can only begin after land acquisition has been
agreed with affected people and compensation completed.  The time needed to settle
compensation issues and the wide geographic spread of the works would limit the size of
contracts to a range of US$0.5-2 million. Given the current ICB threshold of US$2 million for
Vietnam, a total of US$25.8 million would likely be procured under ICB. Qualified domestic
bidders participating in ICB would be eligible for a margin of preference of 7.5%. Works with a
total value of US$68.6 million would be procured under NCB. Agreement was reached during
negotiations that local procurement procedures (Decree 43/CP dated July 16, 1996, as amended
by Decree February 25, 1997) would be used for NCB, with required revisions and clarifications
for purposes of consistency with the Bank's Guidelines for NCB set forth in a Supplemental
Letter to the Credit Agreement. These arrangements will encourage the participation of eligible
qualified local contractors. Tertiary canal and on-farm earthworks (about US$12.7 million, not
financed by IDA) would be constructed by beneficiaries through their own labor contribution
wherever secondary canals are in place, following the normal practice in the Mekong Delta.
Beneficiary participatory works would be organized by commune and village authorities and
farmer water groups. Works with contract value less than US$50,000 each and with a total value
of US$7.6 million would be procured under local shopping with at least three quotations. Of this
amount, US$2.3 million would be for the irrigation component, and US$5.3 million would be for
the rural water supply component (including small schemes of piped systems, filter units, rain
storage jars and small sanitation facilities of around US$5,000 per contract), and would be
managed by PCERWAS through community-participated programs.
Goods to be procured (vehicles and office equipment) are estimated to cost US$0.7
million. CPO through 1CB would procure contracts above US$150,000 (US$0.5 million) and the
remaining through international and local shopping.



- 48 -
PAD Annex 5 Procurement/Disbursement
Page 2 of6
Technical Assistance of US$7.8 million (Table Al) would be carried out by teams of
consultants to assist in engineering design, implementation supervision, water management
studies, activities under EAP (monitoring of water flow, quality and fishery, and rice-fish study)
and under RAP (independent monitoring, and measurement surveys). Consultancy contracts with
firms would be based on QCBS procedures following the Consultant Guidelines, with an
aggregated amount of US$5.7 million. In line with the justification ofpara. 3.8 of the Consultant
Guidelines, and in the overall interest of the project, sole source procurement of US$490,000 may
be used for: (i) strengthening of current water quality and river flow monitoring network; and
(ii) RAP independent external monitoring.  The justifications are: (i) the current water
quality/flow monitoring network has been operated and managed by SIWP (a local institute for
water resources planning) for years in the Delta area. SIWP has the staff, expertise, equipment
and has accumulated historical data, and has implemented several monitoring improvement
programs funded by other donors, such as Sweden. It would be a natural continuation of
previous work to use SWIP under this project. (ii) CPO procured an external agency to do the
RAP monitoring under the on-going IDA-Irrigation Rehabilitation Credit. The selection followed
competitive process of the Bank consultant guidelines. Both CPO and the Bank have found so
far the work by this agency satisfactory. Since the TORs under this project will be similar to the
ones used under the on-going IDA project, it would therefore be considered efficient to use the
same agency, whose experience would be of a considerable value to monitoring of RAP under
this proposed project. The procedures for appointment of individual consultants to carry out
design and supervision of the project works would follow Section V of the Consultant
Guidelines. Training and study tours (US$1.7 million) and incremental operating costs (US$1.5
million) are unsuitable for competitive bidding and would be procured following Government
procedures, which are acceptable to IDA.
IDA Prior Review (Table B) would apply to IDA-financed civil works in excess of
US$500,000. This review process would cover about 79% of the contract value for civil works.
The prior review for goods is US$150,000, covering about 70% of the total value of IDA-
financed goods. It should be noted that CPO has gained much experience in procurement in
IDA-IRP-2711, and a large number of contracts under this project would be similar to those
under IRP. All consultant contracts over US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals,
all sole-source selection and all IDA-financed training proposals would be subject to prior
review. The total value of all categories subject to IDA prior review is estimated at US$88.7
million, which would account for 79% of IDA financed contract value. Ex-post review of 1-in-5
awarded contracts would be carried out on a sample basis during supervision. For retroactive
financing, all contracts (expected to be over 20) would be reviewed.
Disbursement
To avoid delays in project implementation, retroactive financing of US$5 million is
included to cover payment under civil works made between appraisal and the signing of the
Credit Agreement. It would cover works of primary and secondary systems carried out in the
SMT and QP subprojects. CPO would follow agreed procurement methods, and would send for
IDA ex-post review all contracts to be covered under retroactive financing. To be eligible for
retroactive financing, other IDA conditions (such as monitoring of RAP implementation) as
stated in the Credit Agreement would also need to be met before disbursement.
A Special Account in US dollars to be operated by CPO would be set up in a commercial
bank acceptable to IDA, with an authorized allocation of $5 million (equal to IDA financed



- 49 -
PAD Annex 5 Procurement/Disbursement
Page 3 of 6
average expenditure for 4 months). CPO would submit to IDA applications for replenishment
monthly or whenever the amount is drawn down by 30% of the authorized allocation, whichever
comes first. CPO would transfer the funds to SIOs' accounts based on SOEs or pay directly to
contractors. The RWSS component would mainly consist of community based activities with
PCERWAS as the implementing agency to assist communes in preparation and implementation
of Commune Clean Water Improvement Plans (CWIP). Disbursement for the RWSS component
would be through the SOE method for expenditures incurred. It will be through the same civil
works category but under a separate sub-category to better track expenditures and supervision.
The project is to be completed in June 2004, and the credit is to be closed on June 30, 2005. The
allocation of loan proceeds is shown in Table C.
Reimbursement of expenditures for work contracts under US$500,000, goods contracts
valued at less than US$150,000, incremental operating costs, consultant contracts for firms at less
than US$100,000, less than US$50,000 for individuals, and training would be made on the basis
of statement of expenditure (SOE), which would be subject to sample post-review. CPO would
retain all supporting documents.



- 50 -
PAD Annex 5 Procurement/Disbursement
Page 4 of 6
Annex 5, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                 Procurement Method/a                      Total Cost
ICB        NCB         Other       N.I.F     (incl. contingencies)
1. Works
(a) Water control improv.     25.8    68.6          2.3           12.7          109.3
(23.5)  (61.1)        (2.1)           -            (86.7)
(b) Rural water supply/        -        -           5.3            -              5.3
Sanitation                                     (3.9)                          (3.9)
2. Goods
(a) Office equipment           -        -           0.2            -              0.2
(0.19)                        (0.19)
(b) Vehicles                   0.54     -           -              -              0.54
(0.5)                                              (0.5)
3. Services
(a) TA                         -        -           7.9            -              7.9
(7.9)                         (7.9)
(b) Training                   -        -           1.6            -              1.6
(1.2)                         (1.2)
4. Miscellaneous
(a) Land acquisition/cmp.      -        -           -             21.0           21.0
(b) Increm. operatg. cost      -        -           1.6            -              1.6
-       -          (1.4)            -             (1.4)
Total                         26.3    68.6         19.0           33.7           147.6
(23.9)  (61.1)       (16.8)          (0.0)        (101.8)
a/     ICB= International Competitive Bidding, NCB= National Competitive Bidding. Other procurement methods
include quotations (shopping), beneficiary participation works, force account, consultant services procured in
accordance with the Bank's Consultant Guidelines, and training. NIF= Non-IDA Financing (including tertiary system
development, land acquisition and compensation, and incremental operating costs).
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.



- 51 -
PAD Annex S Procurement/Disbursement
Page 5 of 6
Annex 5, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services                     Selection Method                 Total Cost
Expenditure Category      QCBS  QBS  SFB   SS   CQ   Other  NIF   (including
contingencies)
A. Firms
Delta water management study     0.43                                             0.43
Hydraulic modeling study         0.44                                             0.44
Water quality/flow monitoring                        0.27                         0.27
Fishery monitoring                                         0.10                   0.10
Rice-fish cultivation study                                0.06                   0.06
Detailed measurement survey                                0.37                   0.37
RAP independent monitoring                           0.22                         0.22
Engineering design               3.25                                             3.25
Technical assistance to CPO/SIOs    1.58                   0.86                   2.44
B. Individuals
CPO/SIO local consultants                                          0.22           0.22
PRA Assessment in EMDP                                             0.11           0.11
C. Trining                                                         1.62            1.62
Total                         5.70                0.49  1.40    1.95            9.53
QCBS  =  Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS   =  Quality-based Selection
SFB    =  Selection under a Fixed Budget
SS     =  Sole Source
CQ     =  Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other  =  Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines); and training
NIF    =   Not IDA-financed.
All contracts greater than US$200,000 would be advertised in the Development Business.



- 52 -
PAD Annex S Procurement/Disbursement
Page 6 of 6
Annex 5, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review (US$ million)
Expenditure       Contract Value    Procurement  Contracts Subject Total Value Subject
Category       US$'000 Threshold    Method/a   to Prior Review/b   to Prior Review
1. Works                  >2,000            ICB              All             25.8
>50 to <2,000       NCB             > 500             54.5
<50            Others           None               -
Subtotal                                                          80.3
2. Goods                  >150              ICB             All               0.5
>50 to <150         NCB             None               -
<50              SP             None               -
Subtotal                                                           0.5
3. Services             Firms>100          QCBS             All               5.7
Firns             SS              All               0.5
Individuals         CQ             > 50               -
Training           CQ              All               1.6
Subtotal                                                           7.8
a! ICB= International Competitive Bidding, NCB= National Competitive Bidding. Others include beneficiary
participation works, force account. SP = Shopping. QCBS = Quality and Cost Based Selection. SS = Sole source.
CQ = Selection based on Consultant's Qualifications.
b/ To be financed by IDA.
Annex 5, Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category                        Amount            Financing Percentage
(SDR million)               (%)
1. Civil Works:
a) Water resources works                   62.0                    91%
b) Clean water supply                       2.6                    91%
c) Sanitation improvement                   0.2                    91%
100% foreign
II. Goods                                     0.5               100% ex-factory
75% locally procured
III. Consulting Services                      4.6                    100%
IV. Training                                  0.9                    100%
V. Incremental operating costs                1.0                    90%
VI. Unallocated                               1.0
Total                                        72.8



- 53 -
PAD Annex 6: Budget and Schedule
Page 1 of I
Annex 6
Vietnam: Mekong Delta Water Resources Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                     Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
PCD                                           50                    36
Final                                        350                   379
B. Project Schedule                            Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        88                    122
First Bank mission (reconnaissance)               n.a.                5/19/96
Identification mission                            n.a.                2/8/98
Preappraisal mission                              n.a.                6/8/98
Appraisal mission departure                      2/98                12/15/98
Negotiations                                     6/98                 2/22/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    12/98                5/31/99
Prepared by: Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD)
Preparation assistance: PHRD, Dutch TF
Bank task team staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
M. Xie                          Water Resources Engineering
S. Husain                           Economics/Institutions
M. Schiffler                              Economics
C. H. Zhang                            Social/Resettlement
R. Zweig, R. Crooks                          Environment
W. Cuddihy                                Agriculture
C. H. Pham                             Operations Officer
R. Pollard                          Water Supply/Sanitation
T.V. Somanathan                         Financial Management
C. Escudero, K. Hudes                            Legal
0. Ladipo                           Financial Management
Yani Wiguna                              Task Assistant



- 54 -
PAD Annex 7: Project File
Page I of I
Annex 7
Vietnam: Mekong Delta Water Resources Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Revised Project Implementation Plan (PIP, February 25, 1999)
Including: Draft TOR for:
1. Consulting services for strengthening of Delta-wide water management institutional
framework
2. Consulting services for project supervision and improvement of O&M of irrigation
systems
3. Consulting services for improvement of Delta hydraulic modeling for sluice operations
B. Project Documents: Feasibility Study Main Report (8/1998)
Annex 1 Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Action Plan (8/98)
Annex 2 Resettlement Action Plan (including ethnic development plan) (12/98)
Annex 3 Water Resources Planning (5/98)
Annex 4 Groundwater Resources and Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (5/98)
Annex 5 Soils and Agronomy (5/98)
Annex 6 Fisheries and Aquaculture (5/98)
Annex 7 Institutions (5/98)
Annex 8 Project Costs (8/98)
Participatory Rural Appraisal (3/98)
C. Bank Staff Assessments
IDA Reconnaissance Mission Aide-memoire: May 31, 1996
Project Concept Document: October 17, 1996
IDA Preparation Mission Aide-memoire: October 6, 1997
IDA Preparation Mission Aide-memoire: February 27, 1998
"Assessment and Recommendations on Acid-Sulphate Soils"
by Dr. A. v. d. Eelaart, Soil Expert, EuroConsult, Feb. 26, 1998.
"Fishery and Aquaculture Aspects"
by Prof. Nguyen Thanh Phuong, Can Tho University, March 29, 1998
IDA Preappraisal Mission Aide Memoire: June 28, 1998
"Assessment of Financial Management Capacity of Implementing Agencies" by IDA
Task Team, June 27, 1998
"Economic Analysis: Farm/Crop Budget Tables" by IDA Task Team, October 1998.
IDA Follow-up Preappraisal /Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire: October 22, 1998.
Maps: Mekong Delta Water Resources Project: Project Location - IBRD 29653-29656



- 55 -
PAD Annex 8: Statement of Credits
Page I of 2
Annex 8
Status of Bank Group Operations in Vietnam
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
As of 31-Dec-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Original Amount in US$ Millions
Fiscal
Project ID      Year                   Borrower                                Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations    Undisbursed
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 3
Active Loans
VN-PE-4837          1994    GOVT OF VIETNAM                        AGRIC REHABILITATION                             0.00         96.00          0.00           2.31
VN-PE-4835          1994    SOC REP OF VIET NAM                    PRIMARY EDUCATION                                0.00         70.00          0.00          35.50
VN-PE-4832          1994    GOVT OF VIET NAM                      HIGHWAY REHAB                                     0.00        158.50          0.00          68.37
VN-PE-4836          1995    EVN PC2 PC3                            POWER SECTOR REHAB &                             0.00        165.00          0.00          42.56
VN-PE,4834          1995    GOV                                   IRRIGATION REHABILIT                              0.00        100.00          0.00          72.10
VN-PE-42236         1996    GOVT. OF VIETNAM                      POWERDEV                                          0.00        180.00          0.00           8.48
VN-PE-36042         1996    SOC. REP. OF VETNAM                    BANKING SYSTEM MODER                             0.00         49.00          0.00          45.49
VN-PE-4S47          1996    GOV                                    RURAL FINANCE                                    0.00        122.00          0.00          66.52
VN-PE-4841          1996    SOCREPOFVIETNAM                       POPULATION&FAMILY                                 0.00         50.00          0.00          35.16
VN-PE-4838          1996    SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIE             NATIONAL HEALTH SUPP                              0.00        101.20          0.00          82.47
VN-PE-39021         1997    GOVT OF VIET NAM                      RURAL TRANSPORT                                   0.00         55.00          0.00          39.51
VN-PE-4S42          1997    GOVTOF VIETNAM                        HIGHWAYREHABII                                    0.00        195.60          0.00         181.78
VN-PE-4830          1997    GOV                                   WATER SUPPLY                                      0.00         98.61          0.00          99.67
VN-PE-45628         1998    GOV                                   TRANSMISSION & DISTR                              0.00        199.00          0.00         202.85
VN-PE-4844          1998    GOV                                   AGRI DIVERSIFICATION                              0.00         66.85          0.00          69.68
VN-PE-4843          1998    GOVT OF VIET NAM                       INLAND WATERWAYS                                 0.00         73.00          0.00          74.38
VN-PE-4839          1998    GOVTOFVIETNAM                         FORESTPROT.&RULDE                                 0.00         21.50          0.00          21.60
VN-PE-4833          1999    MOF, GOVERNMENT OF VIETNA              URiB TRAN DMPROVEMENT                            0.00         42.74          0.00          44.67
VN-PE-4828          1999    SOC REP OF VIETNAM                     HIGHER EDUC.                                     0.00         83.30          0.00          87.24
Total                                                                                                               0.00      1,927.30          0.00       1,280.34
Active Projects       Closed Projects             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                          612.43                 243.82                 856.25
of which has been repaid:                               0.00                   5.97                   5.97
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                        1,927.30                 238.73                2,166.03
Amount sold          :0.00                                                        0.00                   0.00
Of which repaid                                          0.00                    0.00                   0.00
Total Undisbursed                                      1,280.34                   0.00                1,280.34
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b.  Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S  satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly
unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-90 1), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OlS)



- 56 -
PAD Annex 8: Statement of Credits
Page 2 of 2
Vietnam
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Dec-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1994                  Hanoi Metropole          3.67    0.00    3.50   12.12    3.67    0.00    3.50   12.12
1995                  Baria Serece Prt         3.00    0.00    0.00    1.80    3.00    0.00    0.00    1.80
1995                  Foremost Dairy           6.40    0.00    0.00    5.20    6.40    0.00    0.00    5.20
1996                  Kyoei Steel             15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  Morn.Star Cement        30.00    0.00    0.00   66.60   30.00    0.00    0.00   66.60
1996                  Sucre de Bourbon        22.00    0.00    0.00   20.00   22.00    0.00    0.00   20.00
1996                  SMH Glass Co.           10.00    0.00    0.00    4.50   10.00    0.00    0.00    4.50
1996                  Vimaflour                8.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    3.00
1996                  VILC                     0.00     .75    0.00    0.00    0.00      .75    0.00    0.00
1997                  Saigon Hilton           13.05    0.00    0.00   21.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997/0                Nghi Son Cement         30.00    0.00    0.00   26.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                  141.12     .75    3.50  160.72   98.07      .75    3.50  113.22
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998                  BA RIA                  24.20    4.00    0.00   49.00
1998                  BAWC                    12.50    0.00    0.00   12.50
1997                  NGHE AN SUGAR           20.00    0.00    0.00   30.00
1997                  SEM HOTEL                0.00    0.00    4.50    0.00
1996                  VIETNAM INTL LSE         5.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
1997                  VINAFOOD                10.50    0.00    0.00   13.50
Total Pending Commitment:          72.20    4.00    4.50  115.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



- 57 -
Vietnam  at a glance                                                      Annex 9 10/1198
Page 1 of 2
East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Asia &     Low-
Vietnam    Paclflt  fcome        Development dlamond'
1997
Popuation, mid-year (millions)                        76.7     1,763     2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atdes method, US$)                    320        970      350
GNP (Atlas method US$ bilions)                       24,5     1x707      722
Average anrwal growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                         2.1       1.3       2.1
Labor orce (%)                                         1.9       1.4       2.3     GNP                              Gross
per                            primary
Mostsentestlmate (latest year avallablo, 1991-97)                                  capita         \,  ,/        enrollment
Poverty IIoI population belownational poverty line)    51          .        .
Urban popuaion (% of tolpopuftn)                       20         32       28
Life expecW  at birth (years)                          68        69        59
infant mortAy (per 1,000 lie births)                   41        38         78
Child  alnutrition (% of chilhen under 5)              45         16        61               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 38         84        71
Illiteracy (% at populaton age 156)                     6         17        47 
Gross primary enrollment (%oschool-age population)    114        115        91               Vetnam
Mate                                                  ..       118      100                  Low-income group
Female                                                ..      116        81
KEY ECONOMIC RAtIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
EconomIc ratlos*
GOP (US1$ bIions)                                               23.3      24.8
Gross domei investmenUGDP                       ..    15.6      27.9      27.A                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GOP              ..      7.2      43.1      4 ,2
Gross domestic savings/GOP                             4.8         -         .
Gross national savings/GDP                     7. ..            16.7      20.1
Currentacwunt balanex/GOP                       .        .     -11,1      -7.5     Domestic 
Interestpayments/GDP                            .        .       1.5       2.0     S   g                        Investment
Total debVtIDP                                 ..       ..    1147        71.9     Savings
Total debt servi:e/exports                     ..       ..       3.4       3.4
Pesent value of debt/GDP                       ..       ..    103.8
Present value ot debtexports                   ..       ..    237.3
Indebtedness
197S6-8  1987-97    1596       1T97   1998402
(average annual growth)
GVP                                    -      7.7      9.3       8.8       4.5                   Vietnam
GNP per capita                        ..      5.4      7.1       6.8       2.1                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and servies          ..    26.5      37.4      13,3       5.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997     Growth rates of output mnd Invesmrent (%
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                    ..    36.1       27.2      26.2
Industy                                        ..    35.3       30.7      31.2    40
Manufacturing                                ..    32.5          ..        ..
Services                                       ..    28.6       42.1      42.6
Private consumption                                -..            ..        ..            92   93   94   99   98  9l
General government consumption                 ..       ..        ..        ..               _    D           OGDP
Imports of goods and services                  ..    18.0       56.9      54.1   |
197686  1987-97       1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and Imports 1%)
(average annua/ growth)
Agriculture                                    ..      5.3       4.4       4.5    so
Industry                                       ..    12.5       14.4      13.1    60
Manufacturing                                ..       ..                         4
Services                                       ..      8.8       9.9       9.2    2:
Private consumpVion                            ..      7.2      17.8       2.7       _
General govemment consumpton                   ..    10.9        4.0       2.5     o       2   93
Gross domestic investment                      ..    25.4       20.6      10.6   -20
Smports of goods and services                  ..    28.5       44.1       7.2             -    Exports        lmports
Gross national product                         ..      7.7       9.3       8.8
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



- 58 -
Page 2 of 2
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986       1996        1997      Inflation%
Domestic prices                                                                       1D
(% change)                                                                            1
Consumer prices                                 ..       ..       5.6         3.6      75
Implidt GOP deflator                            ..   280.3        6.2         5.1      so
Govemment finance                                                                      25
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                     oY
Current revenue                                 ..    15.0       23.6        22.4              92   93   94   95   9S   97
Current budget balance                          ..      0.0       5.8          5.3                 GDP deflator       CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       ,.      -0.2        -0.6
TRADE
(UIS$ millions)                              1976    1986        1996        1997      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                              ,     595      7,331       8,955     1s5,0o0
Rice                                          ..       ..       855         927
Fuel                                          ..       ..    1,346         1,443     10oo.0
Manufactures                                            --        --
Total imports (cif)                             ,,   1,162    13,255       13,466
Food00005
Fuel and energy                                                                         o    l               1
Capital goods..                                         .
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..       ..        ..          ..               * Exports     e Irrports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..                  .           ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1976    1986       1996         1997      Current account balance to GOP ratlo (%)
Exportsof goods and services                    ..       ..   10,042       11,485      
Imports of goods and services                   ..       ..   13,255       13,466              E92i
Resource balance                                ..       ..   -3,213       -1,981
Net income                                      ..     -94       -425        -603II                                     -
Net current transfers                           .       9457    1,046         713
Current account balance                         ..   -655    -2,592        -1,870   |'t
Finandng items (net)                                   340      3,063       2,238
Changes in net reserves                         ..    315        -471        -368   |s -.
Memo:.
Reserves induding gold (USS millions)           ..
Conversion rate (DEC, localUSS)                 ..        ..  11,080.0    11,900.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996        1997
(USS millions)                                                                         Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            0      175    26,764        17,864
IBRD                                          0        0         0            0                         B: 589
IDA                                           0       59       412          569              G: 1,078        C 452
Total debt service                              0        2        346         395          F: 1,924                 D: 243
IBRD                                          0        0         0            0
IDA                                           0        0         3            4
Composition of net resource flows
Offrcial grants                             151       65       230          350
Official creditors                            0        5       295          623
Private creditors                             0        0        171         230
Foreign direct investment                     0        0      1,500       1,800
Portfolio equity                              0        0       390            0                             8E13,598
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0        0        502         444     A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 0        5        189         181     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          0        0          1           1     C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Netflows                                      0   5   188  180 _                                                  _
Interest payments                             0        0          2           3
Net transfers                                 0        5        186         177
EASPR                                                                                                                   1011/98
1 0.2b Russian Rouble debt has been converted into US Dollars assuming an exchange rate of US$1.00 = 1 Rouble. The exchange rate
used by the World Bank is for reference purposes only.



- 59 -
PAD Annex O Social Impact
Page I of 7
Annex 10
Vietnam: Mekong Delta Water Resources Project
Social Impact Summary
Project Social Impacts
1.     The project population is 2.3 million. Farmners constitute 76% of the households. The
project consists of five subproject areas (14% of the Mekong Delta), spreading over 535,000 ha in
six provinces in the Delta. Socio-economic surveys indicate that incomes of farming households
are, in general, from farming, livestock rearing, business and, to a smaller extent, forestry and
fishery. Land holdings average 1.2 ha per household. Linear settlement along canals and
waterways is common in the Delta, creating a typical ribbon development pattern stretching tens of
kilometers.
2.     Though economic growth in the Delta is progressing rapidly, there are pocket areas in the
Delta where farmers are among the country's poorest. Literacy rate, poor drinking water supply
conditions, hard living conditions caused by constant floods, and inadequate rural electrification
and transport all compare unfavorably in the country. Among the 20 districts in the project area,
12 have higher poverty rates than the Delta average, and in 3 districts (two in SMT and one in OX)
poverty is higher than for the average of the countryl. Another poverty by the Government (1998)
shows that the project covers 6 of the 8 poorest districts in the Delta that are also among the
poorest in Vietnam.
3.     Overall, the social impact of the project on most of the project population appears highly
positive in terms of increasing farm incomes from improved agricultural production, employment
generation, safe water supply and better sanitation conditions, flood protection, and better road and
transport conditions (details in Annex 4). The project would facilitate multiple cropping in areas
that are now limited to a single wet season crop or to unstable two crops. Flood protection
improvement in OX area would also bring significant social benefits, including protection of
properties and crops, access to schools and health facilities during the flood seasons. Landless
laborers, estimated to about 15 % of the total population, would benefit from the increase in hired
labor requirements of more intensive cropping. With the project, an average farm (1.25 ha in the
project area) would have increase in incomes ranging from 65% to nearly 400% over the without-
project situation.
4.     The main adverse impact of the project relates to land and other asset acquisition due to
rehabilitation and improvement works over 3,000 km of canals and embankments, and building or
repair of 188 control sluices (Annex 2). Land acquisition would total 3,960 ha, of which 70%
(2,745 ha) will be occupied temporarily for accommodation of construction materials and deposit
of spoils during the period of construction, and 1,217 ha will be permanent losses to water bodies,
canals and infrastructure.
5.     Due to the pattern of settlement in the project area, land and other asset acquisition under
the project will affect 34,004 families, representing 8% of the project population. Over 95% of
I  These estimates are based on data from the IFPRI study "Mapping Poverty and Agro-Ecological Potential in
Vietnamn" (1998), which assesses poverty based on a comprehensive set of indicators, including household
expenditures, household size and composition, education and ownership of assets.



- 60 -
PAD Annex 10 Social Impact
Page 2 of 7
these PAF will lose a small strip of their land or assets partially, and will not be displaced. An
estimated 1,655 PAF (0.4% of project population, 5 % of PAF) would be expected to opt for
relocation. The number was based on minimum livable size (100 m2) by the GOVN. These PAF,
most of them are traders, officers and landless labors, will mostly move within their current village
or commune.
6.     Detailed RAP inventory and impact analysis reveal that: (i) On average, PAF would loss
about 5% of their current agricultural land holding, and 10% of their current homestead holding.
The impact on the vast majority of PAF would be a loss of small strips of land that represent less
than 20% of their total land holding. (ii) Over 93% of PAF are farmers and are thus direct project
beneficiaries. Most of the losses are expected to be offset in economic terms by productivity gains
resulting from the project and higher land values due to access to supply of water. In addition, all
PAF will receive compensation and rehabilitation at replacement costs. (iii)4% of PAF will lose
more than 20% of their agricultural landholding, some will be among the relocatees. (iv) Almost
complete existing registration of agricultural lands will strengthen the rights of the PAF and
effectively limit the possibility of encroachment. (v) A majority of PAF welcome the project, as
they see the benefits that would result from improved water systems for their farms and families.
Mitigation Measures
7.     Throughout preparation, special efforts were was made to avoid, wherever possible,
displacement of people, to minimize the number of PAF, and to protect the interests of PAF.
Social surveys/detailed inventories were carried out to assess and analyze the exact impact on
PAFs. Since early 1998, the census and inventories have registered, for each PAF, names,
settlement, ethnicity, occupation, and detailed categories of losses (land holding, house structures,
trees, wells, graves, etc.). The census also provided feedback on PAF's attitude towards the
project. For all PAF, the door-to-door inventories (including on relocation alternatives) were
conducted jointly by the central, provinces and communes.
8.     Preliminary engineering design was adjusted and optimized in canal and embankment
alignment, structure layout, alternative locations, by-passes and technical parameters to minimize
the need for acquiring land and to reduce negative impacts on PAF. Suggestions from the affected
people and village and commune committees were taken into consideration to reduce the adverse
impact. The above measures have resulted in a significant reduction of the number of PAF,
especially the potential relocatees (due to alternative location of embankments, ditches and
sluices). The original layout of new canal systems was adjusted, wherever possible, which reduced
the number of PAF by nearly 1,500. The same effort and adjustments to designs will be made
during project implementation to minimize the adverse impact on PAF.
Resettlement Action Plan
9.     A Resettlement2 Action Plan (RAP) was prepared by the Government.  Significant
improvements in the country's resettlement policies and practices have occurred recently. The
RAP was prepared on the basis of relevant Vietnamese laws and regulations (especially Decree
2 The word "Resettlement" used in this document refers to compensation and rehabilitation for land and other asset
acquisition as well as relocation of project affected people.



- 61 -
PAD Annex IO Social Impact
Page 3 of 7
22/CP, effective in May 1998) and Bank OD 4.30, and incorporated the results of many
consultations with PAF. The RAP is found to be generally in line with the Bank OD 4.30.
10.   Since 1993 with the introduction of a new land law, over 83% of farmers have obtained
Land Use Right Certificates (LURC). The remaining are in the process of applying for LURC. The
absence of a LURC does not bar any PAF from compensation entitlement. Virtually all PAF
farmers thus have permanent or temporary land use rights.
11.   The total cost of RAP implementation is estimated at US$22.5 million, including 10%
contingency. The cost is based on the census, inventories, entitlement package and the
compensation rates reflecting current replacement cost without depreciation, and rehabilitation and
support measures. The total budget includes compensation, rehabilitation allowances, cost of
relocation, skill training for PAF, staff training, equipment, DMS, external monitoring and
administration.  Provision of adequate funds is among the priorities of the GOVN for project
implementation. Options would be provided to PAF for both land-for-land and cash-for-land. For
the 1,655 PAF who are expected to be relocated, the RAP has designed two alternatives: group
resettlement at government identified sites, and self-selected relocation at PAF's own choice.
Provincial authorities have identified eleven resettlement sites within their provinces and
conducted a household-by-house consultation over PAFs' preference. All PAFs have chosen the
self-relocation package, and are expected to move to nearby locations within their own village or
commune. Temporary land occupation during the period of construction and the deposit of spoils
would cause a temporary loss of production (6-12 months). So far, practices show that farmers
welcome the deposit of canal excavated materials, as they use them to raise houses and orchard
beds (all permanently improve their land value). Compensation package would nevertheless be
provided for the loss of production.
Ethnic Minorities
12.   Two main ethnic minority groups among project population are Khmer and Hoa, a total of
which represents 21% of project population. The Hoa constitute less than 2%, primarily involved
in trading, and they are over-represented in commercial activities, and will indirectly benefit from
economic development of the area. Few will be affected by land acquisition. The Khmer people
live mainly in Tra Vinh and Soc Trang provinces, many close to the coast, outside or adjacent the
project area. They are usually among the poorest. Relatively speaking, the Khmer living within the
project area enjoy a higher standard of living compared to those living near the coast. This is
attributed to better agricultural and market opportunities, and similarity between the Khmer and the
Kinh in agricultural practices. But on average the Khmer are poorer than the Kinh. UNDP is
preparing a Poverty Alleviation Project specifically designed to help the Khmer minorities.
13.   Socio-economic studies and surveys reveal that the ethnic issue in the Mekong Delta is
different from that in the central highlands of Vietnam, as the official Vietnamese perception of
ethnic minorities is linked to mountainous areas, not to the paddy growing plains, such as in the
project area. Almost all the Khmer people in the project area are paddy farmers, practicing the
same farming activities as the Kinh. Thus, they would be targeted project beneficiaries, and their
lives and income would be enhanced by the project. The project social assessment reveals that: (i)
The Khmer people tend to be one-crop wet season paddy farmers, whose income will be
significantly increase with the project by increased freshwater availability to grow double or triple
crops. (ii) Although the project would benefit the Khmer similarly to Kinh farmers, since Khmer
farmers often rely exclusively on agriculture for their income, whereas Kinh farmers tend to have a



- 62 -
PAD Annex IO Social Impact
Page 4 of 7
more diversified income, the project could prove especially significant for Khmer farmers. (iii) Of
the total PAF, 25% are Khmer, including 267 Khmer families who would need relocation (16% of
total relocatees). No cultural sites or structures (such as temples) will be affected by land
acquisition. (vi) All arable land in the project area is titled with land use right certificates and the
project will therefore not attract immigration causing 'forced' displacement of vulnerable groups.
(v) Consultation with the Khmer, as well as the Kinh, took place during project preparation. Some
of the provincial leaders and officials who participated in the project preparation are Khmer
themselves. There is full endorsement of the project from farmers of both groups.
14.   In compliance with OD 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples, an Ethnic Minority Development
Plan (EMDP) has been developed under the project, as a part of RAP, based on extensive PRA
consultations (para. 15) with the Khmer and participation of Khmer officers in project planning and
design. The EMDP aims to ensure that the ethnic minorities benefit from the project investment
and that adverse project impact is mitigated with proper and culturally compatible measures. It
would supplement the project benefits through: (i) training of and extension support to Khmer
farmers to enable them to utilize and enjoy the land and water resources improvement created by
the project; (ii) a set of programs to ensure that the Khmer fully participate in the decision-making
process during implementation; and (iii) rehabilitation measures consistent with the cultural
sensitivity and identity of the Khmer families affected by land acquisition.
Participation During Project Preparation
15.   In Vietnam, there is a tradition for farmer participation in tertiary irrigation development
and management at the grass-root level. However, for design of most large scale water resources
projects, a top-down approach is typical. To ensure local ownership and agreement with the design
of the proposed project, participatory approaches were used in the feasibility study through
Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) and consultations with stakeholders at provincial, districts and
commune levels in the form of planning meetings, workshops, field and household visits, farmer
interviews, village meetings and surveys. The purpose was to inform the communities and assess
the perception of the project among farmers. The consultation feedback provided basis for
adjustments to the engineering design and the formulation of the RAP and EMDP to mitigate the
adverse impact caused by the requirements for land under the project.
16.   The PRA was carried out during September 1997 - February 1998, with focus on
commune and village level participation and consultations.  The PRA  process provided
dissemination of project information; collection of feedback on farmers' needs, constraints and the
opportunities they perceive; identification of the degree of project impact (positive and adverse);
and obtaining input from stakeholders to make necessary adjustments in engineering design to
mitigate land acquisition impact. It was carried out by local and international social experts who
all speak Vietnamese. The basis for selection of communes for the PRA fieldwork included:
cropping patterns (single, double, non-paddy); non-paddy activities such as fish/shrimp farming;
presence of potential adverse impact; and ethnic composition (significant Khmer presence). The
attached Table provides an overview of the problems and feedback identified during PRA, and
how the project has addressed the feedback. The majority of farmers interviewed expressed
appreciation for the project, and their strong desire for the project to help increase agricultural
production and income. One of the observations from PRA is the general lack of information
among farmers and district or even provincial officials about government plans. The lack of
information often leads to a wait-and-see attitude and belief that the planners and engineers at the
central level know best. The PRA under this project provided an initial effort in consultative



- 63 -
PAD Annex 10 Social Impact
Page 5 of 7
planning of a large irrigation project and was welcomed by locals, as it provided an opportunity for
local people to get information and voice their concerns and views to improve project design.
Participation During Project Implementation
17.   Prior to the start of project works, information regarding project scope and impact would
be disseminated through provincial television, newspapers, and district/village announcement
systems. This would be followed up by commune and village meetings organized by commune
peoples committee and farmers' union. The RAP, which has incorporated lessons from previous
land acquisition activities in the Delta area, contains an elaborate information campaign and
consultation strategy with clear objectives, specific activities, methodologies and procedures.
Consultations with each PAF would take place in connection to the detailed measurement survey,
and a grievance system is in place for complaints. The above process has largely been practiced by
the provinces in the irrigation schemes already developed. Under the proposed project, this process
would be formalized and strengthened.
18.   Participation of beneficiaries during project implementation would take the form of farmer
contribution to development of tertiary canal earthworks. The concern that tertiaries do not get
built by farmers does not seem to apply to the Mekong Delta. Experience in the fresh water areas
of the upper-middle Delta suggests that farmer response to irrigation development is rapid and
widespread. The Delta's water delivery system differs from conventional irrigation systems in
upland areas, where accurate surveys, careful design, check drop structures and outlets at frequent
intervals are required and need to be maintained. It is sometimes difficult to leave them to farmers
alone to solve. But all that is needed in the Mekong Delta is a ditch branching off from
secondaries. It is evident that in parts of the project area--wherever the freshwater regime has been
improved, farmers have taken initiative to build tertiary and on-farm systems, and have increased
production significantly.
19.   During preparation, the need for support to water user groups and farmer organization was
assessed. Farmers in the project areas are organized under the commune structure and in farmers'
union and women's union. After the abandoning of the formal agricultural cooperatives, new forms
of cooperation are emerging based on voluntary association. It appears that when needed, the
farmers organize themselves for specific tasks. For example, the PRA works revealed that some
pilot Joint-Liability Agricultural Production Groups (JAPG, also called Lien Dan) in the SMT
areas have been voluntarily formed recently by farmers themselves to, inter alia, manage water at
the tertiary/on-farm level. The JAPG's original objective was to gain access to rural credit/saving
services. Its activity was later expanded to manage tertiary canals, supply irrigation water, and
provide agricultural service to its members. As these JAPGs are new, it is still too early to assess if
this model should be disseminated to all project provinces. A national policy on organization and
financing of these JAPGs is yet to be developed by MARD and MOF to ensure the sustainability of
JAPG in the long run. The new Water Law's upcoming implementation guidelines would also
provide guidance in developing such national policy. During implementation, farmer participation
in irrigation management would be supported through formulation and implementation of tertiary
development plans (see PAD on Institutional issues, Annex 2 on project description, and Annex 4
on cost recovery). The project would also provide funds for training, through IMCs, to farmers
and farmer groups to improve their capacity in tertiary canal development and O&M, where such a
need is expressed.



- 64 -
PAD Annex IO Social Impact
Page 6 of 7
Implementation Arrangements for RAP
20.   The organizational framework for RAP implementation is already in place in the six
project provinces, as irrigation development has been ongoing for years. Resettlement Committees
have been established at provincial, district and commune/village levels to guide, coordinate and
implement the resettlement activities in their respective jurisdictions. They are chaired by the
Chairman or Vice-Chairman of the respective People's Committees (PC) at every administrative
level (see RAP for details).
21.   CPO under MARD has the overall responsibility for project implementation (including
RAP) and will be guided by the Project Steering Committee, chaired by the Minister of MARD. It
will approve and allocate RAP budget, supervise RAP progress, coordinate at the central level, and
report to MARD/GOVN and IDA. CPO, the implementation agency for the on-going IDA
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, has gained considerable experience on IDA resettlement policies.
SIO would monitor and supervise the day-to-day activities of RAP implementation, coordinate
with planning of civil works schedule, manage the subproject budget, coordinate with local
authorities and DARD, and internal inspection and monitoring. It has supervised resettlement
activities in numerous Government irrigation projects in the area, working with resettlement
authorities at various administrative levels. CPO is planning a series of training for provincial and
local staff on RAP implementation.
22.   Regular monitoring of RAP implementation will be conducted through internal and
external monitoring. CPO will carry out internal monitoring, and submit to IDA progress reports
every six months. External monitoring will be by an independent agency, specialized in social
sciences. The agency would submit periodic reports on RAP implementation and make
recommendations concerning major issues.
23.   Detailed implementation schedules for resettlement have been developed in accordance
with the construction schedules of the civil works. IDA review and approval of an annual RAP
implementation plan, and of RAP implementation progress and monitoring reports is also required
(see PAD section G.).



- 65 -
PAD Annex 10 Social Impact
Page 7 of 7
PRA Feedback                                  Project Response
Need for capital investment in  Design/feasibility study aims to improve water delivery, flood
agriculture (incl. irrigation and  protection, prevent saline water intrusion, and improve of rural water
drainage, flood protection)     supply
Strong request by farmers for   The structures were included as part of the project financing
tertiary level control structures
(sluices/culverts).
Early implementation/completion   Preparation was accelerated, in parallel to the process of feasibility
of the irrigation systems.     study.
Farmers should take part in the  Farmers would participate in formulation of tertiary development
management of tertiary irrigation   plans; be responsible for tertiary earthworks and participate in O&M of
irrigation systems. IMC would provide training to farmers.
Issues related to rural water   A rural water supply and sanitation component was included,
supply, women's health were     addressing the need for clean water and sanitation with participation of
strongly expressed during       women's unions.
consultations with women's
groups.
In QP subproject area, not all  This area, where shrimp farming is practiced, was taken out of the
shrimp farmers welcomed         project, after the issue was raised by a substantial number of local
freshwater farming, especially in   farmners.
the severe acid areas. Some
farmers would loose large income
as the result of the project.
Fair compensation related to land   Locations of embankments and sluices were modified to minimize
acquisition                     negative impact to people's life. A draft RAP in line with IDA policy,
including the provision of compensation at replacement cost without
depreciation, was prepared as part of feasibility study.
Lack of knowledge and           Included in RAP, vocational training of PAF's choice would be
vocational skills for PAF       provided for one person from each PAF
Lack of off-farm jobs           Not directly addressed. Increased agricultural production in the project
area is expected to increase off-farm employment opportunities.
Unclear division of responsibility  Included an institutional strengthening component to assist in
of irrigation waters           improving participatory management of water resources.
Emerging of "new" style farmer    The project would support farmer groups, training in water
water groups and cooperatives in   management and techniques to operate and maintain the tertiaries.
some subproject area            Support for strengthening, training and legal registration of farmer
groups would be provided under the annual tertiary development plan.
Lack of information regarding   A continued PRA during implementation is envisaged for formulation
planning                        of TDP. Information campaign would be carried out (see RAP).
Khmer minority group            Project information in Khmer language will be provided to Khmer
communities.
Landlessness is said to increase    Not addressed. Almost all land is allocated with LURC. A Rural
due to the emerging land market   Development Strategy is being prepared by GOVN and IDA, including
policy measures to secure access to land.
Lack of access to credit        Not addressed. An IDA rural finance project and a rural development
strategy (being prepared by GOVN and IDA) will include policy
measures to reduce distortions in rural credit market.
Weak extension services in some   Not addressed. An IDA Agricultural Rehabilitation Project is dealing
places                          with this issue.



- 66 -
PAD Annex II: Environment
Page 1 of 7
Annex 11
Vietnam: Mekong Delta Water Resources Project
Environmental Review Summary
1.    The proposed project aims to increase agricultural production and improve the living
standard of people in the project area. The project covers five sub-project areas and spreads over half
million ha (about 12% of the Mekong Delta). All sub-projects are located in the lower Delta, except
the OX sub-project which is located in the middle Delta (see Annex 2). These sub-projects were
identified as having environmentally sustainable development potential in the Mekong Delta Master
Plan (MDMP) which was completed by the Government in 1993 (with assistance from the Mekong
Commission Secretariat, UNDP and the Bank). The climate in the project area can be characterized
as tropical monsoon with a distinct wet season from May to November with 80-90% of annual
rainfall averaging about 1,400 mm and a dry season from December to April. The area is affected to
varying degrees by salinity intrusion. During project preparation, areas with mostly severe acid
sulfate soils that are occupied by shrimp farming in the QP sub-project were excluded from the
project. Virtually all the land in the project area is already used for agriculture, infrastructure, and
settlements.
2.     The potential environmental impacts of the sub-projects were reviewed in the pre-feasibility
study reports prepared by the Government and its consultants: NEDECO/SMEC (as part of the
Mekong Delta Master Plan) and ESSA Environmental Engineering (as part of the project pre-
feasibility studies).  On the basis of these reports, IDA concluded that the project is an
Environmental Category B project since the project was found to have relatively limited
environmental impact potential; and for those adverse impacts which could potentially occur, there
exists reasonably straightforward and well known mitigation measures which could be applied.
Accordingly, the Bank requires preparation of an "Environmental Review and Environmental
Management and Monitoring Plan". During feasibility study, a detailed environmental review was
carried out'. The review provides, for each sub-project, a description of the project activities, main
characteristics of the existing environment with emphasis on aspects which are likely to be impacted
by the proposed developments, identification of the main adverse impact potentials, and
recommendations of environmental management and monitoring plans which should be adopted to
avoid or reduce the specified impacts. The environmental work was carried out by CPO of MARD
with assistance from a team of local experts and of international consultants from Haskoning, in
association with Euroconsult and Delft Hydraulics of the Netherlands. Supporting documents are
available in the project file.
3.     The review concluded that there would be no major adverse environmental impact which
cannot be mitigated under the project, and the project activities would not impact upon critical
natural habitats in the project area.
IThe GOVN carried out an environment impact assessment as part of the project feasibility study. Among the
feasibility study reports and preparation documents in the Project File, relevant reports are: (a) Feasibility Study Annex
I "Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Action Plan", August 1998. (b) Feasibility Study Annex VI
"Fisheries and Aquaculture", August 1998. (c) "Fishery and Aquaculture Aspects", by Prof. Nguyen Thanh Phoung of
Can Tho University, March 1998.



- 67 -
PAD Annex 11: Environment
Page 2 of 7
Potential Impacts
4.     The following section summarizes the main potential environmental concerns that were
reviewed: increased leaching of acids from exposed pyritic soils into agricultural fields, fish ponds
and water channels due to canal construction and improvement; changes in water quality due to
increased application of agro-chemicals as a result of more intensive cultivation; impacts on fisheries
due to changes in surface hydrology and inundation; conversion of seasonal saline areas into year
around freshwater habitat; possible increases in tidal levels in the vicinity of sluice gates; and
impact of sluices on canal transport.
5.     Leaching of Acids.  The project area contains predominately alluvial and sandy soils.
Although it is located largely outside severe acid-sulphate areas identified in the MDMP soil maps, it
contains patches of acid sulfate soils. At an aggregated level, patches of shallow/severe acid sulfate
soils cover about 10% of the project area and are mostly confined to the QP sub-project area2. The
environmental concern was that some of these soils would be exposed in places where canal
excavation or dredging would take place and could result in an increase in acid release from acid
runoff and leaching from spoils or canal embankments. The releases of acidity could have adverse
environmental impact on the project area and its downstream areas.
6.     The existing situation is that acid is already being released in these area due to natural
oxidation and the common practice of farmers plowing their fields toward the end of the dry season
(March-April) to expose underlying pyritic soils to oxidation as part of the land improvement
process. At the onset of the rainy season, the first rains flush the fields and carry the acid and metals
dissolved from the soil into nearby canals and rivers. At this time (end May-early June), surface
waters already contain high concentrations of acid and pH can drop to as low as 3, causing
downstream impacts, especially to aquaculture. During this period, local people don't use the waters
from the canals or rivers for agriculture, aquaculture or domestic use, as rain water supply is already
plenty. Over ten years' monitoring data show that pH goes back to normal from end June-early July,
due to the tremendous flushing capacity of the Mekong river. The project works will proceed
incrementally throughout the sub-project areas over six years and the additional acid releases due to
project works in these areas are not expected to cause any significant change to the existing
situation. The potential impact was assessed as being marginal and insignificant.
7.     Patches of slight-to-moderate acid sulfate soils cover about 30% of the project area. Again,
most of these are in the QP sub-project. These areas have a deep layer of non-pyritic/jarositic soil on
the surface. Canal rehabilitation and improvement could expose some of the deep layer pyritic soils
placed on canal banks by grab dredging or in confinements by cutter dredging. This would cause the
release of acid and metals from the oxidation of the exposed soils. The environmental concern was
that at the beginning of the rainy season, the acid release from the spoil into runoff could affect
adjacent agriculture and aquaculture. This type of acid release may last for as long as 3 -5 years,
peaking in the first year and tapering off rapidly thereafter.
8.     Agro-chemical Use. Most surface waters in the sub-project areas are already marginally
eutrophic, mainly due to poor water exchange. With the project, the cropping pattern would
intensify, involving a shift from single to double rice cropping and double to triple rice cropping.
2 The percentages of shallow acid sulfate soils in the SMT, OX, QP, BRTL and TN subproject areas are: 5%, 6%,
22%, 3% and 2% respectively.



- 68 -
PAD Annex II: Environment
Page 3 of 7
Increased agricultural intensification can result in increased pesticide and chemical fertilizer use, the
former of which can have the more adverse impact on groundwater and surface water quality. For
fish and other aquatic organisms, their exposure would be longer due to the resultant longer
agricultural production period each year. This could result in greater bioaccumulation among micro-
organisms, aquatic organisms including insects, and predators upon these organisms.
9.    Analyses done in 1991/92 showed that organochloride pesticide concentrations in the
Mekong Delta are generally detectable but far below permissible levels -- at most 3% of that
acceptable for surface water and 1-5% for fish. For pesticides that have been banned in recent years,
there has been an observed decline in their concentration in the Mekong Delta. Concentrations of
permitted pesticides could be increasing with crop intensification, and pesticide contamination
remains a major concern in the Delta, but many of these have not been systematically measured due
to lack of appropriate monitoring and testing equipment.
10.   Floodplain Inundation Reduction.  The OX subproject is the only area of concern with
regard to reduction of inundated area and the resultant impact upon fisheries. It is located in the
downstream end of the shallow-flooded area. To achieve flood control, an embankment will be
expanded to surround the area, which is about 1% of the Delta. This would eliminate the shallow
inundation of 1-3 months each year in the subproject area. The protection work would make the
second crop production more stable and the third crop possible. However, the possible adverse
impact, though the area is very small, could result a reduction of flood plain fishery production and
deposit of nutrients in the embanked area. Two studies were conducted on the subproject's adverse
impact. One study, undertaken by the feasibility study consultants, estimated a fish loss of 600 t/yr
and a second study, undertaken by the Fisheries Faculty of Can Tho University in the Mekong Delta,
estimated a reduction of 400 t/yr. Thus, the reduction in fishery production would amount to an
estimated loss of 1-2% of floodplain fish catch in the Delta. The impact of fishery reduction is
considered insignificant, as fishery income occupies less than 1% of household income, according to
the socio-economic survey carried out for the area, and the fact that very few households in the
project area currently depend primarily on fishing for a majority of their livelihood. Few migratory
species from rivers are found to spawn or feed in the subproject area which is located in the shallow-
flooded area. Due to the change of water temperature, major fish migratory periods and spawning
generally occur at the outset of the rainy season before major flooding occurs. During this period
the drainage sluices on the canals under the project would not need to be closed, thus fish movement
in and out of the area would not be hampered.
11.   Salinity Changes. With the project, salinity intrusion during the dry season would be reduced
to varying degrees in most project areas. The increase in year around availability of freshwater
would be a benefit to farmers and most households, in addition to irrigation, as it would preclude
much of the need to transport freshwater into the project areas for domestic uses. But the conversion
of aquatic ecosystems from brackish to freshwater would result an impact on fishery in the canals
and nipa trees along canal banks, as fish production in brackish water is generally higher than that in
freshwater, and nipa grows best in brackish water as well.
12.   Possible Tidal Impact. In some areas in QP, sluices have been built by the Government over
the last years to prevent tidal water from flowing inland during the dry season. Water levels
immediately outside the sluices have been reported by locals to raise by some 0.2-0.5 m during
occasional high spring tides. This increase does not normally exceed the height of the crop
protection dikes along the canals (except possibly during rare and severe coastal storm such as a
cyclone). However, at some locations where exist low lands between the canal and the protection



- 69 -
PAD Annex 11: Environment
Page 4 of 7
dikes inundation were reported since sluice gate installation and closure during high tides. These
have affected some houses, gardens, and shrimp ponds in these locations. For the additional sluices
proposed under this project, there is the possibility that this may also occur (i.e. in areas immediately
outside the sluices). This possible impact was considered in the assessment and project design.
13.    Canal Transport. With the project, impact on water transport would be considered neutral.
Improved and newly constructed canals would facilitate more extensive local transport. The
construction of sluices would, to some degree, temporarily impede the transport of boats in and out
the subproject areas during the dry season when the sluices are closed most of the day except for
periodic flushing. Consultations and interviews with local people in areas where sluices exist show
that the sluices are seen by the local people as more of a nuisance than an obstacle.
Mitigation
14.    Leaching of Acids. The impact of the generation of acid due to oxidation of pyritic soils
from canal dredging under the project would be insignificant in areas where shallow acid sulfate
soils exist. This is due to a small increase over several years in relation to the already high
background acid levels (paras.5-6). No mitigation is needed. In areas with slight to moderate acid
sulfate soils, the impact of dredging and spoil disposal to adjacent agriculture or aquaculture could
be more significant and would need mitigation. The mitigation measures would follow the
indigenous practice by farmers and contractors in the area, where the run-off from the spoil is
controlled from flowing into the adjacent agricultural fields. The practices are that: (1) for spoil that
is excavated using a grab dredger, it would be the neighboring farmers' responsibility to dig a small
ditch between the spoil and their fields to direct seepage and run-off back into the canal; (2) where a
cutter dredger is used, a containment with surrounding embankments would be built to control the
spread of the spoil and to direct run-off back into the canal. In addition, where feasible and
advantageous, contractors would be required to dredge one side of an existing canal to minimize
exposure of and leaching from acidic soils; resettlement needs; and impacts on aquatic ecology,
through disturbing only one (rather than both) side of the canal. The contractors would be
responsible for mitigation and compensation for any damages to farmers' land or other assets due to
excavation, based on conditions which would be specified in the contractual agreements.
Compliance with contract specifications will be monitored during project implementation. It was
observed that in places where farmers have low-lying land which they want to fill to bring it under
agricultural production, the farmers sometimes request the contractors to dispose the spoil in their
land which is then topped with a layer of good soils.
15.    Overall, the acidity problem in the project area is expected to improve, as sluices would
improve drainage conditions, and the incremental, short-term increase in acidity generation would be
overridden by the significant improvement of the flushing capacity under the project. Due to the
long existence of acids in the upstream or within the project area, at the beginning of the rainy
season when large quantities of acid water are released from exposed spoil and agricultural areas,
there presently exists, in the project area, a workable local warning/notification system via
newspapers, radio and leaflets. Downstream farmers, particularly shrimp farmers, are notified of the
opening schedule of sluice gates and advised of the poor water quality entering their areas. During a
period of time, the farmers are advised to avoid taking water from the canals and rivers or in cases
where water exchange is necessary, to minimize exchange rates and/or to take measures such as
liming the intake water to neutralize pH.



- 70 -
PAD Annex 11: Environment
Page 5 of 7
16.   It should be noted that Vietnam has some of the best experience with developing acid sulfate
soils for agricultural use and is widely regarded as one of the world's leading experts in this field.
Over the last 10-15 years, rapid agricultural development took place in some of the severe acid
sulfate soil areas of the Delta, especially in the Plain of Reeds, which is far upstream of the project
area. A water quality monitoring program, funded by Sweden and carried out by the Sub-institute
for Water Resources Planning (SIWP), has been collecting data on changes of acidity in the rivers
and canals for more than ten years. Although short termn localized increases in acidity were
detectable in areas where drainage and water exchange were poor, the overall trend showed that
water quality in terms of acidity has remained stable and for some places improved. This is
explained by the improved drainage and flushing capacity of canal development and improvement.
To put a safeguard, the project would fund improvement of existing water quality monitoring
network (see para. 24).
17.    Agro-chemical Use. Integrated Pest Management (IPM) is an effective way of encouraging
farmers to reduce usage of agro-chemicals. The GOVN has been promoting IPM practices through
the Plant Protection Department of MARD, with technical assistance from a FAO Regional IPM
Program. IPM in rice has been used since 1990, and it now widely practiced in the project area.
Under the IDA Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2561-VN), finance is provided to support an
IPM study and IPM training in 30 provinces, including all those in the proposed project area3. Since
1997, about 700 staff and 37,800 farmers have been trained in IPM. So far, the program has been
low-cost and successful both in plant protection and in reduced and prudent use of pesticides.
Farmners are enthusiastic about the approach for cost saving, though small, and increasing health
concerns. While some IPM work is done in other crops, the program is substantial only in rice.
MARD is intensifying its IPM efforts in other crops with international assistance. Given the above
programs of FAO and IDA, no additional measures on IPM are recommended under the proposed
project.
18.    Promotion of expansion of integrated rice-fish system rice-fish cultivation under the project
(para.19) would also bring another benefit in reduction in the use of pesticides; for pesticides can
harm the fish, and the fish help control insect pests as well as mosquito larvae by consuming them.
Moreover, the project would include a component which will provide rural water supply and
sanitation improvement to reduce people's reliance on canal water for domestic use. With the
project, it is expected that the impact of increased flows of nutrients and pesticides into local surface
waters would be offset by the improved drainage which will be provided by project investments and
the improved water control which will be achieved through operation of the sluice gates.
Concentrations of permitted pesticides, which have not been measured systematically due to lack of
appropriate monitoring and testing equipment, would be monitored and their monitoring networks
financially supported under the project.
19.   Inundation Reduction. With the project, there would be a significant increase in income
among most farmers due to increased yield and rice production. Project studies revealed that about
3,600 households (6.5% of the total) in the OX subproject area are currently practicing rice-fish
cultivation and pond fish culture. With better flood control, this practice is expected to expand as
risks of flood losses and fish escape would be reduced. In rice-fish production, the rice yield is
3The program involves intensive farner training using farmer field schools. Farmers are organized into small groups
based on locality and are taught the principles of IPM and how to identify pests and pest predators. The groups meet
regularly and participants report on insect counts on their farm. The instructors advise growers on whether plant
damage is cosmetic or consequential, on thresholds for intervention with pesticides, and monitor crop conditions.



- 71 -
PAD Annex 11: Environment
Page 6 of 7
about the same as rice-only-cultivation, plus an additional fish production of around 250 kg/ha/yr,
based on Can Tho provincial statistics from an estimated 2,000 ha in the area. At this production
level, between 1,600 to 2,400 ha of rice cultivation would need to be converted to rice-fish
cultivation to replace the estimated fishery losses (para. 10). This conversion is likely to occur due to
flood control under the project with less risk to fish losses from inundation of rice paddies, according
to local researchers familiar with the area. The project would also provide funds to promote the
transition from rice mono-cropping to integrated rice-fish culture for technical assistance in local
research and extension services.
20.    Salinity Changes. Generally, fish production in brackish water is higher than that in
freshwater. The assessment revealed that the reduction would only pertain to the canal areas where
fishing is mostly undertaken as a sideline to rice production inside the project area, and farmers
prevent saline water entering their paddy fields. Economic analysis shows that the incomes from rice
production will increase significantly with the project due to increased agricultural gains, offsetting
losses associated with minor fishing. Additional canal area of about 3,000 ha as a result of the
project would add increased aquatic habitat. The conversion of seasonal, brackish water areas into
year around freshwater areas would be insignificant concerning loss of brackish water habitat, which
would be replaced by freshwater habitat, and thus would not require mitigation. In some project
areas, where this conversion has already taken place over the last years, farmers reported an
increased fish production outside the salinity sluices, where seasonal shifts in salinity still take place
though where less dilution takes place during the dry season when freshwater would be retained
immediately outside the sluice gates.
21.    Nipa in the project area is mostly scattered along the canals. Nipa grows best in brackish
water, but can also grow in the freshwater, as observed in the inner part of the Delta where
freshwater is all-year-round. Nipa fronds are used by locals for house construction for walls and
roofs, which are increasingly being replaced by longer lived materials (such as metal sheets) as
incomes rise. Most nipa in the project area is cultivated by rice farmers, thus an offsetting factor is
that the farmers would get economic benefits from the project which would allow them to use better
materials for house roofs instead of nipa fronds.
22.    Possible Tidal Impact. Hydraulic modeling during feasibility study shows that at the sites of
the proposed sluice gates, the increase in tidal levels could range from zero to 20 cm which is not
considered to be significant and which could extend to about less than several hundred meters of
distance outside the sluices. Nonetheless, a detailed survey was carried out for each of the proposed
sluices and for households possibly to be affected by the potential increases in tidal levels. This
impact has been included in the compensation program under project affected families and the
mitigation program in the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP).
23.    Canal Transport. The project design was adjusted to avoid building of sluices on main
waterways. Within each subproject area, water transport remains largely free. In places where
sluices would be built to prevent seawater intrusion and canal transport in and out the subproject
areas would be hampered, sluice gates are designed large enough to allow boats used for local
transport to pass. During the dry season, the sluices remain largely closed for 2-4 months, but would
be opened up to four times per day when the water levels within and outside the gates are at the same
height, to allow boats to move in and out of the sub-project areas. The project would build boat lifts
at the sluice gates to allow boats to cross the levees. Such lifts are low-cost and easy to operate, and
are currently practiced in some Delta areas where sluices are in place. In addition, the sluices would
be opened 3-4 hours per week during low tides in the dry season to flush stagnant water inside the



- 72 -
PAD Annex 1I: Environment
Page 7 of 7
sluices. The opening hours of the sluices would be announced in advance so that boat operators can
adjust their routes and schedules accordingly. During the rainy season, the sluice gates would be
open most of the time to allow drainage and boat passage, except during high tide. In all subproject
areas, denser canals and better levees and roads that are a part of the canal improvement would
facilitate local transport. It should be noted that most of the farmers are beneficiaries of the sluices as
well.
Environmental Monitoring
24.   The project would fund two environmental monitoring programs. (1) A water quality and
quantity monitoring program would establish stations within and adjacent to the project area to
determine the project impact on changes of water quality and quantity, and to help prescribe
improved environmental management of water resources. This will build upon the existing SIWP
monitoring network in the Mekong Delta, which is currently supported by the Swedish International
Development Agency through the Mekong River Commission's water quality monitoring program
(para. 16). Additional sites would be added to the monitoring network for the five years of the
project to assess impacts in detail. (2) A fishery monitoring program would assess changes to the
structure and productivity of the fish population in the OX subproject. This program should build
upon the current fish-rice research by Can Tho University in the Delta.  Implementation
responsibilities are described in other project documents.



- 73 -
PADAnnex 12: RWSS
Page I of 6
Annex 12
Vietnam: Mekong Delta Water Resources Project
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Component
Sector Policy
1.    The Prime Minister's Decree No. 200/TTg (April 1994) established the National Program for
Rural Clean Water and Environmental Sanitation (NPRCWES). Lead responsibility for executing the
NPRCWES lies with MARD, within which the CERWAS under the Vice Minister for Agriculture has
been the main implementing agency, with Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Vietnam Women's Union
(VWJU) continuing to provide support for sanitation improvement in rural areas. Provincial Steering
Committees for Water and Environment (PSCWE) are being set up. Ambitious targets for the National
Program have been established - a 100% rural water supply coverage by 2005. But the Program remains
under-financed, and needs substantial capital investment from consumers and the Government if the
national target is to be achieved.
2.    With support from DANIDA, the GOVN is developing sector policies and a National Strategy for
rural water supply and sanitation (RWSS) to implement the NPRCWES and provide a framework for
investment. Although still evolving, the policy framework emerging is expected to be compatible with
that espoused by the Dublin/Rio Principles for drinking water management. Although there are still
substantial subsidies in the sector projects, the intention of GOVN is to gradually move to full cost
recovery and demand-responsive approaches that provide consumers with the levels of service that they
want and are willing to pay for.
Coverage and Issues
3.    Due to lack of statistics, the coverage of rural water supply is highly speculative. UNICEF
estimates show that the current coverage is around 15-30% of population in the project provinces, based
on assumed average numbers of people using water points installed by govermment programs and
assuming that all installed facilities are continuing to function. If privately financed services are
included, the coverage may reach between 30-60%.
4.    Investigations show that most of the project area is underlain by one or more confined aquifers at
depths ranging from 40 -120 meters. There are also areas where groundwater is undrinkable or
unavailable. Groundwater in the upper Pleistocene aquifer is the main source of potable water in the
project area. Deeper aquifers of good quality exist, but have not yet been extensively exploited. For the
small-scale rural water supply systems to be supported by this project, the upper Pleistocene is the most
promising resource-.
5.    In areas where groundwater is either of poor quality or unavailable (e.g. Cang Long district in
Tra Vinh, parts of Vinh Long and Kien Giang Provinces), filtered surface water or rainwater is used for
drinking and cooking. In acid sulfate soil areas, canal water in some places become so acidic (pH <3.5)
during the early wet season that it cannot be used for any purpose. Rainwater or water purchased from
vendors at high cost is presently the sole sources of drinking water supply, which could cost about
1 Groundwater and Rural Water Supply, Feasibility Study Report, May 1998.



- 74 -
PAD Annex 12: RWSS
Page 2 of 6
US$0.62/m3. Families with limited access to safe water often depend on canal water for washing,
bathing, and excreta disposal during the rainy season.
6.    Various types of on-site sanitation facilities are used in the Delta. The most common ones are
"helicopter" latrines, hanging over canals and home fishponds. Helicopter latrines on canals are an
unsatisfactory sanitation option and have been, in principle, banned by the GOVN. But large numbers of
rural population still use canals for excreta disposal when working in the fields. Fishpond latrines,
though less of a health hazard, are also discouraged. They form a component of rural aquaculture
production, and are typically enclosed as oxidation ponds, and do not release flows into canals. Aquatic
vegetation, like duckweed, grows to provide food for fish. The health risk of consuming fish from these
ponds, if cooked2, is extremely low. In times of flooding, the ponds overflow into surrounding canals.
But the pollution concentration is relatively low since the waste is diluted by floods.
7.    A variety of other technologies including simple pit latrines, pour-flush latrines, and septic tanks,
is being promoted through several Government programs. They provide safer and more convenient
sanitation conditions, but carry similar environmental risks as fishpond latrines when flooding occurs.
These systems vary in cost from about VND 75,000 (US$5-6) upwards for a basic pit latrine. A pour-
flush latrine with ceramic pan is reported to cost about VND 375,000 (about US$30), and a toilet with
septic tank about VND 1.5 million (US$115). There is a need for further applied research to develop a
range of appropriate sanitation technologies for the Mekong Delta, including assessing the risks
associated with fishpond latrines and developing safer design standards. Some of such investigations and
research are being carried out by MOH.
8.    Coverage in safe sanitation facilities is generally significantly lower than that in water supply.
The incidence of sanitation-related diseases is high in the project area, particularly among women and
children. In the Soc Trang Province, for example, the rate of water and sanitation-related disease
infection, reported by local health centers and VWJU, averages more than 70% of total reported ailments
among rural women, and 60% among children. The incidence is probably similar in other areas of the
Delta. These are reducing rural labor productivity through lost time and eroding rural incomes through
medical expenses. Fundamental to the sanitation issue is human behavior. Knowledge, attitudes and
practices regarding human waste disposal and the health risks associated with it are poor, especially
among low-income rural households. Investment in sanitation facilities and adoption of safe hygiene
behaviors is a low priority to farmers in the absence of knowledge of the risks involved.
9.    The issues to be addressed by the project would be: (i) Large proportion of rural households in
the project area remain without reasonable access to safe drinking water, and a disproportionate share of
these households are in small and dispersed settlements. (ii) The incidence of water and sanitation-related
diseases is high, and a principle constraint to improving health status is poor knowledge, attitudes, and
practices regarding hygiene and sanitation. And (iii) Lack of appropriate sanitation technologies.
Proposed RWSS Improvement under the Project
10.   The objective of the component is to improve living conditions of people in the project areaand
to reduce poverty incidents through improved coverage for safe and adequate drinking water supplies,
improved sanitation facilities, and improved personal and community hygiene behavior. In line with the
national policies and to be consistent with the evolving RWSS strategy (para. 2), the component was
2 In Vietnam all fish are normally cooked.



-75 -
PAD Annex 12: RWSS
Page 3 of 6
designed with emphasis on a move towards demand-responsive, community participation in planning,
implementation and financing of the services provided to them, and greater cost recovery.
11.   The component will provide clean water for remote small villages and hamlets and dispersed
rural population, and will thus complement other RWSS programs in the project area. The project would
finance US$5.1 million for construction of small-scale piped water supply systems serving about 50 -
150 households in small villages or hamlets, and point source supplies (rainwater catchment systems,
hand pumps, and small water filtration systems) for dispersed settlements. It would support US$400,000
for sanitation and safe water awareness campaigns and hamlet-level participatory hygiene education to
improve hygiene behaviors and increase effective demand for safe human waste disposal. It would
provide seed money of US$230,000 to set up revolving funds for construction of basic household-level
sanitation facilities. The implementing agencies--PCERWAS--would be provided with a budget for
administration, technical assistance and training to communes in preparation of the Commune Clean
Water Improvement Plans (CWIPs) and engineering design. The total budget for this support is
estimated at 9% of works' costs (a rate currently used in ongoing Government and UNICEF programs).
12.   The benefit of the component would expect to reach over 280,000 un-served or under-served
rural population among some of the 186 communes in the project area. This represents about 20% of the
portion of the population in need of improved services. The target population is rural, poor and
predominantly dispersed families.  Within the target group, women, as the primary collectors and
managers of water in most households, would benefit from more convenient access to water supplies and
sanitation facilities, and better family health status resulting from adoption of improved hygiene practices.
13.   Technical options for water supply that are likely to be applied in the project include the
following, all of which have been tested by PCERWAS in programs supported by GOVN and UNICEF:
-  Small piped systems -suitable for small clustered settlements with accessible potable
groundwater. Each system typically serves 50 - 150 households, and often consists of a well,
equipped with an electrical pump with automatic control; an elevated reservoir with a
capacity of 2-3 m3; distribution pipelines of 1-1.5 kin; house connections and meters.
*  Shallow well hand pumps -an option where potable groundwater is accessible but dispersed
rural households are too far apart for a piped network to be financially feasible.
*  Surface water filtration units -where no groundwater is available and surface water is
treatable, the simple household or neighborhood sand filtration units are an alternative.
*  Rainwater storage jars (ferro-cement, with a capacity of 2,000 1) -a preferred option only in
areas without potable ground or surface water.
Implementation and Flow of Funds
14.   Clean Water Provision. To be simple and transparent, initial allocation of project funds among
the provinces was based on the number of communes in the project area (see Table below). CPO has
now confirmed the fund allocation in consultation with the provinces. Eventually, the number of
qualified CWIPs received and approved in each province would drive actual allocations and
disbursements.



- 76 -
PAD Annex 12: RWSS
Page 4 of 6
Activity/Province    Bac L   Can T  Kien G  Soc T   Tra V  Vinh L  Total Cost
Us$,000
Number of Communes (#)          9      24      5      38      56      7
Allocation Percentage (%)    O . ....  1_%  4              40      5% .
Clean Water Provision         330    880    183   1,393   2,053    257   5,097
Sanitation Improvement         15      39      8      62     91      11    226
Hygiene Education/Training     26      69    14    109    161    20    400
Total Allocation              370    988    206   1,564   2,305    288   5,722
/1 Including 20% contribution from beneficiaries.
15.   Implementation arrangements. CPO will be responsible for implementation and coordination of
the entire project. It will assign specialized staff to monitor implementation of the RWSS component
(accounts, procurement and disbursement). Similar to SIO for the irrigation component, MARD will
assign each PCERWAS to be the local implementing agency for the RWSS, with commune-based
participation in planning, implementation and management (with private sector participation in
construction). PCERWAS will report to CPO on project related matters. The existing National Steering
Committee for Water and Environment, of which CERWAS is a member from MARD, would provide
policy guidance through its regular meetings. PCERWAS directors are members of PSCWE (in those
provinces that have not yet established these committees, PPCs are playing the role of the committees).
Through PSC WE, PCERWAS would ensure that this project is coordinated with other government and
UNICEF programs.
16.   Based on information disseminated by PCERWAS, participating communes would prepare
CWIPs that stipulate the type of water supply they want and are willing to pay for. PCERWAS would
provide technical support (para. 11) for communes in preparing the CWIPs to allow the communes to
make informed choices among levels of service, costs and financial options for capital investment and
O&M arrangements, and in developing local skills and organizations for operating and maintaining
simple systems. The CWIP would be submitted to district People's Committee for endorsement before
forwarding to the provincial PSCWE for approval. PCERWAS would consolidate all CWIPs in its
province and submit quarterly to CPO for approval and budget allocation. Once approved, PCERWAS
will use counterpart funds to prefinance the works based on certified works and CWIP that are approved
by the provincial authorities and CPO, and submit SOE and supporting documents to CPO for
reimbursement for cost incurred. CPO will make payment to PCERWAS one month after receiving the
SOE and related documents. Reimbursement from the project's special account will use the normal IDA
SOE method against expenditures incurred.
17.   PCERWAS would contract provincial engineering consultants to prepare technical design, to
carry out water quality test to ensure potable quality of each well, and procure contractors for physical
works3. It would carry out contract supervision, quality control with participation from the communes in
co-signing for acceptance of detailed engineering designs and completed civil works before payment is
made to the contractors. It would also administrate repayments from the communes and use them for
other needy communes.
3 Commune managed contracting was originally proposed but rejected, due to the concern of MOF over (i) weak financial
management capability of the communes; (ii) government budgetary regulations do not allow transfer of funds from CPO
directly to the communes, and it must be through PCERWAS and district offices.



- 77 -
PAD Annex 12: RWSS
Page 5 of 6
18.   Financial requirements. To be consistent with the upcoming national RWSS strategy, the
financial requirements under the project would include:
(i)    Community (consumers) share of 20% of capital costs at the time of construction (in cash
or in kind), with exceptions permitted for low-income groups; but the average
contribution from a commune should be at least 20%.
(ii)    Repayment in regular installments over a negotiated period of five-six years with annual
interest of 2% for the remaining 80% capital costs for hand pumps, and for 30% of
remaining 80% capital costs for small piped systems and rainwater catchment units.
These are to keep with the policies of the upcoming national strategy. Given that poverty
level is a criterion for selection of participating communes in this project, some flexibility
is necessary in financing requirements, as stipulated also in the National RWSS Strategy.
Each province would modify its own financing policy during implementation, depending
on the poverty levels of communes. It may decide a partly on-lending arrangement,
different repayment terms or a grant arrangement to poor communes.
(iii)   Formation by communities of water management groups for full responsibility of O&M
(communes could choose to cross subsidize poor households). The above financial
requirements would need to be confirmed by the national strategy.
19.   Preparation and implementation of CWIPs. The CWIP should be in simple form and include:
(i)    Technology and service level selected by the commune; proposed treatment and
distribution system; location; layout; water sources; water quality analysis; costs; and
families to be served.
(ii)    Agreed financing arrangements for capital and O&M  contributions, repayment
arrangements, and commune's policy of subsidies to the poor.
(iii)   Responsibilities of communes, consumers, contractors, local authorities and PCERWAS;
and a management plan for O&M.
20.    Detailed steps follow the current practice by PCERWAS with modifications on the CWIP:
(i)    PSCWE develops a "list" of communes that are eligible for obtaining funds under the
project. Eligibility criteria include the need for drinking water supply improvement and
no other committed funding sources.
(ii)    PCERWAS, with support from Provincial Women's Unions (PWU), PPC, DPC and
CPC, distributes information through official channels, brochures, mass media, and
commune and village meetings, to all eligible communes about the RWSS funds, and
invites 'expression of interest" from communes in a letter stating that the communes
intend to prepare CWIPs.
(iii)   With assistance from PCERWAS, each commune should prepare a CWIP. Identification
of poor families may be carried out by participatory poverty assessments facilitated by
PWU field staff4.
4In 1996,the VWU with support from UNICEF and IDA, provided training to their staff in the use of participatory techniques
for community development planning and education. Participatory training tool kits were adapted to the Vietnamese
cultural context and a limited number were distributed to districts and communes in all provinces.



- 78 -
PAD Annex 12: RWSS
Page 6 of 6
(iv)   Commune People's Committee (CPC) submits CWIP to PCERWAS, who will review
and submit the CWIP to PSCWE/PPC for approval before posting it in the commune.
(v)    PCERWAS consolidates the approved CWIPs for submission quarterly to CPO for
budget allocation and disbursement of government funds for pre-financing.
(vi)   Once PCERWAS receives the funds, they would implement each CWIP as agreed with
the commune, who would contribute its share of the cost. Payments for services
delivered by PCERWAS or through PCERWAS by private firms would require co-
signature by the financially responsible officer of CPC.
(vii)  Upon satisfactory completion of all contracted works, the commune begins repayment of
the balance of the investment financed by the project. Funds are deposited into
PCERWAS' account. PCERWAS provides communes with an annual account statement.
Funds repaid would be used for expanding or improving RWSS in new communes (may
be outside the project area).
21.   PCERWAS would provide training, through its technical assistance to the communes in simple
system O&M and on financial management.
22.   Sanitation Improvement. Both the PWU and provincial department of health (DOH) have
decentralized community mobilization capacity. They would prepare proposals, for submission to
PCERWAS, for expanding the activity of participatory hygiene promotion, health training and
campaigns at the commune and household level. Based on approval of the proposals, PCERWAS would
sign Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) with PWU and DOH for execution of specific activities to be
conducted by each of these agencies (estimated at US$2,000 per commune based on the cost details for
ongoing activities provided by VWU).
23.   PCERWAS would assign PWU to set up revolving.funds for the construction of sanitation
facilities (estimated at US$4,000 per commune), as PWU has already piloted revolving funds
successfully in some communes of the project area. A commune may choose to use a portion of this fund
for construction of public sanitation facilities in the same manner that individual households access and
repay funds. A range of technical options to suit various environmental situations and affordability levels
would be explained to commune members. Financial management of the sanitation revolving funds
would follow the Tra Vinh and Soc Trang models that have already been established and operating since
1995. Full cost recovery has been achieved with 15-17 months of repayment, at around 70,000 VND per
month.
Technical Assistance
24.   CPO would coordinate with central CERWAS in providing technical assistance to PCERWAS,
and facilitate training to PCERWAS based on an overall project training program. Staff experienced with
RWSS would be recruited (or seconded from CERWAS) to CPO to help coordinate implementation of
the component in the six provinces. The staff would ensure that implementation is in line with national
policies and sector strategies, review communal CWIPs and MOUs submitted by PCERWAS, and audit
PCERWAS' project related activities and accounts. The VWU at the national level would provide
training, through its ongoing in-service training programs, to provincial and lower level staff on skills of
planning, participatory poverty assessments, hygiene/sanitation education, and social marketing
campaigns. It is anticipated that UNICEF also would provide technical assistance through its ongoing
programs.



IBRD 29653
1 05                                            106'
VIETNAM
SUBPROJECT BOUNDARIES                MEKONG DELTA WATER RESOURCES PROJECT
II gPROJECT AREAS
MEKONG DELTA                                                   PROJECT AREA
0    PROVINCE CAPITALS
MAIN ROADS
RIVERS/CANALS                                                                T TAY
-   -  ~PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                         NNH                    SONG 
-  -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES              CAMBODIA                                                        BE
0     10    20   30    40Mios                            7 CAMBODau ;
endrneneo or \cetac ofW t < +>>8D2ec5h boatae.
F       1999B
_ go   >~~~~ K    /          XV                                               a     /     < _~ o- C   CINA
5 -      /                                                            | /   THAg96DONG THA
3     /              O10 2  30 4  50  0 Kilrnehs                     ti               \c1
rz    v                l  l  l  l  l  l  l                             ts        ,._ i,.~n
10p  Roch Go/oefo bleorolroywie oron                                                        -10 IN    i    e< fAle 
eodnsmenorccebne dsuhhorione.                                                           f  n             loflMs
Thicn                                                                         Mang 10t1D$Taln   5                 1
'BRD~~~~~~EBUR 1299



VIETNAM                                                                                                    \0 I                                                                 1 5DIA 11016; I
MEKONG DELTA WATER                                                                         \
RESOURCES PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                          S
SOUTH MANG THIT SUBPROJECT BD                                                    Vi                                                                                                   10'   Ca h/M
VINH                                                                                                                                   B   --I ""'A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  reao
EXISTINGEMBANKMENTS                                                                                                                                                        C  \                Map
i-H-H-H-I-i   EMBANKMENTS TO BE UPGRADED          \\        t-  fi                         X\                  /w
o  o   SLUICES PROPOSED \ \\.aRJ  
EXISTING SLUICES OR UNDER CONSTRUCTION \ Sg-*r uvri  
-~  CANALS TO BE ENLARGED \& >s                              Cang                                                        BEN TRE
-    EXISTING CANALS/RIVERS \ V\Qt  < 
o)  PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                    \                             .X         
--PROVINCE BOUNDARIES\\/J                                                                                    \                                  /  
rDinh An Mouth
rriuKeh..T                                                       .                                                              5        10      15 KilomersIw
w    This nmop wos pmdouced by the Mop Design Unit of The World oonk.I                                                                                                                                             IZ
tit bheboedmien, colons denomi notions end eny nlhrminmo,o,oOiS 105M10esile
D    sheevn en this mop do net imply on the pint of The World Befnk                                                                                                                                                               -*0
-< Group, rny jodgnsenl on rhe legol stolen of ony Ienftey, oreom
-L  endoniement oreocceptonce of such heundecies.                                           /                                                                             _     _                __ 
'C~~~~ocCuXD



11 ldXiLBODIA                 106, VIETNAM
MEKONG DELTA WATER RESOURCES PROJECT
QUANLO-PHUNGHIEP, BA RINH TA LIEM, AND
.n            4                          iTIEP NHAT SUBPROJECTS                                       To CUn Tho'    ie
0  A              511111 3 QUANLO-PHUNGHIEP PHASE I & 11 AREA
/          :            1|   <                             /                                 EMANKMNT T BE UGRADD nh                               STRAG  VINAL/IVR
_9                                                 SUBPROVINCr BOUNDARIES 
LThi np  pnd /rdobyd                                       _H 
th    o    eign unit of Th.
WodBak. Th. onndoos
colors, deooo,ictions ond
an  other ini6nnotio  A-ot
Groa, ony juolgeos  -n  he
bego staus  of any lembtoy,
or any endoe,~eo.t o
CO                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dinh An Mouth
ThanhERT RA
Tri                                      Que 2~~~~~~~~
- NATIONAL ROADe 
Tho i    B i,_          _ _ _ _                                                                                 H ung__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __Th_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



IBRD 29656
VIETNAM
MEKONG DELTA WATER
RESOURCES PROJECT
OMON-XANO SUBPROJECT
SUBPROJECT BOUNDARIES                                                                                 LON
EXISTING EMBANKMENT                                                      /INH
/  \t'9\          VINH LONG
111111111 EMBANKMENT TO BE UPGRADED
*  * *F  PROPOSED EMBANKMENT
[ O    PROPOSED SLUICES                                 Vam Nho            ,
CANALS TO BE ENLARGED
- - -'f.. NEW CANALS                             Con fBa L/                                                      iB
EXISTING CANALS/RIVERS
*    SELECTED CITIES
@     PROVINCE CAPITALS
NATIONAL ROAD
--- SMALL ROAD                    So 3 (Roch Doi)
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES   1000 (Ba Dorm)
Hoi Dong T hornP                                          :   -                          \
llS  / \   \  (/>    \       22tNh~~~~~~~an Nghicl I
RanhnV  NTo Nihan2
Dow ~~~~~~          o DngDe
Giao Tnnh  ;tS  s  o    2    4i      6    82 rc SO(ionea
|KIEN GIANG                     72                                                          CAN Rang
Giao Dieui                                  Kenbe n   Ranh\
Lo62_S  \s  tR    \r/jZ   ~~9000
Lo 6 ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ o                                       6ia
Lo 59                 j,        -12000B 
VT2 n Taic Huyen Phuong and any othe n t00
Ong Deo-,   \        1e   l                 Sau Kim                                                                   \PugHe
h O n  Tm uod          \ n-n/t imy anp t p    e
Lo Re#ov    \ \)<  \   \   &tNha ~~Tho
Al#^\  \   )/)C  K   \  ~ ~~Giao Dieu\
Vinh Hu,  /  <      .     ;''          VThanh                                                                                          oSTrn
[   F  ^ A    \8 4*~~~T  c Huyen Pbuong
\   g   pzBa Bec                                                                                       1 ost 1g1Deo       (v 
Grop any Rudmnn an the legal nu af an tertra n
,                                         ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-1   105    BODI 106--)
,<                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0    2    4    6    fJ   1 0 I<ilometers   ._.
n  a a   f uiles buae
Th.i         lckEU 9
T6i map W5prvoded by the Map Design unit of Th. Worid B.an.                                                    -9     6  ,L 
Th. ooundories, roior, denarrinon- onddany othr.fl i,ifonraoarn                                                _9        
show on this mop do not imphy, on the part of The World Bank/
Group, ony judgmrn on th- egal Vtus ofony lemtory, or any
endonwntent or accep ane ot ssh booudones.
FEBRUARY 1999



