                                        Document of
                                       The World Bank



                                                           Report No: ICR0000826




             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-31980 TF-26488)

                                           ON A

                                          CREDIT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 72.8 MILLION
                         (US$101.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          TO THE

                         SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                         FOR THE

                  MEKONG DELTA WATER RESOURCES PROJECT




                                        June 24, 2008




Vietnam Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                                Currency Equivalents
                    (Exchange Rate Effective as of June 17, 2008)
                           Currency Unit = Vietnam Dong
                               US$1.00 = VND 16,824
                            VND1,000.00 = US$0.0594
                                     Fiscal Year
                                January 1 ­ December 31

                          Abbreviations and Acronyms

AusAID    Australian Government Overseas Aid Program
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy (of theWorld Bank)
CPO       Central Project Office (of MARD)
DARD      Department of Agriculture and Rural Development (of District)
EAP       Environmental Action Plan
EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment
EMDP      Ethnic Minorities Development Plan
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FM        Financial Management
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IDA       International Development Association (of the World Bank)
IMC       Irrigation and Drainage Management Company (Provincial)
MARD      Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS       Management Information System
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MONRE     Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment
MPI       Ministry of Planning and Investment
MTR       Mid-Term Review (by the World Bank)
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NPV       Net Present Value
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
OMXN      O Mon-Xa No (sub-project area)
PAD       Project Appraisal Document (of the World Bank)
PAF       Project Affected Family
PCERWAS   Provincial Centre for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
PDO       Project Development Objective
PHRD      Additional Project Funding from Japanese Government
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
QLPH      Quan Lo-Phung Hiep (sub-project area)
RAP       Resettlement Action Plan
RBO       River Basin Organisation
RWSS      Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
SCADA     Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
SIO       Sub-project Implementation Office (became ICMB on 12 December 2006)
SIWP      Sub-Institute of Water Resources and Planning
SMT       South Mang Thit (sub-project area)
VLSS      Vietnam Household Living Standard Survey
WUA       Water Users Association
WUG       Water Users Group

          Vice President                   James Adams, EAPVP
          Country Director                 Ajay Chhibber, EASVF
          Sector Manager                   Hoonae Kim, EASVS
          Project Team Leader              Cuong Hung Pham, EASVS
          ICR Team Leader                  Cuong Hung Pham, EASVS
                                                                       VIETNAM

                                   MEKONG DELTA WATER RESOURCES PROJECT

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT




                                                                         Contents


Data Sheet .....................................................................................................................................................i


1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................................... 1
2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................................. 3
3.      Assessment of Ooutcomes ................................................................................................................11
4.      Assessment of Risk to the Development Outcome .........................................................................15
5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..........................................................................16
6.      Lessons Learned ...............................................................................................................................18
Annex 1.            Project Cost and Financing ................................................................................................20
Annex 2A.               Outcome by Component .................................................................................................21
Annex 2B.               Outputs by Component ...................................................................................................22
Annex 3.            Economic and Financial Analysis.......................................................................................23
Annex 4.            Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ..............................36
Annex 5.            Beneficiary Survey Results .................................................................................................38
Annex 6.            Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ......................................................................39
Annex 7.            Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................................40
Annex 8.            Comments of Other Partners/Stakeholders ......................................................................42

Map




                                                                                                                                                               i
A. Basic Information
                                                                          VN - MEKONG
Country:                Vietnam                 Project Name:
                                                                          DELTA WATER
Project ID:             P004845                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-31980,TF-26488
ICR Date:               06/27/2008              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                 GOV
Original Total
                        XDR 72.8M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 69.6M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Agriculture & Rural Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/11/1996    Effectiveness:             10/29/1999        10/29/1999
Appraisal:             12/15/1998    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/04/1999    Mid-term Review:                             06/04/2003
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2005        12/31/2007

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                          Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                      Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                          None
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):


                                                i
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                            None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General public administration sector                                9                     7
Irrigation and drainage                                            86                    76
Sanitation                                                          1                    1
Water supply                                                        4                    16


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Other social protection and risk management                      Primary              Primary
Participation and civic engagement                              Secondary          Secondary
Rural policies and institutions                                 Secondary          Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                                Primary              Primary
Water resource management                                        Primary              Primary

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                      Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:          Alain A. Barbu                      Andrew D. Steer
Sector Manager:            Hoonae Kim                          Geoffrey B. Fox
Project Team Leader:       Cuong Hung Pham                     Mei Xie
ICR Team Leader:           Cuong Hung Pham
ICR Primary Author:        Martin Donaldson


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
 The project objective is to increase agricultural production, reduce rural poverty,
improve living conditions in the project area, and facilitate sustainable water resources
development and management in the Mekong Delta.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
no revision of PDO




                                               ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally       Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target        Completion or
                                                documents)          Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Increase Agricultural Production.
Value
                                                                 2.84 million
quantitative or   No quantified number      3.45 million tones                  3.30 million tones
                                                                 tones
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/01/1999                   06/30/2005         06/30/2005    12/31/2007
Comments          Production has decreased from 3.45 Mt (rice only) at PAD to 3.30 Mt at ICR
(incl. %          because of change of cropping pattern from triple and double rice only to double
achievement)      rice with shrimp, rice with fish, and rice with upland crops.
Indicator 2 :     Increase area of triple rice
Value
quantitative or   110,135 ha.               110,135 ha           75,926 ha.     75,926 ha
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/01/1999                 06/30/2005          12/31/2007    12/31/2007
Comments          Although the PAD envisaged an increase in the triple rice production, the amount
(incl. %          has reduced, mostly due to changes in land use, with some existing rice areas
achievement)      being converted to shrimp farming.
Indicator 3 :     Increase area of double rice plus upland crops
Value
quantitative or   185,194 ha                194,255 ha           223,473 ha     201,942 ha
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/01/1999                11/01/1999           06/30/2005     12/31/2007
Comments
                  Due to increased area of cash crops at ICR. Although double rice cropping has
(incl. %
                  only completed 90% of MTR target, but it achieved 104% of the PAD target.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Increase Aquaculture Production
Value
quantitative or   18,321 ha                 18,321 ha.           67,957 ha.     65,473 ha.
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/01/1999                06/30/2005          12/31/2007       12/31/2007
Comments          Due to the innovative land use from purely rice to rice-fish or rice-shrimp
(incl. %          farming during the implementation phase. Although the target is only completed
achievement)      96% of MTR target, it has achieved 357% of PAD expected target.
Indicator 5 :     Increased Farmers# Incomes
Value
                                            US$ 1,358 per
quantitative or   US$ 361 per farm                               no change      US$ 2,826 per farm
                                            farm
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/01/1999                06/30/2005           12/31/2007     12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %          208% of the PAD target was achived.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Increased employment
Value             0 in 11/1/1999            80,000 person-       60,860 person- 60,860 person-


                                                 iii
quantitative or                            years              years         years
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/01/1999               06/30/2005         12/31/2007    12/31/2007
Comments
                  Employment between 1999 and 2007 has decreased by 24%, mainly due to
(incl. %
                  reduction in the cropped area by about 6%.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Double Water Fee collection by 2002
Value
                  Baseline of 17 BVND                         VND 34
quantitative or                             About 10 BVND                   VND 60.2 billion
                  (1997)                                      billion
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/01/1999                    06/30/2005         06/30/2005  12/31/2007
                  From January 1, 2008 all farmers are exempted from paying water fees following
Comments
                  the government tax exemption policy under Decree No. 154/2007/ND-CP, dated
(incl. %
                  October 15, 2007. An amount of VND 50.5 was advanced by the GOV to cover
achievement)
                  the O&M cost for 2008.
                  Rural population have access to clean drinking water supply and improved
Indicator 8 :
                  sanitation facilities as a result of the project
Value
quantitative or 30 percent                60 percent        No change       85 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/01/1999                  06/30/2005        06/30/2005      12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        142 percent of the PAD target was achieved.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                            Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value                              Revised
                                              approval                         Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                             documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 : Improved performance of 3 existing irrigation and drainage schemes
                                                                            By construction of
                                                                            41main sluices and
                                                                            125 secondary
                                                                            sluices, and dredge
                                                                            and/or enlarge 483
                                                                            km of main canals
Value                                                       495 km/37       and 586 km of
                                         465 km/26 sluices
(quantitative   No quantified number                        sluices of main secondary canals,
                                         of main systems
or Qualitative)                                             systems         there has been
                                                                            significant
                                                                            improvement in
                                                                            freshwater supplies
                                                                            for irrigation and
                                                                            regulation of
                                                                            brackish water.
Date achieved 11/01/1999                  11/01/2001        06/30/2005      12/31/2007
Comments        Achieved 104 percent of the PAD target, and 98 percent of the MTR target for


                                                iv
(incl. %        main canals based on the finalized technical design; 158 percent of the PAD
achievement)    target and 111 percent of the ICR target for the main sluices.
Indicator 2 :   Flood risk mitigated
                                                                               Outcome achieved
Value           OMXN sub-project area To be achieved                           in all
(quantitative   especially vulnerable to after infrastructure no change         areas, especially
or Qualitative) annual inundation.         built.                              OMXN

Date achieved 11/01/1999                    06/30/2005         12/31/2007      12/31/2007
                Some 234 km of dikes were constructed in some areas and sections of existing
Comments
                dikes raised to protect agricultural land from 1 in 20 year flood events.
(incl. %
                Especially successful in OMXN (114 km) where entire area now protected by a
achievement)
                ring dike system.
Indicator 3 : Increased number of people served with clean water and improved sanitation
Value
                                                               280,000
(quantitative   110,000 people              280,000 people                     761,447 people
                                                               people
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/01/1999                    06/30/2005         06/30/2005      12/31/2007
Comments
                Completion of rural drinking water supply schemes is 100% including the
(incl. %
                original phase and the two extended phases.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Establishment of a Delta-wide water resources management body
                                            A River Basin
                                            Organization
                                            (RBO) for the
                                            Delta area to
Value                                       promote
(quantitative   none existing               coordinated water Completed        Completed
or Qualitative)                             planning and
                                            management
                                            actions was
                                            established by
                                            MARD.
Date achieved 11/01/1999                    06/30/2005         12/31/2007      12/31/2007
Comments
                Achieved as the establishment of the Delta RBO was done in 2002 and still
(incl. %
                modestly functioning.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Increase area of cash crops plus upland crops
Value
(quantitative   18,608 ha.                   29,300 ha.        65.897 ha.      70,106 ha.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/01/1999                    06/30/2005         12/31/2007      12/31/2007
Comments
                 239 percent of the PAD target, and 106 percent of the MTR target, because of
(incl. %
                the change of cropping pattern. See PDO indicator 1.
achievement)




                                                v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                               Actual
       Date ISR
No.                         DO                  IP         Disbursements
       Archived
                                                           (USD millions)
  1    05/14/1999       Satisfactory        Satisfactory              0.00
  2    12/15/1999       Satisfactory        Satisfactory              0.00
  3    02/25/2000       Satisfactory        Satisfactory              2.49
  4    10/25/2000       Satisfactory        Satisfactory              2.51
  5    06/08/2001       Satisfactory        Satisfactory              3.52
  6    12/21/2001       Satisfactory        Satisfactory              3.82
  7    01/16/2002       Satisfactory        Satisfactory              3.82
  8    09/17/2002       Satisfactory        Satisfactory              9.15
  9    03/06/2003       Satisfactory        Satisfactory            12.57
 10    09/23/2003       Satisfactory        Satisfactory            18.63
 11    04/15/2004       Satisfactory        Satisfactory            26.28
 12    06/28/2004       Satisfactory        Satisfactory            30.49
 13    12/21/2004       Satisfactory        Satisfactory            33.66
 14    06/09/2005       Satisfactory        Satisfactory            43.35
 15    04/11/2006       Satisfactory        Satisfactory            61.82
 16    05/30/2006       Satisfactory        Satisfactory            65.02
 17    02/08/2007       Satisfactory        Satisfactory            77.41


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                       vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1.    Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1     Context at Appraisal

1.1.1 One in five Vietnamese lives in the Mekong Delta, which has been considered as the rice bowl of
Vietnam. At the time of project appraisal (1998), nearly 80 percent of the country's population and 90
percent of the poor lived in rural areas, and rural development was considered essential for growth and
poverty reduction. The country was going through initial but rapid development, moving towards a
market economy. The Delta's agriculture, which accounted for nearly 30 percent of Vietnam's Gross
Domestic Product, 40 percent of its agricultural production and more than 80 percent of its rice exports,
played a key role in supporting the country's economy. It was also considered important for the
alleviation of rural poverty. Yet some areas in the Delta were home to some of the poorest farmer
communities in the country. Sustainable development of the Mekong Delta was considered to be central
to achieving the country's targets for growth and became a high priority on the government agenda for
economic development.

1.1.2 Despite high levels of rainfall, irrigation is the backbone of the Delta's irrigated agriculture
(which is mostly dedicated to the cultivation of paddy rice) because of the uneven distribution of rainfall
and the intrusion of saline water that affects huge agricultural areas. The government Decision No. 99
(enforced in 1996) by the Prime Minister called for increased agricultural productivity and improved
water and flood control in the Mekong Delta, and highlighted these as being of the highest priority in the
period of 1996-2000 public investment programs. This Decision was made following a Development
Master Plan for the Mekong Delta, prepared in the early-1990s, funded by the United Nations
Development Program and administered by the Bank. The Master Plan (completed in 1994) laid the
foundation for investment and policy interventions by the government and donors in the decade that
followed.

Rationale for Bank assistance

1.1.3 The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) in effect at the time placed emphasis on IDA support for
accelerated rural development and income generation for alleviating rural poverty through, inter alia,
development and improvement of infrastructure such as irrigation. The Water Resources Sector Review
for Vietnam, carried out by the government with assistance from multi-donors led by the Bank and
completed in 1996, highlighted the need to address the inadequate irrigation and flood control
infrastructure and proper water control to accelerate agricultural and rural development. Large
investments required for agriculture water development, limited domestic funding, and inadequate
country capacity to implement integrated water resources development necessitated external financing.
Bank involvement in the Mekong Delta was considered to be strategic. The Mekong Delta Master Plan
outlined a clear strategy for investments. These strategies were in line with the Bank CAS and the Rural
Sector Strategy for Vietnam at the time (1998). They were incorporated into the design of this project.
IDA's presence was also expected to play a catalytic role in mobilizing donor support for improved water
management in the Delta. The new country water law of 1999 adopted a framework for integrated water
resources development and management based on hydrological boundaries, and it provided a window of
opportunity for dialogue with the central government on integrated water development. It should be
noted that this project was among several Bank operations in the Delta at that time (among them the
Mekong Inland Waterway Transport Project, the Coastal Wetland Protection and Development Project,
and the Rural Transport Project), each of which addressed a specific aspect of the Delta's development.

1.2     Original Project Development Objective (PDO) and Key Indicators

1.2.1 The project objective defined in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was to increase
agricultural production, reduce rural poverty, improve living conditions in the project area, and facilitate
sustainable water resources development and management in the Mekong Delta. In practical terms, it is
more useful to consider these as separate objectives, and in Section 3.2 they have been redefined. The
PAD listed five performance indicators: (a) an increase in triple and double rice crop areas as proxy
indicators for increased agricultural production, incomes and reduced rural poverty; (b) the doubling of

                                                                                                               1
water fee collections as an indicator of increased financial capacity of the provinces to provide adequate
operation and maintenance (O&M) of project infrastructure; (c) the provision of clean water and
improved sanitation to rural households; (d) the preparation of a policy options paper on integrated water
resources management for the Mekong Delta; and (e) the establishment of a Delta-wide water resources
management body.

1.3   Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/justification

1.3.1 There was no formal revision of the original project objective during the implementation period.
The project performance indicators were slightly adjusted at the mid-term review (MTR) to reflect
additional project benefits in agriculture diversification and aquaculture. No Board approval was required
towards additional benefits and additional performance indicators.

1.4     Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1 Farming households in the project area were the direct beneficiaries, and a substantial number of
rural and urban households were indirect beneficiaries. A large part of the project area was relatively
poor compared to the Delta or national averages, and the project included six of the eight poorest districts
in the country. The primary target group comprised farmer families for which project interventions have
resulted in an increase in their agricultural production and an improvement in their livelihoods through
irrigation and drainage improvement, flood protection, better road and transport conditions, provision of
clean water supply and sanitation, and increased rural employment through agricultural intensification.
Women, as the primary collectors and managers of water in most households, benefited in particular from
access to safe water and sanitation facilities, which would mean savings in their time and improvement in
their living conditions, and better family health from adoption of improved hygienic practices and
infrastructure. Indirect beneficiaries included those who benefited from increased employment in
processing of agriculture and aquaculture products, marketing and distribution of increased agricultural
production.

1.5     Original Components

1.5.1 The project had three components. The costs estimated at appraisal, shown here, included
physical and price contingency provisions:

Component 1: Improvement of Water Resources Infrastructure (US$131.6 million, 89.1 percent of
the total project cost) for irrigation and flood impact mitigation in three sub-project areas ( South Mang
Thit (SMT), O Mon-Xa Non (OMXN) and Quanlo Phuong Hiep (QLPH)) covering six of the twelve
provinces in the Mekong Delta;

Component 2: Improvement of Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (US$5.7 million, 3.9 percent of
project cost) was designed to provide facilities to improve clean water provision to rural poor populations
and covering six Delta provinces; and

Component 3: Institutional Support (US$10.3 million, 7 percent of total project cost) for water
management and project implementation to develop institutional capacity.

1.6     Revised Components

1.6.1 There was no major revision of the three project components, as can be seen from the completed
project outcome and output indicators (Annex 2, Tables 2A and 2B). There were slight changes in the
scope of each component, as highlighted below.

1.6.2 The increased area coverage of Component 2 (Improvement of Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation) was the largest change in scope and resulted in the addition of five provinces (Hau Giang, Ben
Tre, Dong Thap, An Giang and Tien Giang) to the project during the MTR, and the subsequent increase
in credit allocation from US$5.1million at appraisal to US$17.2 million at completion. The credit to

                                                                                                             2
support this budget increase were largely born from the results of good competitive bidding, which was
introduced in Vietnam after project approval and through which the actual costs for irrigation works were
lower than estimates.

1.6.3 The scope of project interventions in Component 1 was adjusted (see Section 2.2 and Annex 2
Table 2B). These included some sections of embankments and secondary canals in order for the project
to focus on critical bottle-necks of flood protection and to minimize the land acquisition and resettlement
impact. The planned tertiary canal development was reduced at MTR given that some areas were already
developed by local government and farmers themselves.

1.6.4 Component 3 (Institutional) was slightly modified in term of funding sources due to the
availability of AusAID (Australian Government Overseas Aid Program) parallel financing of the Delta
Water Management sub-component. Shortly after the Loan became effective, and with the effort of the
government and the Bank team, AusAID approved a grant to the government to fund the study of the
Delta-wide water management and policy options as planned under the credit. IDA agreed with the
government and AusAID that this sub-component be implemented by AusAID grant through parallel
financing, and be continuously monitored by IDA. Other sub-components under the Component 3
remained unchanged.

The above slight changes in the scope of activities in each project components do not require the Board
approval as the main objectives are remained unchanged. Just a matter of reallocation of credit budget
amongst different components to produce the best synergy impact based on actual demands and
conditions.

1.7     Other Significant Changes

1.7.1 A major change is resettlement cost, which increased significantly due to the soaring land prices
in the country in general, and in the Mekong Delta in particular. Thus, counterpart funds were increased
since resettlement financing was entirely a government responsibility, and this caused severe delays in
project implementation. As a result, the Credit Closing Date was extended by 2.5 years to December 31,
2007. An institutional change in the implementation arrangement was made by MARD in 2005 by the
merge of two SIOs in charge of subproject's implementation into one single SIO. But this institutional
change did not cause any negative effect to the overall project implementation.

2.    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The Background Analysis

2.1.1 As a major base for paddy production in Vietnam, the Mekong Delta was on the priority
development agenda of the government at the time of identification of this project. The Delta region,
despite being productive, had pocket areas that hosted some of the poorest districts of the country, and the
coverage of rural clean water supply and sanitation was low compared to the rest of the country. The
Mekong Delta Development Master Plan outlined a strategy for water development and priority
investments, which formed the foundation for the identification of a number of Bank operations at that
time, and this project was among them, focusing on water resources investments identified by the Master
Plan. It should be noted that it formed a part of a public investment package in the Delta, together with
other government and Bank-financed investments in inland water-way development, coastal wetland
protection, local transport and agriculture diversification.

Assessment of Project Design

2.1.2 Both the project objectives and the components were well designed to meet the government's
priorities and the Bank CAS. First, the project design followed the strategies as recommended in the
Mekong Delta Development Master Plan, which outlined the following investment strategies for zoning:

                                                                                                           3
(a) (i) in the inner part of the lower Delta, public investment should support improvement in water control
and rural services, in order to raise production and rural incomes to reach to those achieved in the mid-
upper Delta areas; (ii) in the upper part of the Delta, where deep flooding occurred annually, development
interventions should be to "live with the floods" with preparedness measures; (iii) in the mid-reach of the
Delta where floods are shallow, protection was critical before harvesting, and development intervention
should focus on controlling and mitigating early flood damages; (b) in the coastal zones of the lower
Delta, public investment should support brackish and marine aquaculture and the protection of coastal
resources. It should be noted that investment for (b) was included in a separate Bank operation ­ the
Coastal Wetland Protection and Development Project.

2.1.3 Following the above strategy, the project intervention designed for the lower Delta was to
exclude salinity intrusion from entering the inner agricultural zone. This would create a fresh water zone
to allow crops to grow in the low flow seasons, as without salinity control farmers were at that time
limited to a single wet-season rice crop. With the project, farmers would have the opportunity to grow a
second rice crop or upland crop as an alternative to rice, which proved to be the case at project
completion. In the mid-Delta, the project design included infrastructure measures to prevent early
flooding and to adapt to conditions during the main flooding season in order to secure a second or even a
third crop. These measures formed the investment elements of Component 1.

2.1.4 Rural water supply and sanitation (RWSS) was badly needed for the Delta area where surface
water quality had been historically poor. The United Nation's Children's Fund (UNICEF) had supported
RWSS in the area for several years with small grants. The government had inadequate funds to meet the
national targets of 100 percent RWSS coverage by year 2010. The project included RWSS as an
integrated part of the Delta water resources development, and focused on remote areas and scattered rural
populations which had limited access to clean water and sanitation. These measures formed Component
2. It should be noted that the project was the first in Vietnam where a credit was used by the government
for RWSS instead of using purely grant funding mainly come from UNICEF; there was initial resistance
from the government to borrow for RWSS but it was persuaded by the Bank at appraisal to maintain an
integrated approach. This project design proved to be highly appreciated by the government at the MTR,
as the government specifically requested an additional credit allocation e.g. re-allocation amongst project
components to further support the RWSS component after the successful and early completion of the
component.

2.1.4 The project was the second Bank-supported operation in the irrigation sector since the re-opening
of Bank lending to Vietnam in early 1990s. Capacity building was critical for successful project
implementation. The Mekong Delta had always had very low water fees because of its peculiar nature of
tidal irrigation (unlike the gravity or pump irrigation as practiced in Central and Northern Vietnam). With
the introduction of saline water control sluices under the project, there would be a need for O&M
expenditures. It was good international practice to put measures in place for O&M arrangements at
project design in anticipation of the needs after project completion. Thus, the project design set out a
target of doubling the water fees to provide adequate O&M budgets. The Water Law of Vietnam was put
into effect in January 1999, and called for managing water based on hydrological boundaries and for the
establishment of river basin organizations. It opened up an opportunity for the Bank to engage in a
dialogue with the government to improve water resources management in the Delta, given the absence of
a Delta-wide institutional framework for water management. A Delta-wide water management entity
would also better work with the regional Mekong River Commission. These measures formed the core
elements of Component 3. Overall, the Bank's involvement ensured an integrated approach to water
resources development in the Delta and the project design was considered solid.

Government Commitment and Stakeholder Involvement

2.1.5 The Prime Ministerial Decision No. 99 called for improvement of water infrastructure in the
Mekong Delta and indicated that this was of high priority in the government's 1996-2000 public
investment program and for external funding. Borrower commitment was evident by the fact that the
Bank identification mission was joined by a vice minister of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development (MARD) during the entire trip to the Delta provinces. There was ample evidence that the
government was committed to the successful preparation of the project: (a) feasibility studies were carried

                                                                                                          4
out by the government with assistance from a reputable international firm (e.g. Haskoning international
consulting); (b) technical designs and bidding for year-1 works were prepared prior to project approval;
(c) retro-active financing was requested by the government for works that already began prior to
negotiations; and (d) institutional arrangements for project implementation units were put in place both in
Hanoi (the Central Projects Office - CPO) and in the Delta area (Sub-project Implementation Offices -
SIOs) prior to credit effectiveness. Moreover, the CPO organized pre-project training on procurement
and resettlement policies for staff of MARD and SIOs, provincial agencies, concerned communes and
PAFs.

2.1.6 During preparation, participatory approaches were used to involve stakeholders (PAD Section
E.7) through a process of Participatory Rural Appraisal that involved consultations with stakeholders at
provincial, districts and commune levels, social surveys, workshops, field and household visits, and
farmer interviews. For example, despite the substantial number of people to be affected by land
acquisition, a majority of project-affected families (PAFs) surveyed welcomed the project interventions
prior to project appraisal. Their feedback provided a basis for adjustments to the engineering designs
such as the locations of canals, embankments and sluices; commune arrangements for rural water supply;
farmer support for tertiary canal development; and options for shrimp farming. It was especially useful
for the formulation of the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) and the Environmental Action Plan (EAP) to
mitigate adverse project impacts.

Risks and Mitigation Measures

2.1.7 Major risks were assessed at appraisal and, where appropriate, mitigation measures were
correctly built in to the project. Among the risks assessed at appraisal, the risks to project
implementation, particularly that counterpart funding could be delayed and affect the construction
schedule, was assessed as substantial (especially because substantial counterpart funding was needed for
land acquisition and compensation). All factors related to this risk had been assessed. The mitigation
measures included the cautiously-estimated RAP costs, IDA financing to cover part of the RAP, and close
monitoring and supervision to be provided. The only factor that was not predicted was the rapidly
increased land price during the project implementation. The increased land prices caused significant
increase in the compensation rate and requirements for counterpart funds for resettlement. The lack of
counterpart funds became a serious issue in to delays to the project implementation, although the
government had place a high priority on the counterpart funds under this project.

2.1.8 In addition to the counterpart funding and resettlement risks, the other principal risks and
mitigation measures were:

(a) technical engineering risks, that sluices might not be properly operated, or canals and sluices not
maintained adequately. The project provided an adequate study on up-grading hydraulic modelling to
improve sluice operation, training and technical assistance to mitigate the risks.

(b) the risk to sustainable O&M, particularly that provincial governments might not be willing to
reorganize the Irrigation and Drainage Management Companies (IMCs) and expand farmer participation
in O&M, was assessed. The project anticipated possible resistance on the DARD/IMC, and mitigated
appropriately by the participatory approaches adopted through strengthening farmer groups for a large
role in the development and O&M of water facilities. In addition, consultation and dialogue were carried
out regularly during supervion and consultancy assistance was provided to establish three new IMCs, and
improve the existing water bureau for their increased responsibilities.

(c) the risks "from components to outputs", that the implementing capacity of CPO, SIOs and Provincial
Centers for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (PCERWASs) turns out to be weak. The project provided
extensive training and study tours for CPO/SIO officials, and also provided consultancy assistance to
improve institutional management capacity.

Environmental and social factors were also adequately incorporated in project design. Environmental
impacts were expected to be largely beneficial, with any possible risks mitigated by project interventions
(see section 2.4). Overall, this was a well designed project. There was no Quality Assurance Group

                                                                                                             5
(QAG) review of quality at entry.

2.2     Implementation

2.2.1 Resettlement under the project was the single most critical factor that affected project
implementation, both negatively and positively. The resettlement implementation turned out to be much
more time-consuming and costly than envisaged at appraisal, and this was caused by three factors:

(a) The large number of PAFs (over 35,700). This project was unique because of the nature of human
settlement in the Mekong Delta, where high density populations settle along waterways and canals,
making it difficult to undertake irrigation and drainage works without land acquisition or having an
impact on people who live along the canal/river banks. Although the appraisal had anticipated this
number of PAFs, compensation during implementation required lengthy processes in each canal or
structure ­ from information disclosure, consultation, back and forth negotiations with PAFs, resolution
of disputes, budget approval by central and local governments, and actual compensation.

(b) Given the unpredictable nature of the process, some engineering designs had to be revised several
times to come up with solutions acceptable to local people; precious construction seasons were missed
because of the delayed resolution or negotiations with PAFs and completion of compensation.

(c) The soaring land prices in the Mekong Delta doubled the resettlement cost of the project. This placed
additional demands on the already-tight government counterpart funds. Shortage of counterpart funding
was a country-wide issue for IDA projects in Vietnam during period of 1999-2005, but for this project, it
was particularly problematic as resettlement costs alone accounted for 25 percent of the project cost. The
combination of these factors was the main cause for delayed project completion, and also led to a 30-
month extension of the Credit's Closing Date.

2.2.2 On the positive side, the majority of PAFs were at the same time direct project beneficiaries,
whose lives were improved significantly as the result of the project (see Section 1.4). Close scrutiny of
engineering designs resulted in innovative ways to reduce land acquisition and the number of PAFs. The
government provided strong support throughout project implementation, from the provision of an
additional US$10 million of counterpart funds to completing RAP implementation. The resettlement
issue was successfully resolved by 2005 and did not affect final outcomes. The project met most outcome
indicators (Annex 2).

2.2.3 A factor that had a positive impact on the project outcomes was the technical innovation to
respond to changing dynamic demands in the Delta region. The engineering design for salinity control
sluices followed basic concepts that were already standardized throughout the Delta at the time of project
preparation. The design, invented in Vietnam in the early 1990s, used vertical axis swing gates that are
operated automatically, but only one-way, by hydraulic heads created by tidal effects. This design creates
a freshwater zone for paddy cultivation within the sluice-controlled area. In early 2001, driven by
changing markets, farmers in some areas demanded a shift from paddy to shrimp cultivation, which
offered them higher returns. To meet this (and possible future) demand in market shifts, and to meet the
increasing water transportation needs, the project adjusted its engineering design solutions to allow wider
and two-way operations of the saline sluice gates to allow brackish water into the canal systems where
needed and also to facilitate better transportation and flood discharge during the flood season. In order to
come up with the solution, this modification of design put procurement on hold for 9 months. This delay
proved to be worth-while, as it facilitated water management for more flexible land use. These brought
additional benefits in the increase in shrimp and fish production, as well as in rice-shrimp inter-cropping,
and this was reflected in higher farm incomes (as compared to PAD estimate). The modified designs and
operations were much appreciated by farmers and local authorities and have since been adopted in other
parts of the Delta.

2.2.4 Decentralized implementation responsibility to the project provinces in implementation of RWSS
proved to be very effective, and accelerated progress and disbursement. Another positive factor was a
high degree of participation by local communities in preparing commune-level clean water plans which
smoothed implementation. Encouraged by the early success, at the MTR additional credit by reallocation

                                                                                                           6
of the credit funds was allocated to RWSS at the government's request (see Section 1.6).

2.2.5 The MTR was a main positive factor to affect the project implementation substantially.
Conducted in June 2003 as planned in the PAD, the MTR identified resettlement implementation as the
single most critical factor in determining project success in the remaining period of the project and
determined that the project could not be completed by 2005 even if all issues were resolved immediately.
This was mainly the result of the particular nature of construction windows in the flooded area of the
project which does not allow construction to be implemented all year round due to high level of flood.
The MTR agreed on a clear plan of action, focusing efforts and counterpart funds to resettlement
implementation in those schemes that determined the project success and needed to be monitored closely.



2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1     Monitoring and Evaluation Design. Key elements of a practical M&E system were identified
at appraisal, and consisted of: (a) six-monthly periodic monitoring and reporting of the project's physical
and financial progress by the SIOs and PCERWAS, consolidated by the CPO; (b) the project M&E
system, designed with consultant support, selected a large number of indicators to track key project
outputs and outcomes, to be monitored by SIOs and PCERWAS and consolidated by the CPO; (c)
implementation units established at different level, with adequate staffing, training and supervision; and
(d) the external monitoring for RAP implementation and environmental impacts were put in place to
monitor the compliances and adverse impacts. The baseline survey was carried out and regularly up-
dated. Overall, the M&E system was adequately designed and implemented and related information was
generated and put to use.

2.3.2 M&E Implementation. At an early stage of project implementation, a management information
system (MIS) system was set up at CPO, SIO and PCERWAS to monitor the progress of design works,
costs, procurement, disbursement, construction, RAP implementation, technical assistance and
environmental studies. Technical experts were hired to assist in procurement and the monitoring of
construction quality.

2.3.3 An external RAP monitoring contract (2000 to 2007) concentrated on monitoring compensation
rates paid by the provincial governments to ensure that all resettlement work was carried out in
accordance with the project's RAP policy statement and the approved RAPs. The final monitoring report
concluded that the RAP objectives were reached and that PAFs living standards were restored to their
pre-project levels or better. An additional benefit noted was that project staff had now acquired much
valuable experience in the implementation of resettlement policy.

2.3.4 An external contract for environmental monitoring under the project was designed and
implemented throughout the project. The monitoring network comprised 46 stations for monitoring water
quality (33 stations for surface water and 13 for groundwater). The program measured water level, flow
and quality (both surface and groundwater). Water quality parameters included physio-chemical, salinity,
pH, coliform, heavy metals, pesticides and arsenic. The findings and recommendations from the
monitoring report for environmental mitigation measures were fully reflected in the revised technical
designs.

2.3.5 In addition, IDA assisted the government to obtain a Japan Policy and Human Resources
Development (PHRD) implementation grant (US$582,100 ) to support and strengthen the monitoring
activities, including: (a) Supplementary Environment Monitoring to strengthen capability of the project
environmental monitoring agency (e.g.SIWRP) and to provide training to assist their continuing
monitoring work; (b) Internal Resettlement Monitoring to strengthen the CPO's internal resettlement
monitoring to construct and maintain a data base for all aspects of resettlement monitoring; (c)
Strengthening of Fisheries Monitoring to strengthen the monitoring of the project's impact on fisheries in
OMXN sub-project and resolve the discrepancy between estimates of annual flood plain fisheries catch in
the PAD and by the Fish Monitoring Consultant (Tropical Biology Institute); (d) Benefit Monitoring and
Evaluation to collect agricultural data from the provinces for economic analysis of each sub-project area;

                                                                                                          7
and (e) Strengthening of Institutional Management Capability and Promote Formation of Water Users
Associations (WUAs) to strengthen the CPO's institutional management capability, and promote the
formation of WUAs and farmer participation in irrigation management in the Delta. M&E works and
studies were successfully implemented.

2.3.6 M&E Utilization. The M&E system provided timely information for the CPO and the Bank to
track the key output and outcome indicators and to assess the project implementation status, impacts and
achievement of the development objective, and allowed the CPO, ISO and PCERWAS to take corrective
actions during implementation. The use of a third-party M&E service provider was efficient and
provided a degree of independence. IDA closely supervised RAP implementation to ensure that
resettlement issues were identified in a timely manner and resolved promptly. Environmental monitoring
was carried out throughout the project, comprised 46 stations for water quality and levels for both surface
water and groundwater, and detected issues were fed into engineering design. The monitoring of fish
migration and studies on fish-rice cultivation proved useful in advising sluice operations and extension
support to farmers for inter-cropping between paddy and fishery, especially in the OMXN sub-project
area. The agricultural production, economic and social information data collected from the provinces was
used for financial and economic analysis of each sub-project area, during the MTR and ICR.

2.3.7 The arrangement for continuing monitoring is in place. The final Environmental Monitoring
Report recommended an extension of the monitoring program (especially for water quality) for at least
three more years after project completion, so that the data acquired during the last six years may not be
`lost' but incorporated into the data base when the Delta is fully developed and operational. At project
completion, MARD agreed to finance appropriate monitoring works continually, particularly important
for surface water and groundwater quality, and in areas downstream of the sub-project areas.

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1 The project triggered OP4.01 Environment Assessment, OP4.12 Involuntary Resettlement,
OP/BP4.10 Indigenous Peoples and OP7.50 International Water Ways, and all Bank procedures and
policies were complied with. The fiduciary aspects of project implementation were in accordance with
the Bank's Financial Management (OP10.02), Procurement (OP11.00) and Disbursement (OP12.00)
policies.

2.4.2 Environmental. The project was considered to be an Environmental Category B operation and a
full Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was prepared at project appraisal. During project
implementation, environmental monitoring was carried out as envisaged in the EAP. Adequate attention
and effective measures were taken to mitigate or offset project adverse environmental impacts to a
minimum and/or an acceptable level. The adverse impacts and mitigation measures are mainly related to
the following environmental issues indicated in the PAD: (a) leaching of acids, (b) agro-chemical use, (c)
inundation reduction, (e) salinity changes, (f) possible tidal impact, and (g) canal transport. At the MTR
it was noted that most of the hydrological and water quality impact predictions in the EIA of the 1998 FS-
Update were confirmed as predicted or with lesser impact. In addition, based on the MTR adjustment,
IDA recommended establishing new monitoring stations in areas downstream of the sub-projects to assess
the amount and quality of water flowing into those areas before reaching the sea. Accordingly, an
additional ten groundwater stations were established downstream of each sub-project area (the monitoring
network comprised a total of 43 new stations), and were operational from March 2004. The focus of this
monitoring work will be more on water quality because of extensive use of irrigation water from
irrigation schemes developed under the project and the development of the small-scale aquaculture
production in those blackish water areas, though still in a much small-scale as compared with the overall
Mekong Delta area.

2.4.3 The continuous environmental monitoring results have shown that: (a) the project has had no
significant negative environmental impacts on the environment; and (b) as a result of the construction and
operation of new water facilities, integrated pest management, balanced fertilizer use, the development of
clean water supply and sanitation facilities, the project has begun to improve the agro-ecology, the water
flow and water quality for agricultural production and domestic use in the project area.


                                                                                                            8
2.4.4 At the ICR, MARD confirmed that the environment monitoring task will be continually
implemented by Southern Institute of Water Resources Planning and financed by the government budget
after project completion. This would help an early identification of negative environmental issues and
assist the timely provision of de mitigation measures to support sustainable water resource use and
agricultural development in the Mekong Delta region.

2.4.5 Resettlement and Social. Overall, the implementation of the resettlement program complied
with the project's RAP which was developed along the lines of the Bank's OP4.12 on Involuntary
Resettlement. The project's resettlement policy objectives were achieved; the living standards of the
PAFs were restored to their pre-project level or better (section 2.2). Internal and independent monitoring
of the resettlement implementation were arranged to ensure compliance with this policy. The
implementation of the project's Ethnic Minority Development Plan (EMDP) complied with the Bank's
OP4.10 (OD4.20 previously) on Indigenous Peoples. The main ethnic minority is the Khmer group,
about 19 percent of the project population living in Tra Vinh and Soc Trang provinces; almost all are rice
farmers who rely solely on agriculture for their income, and are the most significant project beneficiaries.
There was a full endorsement of the project from farmers belonging to different ethnic groups.

2.4.6 Procurement. Procurement performance was found to be satisfactory; all contracts subject to
the Bank's prior review were given a "no objection" and the Bank's post reviews found no serious
deviations or non-compliance. Average procurement times taken from the issuing of bids through bid
evaluation and MARD/IDA approval to contract negotiations, award and signing were about four months
for National Competitive Bidding (NCB) and about five months for International Competitive Bidding
(ICB), both considered generally acceptable. However, at certain times of project implementation, some
contracts took many months longer from bid issue to contract award. The result was cumulative delays in
the pace of civil works construction associated to such contracts.

2.4.7 Financial. Overall, financial management (FM) and disbursement functioned satisfactorily.
Some positive features of FM practice were noted: (a) the suitable institutional arrangements set up at
ministry level by assigning a dedicated project management office (the CPO) at the central level to
monitor overall FM implementation and make centralized payment for significant contracts; and (b) a
good financial reporting template to monitor contract implementation and payment has been used.

2.4.8     Beside the positive points mentioned above, some areas for improvement were also noted: a)
payment information was not informed in a timely manner by CPO to SIOs/PCERWAS; (b) no separate
bank account was opened by SIOs for individual sub-projects; (c) no reconciliation was made of
advances and receivables relating to resettlement activities, using government counterpart fund resources;
and (d) the allocation of management fees from CPO to SIOs should be improved to facilitate audit
works.

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

2.5.1   Transition arrangements. It is highly likely that both the irrigation and RWSS sub-projects
financed under this project will be operated in a sustainable manner, and the project's benefit impacts will
continue to be generated. There are reasons for optimism.

2.5.2 O&M and Expenditures of Irrigation Infrastructure. In Vietnam, all irrigation and drainage
infrastructures financed and built by central government were turned over to the provincial IMCs under
the Departments of Agricultural Rural Development (DARDs), and these IMCs have often been
subsidized by local governments. In places where there is no IMC, infrastructure is turned over to the
local water resources bureau within each DARD. The Mekong Delta has had few man-made hydraulic
structures and thus many provincial water resources bureaus under DARDs took the responsibility of
irrigation O&M. Since new infrastructure of salinity control was to be built under the project, the original
agreement with local governments was to establish IMC for O&M after the project infrastructure was
completed. By project completion, three provinces (Tra Vinh, Soc Trang and Bac Lieu) had established
IMC. The remaining provinces (Vinh Long, Can Tho City, Kien Giang and Hau Giang) decided to
continue using their existing water resources bureaus in DARD to carry out the O&M responsibility. The
local governments claimed that the existing water bureaus could handle the O&M responsibilities and that

                                                                                                           9
they would establish formal IMCs when demand was sufficient to justify new entities or their water
resources bureaus could not handle the work satisfactorily. This is a reasonable argument given the fact
that water infrastructures built are managed either by IMCs or provincial water resources bureaus.
Therefore, it is not expected that the project infrastructure would go unattended after completion.
Furthermore, Ministry of Agriculture & Rural Development (MARD) has already committed to installing
specialized modern equipment for supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) ­when all
infrastructures are built- to optimize the sluice operations to ensure agriculture and aquaculture demands
from farmers are met and water quality is maintained.

2.5.3 The irrigation management entities (e.g. IMCs or water resources bureaus) will receive
government budget resources to form their O&M budget each year since revenue from water fee
collection from farmers are exempted (e.g. the central government abolished water fees collected from
farmers as a national policy and instead using state budget to finance such O&M cost). The O&M budget
of the project works will have to come from government subsidies to IMCs or DARD. According to data
collected by the ICR mission, the local government of Soc Trang (one of the six provinces where a lot of
irrigation facilities were constructed under the project) had provided VND24 billion to its IMC, including
VND6.2 billion for O&M of the new sluices. In all project provinces, the governments allocated
VND50.5 billion as advance budget for O&M cost in 2008 to irrigation infrastructure. Although these
appear to be adequate for O&M for the time being, the Bank should maintain its dialogue with the
government on water fee policies for long-term sustainability of irrigation infrastructure, given the high
demand on O&M side versus the financial capacity of the Government in the long run. The switch in
funding sources to cover O&M cost for irrigation infrastructure by the Government would require further
engagement of the Bank on issue of sustainability of investments funded by the Bank.

2.5.4 O&M and Expenditures of RWSS Infrastructure. Each provincial center for Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation (PCERWAS) has been in charge of O&M of all rural water supply infrastructure
built under the project, as has been the case for all government-built infrastructure of RWS. PCERWAS
sub-contracts local villagers as operators on site, in charge of daily operations of piped water supply
schemes. It provides technical assistance and /or is directly responsible for repair of electrical and
mechanical items. Currently PCEDRWASs apply a water tariff from users of VND3,000/m3 of water
consumed. This tariff is to ensure the O&M of the water supply systems. Part of the water tariff
collected has been used to expand the existing piped schemes to other places or is being invested in new
small-scale schemes following the project model.

2.5.5 Mekong Delta-Wide Institutional Framework. The credit had included funding for a study on
institutional framework for Delta-wide water management and coordination among the provinces. At the
request of the government, IDA helped obtain an AusAID grant to finance this study. The study was
completed in 2001 with a policy statement to recommend the establishment of a Delta-wide water
resources management organization. MARD adopted this policy statement and immediately in the same
year e.g. 2001, established a first Planning & Management Council for the Mekong Delta, a River Basin
Organization (RBO) as envisaged by and consistent with the Water Law. The membership of the
Mekong Delta RBO included 15 standing members from relevant ministries, and 12 non-standing
members from the Delta provinces and the Vietnam National Mekong Committee. The Council was
chaired by the Vice-Minister of MARD with a Secretariat at the Sub-Institute of Water Resources and
Planning (SIWP). The AusAID grant assisted in the capacity building of the Secretariat of the RBO in
integrated water resources planning and management, and conducted numerous stakeholder consultations,
council and working group meetings led by provincial leaders to develop a mode of operations for the
Mekong Delta RBO. Up until now the Secretariat is still performing its mandate as being in charge of
water resources planning management. The Government should continue allocate sufficient budget
resources to support the operation of this Secretariat and if necessary to amend its mandate to be in charge
of management of water resources in the Delta.

2.5.6 Although the project has achieved the performance indicator by the establishment of the Delta
RBO and supported by its Secretariat, this RBO still needs to overcome three main obstacles in order to
function effectively: (i) Its mandates as defined by the Water Law are limited to water planning rather
than management. To change this, the Water Law needs to be amended. The Bank is maintaining a
dialogue with the government to revise the Water Law to support true management bodies of river basins.

                                                                                                         10
(ii) The Secretariat needs sufficient budget to perform basic functions (such as the monitoring of water
quality and quantity, and water levels). The project provided some funds to support the monitoring by
SIWP. However, monitoring activities were largely limited to project areas for environmental impact
mitigation, and SIWP would need additional funds to continue them effectively. (iii) Since 2003, the
government established a new Ministry of Natural Resources and the Environment ­ MONRE. There has
since been debate to move some of the water management functions from MARD and other ministries to
MONRE, including the transfer of the three RBOs (the Red River Delta, the Dongnai River and the
Mekong Delta) and the National Mekong Committee. Recently, the government moved the National
Mekong Committee from MARD to MONRE ­ an encouraging first move. It is expected that other
institutional changes would follow but will take time and would go beyond a lifetime of one project.

Next Phase and Scaling Up

2.5.7 The government made a statement to IDA management on April 9, 2008 that the project has been
very useful and effective in helping Vietnam maintain the status of a main rice producer while
diversifying its irrigation areas to non- rice economic activities (such as aquaculture, small-scale food
processing and domestic water supply). The project is considered by Vietnam Minister of Agriculture
and Rural Development as a good development model in South-East Asia in term of irrigation, flood
control and rural water development. The government requested the Bank to continue its engagement in
assisting the Delta area to develop its economic potential and to develop a second project of a similar
type. Discussion has taken place amongst line ministries - MARD and MPI - on necessary procedures to
implement this request. IDA is considering an additional financing option in the form of a second
investment project to support the full development in the Delta area.

3.    Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

3.1.1 The project, as designed and implemented, addressed key development priorities that remain
highly relevant to Vietnam. The project objective has three separate but related objectives: (a) increasing
rural incomes and reducing rural poverty by increasing agriculture production through he provision of
reliable agriculture water supply and flood control; (b) improving living conditions of poor people
through the provision of clean water supply for drinking and domestic use and sanitation up-grading; and
(c) promoting sustainable water resources development and management through establishing a
mechanism at river basin level. The project developed viable and replicable models suitable for
Vietnam's delta areas to scale-up the approach. The engineering design innovation of saline sluices under
the project to allow farmers the flexibility to switch between freshwater and brackish water farming has
been adopted in other parts of the Delta (Section 2.2).

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.2.1 The project achieved its development objective, which for implementation purposes has been
seen as three separate but related goals. Most of the outcome and output targets set at appraisal and
revised at MTR were reached or exceeded. In the achievement of objective (a) in section 3.1, the project
has increased agricultural (including combined aquaculture) production and farmers' incomes, and has
reduced rural poverty through the increased crop yields, multiple cropping pattern and cropping intensity
facilitated by completed and improved irrigation and drainage, flood protection and salinity intrusion
control facilities under Component 1. Regarding increase in agricultural production and farmers'
incomes at project completion, the outcome targets had been achieved: about 3.3 million tons of rice
production (116 percent of the MTR target and 98 percent of the PAD target: the achievement is slightly
lower than the PAD target as a result of the diversified cash and fruit crops and shifting from triple and
double rice into rice with shrimp and fish), about 1.6 million ton for upland and cash crops (158 percent
of MTR), about 48,689 ha for triple rice (76 percent of PAD and 156 percent of MTR), 65,473 ha for rice
with shrimp and fish (357 percent of PAD and 96 percent of MTR targets), and 70,106 ha for cash and
fruit crops (239 percent of PAD and 106 percent of MTR). The farm average net incomes have increased



                                                                                                        11
significantly from VND1,3581 to VND 2,826 (208 percent of PAD) in 2007.

3.2.2 In addition, through the construction of 41 main sluices (158 percent of PAD and 111 percent of
MTR) and 125 secondary sluices (91 percent of PAD and 96 percent of MTR) to regulate the canal
networks, and dredging and/or enlargement of 483 km of main canals (104 percent of PAD and 98
percent of MTR) and 586 km of secondary canals 2(39 percent of PAD and 87 percent of MTR), there has
been a significant improvement in freshwater supplies for irrigation, the ability to regulate brackish water
supplies for aquaculture, and the drainage capacity of the system when flushing at low tide. Some 234
km of dikes were constructed in some areas and sections of existing dikes were raised to protect
agricultural land from 1-in -0 year flood events (the National Standard). Especially successful in OMXN
sub-project area (114 km) where the entire area is now protected by a ring dike system. Regarding
increases in water charges (the target was to double water fee collection by project completion), it was not
achieved and the cause was beyond the control of this project; the central government, in its Decree No.
154/2007/ND-CP of October 2007, abolished irrigation water fees to be paid by farmers and individuals
across the country. Instead, the government will pay irrigation fees for the farmers. Despite persistent
efforts by the donor communities (including the Bank) to persuade the government to reconsider its
implication, this nation-wide policy was issued by the Ministry of Finance3. The abolition of water fees is
unfortunate, because in the Mekong Delta, where water charges have been historically low, the project
would have reached the target since the increased water fees were small compared to the increased farmer
income as a result of this project. Nonetheless, this factor has not impacted the overall project outcomes.

3.2.3 In the achievement of objective (b), the improvement of clean rural water supply for drinking and
domestic use and sanitation facilities was successfully achieved in the project area, and all outcome
targets expected at appraisal were exceeded as a result of expanding the original program and including
five more provinces. Total beneficiaries are likely to exceed 800,000 by mid-2008 as more households
are connected to the piped water systems. At project completion, the number of beneficiaries served with
clean water increased by 2.7 times and provided safe drinking water to about 761,447 rural population
(the number of beneficiaries far exceeded the PAD target ­ about 280,000 rural population). The project
provided clean water to dispersed, small and remote rural communities by constructing 605 small-scale
piped water supply systems (106 percent of MTR target) and point source supplies for 4,040 wells, 2,060
filters (100 percent of MTR target) and 61,814 water jars. The completed sanitation improvement
program had undertaken sanitation, safe water awareness campaigns and hamlet-level participatory
hygiene education, research on appropriate household-level sanitation technologies, and constructing
basic household-level sanitation facilities (6,916 toilets, 449 percent of PAD target) serving about 34,580
people within the project command areas. Overall, the coverage of the access to safe drinking water and
better sanitation for dispersed rural population increased from 30 percent (baseline) to 85 percent in the
project area (142 percent of PAD target), and that has helped to improve farmers' living conditions,
hygiene standards and water quality downstream in the Delta area.

3.2.4 In achieving the objective (c), the project was successful in maintaining a dialogue with the
Borrower and the Delta stakeholders and formulated policy options for improving water management
within a Delta-wide institutional framework. This was reflected in the fact that a Grant was secured from
AusAid to finance the delta-wide water study and formulation of policy statement just after the project
became effective and in year 2001 the completion of establishment of a Delta-wide basin water planning

1
  PAD target converted at 2007 price in project area, information for control was not available.
2
  At project completion, the number of secondary canals and sluices was reduced because: (a) the government and
IDA task team at the MTR agreed to select only critical secondary canals and sluices for project financing so that
land acquisition and compensation activities would be completed within the project time-frame; (b) some secondary
canals and sluices were financed by local governments using their own funds and compensation policies, because of
its urgency; and (c) according to the final technical design, the density of secondary canals and sluices was reduced
based on the actual demand. In total, the number of secondary canal and sluices built under the project is somewhat
higher than the MTR figure, but it does not include the number of government-funded canals and sluices at ICR.
3
  The intention was to raise provincial financial capacity to cover any additional expenditure for O&M of project
infrastructure. The new policy has implications for all irrigation projects regardless of financiers in terms of the
relationship between farmers and irrigation service providers (e.g., IMCs or provincial water resources bureaus) and
the behavior of farmers in using water efficiently.

                                                                                                                   12
management organization. Although there are still some obstacles to overcome for the RBO to function
effectively due to the limitation specified in the Water Resources Law (see 2.5.6), one should recognize
that a functional river basin entity takes time (30-40 years) to develop and evolve, even for developed
nations. Vietnam has taken a first step in a long journey towards sustainable basin-wide water resources
management through the project, and the Bank should continue its assistance in this regard. The recent
government decision to move its Mekong River Committee (VNMC) into MONRE further illustrates the
government's commitment toward improved water resources management based on an integrated river
basin management approach. In addition, the project also facilitated Delta-wide sustainable water
resources development and management through the improved Delta-wide environmental and river flow
monitoring network (56 surface and groundwater monitoring stations established and up-dated, 187
percent of PAD target), up-dated Delta hydraulic modeling (for water flows, salinity, floods), SCADA
monitoring systems will be installed during 2008 to assist in optimizing sluice operations, improved
irrigation management with establishment of three Irrigation Management Companies in three provinces,
and strengthened management capacity at central, provincial and community level with provided training,
study tour and technical assistant program. Detailed Project Performance Indicators are presented in the
Data Sheet and Annex 2. Future engagement of the Bank in the Delta region should continue look at this
institutional aspect and further interventions on institutional changes would be required in order to have
this RBO fully functional.

3.3       Efficiency

3.3.1 Following the appraisal methodology, the net present value (NPV) and the economic rate of
return (ERR) were re-estimated for the three sub-project areas and for the project as a whole. Comparing
the ICR actual costs and benefits with the PAD estimates, the project generated greater benefits through
the newly-developed aquaculture production with adjusted cropping patterns and substantial
improvements in crop diversification. The quantifiable benefits are derived from the area developed and
sown by year and crops in the period 1999-2007, based on actual investment expenditure, cropping
patterns and intensities.

3.3.2 Comparing costs and benefits over a period of 25 years, the overall project ERR is about 15.7
percent with a NPV of about US$84 million using a discount rate of 12 percent (which is well in excess
of the opportunity cost of capital) and, although lower than the PAD and MTR estimates, the benefits
estimated at ICR used very conservative assumptions for prices and yields. The estimated ERRs for
individual sub-projects range from 11.3 percent for SMT (highest investment costs for main sluices and
canals) to 27.0 percent for the QLPH sub-project, as summarized in Table 3.1. The lower ERRs at ICR
are because of: (a) delayed project completion by 2.5 years; and (b) prices of inputs increased
significantly in recent years. A full account of the economic and financial analysis of the project is
presented in Annex 3. (The economic and financial analysis may show a higher rate if putting into
consideration the raising food prices in the international market.)


           Table 3.1    Comparison of Economic Rate of Return between PAD, MTR and ICR

                                            PAD                      MTR                        ICR
        Sub-project Area              ERR         NPV         ERR         NPV            ERR           NPV
                                                  US$                     US$                          US$
                                       %                        %                         %
                                                 million                 million                      million
        South Mang Thit               31          90.9        12.4        4.5            11.3         -9.0
        O Mon ­ Xa No                 28          23.2        24.3        4.7            18.8         15.9
        Quan Lo ­ Phung Hiep          NA          54.3        34.6       63.7            27.0         78.0
        Total Project                  30         168.4       16.9         72.9          15.7         84.0
        Notes: (i) Discount rate used = 12 percent (ii) Exchange rate US$1 = VND15,128


3.3.3     Financial Analysis. In line with the PAD's approach, typical crop and farm budgets were built


                                                                                                                13
to estimate the impact of the project on net financial benefits and cash income for farming households. At
ICR, the net financial income for an average farm household of 1.25 ha had increased from US$361
(without project at PAD) to US$ 2,826. In comparison with expected farm income target at appraisal, the
average net farm household income has increased from US$928 (equivalent to US$1,358 in 2007 prices)
to US$2,826 (208 percent of the PAD estimate) per household per year in project areas. The average per
capita income has increased from VND300,000 at appraisal to VND625,000 at ICR (208 percent of PAD,
and 101.4 percent of income per capita from the Vietnam Household Living Standard Survey (VLSS) in
2007.

3.3.4 The detailed farm household incomes for the production by different type of cropping pattern
have been estimated and presented in Table 3.2. Comparing the net farm household income without- and
with-project scenarios, it shows that with-project the farmers have been able to shift their crop production
from mainly seasonal and double rice crop only to double rice crops with fish, shrimp and other cash
crops and their incomes have been substantially increased more than 200 percent from their original
income, much higher than the expected income targets set at project appraisal. This kind of major
diversification should be recognized thanks to availability of stable irrigation water supply and reliable
flood control infrastructure.


Table 3.2 Net Financial Benefits from increased cropping intensity for an average farm (1.25 ha)

                                         PAD                                                        ICR
         Without-project                  With-project             With-project       With-project        Changes
           (1998 prices)                  (1998 prices)            (2007 prices)      (2007 prices)         (%)
       Cropping     US$/year         Cropping       US$/year        US$/year           US$/year
     Seasonal rice     229       Double rice             626            916              2,265              247
     Seasonal rice     229       Triple rice           1,137          1,663              2,625              158
     Seasonal rice     229       Double rice/corn      1,030          1,507              3,005              199
     Seasonal rice     229       Sugar cane (a)          609            891              1,631              183
     Double rice       625       Triple rice (b)       1,137          1,663              3,092              186
     Double rice       625       Double rice/corn      1,030          1,507              4,336              288
     Average             361                           928             1,358               2,826            208
     Note: The domestic price for sugar cane has been fluctuating and declined recently, so farmers shifted from
     sugar cane to other upland crops. In the table, vegetables are used as representative of upland crops4.



3.4        Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

3.4.1 The project, in terms of both its objectives and outcomes, was highly relevant to current country
priorities and to the Bank's assistance strategy. It met or exceeded most targets in outcomes and outputs
(see Annex 2), with an economic rate of return of 15.7 percent. The average output of crops increased
from some 4.7 ton/ha at appraisal to 5.3 ton/ha at ICR, resulting in an increase in production of 4 percent
overall. Average farm income doubled between 1999 and 2007 (208 percent increased), mainly from a
shift from seasonal and double rice crop to rice-shrimp, rice-fish and upland cash crops. The Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation component was implemented successfully with beneficiary numbers nearly three
times the appraisal target, although there is no quantitative analysis for the economic rate of return.

Overall, the project has increased agricultural production (116 percent of MTR target), reduced rural
poverty and improved living conditions (208 percent of PAD) in the project area through integrated water
resources development, flood mitigation, clean rural water supply for drinking and domestic use and
improved sanitation facilities, and facilitated sustainable water resources management in the Mekong

4
    PAD target converted at 2007 price in project area, information for control was not available

                                                                                                                    14
Delta with a more coordinated manner though still in the initial stage. The rice-fish inter-
cropping/farming method, developed and piloted under the project, is having an increasing impact in the
mid-Delta area as the practices are scaled up by farmers themselves.

The project attained its development objectives. Section 3.2 illustrates clearly how physical, financial and
institutional achievements have contributed to help achieve the project development objectives. Of course
there are still some remained issues that require the Bank continued support and engagement to assist the
Government such as the switch of funding sources from farmer's contribution to state budget to cover
O&M cost, Delta-RBO with full functions and responsibilities over the management of water resources,
institutional reform and farmer representation in irrigation management and cost of land prices should be
carefully taken into consideration when design a new operation of the same type in the Delta.

3.5      Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

3.5.1 Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects and Social Development. The outputs of the project
Components 1 and 2 have made a considerable contribution to the objective of alleviating rural poverty in
the Mekong Delta. The income increases as mentioned above (e.g., 208 percent increase in farm income)
have contributed greatly to the living conditions of local people within and outside the project areas.
Poverty incidence was reduced down to 20 percent or less. The project also provided clean water to rural
poor populations that did not have access to basic quality water supply for drinking purposes and
domestic uses (prior to the project, people used to collect rain water for six months supplemented by poor
quality canal water for the remaining six months). The clean water connection rates improved from 15-30
percent in the project provinces to over 75 percent as a result of the project, exceeding the appraisal
estimate of 30-60 percent, and the trend of household connection is continuing to the full supply capacity
of built schemes. The project's outputs had a significant gender dimension as they contributed to
improving agricultural production, in which women are highly engaged, and to reducing women's
household burden with the easy and safe access to clean water and sanitation facilities.

3.5.2 Institutional Change/Strengthening. Thanks to the experience gained during the course of
project implementation, MARD has gradually delegated most of the responsibility to its implementing
units of the project, both at the central level through the CPO and at the regional level through the SIOs,
especially during the last two years of implementation prior to closing date. This major shift in
implementation responsibility through decentralized decision-making has proved to be generally
satisfactory and helped completed the project with exceeding disbursement as compared to PAD estimate.
This decentralization model has been scaled up to other Bank-financed projects (such as Vietnam Water
Resources Assistance Project and the Natural Disaster Risk Management Project. The ability of the SIO
offices to manage NCB procurement, contract management and site supervision has been much improved
as a result of this project.

3.6      Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

3.6.1 Several stakeholder workshops were organized to assess the achievements and sustainability of
the project development objectives and investment. It was concluded by stakeholders at every workshop
that the project investment was essential to the development of the Delta area, and that the investment
should be continued since there are still significant demands in the area. Additional investment would
bring greater benefits by connecting to existing irrigation facilities built under the project.

4.      Assessment of Risk to the Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate.

4.1.1    The risk that project outcome will not be maintained is considered to be "moderate".

4.1.2 Social and stakeholder ownership. The outcomes of the project have been strongly positive in
terms of incomes and production outputs from investment. The support of the project's activities by
stakeholders is considered in most cases to be strong, and the risk is low. The project area hosts a large

                                                                                                         15
rural population whose main livelihood is intensive cultivation of rice as well as cash crops and fishery
production. Project beneficiary farmers contributed labor and funds to construct project infrastructure,
especially the clean water supply facilities. They have claimed "ownership" to such facilities and are
likely to continue making use of them for their livelihoods.

4.1.3 Financial risks. Upon completion, each water sub-project was handed over to the concerned
provincial water bureau or IMC for O&M, based on a provincial government approved O&M Plan.
These specialized agencies were part of the existing local government entities, providing irrigation
services in the area. It is unfortunate that the government abolished the irrigation service fees in 2007 in
order to increase farmer income and ease farmer burden. This poses a potential risk to development
outcomes in terms of adequate O&M if the central or local governments do not provide sufficient funds.
So far, from all indications, the local and central governments are committed to providing adequate
budgets to meet the needs of annual O&M. Given that the project area is part of the major paddy
production and export base of Vietnam, it is expected that the government will continually to give a high
priority to provide strong financial budget support to cover adequate O&M costs for the newly-developed
water facilities under project. This risk is considered to be moderately substantial and require high level
of discussion between Government agencies and donors interested in the water sector in general and in
Delta region development in particular.

4.1.4 Institutional risks. The project anticipated that farmer Water User Groups (WUGs) would be set
up upon completion of the project infrastructure to be represented at the IMC boards to participate in
O&M management. In 2004, the government carried out a farmer group survey in the project area that
conclude that, pursuant to the Ordinance of Exploitation and Protection of Irrigation Works, there was
insufficient justification for the establishment of new WUGs in the project's provinces because there was
already a large number of Farmer Groups (13,200) in the area of a wide variety in types and 357
agricultural cooperatives performing similar tasks to WUGs in terms of mobilizing farmers for irrigation
rotation or scheduling. The farmer organizations are continuing in charge of tertiary and field-level canal
system as it has been a practice in the country. One arrangement is that such Farmer Groups (with the
function of the WUGs) should be formalized in the future to represent in the management structure of
IMCs and to supervise and certify the services provided by IMCs or water bureaus before O&M funds are
allocated. The risk for such an institutional arrangement is moderate.

4.1.5 Market risk. Although the prospects for the financial viability of project investments are good,
especially as the market for higher-value and grain products is growing fast, there is a risk that further
devaluation could affect export markets. Local authorities and farmers in the Delta areas have developed
strong market awareness and have the skills to manage the market risk. The risk is low.

4.1.6 Technical risks. The results of allowing fresh water as well as brackish water into agricultural
areas have been largely positive (in terms of meeting farmer demands and increasing their income).
There were still pocket areas where the infrastructure was not yet fully able to accommodate farmer
demand for fresh water or brackish water. This is a technical operational issue and should be resolved by
regulating sluice operations. Actions are being taken by the local water bureaus, operation agencies and
IMCs to address this matter, but the risk to overall project outcomes is not expected to be major.

4.1.7 Environmental risk. Major natural disasters affect the project area, such as typhoons, extreme
low flow or extreme floods from Mekong. This is the largest single risk, and is significant particularly for
rice and rice with aquaculture combined production. The project did not support the professional
aquaculture intensive farming alone therefore environmental concern would be mainly on monitoring of
water quality from excessive use of irrigation. However, the project's existing water resources facilities
can protect agricultural land from 1-in-20 year flood events (the National Standard). Unless there is an
extreme climate change event, the risk is considered moderate.


5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1     Bank Performance


                                                                                                            16
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.1 Overall, the Bank responded promptly to the government's request for assistance, and ensured
that the thrust of the project design followed the strategy from the Mekong Master Plan and the
recommendations of the Water Sector Review. It ensured that the preparation and appraisal processes
were sound, including engaging qualified international companies to conduct feasibility studies to
international standards, given the limited local capacity. The appraisal of technical aspects was
reasonably well conducted. To ensure quality at entry, technical assistance was also given to the
government in the areas of environmental assessment, hydraulic modeling, resettlement, procurement
planning and economic analysis. The Bank ensured that fiduciary arrangements were adequate and that
provision was made to address safeguards issues, especially resettlement, through (a) social survey and a
rapid rural appraisal to inform and consult with potential PAFs; (b) feedback from farmers on design
issues such as canal alignments; and (c) pre-project training to both central and provincial staff.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.2 MARD/CPO were highly appreciative of the attention paid by the Bank team during supervision,
which took place every six months with small on-site checks in between by field staff. The Bank team
constantly monitored implementation issues and resolved them by working closely with the government.
Supervision technical inputs were adequate, and appropriate experts were included in each Bank mission.
The supervision of fiduciary and safeguard aspects was of good quality. Specialists in financial
management, procurement and social safeguard participated regularly. The Bank team paid special
attention to RAP implementation, given the complex nature of this project. It helped the Borrower to
obtain an implementation grant to strengthen safeguard compliances and beneficiary participation.

5.1.3 Issues were frankly and promptly flagged in each aide-memoire, which was accompanied by an
action plan agreed with the government at each wrap-up meeting and followed closely by the Bank team
until they were carried out. Mission aide-memoires were comprehensive. The Bank team ensured that
the government received an aide-memoire at least one day in advance for translation and internal
circulation, for which the government expressed appreciation. Supervision mission findings and
recommendations were valued by MARD/CPO and were disseminated quickly to the SIOs and the
DARD for follow-up actions.

5.1.4 The MTR was well prepared and the mission well staffed, and proved to be very effective in
accelerating implementation and disbursement (see Section 2.2).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.5 As can be directly attested by the Borrower and the implementation agencies, the Bank had a
determinant input into the success of this project. The Bank team played a decisive role in ensuring
quality at entry and in identifying implementation problems and in seeking proper solutions during
supervision. The Bank team responded promptly to the Borrower's requests, provided effective technical
advice and maintained close interaction and frank dialogue with the Borrower. The Bank's overall
performance is rated as satisfactory.

5.2     Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory


                                                                                                        17
5.2.1 From the Ministry of Finance (MoF) to the Ministry of Planning and investment (MPI), and from
MARD to provincial governments, the various levels of authorities have given this project high priority
and support throughout its implementation. Due to continuous land price increases in the Delta area,
counterpart fund shortage was a constant issue, significantly hampering project progress, but the
government tried its best to allocate its limited funds, including granting exceptions to accommodate fund
releases. By 2005, all resettlement funds were in place and technical issues resolved, after which the
project was implemented without major issues. The coordination between MARD and the provincial
authorities was generally satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.2.2 Frequent internal supervision by the MARD and the CPO to the project sites, especially after the
MTR, has been one of the key factors for the success completion of the project. The responsiveness of
MARD/CPO/SIO to Bank requirements on improving fiduciary and social safeguards compliance was
sometimes slow and ineffective. Communication between MARD and CPO/SIO has not been always
effective, leading to longer time to respond to the needs that deserved immediate attention. The PAD
suggested that the CPO should be located in Ho Chi Minh City to be closer to the project sites for
improved on-site management. This did not happen and the CPO continued to manage the project from
Hanoi. One consequence of this was that communications between the CPO and the SIO were sometimes
delayed and. at times, ineffective, despite many requests from IDA to improve performance.

(c) Justification of the Rating for the Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.2.3 On the basis of the individual performance ratings for the government and the implementing
agencies, the overall performance rating is considered to be "moderately satisfactory".

6.    Lessons Learned

6.1.1 Resettlement and Counterpart Funding. Appraisal rated the risk of a resettlement-related
counterpart funds issue as "substantial", and this proved to be true during implementation. However, it
did not anticipate the magnitude of soaring land prices in the Delta area which made this issue much more
complex and the resettlement process much more difficult during the course of the project. The
government knew as much as IDA did that timely release of counterpart funds was a determinant factor
for this project but delays in the approval or release of resettlement funds occurred due to bureaucratic
factors, some of which were beyond the control of the implementing ministry or even the MPI/MOF. It
should be recognized that although these kinds of development interventions can be implemented well (as
was the case of this project) they involve time-consuming processes with numerous social uncertainties
which do not fit the time-frame of a typical IDA project.

6.1.2 Institutional arrangement. The current institutional arrangement whereby MARD's SIOs are
the implementing agencies for resettlement is less than optimal. Regionally-based SIO staff are not as
close to PAFs as staff in the districts and provinces, and have less financial incentives to work efficiently.
This task should be delegated to the provinces (both finance and administration) as the provinces have
more incentive to reduce the scope of resettlement and to pay more attention to efficient engineering
design in order to reduce the level of land acquisition and compensation expenses. They would also have
more incentive to shorten their approval procedures for compensation plans, particularly in situations
where market forces are pushing up land prices dynamically.

6.1.3 Budget flexibility. More flexibility should be allowed in budget releases and the use of allocated
resettlement funds in a given year since physical works of irrigation projects must fit into narrow
construction windows of the Delta area (i.e. the six-month dry season) by allowing unused budget to be
carried over into the next fiscal year. This, however, may require a reform of the budget management

                                                                                                            18
system at the MOF and the MARD.

6.1.4 Borrower's Absorptive Capacity and Disbursement. The maximum disbursement rate
achieved under the project was about US$1.8 million per month. This was comparable to the previous
Bank irrigation project (the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project). This was partly due to the above factor in
resettlement and partly due to the constraints in construction seasons in Vietnam. Similar patterns are
also shown in the existing Water Resources Assistance Project. Future lending in water development
should take into consideration the absorptive capacity of the Borrower and make realistic estimates of the
scope of physical intervention and the project time-frame for implementation and disbursement.

 6.1.5 Decentralization of implementation responsibility. One main reason that the RWSS
 component was implemented successfully has to do with the decentralized responsibility for
 implementation to provincial levels. This arrangement increased the ownership, accountability and,
 subsequently, the cooperation of the local governments. MARD still manages a lot of its development
 projects from its Hanoi-based departments, the CPO or from its regionally-based SIOs which report
 directly to MARD. This project showed that a lot of transaction costs were incurred due to
 communications and coordination between CPO and local authorities, and where responsibilities were
 delegated to local levels actions were faster with better results. There was also a need to streamline the
 review and approval process of MARD in terms of feasibility studies, engineering design and
 procurement to improve efficiency.

 6.1.6 Technical design flexibility should be allowed at project design, appraisal and continue to be so
 during implementation stage to quickly respond to new demands from beneficiaries.

 6.1.7 Implementation readiness. The implementation could be much quicker if the Government
 could arrange sufficient counterpart fund to advance the technical design process to ensure the early
 project start-up.




                                                                                                          19
Annex 1.      Project Cost and Financing

Project Cost by Component

                                                    Appraisal      Actual/Latest   Percentage
                      Components                     Estimate       Estimated          of
                                                   (US$ million)   (US$ million)   Appraisal
1. Improvement of Water Resources Infrastructure      113.5           128.4           113
   South Mang Thit sub-project                          57.9            61.3          106
   O Mon Xa No sub-project                             17.7             25.0          142
   Quan Lo-Phung Hiep sub-project                      11.7             34.1          291
   Tertiary Works (3 sub-projects)                     26.2              8.0           31
2. Rural Water Supply and Sanitation                     4.9            19.6          400
   Clean water provision                                 4.3           19.2           447
   Improving sanitation                                  0.6             0.4           66
3. Institutional Support and Development                 9.4             8.5           90
Total Base Cost                                       127.8              -              -
    Physical Contingencies                               1.2             -              -
    Price Contingencies                                  8.7             -              -
Total Project Cost                                    147.6           156.5           106


Financing

                                                    Appraisal      Actual/Latest   Percentage
                    Source of Funds                  Estimate       Estimated          of
                                                   (US$ million)   (US$ million)   Appraisal
Government                                              32.3            49.0          152
IDA                                                   101.8           106.2           104
Beneficiary contribution                                13.5             1.3           10
Total                                                 147.6           156.5           106




                                                                                        20
Annex 2A.         Outcome by Component

                                                                                                      % of     % of
              Outcome Indicator                   Unit          PAD           MTR            ICR
                                                                                                      PAD     MTR
 1   increasing rural incomes and reducing rural poverty by increasing agricultural production through the provision
     of reliable agriculture water supply and flood control
 a   Increased crop production (i)          Million ton       3.45           2.84          3.30         96         116
 b   Triple rice crop (ii)                       Ha         100,135         48,689       75,926        76          156
 c   Double rice plus upland (ii)                Ha         194,255        223,473       201,942       104          90
 d   Fish & shrimp area                          Ha          18,321         67,957       65,473        357          96
 e   Fish & shrimp yield                        Ton            n.a.         36,699       31,899        n.a          87
 f   Upland & cash crops area                    Ha          29,300         65,897       70,106        239         106
 g   Upland & cash crops yield              Million ton        n.a.          1.06          1.68        n.a.        158
 h   Increased farmers' incomes (iii)        US$/farm         1,358          1,358        2,826        208         208
 2   improving living conditions of poor people through the provision of clean water supply for drinking and
     domestic use and sanitation up-grading
 a   Beneficiaries (people) for clean
                                                                           280,000      761,447
     water supply and improved
                                                 No.        280,000        (Phase I    (Phases I +     272         272
     sanitation (iv)
                                                                             only)       II + III)
 b   Access to safe drinking water and
     better sanitation for dispersed rural
     population improved (increased             Percent         60%            60%           85%         142       142
     coverage of clean water supply)
 3   promoting sustainable water resources development and management through establishing a mechanism at river
     basin level
 a   A policy statement and preparation                     To be    Completed Completed         n.a.     n.a.
     of an options paper on integrated                   written by
     water resources and management for                    end of
     the Mekong Delta                                       2000
 b   Establishment of a Delta-wide water                    To be                                n.a.     n.a.
     resources management body through                   established
     a consultation process.                              by early   Completed Completed
                                                            2002
     Water fee collection (by early 2002
 c
     to be at least double 1997 baseline of     BVND             34           10.225       Note (v)       n.a.     n.a.
     17 BVND).
 d   Environmental and river flow               No. of
     monitoring network improved              monitoring         30             46            56         187       122
                                               stations
 e   Flood risk mitigated                                      To be         Same as      Outcome        n.a..     n.a.
                                                              achieved        PAD         achieved
                                                                after                       in all
                                                             infrastruct                    areas,
                                                              ure built                   especially
                                                                                           OMXN
Notes:
(i) The reasons for the reduction of production are as follows: (a) due to the change of cropping pattern from triple
and double rice into rice with shrimp or fish, and other cash crops; (b) this figure only includes the rice production.
However, actual aquaculture and cash crop areas have been increased significantly.
(ii) Key Performance Indicators in the PAD for expected total agricultural production in mid-2004 were 75,000 ha
for triple rice and 30,000 ha for double rice.
(iii) The farm income increased due to shifting from single rice to triple rice and the other cash crops.
(iv) Annex 1 of the PAD quotes 280,000 households provided with clean water and improved sanitation by mid-
2004, but the main text (p.5) refers to 280,000 un-served or under-served rural people. Comparing investment costs
per head, the intention of the PAD was clearly for 280,000 people, rather than households. In addition, this figure
does not including off-farm labor.
(v) Farmers exempted from water fees from 1 Jan.08. No data for total amount collected in 2007.


                                                                                                                     21
Annex 2B.        Outputs by Component

                                                                                                           % of     % of
                          Output Indicator                         Unit       PAD        MTR       ICR
                                                                                                           PAD      MTR
 1   Improvement of Water Resources Infrastructure
     a Main Canal systems
           Main canals                                             Km          465        495      483     104          98
           Main sluices                                            No.          26        37        41     158          111
     b Secondary Canal systems
           Secondary canals (i)                                    Km         1,520       672      586      39          87
           Secondary sluices(ii)                                   No.         138        130      125      91          96
     c Other Civil Works
           Embankments/dikes/revetments                           Km          368         212      234      79          110
           Bridges (iii)                                          No.         112         123       88      64           72
           Roads (+ operating houses) (iii)                       Km           65          28       28     43           100
     d Tertiary canals and on-farm systems                       US$M         12.7        8.13     8.02     63           99
          PAH resettlement and compensation                     Household    35,701      29,627   39,696   111          134
 2   Improvement of Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
     a Clean water provision
           Piped water supply systems                              No.                     605      644                 106
           Wells                                                   No.                    4,040   4,040                 100
                                                                              n.a. (v)                      n.a.
           Filters                                                 No.                    2,060    2,060                100
           Water jars (iv)                                         No.                   67,382   61,814                92
     b Improving Sanitation
           Household sanitation facilities (toilets)               No.         n.a.      1,539    6,916    n.a.         449
           Hygiene education training/Campaign                    US$M         0.4        0.4     0.64     173          173
 3   Institutional Support
     a TA, monitoring and study
           TA Consultant for project management/support           US$M         1.58       1.58     1.74    110          110
           RAP external monitor (HGRC)                            US$M         0.22       0.22     0.26    116          116
           Environment monitoring (SIWRP)                         US$M         0.27       0.27     0.32    118          118
           Fish migration monitoring (TBI)                        US$M         0.10       0.10     0.11    106          106
           Rice-Fish cultivation study (VRTC)                     US$M         0.06       0.06     0.08    130          130
           Study on strengthening of Delta-wide WR
                                                                  US$M         0.43       0.43     0.58    135          135
         management
           Hydraulic modeling                                     US$M         0.44       0.44     0.21    48           48
           Engineering design                                     US$M         3.25       3.25     3.92    121          121
           Domestic / International training, Study tours         US$M         2.20       2.20     0.68    31           31
     b Office facilities                                          US$M         0.74       0.74     0.73     99           99

Notes:

(i) At project completion, the length of secondary canals was reduced due to: (a) the government and IDA task team
at the MTR agreed to exclude some secondary canals from the project scope of activities because of the high
resettlement involved with dredging secondary canal systems; (b) local government used its own funds to finance
some secondary canals; and (c) according to the final technical design, the density of secondary canals was reduced
based on the actual demand.
(ii) Secondary sluices were reduced to a few: (a) some were built using the government's own funding at the request
of local authorities; (b) the others were not needed based on the final technical design and the remaining were
enough to facilitate transport and water delivery.
(iii) Some bridges and roads were reduced along with the secondary canals and sluices described above, and some
bridges had been built by the provincial transport sector due to urgent demand from local communities.
(iv) According to the final investment plan, the number of water jars was reduced slightly due to the increased unit
price.
(v) No breakdown was given in PAD.



                                                                                                                   22
Annex 3.          Economic and Financial Analysis

3.1      Introduction. This Annex describes the financial and economic analysis of the project,
comparing the assumptions made at project appraisal (PAD), the situation at mid-term review (MTR) and
the final outcome on project completion (ICR), and is divided into three sections. The first section
summarises the project's objectives, components and assumed benefits. The second section deals with
the cost-benefit analysis. T he third section describes the economic and financial analysis and
conclusions.

3.2    Project benefits. The project will help to increase agricultural production, reduce rural poverty,
improve living conditions in the project area and facilitate sustainable and integrated water resource
development and management in Mekong Delta.5

3.3     The quantifiable benefits include: (a) an increase in agricultural production and income; (b)
increased on-farm employment generation; (c) expanded coverage of clean water supply; and (d) indirect,
off-farm employment generation. About 2.3 million people (about 50 percent of 332,000 farming
households in the project area) would be beneficiaries.

3.4      The non-quantifiable benefits include: (a) families benefiting from processing, marketing and
distribution of the increased agricultural production; (b) protection of property and agricultural crops,
improving living conditions and access to education and health facilities in the flood season through
protection and drainage; (c) increased employment in project civil works construction; and (d) improved
water resource planning and management at the Delta-wide, provincial and farm level.

Cost-Benefit Analysis

3.5     Methodology. The methodology used for quantifying project costs and benefits follows that of
the PAD and MTR, except in the case related to the adjustment of the project investment and
implementation plan, the land-use plan, the cropping pattern (cropping intensity and diversification,
especially for aquaculture development) and the prices and yields. The main changes are summarized
below.

3.6      Adjustment of the implementation plan and costs The project investment plan entailed
shifting from a reliance on the improvement of irrigation and drainage infrastructure to providing year-
round freshwater in all areas mainly for rice production (at appraisal) to an emphasis on managing water
in an economically-optimal fashion to facilitate a more flexible land-use pattern, serving the dual purpose
of supplying fresh water for paddy and saline water for aquaculture production, and accommodating
changes in future market demand. The project implementation and construction costs related to the above
adjustment would be changed accordingly, including the design and construction of related canals and
structures.

3.7      Although there are no changes in the broad project objectives, a 2½ year extension to the project
implementation period was given by IDA because of the slow implementation progress (mainly the result
of the resettlement process and technical design modifications). As a result, the total project adjusted cost
is US$156.5 million. It represents an increase of US$8.9 million from the original US$147.6 million at
appraisal, mainly because of the increased costs for land acquisition and resettlement in the Irrigation and
Drainage Improvement Component and the increase in the credit allocation to the Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Component. The up-dated investment costs are presented in Table 1.



                 Table 1. Details of Investment Costs for Water Resources Infrastructure

        Component 1                                                 Year

5
    WB, PAD Annex 4, p.1.

                                                                                                          23
                            Total
     Water Resources
                             Cost     1999   2000    2001     2002     2003     2004     2005     2006    2007*
      Infrastructure
                            MVND

   SMT     Design            28,314 1,101    568     6,845    6,448    1,619    9,682    1,067     984      0
           Civil Works      705,167    0     5,762   9,651    16,479   87,620 130,808 155,378 179,839 123,904
           Resettlement     264,415    0     1,273   8,015    81,979   61,137   67,971   34,711   4,310   3,366
           Total            997,896 1,101    7,603   24,511 104,907 150,376 208,461 191,156 185,133 127,270


  OMXN     Design            17,884    0      0       919     1,462    1,731    8,042     372      352    2,208
           Civil Works      321,170    0      0        0      7,860    4,190      0      33,314 136,181 139,285
           Resettlement      74,065    0      0        0      1,825    10,595   26,489   29,216   3,475   2,390
           Total            413,119    0      0       919     11,147   16,516   34,530   62,901 140,007 143,883


   QLPH    Design            20,689    0     1,028   2,294    8,512    3,300    2,311    1,830    1,434     0
           Civil Works      368,260 4,716    1,690   9,166    11,535   51,853   45,897   52,746   82,560 102,405
           Resettlement     182,439 2,826    324       0      25,458   93,713   35,424   28,437    776    1,473

           Total            571,388 7,542    3,041   11,460   45,506 148,866 83,632      83,012   84,770 103,878



3.8     All project costs, including investment costs and physical contingency provisions, production
costs and O&M costs, have been considered in estimating the economic costs of the project but price
contingency provisions, taxes, duties and other charges were omitted. The O&M costs for each sub-
project have been revised, based on the up-dated investment costs for main water system and on-farm
works.

3.9      Land use "with project" at PAD, MTR and ICR The provincial Comprehensive Agriculture
Development Plans for 2003-2010 have been adopted to adjust the land-use plans for each province in the
project area. After the MTR, the technical design was revised to improve flood protection and drainage
systems and achieve more efficient irrigation services. According to the adjustment of the technical
implementation design and investment plan, the total gross area of the project would be 534,860 ha (there is
a slight difference of 1,777 ha compared to PAD because of a difference in the definitions of land), of which
total agricultural land developed in the project is 412,316 ha (this is a slight increase of 486 ha compared to
PAD) including 171,442 ha in SMT, 41,580 ha in OMXN and 201,586 ha in QLPH. The total cultivated
land allocated and designed for paddy and aquaculture production have been changed significantly,
including a reduction in paddy land of 65,302 ha (including 24,209 ha reduced for triple rice, 15,493 ha
reduced for double rice, 25,600 ha reduced for single rice and 31,692 ha increased for rice with fish, rice
with shrimp and rice with upland crops), and an increase in the shrimp and fish area of 65,473 ha, of which
19,542 ha is for single shrimp and 45,931 ha for rice with shrimp and rice with fish. The project facilitated a
significant intensification of agricultural production. A comparison of the detailed land use "without-
project", "with-project" estimated at appraisal and "with-project" actually achieved at ICR is shown in
Table 2.


                    Table 2 Changes in Land Use between PAD, MTR and ICR

                                             PAD                     MTR                          ICR
                                      Without     With          With    Changes in         With     Changes in
     Land Use by Crops
                                      Project    Project       Project    MTR             Project     ICR
  Total Project Area           ha      532,973    532,973       534,860      1,887         534,860       1,887
  Total Agricultural land      ha      413,359    411,830       412,025        195         412,316         486
  Annual crops                 ha      357,630    349,290       326,871    -22,419         326,750     -22,540
  Triple cropping              ha       80,777    161,135        69,842    -91,293         123,455     -37,680
   Triple rice                 ha       62,277    100,135        46,382    -53,753          73,342     -26,793

                                                                                                                  24
   Triple rice + fish          ha                                      2,307         2,307       2,584         2,584
   Double rice + upland        ha        18,500        61,000        11,551       -49,449      30,902        -30,098
   Double rice + shrimp        ha                                      9,602         9,602     16,627         16,627
 Double cropping               ha      166,694        133,255      199,244         65,989     162,925         29,670
   Two rice                    ha      166,694        133,255      161,620         28,365     131,233         -2,022
   One rice + One shrimp       ha                                    29,588        29,588      26,465         26,465
   Upland +shrimp              ha                                    -              -                0
   Rice + fish                 ha                                    -              -              255           255
   Rice + upland               ha                                      8,036         8,036       4,972         4,972
 Single cropping               ha      110,159         54,900        57,785          2,885     40,370        -14,530
   Single rice                 ha        91,551        25,600              0      -25,600            0       -25,600
   Upland crops                ha                                    32,664        32,664      18,208         18,208
   Industrial crops            ha        18,608        29,300        21,682         -7,618     20,996         -8,304
 Other agricultural land       ha                                      3,439         3,439       1,166         1,166
 Fruit tree                    ha        55,729        62,540        58,694         -3,846     66,024          3,484
 Fishery                       ha        18,321        18,321              0      -18,321                    -18,321
 Fishery (Shrimp)              ha                                    26,460        26,460      19,542         19,542
 Total Cropped Area            ha      741,607        872,355      757,143 -115,212           822,151        -50,204
 Cropping Intensity            %       179            212          184            -28         199            -12
 Note: The land-use plan for each sub-project area is given in Tables 2a to 2c in the Appendix attached to the end of
 this Annex 3.

3.10     Adjustment of the cropping pattern. Based on the revised land-use plan, the cropping pattern,
crop intensity and crop diversification have been adjusted accordingly. In the project area, it was
estimated that the overall cropping intensity with the project would increase by 11 percent from 179
percent without project at appraisal to 199 percent at full development, but it slightly declined compared
with the expected target at appraisal from 212 to 199 percent because of the shift from triple rice and
double rice to rice with fish and rice with shrimp. Comparing the ICR with the PAD, a shift in the
cropping pattern from mainly triple and double paddy crops (from 71 percent of the total cropped areas to
50 percent) to a combination of paddy and higher-value brackish and freshwater shrimps (from 0 to 16
percent) increased agricultural and aquaculture production and farmer income through improved
agricultural productivities. These increases were achieved with the modified technical design for a more
flexible water control system (integrated freshwater with saline water in different seasons and areas).

3.11     Adjustment of the price, yield and production. Table 3 shows the adjustments in cropped areas,
yields and production between the PAD (1999), the MTR (2003) and the ICR (2007). The average project
yield for rice has increased from 4,490 kg/ha (the PAD target) to 5,044 kg/ha (at the ICR), an increase of
112 percent compared with the expected target at appraisal. Average fish and shrimp yields also increased,
from 1,100 kg/ha to 1,200 kg/ha for fish (109 percent of the MTR target) and from 475 kg/ha to 592
kg/ha for shrimp (125 percent of the MTR target).

3.12     Impact on agricultural production, exports and prices. Paddy production exceeded the MTR,
and increased from 2.8 to 3.2 million tons. Incremental paddy production due to full development of the
project reached 0.9 million tons (139 percent of the PAD target). Total paddy output in term of value is
VND 10,042 million. However, it did not meet the expected target estimated at appraisal (3.4 million
tons) as the result of shifting from triple and double rice crops into rice with shrimp and rice with fish and
changing cropping patterns.

3.13    The diversified cash crops and fruit crops have increased significantly (compared with the PAD,
the land for cash and fruit crops increased significantly (239 percent), the crop area increased (106
percent compared with MTR estimation) and production output increased (158 percent compared with the
MTR estimate).

3.14    As a result of the shift from triple and double rice crops into rice with shrimp and rice with fish,
the cropped areas for fish and shrimp production increased significantly compared with the PAD target
(357 percent). Compared with the MTR targets, the cropped areas for fish increased (by 123 percent) and
production output increased (by 229), but the shrimp cropped areas declined slightly (to 95 percent) and

                                                                                                                    25
 output declined (to 76 percent). Total output for rice, fish and shrimp declined slightly (to 96 percent of
 PAD) but increased (to 116 percent of the MTR target).

 3.15    The market rice price increased very much in recent years from VND1,700/kg (at MTR) to
 VND3,500/kg in 2007. Brackish water shrimp prices also increased from VND80,000/kg in 2003 to
 between VND100,000 - 120,000/kg on average in 2007. The market price of inputs also increased very
 much, especially that of fertilizers, pesticides and labor. The wage rate increased from VND25,000/day
 in 2003 to VND35,000/day in 2007. The market prices of seed rice increased from VND2,800/kg to
 VND5,500/kg, that of urea increased from VND2,800/kg to VND5,400/kg, and that of DAP increased
 from VND3,500/kg to VND8,830/kg. The price of maize increased from VND1,700/kg to VND6,000/kg.
 Upland vegetables also increased in price from VND1,160/kg to VND2,000/kg.

 3.16    In the first nine months of 2007, Vietnam exported about 3.975 million tons of rice with a total
 value of US$1,264 million. If all incremental rice production from the project (0.9 million tons of paddy,
 equivalent to 0.59 million tons of rice) was exported, this would be equivalent to 14.7 percent of the rice
 exports in year 2007. The net foreign exchange earnings from rice export of 0.59 million tons would be
 about US$189 million (300 percent of the appraisal target); the rice export price at the end of 2007 was
 US$323/ton). The world rice price increases continued in 2008, and the net benefits from rice should be
 even higher.




   Table 3 Changes in Cropped Area, Yield and Production between PAD, MTR and ICR

       Sub-project / Crops      PAD Estimates with Project MTR Estimates with Project       ICR with Project
                                 Area    Yield Production    Area Yield Production       Area    Yield Production
                                  ha     kg/ha    ton         ha  kg/ha    ton            ha     kg/ha    ton
               SMT
Triple Rice (WS/SA/AW)          183,618 5,183    951,753    105,147 5,400   567,794     104,337 5,333    556,429
Double Rice (WS/SA)             126,874 4,750    602,652    71,408 5,850    417,737     133,110 5,700    758,727
Single Rice (AW)                 7,000   3,300   23,100     11,944 4,500    53,748      15,609   4,600   71,801
Improved Freshwater Extensive
                                                             1,502   400     601        12,153   600      7,292
Shrimp (with double rice)



                                                                                                               26
        Sub-project / Crops            PAD Estimates with Project MTR Estimates with Project                 ICR with Project
                                        Area     Yield Production        Area Yield Production           Area      Yield Production
                                         ha      kg/ha    ton             ha  kg/ha    ton                ha       kg/ha    ton
Improved Freshwater Extensive
Shrimp (with single rice)
                                                                       11,944    400        4,778      11,944 400           4,778
Brackish Extensive Shrimp (without
                                                                        4,506    650        2,929       4,942      650      3,212
rice)
OMXN
Triple Rice (WS/SA/AW)                 53,787    4,765    256,277      10,236 5,033        51,521       46,782   4,953     231,711
Double Rice (WS/SA)                    20,000    4,750     95,000      32,142 5,450       175,174       13,232   5,552      73,464
Single Rice (AW)                                 3,300                  8,036   4,200      33,751       5,432    3,755      20,397
Improved Freshwater Extensive fish
(with triple rice)*
                                                                        2,307   1,100       2,538       2,584 1,200         3101
Extensive Freshwater Shrimp (with
double rice)*
                                                                        4,922    250        1,231       2,442      650      1,587
QLPH
Single Rice (WS)                       18,600    3,100     57,660               4,500                   10,651   5,610      59,752
Double Rice (WS/SA)                    241,638 4,625      1,117,576    261,996 5,150     1,349,279     211,182 5,040       1,064,357
Triple Rice (WS/SA/AW)                  63,000 5,183       326,550      30,684 4,933      151,374       76,659 4,857        372,333
Improved Extensive Brackish Shrimp
(with rice)
                                                                       21,225    500       10,613      12,683      600      7,610

Improved Extensive Brackish Shrimp
                                                                         21,552 650           14,009        14,198 650       9,229
(without rice)
Source: MTR report, June 2003
Note: in the OMXN sub-project, the model for rice-fish and rice-shrimp has been introduced. The total cropped area in 2006 is as
follows: model "1 rice-1 shrimp " is 205 ha; 2 rice- 1 shrimp is 468 ha; 2 rice-1 fish is 1,572 ha; 1 rice-1 fish is 255 ha.


 3.17     Farm Income Analysis. Typical crop and farm budgets were built to estimate the impact of the
 project on net economic and financial benefits and cash income. Table 4 compares net financial benefits
 for farm budgets in "without-project" and "with-project" project scenarios. At ICR, the net financial
 benefits for an average farm of 1.25 ha have been increased from US$361 (without project in PAD) to
 US$2,826. In comparison with the expected income targets at appraisal, the average net farm income has
 increased from US$928 (equivalent to US$1,358 in 2007 prices) to US$2,826 (208 percent of PAD) per
 household per year. Average per capita income has increased from VND300,000 (at appraisal) to
 VND625,000 at ICR (208 percent of PAD, 101.4 percent of income per capita from the VLSS in 2004).
 Comparing this figure with income from the VLSS in 2004, the average income per capita in the Mekong
 Delta in 2004 is VND471,070 (equivalent to 616,500 VND in 2007 prices). The detailed farm incomes
 for different crops are shown in Table 4. For the farmers who shifted from seasonal and double rice crop
 to double rice crops with fish and shrimp, incomes are much higher than original expected targets.




 Table 4      Net Financial Benefits from Increased Cropping Intensity for an Average Farm of 1.25 ha

                                           PAD                                                               ICR
      Without-project             With-project                         With-project            With-project              Change
      (in 1998 prices)           (in 1998 prices)                     (in 2007 prices)        (in 2007 prices)             (%)
   Cropping     US$/year  Cropping         US$/year                      US$/year                US$/year
 Seasonal rice     229   Double rice          626                            916                    2,265                 247
 Seasonal rice     229   Triple rice         1,137                          1,663                   2,625                 158

                                                                                                                                  27
                                      PAD                                                       ICR
   Without-project                   With-project              With-project         With-project         Change
    (in 1998 prices)                (in 1998 prices)          (in 2007 prices)     (in 2007 prices)        (%)
 Cropping     US$/year        Cropping        US$/year           US$/year             US$/year
                            Double
Seasonal rice      229                          1,030              1,507                3,005               199
                            rice/corn
Seasonal rice      229      Sugarcane (a)        609                891                 1,631               183
Double rice        625      Triple rice (b)     1,137              1,663                3,092               186
                            Double
Double rice        625                          1,030              1,507                4,336               288
                            rice/corn
Average             361                          928                 1,358                2,826                208
Notes:
a. At project completion, the domestic price for sugar cane fluctuated, and declined recently, so farmers shifted
from sugar cane to other upland crops. In the table, vegetables are used as representative of upland crops.
b. At ICR, it is double rice with fish
c. At ICR, it is double rice with shrimp
d. Net financial benefits are net of labor costs (including family labor). The detailed calculation of net financial
benefits is shown in the Appendix for double rice as well as double rice and corn. The values in the Appendix refer
to 1 ha, while the values in table above refer to an average farm of 1.25 ha in OMXN and QLPH sub-projects.

3.18     Impact on rural poverty. Although the Mekong Delta as a whole is not the poorest region in
Vietnam, large parts of the project area are relatively poor compared to other areas in the Delta.
Originally, among the 20 project districts, 12 had higher poverty rates than the average of the Delta, and
in three districts poverty was higher than for the average of the country. These estimates are based on
data from the IFPRI study "Mapping Poverty and Agro-Ecological Potential in Vietnam" (1998), which
assessed poverty based on a comprehensive set of indicators, including household expenditure, household
size and composition, education and ownership of assets. Another poverty report by the government
(1998) showed that the project covers six of the eight poorest districts in the Delta that were also among
the poorest in Vietnam. According to Vietnam General Statistics Office, the poverty rate in the Mekong
Delta region declined from 23.7 percent in 1999 to 12.4 percent in 2007. The project contributed to the
alleviation of rural poverty by directly increasing the productivity and incomes of about 108,400 farming
families (101.3 percent of PAD target) or about 618,000 people (101.3 percent of PAD target) and
increased cropping intensity from 179 percent (without-project at PAD) to 199 percent at the ICR . The
project also alleviated rural poverty by generating employment opportunities through on-farm and related
off-farm activities. The incremental on-farm direct employment as a result of increased cropping
intensity is 60,860 person-years (lower than the expected target). This benefited owner-operators, tenants
and landless labourers. In addition, benefits are derived from processing, marketing and distribution of
the increased agricultural production, and substantial employment was created by the civil works under
the project. A gender analysis shows that there are no significant constraints on project benefits accruing
to women. Indeed, women, as the primary collectors and managers of water in most households, benefit
in particular from more convenient access to safe water and sanitation facilities, which would mean
savings in time and effort for them, and better family health status resulting from adoption of improved
hygienic practices. Experience with the provision of rural drinking water supply and sanitation services
in the Mekong Delta supported by UNICEF has shown that these services bring substantial and sustained
benefits on a cost-effective basis. The project also benefits ethnic minorities: about 20 percent of project
area households are Khmer and Hoa people.

3.19     Economic Analysis. Following economic analysis of the costs and benefits, the following
observations are made and conclusions drawn. Even without the project, an increase in yields will occur
due to the increased use of improved rice varieties. To be conservative, the actual yield used in the
economic analysis is average, excluding yield increases due to the use of higher-yielding rice varieties
and higher yields due to other factors (such as good fertile soil, new technology, etc.).
3.20     As there are no significant distortions in the rural labor market, the average market wage rate for
hired labor has been used in the analysis. The same rate has been used for the input value of family labor.
Since the project is not large enough to alter significantly the demand for labor relative to its supply, the
wage rate in rural areas is not expected to change as a result of the project. Most project outputs (rice,
corn, soybeans, sugar, etc.) are tradable, while a substantial share of project inputs (mainly labor) is non-

                                                                                                                  28
tradable; the average exchange rate applied in the economic analysis is VND15,128 = US$1. The
economic prices for the main agricultural products and inputs used are export parity prices for rice,
shrimp and fish and import parity prices for corn and fertilizers, as shown in Table 5. The costs of
resettlement are included in the analysis. All other institutional development costs (project supervision,
design, technical assistance, training and incremental costs) are included in the analysis. The rural water
supply and sanitation component accounts for 12.9 percent of project costs, and its benefits could not be
easily quantified. Thus, neither the costs nor benefits of this component were included in the ERR
calculation. The time needed to reach full crop development in areas provided with water infrastructure is
estimated to be five years after the completion of the infrastructure, both for the "with-project" and the
"without- project" cases.

                                  Table 5 Prices of Inputs and Products

                                                     Price (US$ per ton)

   Commodity            1999      2000      2001    2002     2003      2004     2005     2006      2007
   CIF Saigon port
   Potassium            139       149        196    134       330      285       210      220      208
   DAP                  176       173        178    210       290      300       305      400      254
   NPK                  160     142          142    163       265      350       360      355      242
   Maize                128       128        123    134       150      120       170      200      144

   FOB Saigon port
   Rice                 190       177        229     178      220      250       250      300      323
   Shrimp              8,706     8,184      5,488   8,363    7,000    7,450     8,100    9,200     7811
   Fish                3,008     2,436      1,954   2,219    5,000    2,400     2,680    2,700     2800
                Source: General Customs Office

3.21     Results of the Economic Evaluation at ICR. Comparing the revised costs and benefits in the
ICR with those in the PAD, the project generated greater benefits through the newly-developed
aquaculture products with proper adjustment of the cropping pattern, and substantial improvements in
crop diversification; although progress in project implementation was slow (the project life was extended
by 2.5 years) the achievement of the project benefits was significant. The quantifiable benefits are
derived from the actual and projected cultivated area developed and planted by year and crops in 1999-
2007, based on the actual and projected phasing of investment expenditure, and the proposed cropping
pattern and intensity from project authorities in each sub-project area.

3.22     Economic Rate of Return. Given the benefits and costs structures in each sub-project area, as
well as the objective of the project, detailed rate-of-return calculations have been carried out based on the
above assumptions. The analysis compared the quantifiable benefits derived through the improvements
in irrigation and drainage facilities and technologies, water and agricultural productivity and the
economic costs. Comparing costs and benefits over a period of 25 years, the estimated ERRs for
individual sub-projects range from about 11.3 percent for SMT (with the highest investment costs for
main sluices and canals) to 27 percent for QPLH, depending on the assumptions regarding crop yields,
years to reach stable stage, cropping intensity, cropping pattern, the size of the developed and planted
area, and the investment and O&M costs for each type of irrigation and drainage infrastructure at the time
of implementation and operation in the sub-project area. The overall Project ERR is 15.7 percent with a
NPV of US$84 million. The benefits with the project included in the ERR calculation are very
conservative because of the above-referenced conservative assumptions for prices and yields. The
detailed ERRs are summarized in Table 6. The ERRs at the ICR are slightly lower than those at the MTR
and much lower than those in the PAD fpr the following reasons: (a) delays in project completion by 2.5
years; (b) prices of inputs increased very much in recent years; and (c) the SMT ERR is 11.3 percent as a
result of the high investment cost (44 percent of the total investment cost); even at the MTR, the SMT's
ERR was estimated at 12.4 percent. The QLPH sub-project has the highest ERR (27 percent) as a result
of the significant change in cropping patterns (shifting from triple and double crops into extensive shrimp
production and rice with shrimp), even though the investment cost for this sub-project is high (37.6

                                                                                                          29
percent of the total cost).

3.23     Financial Analysis. Table 7 gives the project cost summary, broken down into foreign and local
costs.

                                      Table 7 Project Cost Summary

                                                                             Costs
                                                                          (US$ million)
                            Project Component                   Foreign      Local         Total
         1. Improvement of Water Resources Infrastructure        76.70       40.18        116.88
                SMT                                              39.79       16.48         56.27
                OMXN                                             18.31        4.55         22.86
                QLPH                                             18.60       11.13         29.73
                  Tertiary works (three sub-project areas)                    8.02          8.02
         2. Rural Water Supply and Sanitation                    16.23        1.07         17.31
         3. Institutional Support and Development                  7.59       0.28          7.87
          Total                                                 100.52       41.54        142.06
         Note: Data up-dated at March 29, 2008

Note that the total cost of US$142.06 million represents the total amount spent (Credit disbursed +
government counterpart funds + beneficiaries contributions) up to March 29, 2008, as indicated in Tables
2A and 2B of Annex 2, where the physical completion of civil works contracts was some 94 percent. The
estimated final project cost of US$156.49 million, also shown in those tables, represents the final total
estimated costs of all civil works when physical completion reaches 100 percent.

3.24     Conclusions and Recommendations

(a) The project is economically viable with an ERR of 15.7 percent and a NPV of US$84 million at a
discount rate of 12 percent.

(b) The switching value on increase in investment and O& M cost is 121 percent.

(c) Apart from the quantifiable benefits in agriculture, the project has also brought multi-faceted benefits
such as positive impacts on improving the land and water environment in the entire region, increasing silt
deposits on agricultural land, improving water quality of rivers and on-farm canals, overcoming water
pollution which causes epidemic diseases for the community and livestock in the region, and job creation
for the local farmers.




                                                   APPENDIX

    Table 8a      Financial Farm Budget for Triple Cropping - WS rice, AW rice and Maize per ha



                                                                                                          30
                                                      W/0       W        W/0           W
                                           Unit                       Benefit/cost Benefit/cost
                                                    Quantity Quantity
                                                                        (US$)        (US$)
 1. Gross Benefits
                     Rice                   kg       9,700    10,100       2,244       2,337
                     Maize                  kg       4,000     4,400       1,586       1,745
 2. Farm Costs
                Seeds                       kg         417       417         152         152
                Urea                        kg         550       580         196         207
                DAP                         kg         250       260         146         152
                 NPK                        kg         200       200          61          61
                Phosphate                   kg         350       350         125         125
                Potassium                   kg         250       250          79          79
                Fungicide                  US$          40        40          40          40
                Pesticide                  US$          40        40          40          40
                Herbicides                 US$          40        40          40          40
                Growth Medicine            US$           4         4           4           4
                Plough - Land preparation   ha          30        30          30          30
                Levelling                   ha          30        30          30          30
                Harvesting / threshing      kg           8         8           8           8
                Transport to farm gate      ha          20        20          20          20
                        Total Farm Costs                                     969         985
                Labour                    Man-day      233       270         462         535
                Others                     US$         157       157         157         157
 3. Net Farm Cash Income                                                   2,243       2,404




Table 8b   Financial Farm Budget for Double Cropping -WS rice and SA rice per hectare

                                           Unit       W/0       W         W/0          W



                                                                                                  31
                                                                                  Benefit/cost Benefit/cost
                                                              Quantity Quantity
                                                                                    (US$)        (US$)
       1. Gross Benefits                                kg     9,800    11,104        2,267        2,569

       2. Farm Costs
                       Seeds                       kg            360       360          131          131
                       Urea                        kg            450       350          161          125
                       DAP                         kg            240       240          140          140
                        NPK                        kg            220       220           67           67
                       Fungicide                  US$             26        26           26           26
                       Pesticide                  US$             26        26           26           26
                       Herbicides                 US$             26        26           26           26
                       Growth Medicine            US$              2         2            2            2
                       Plough - Land preparation   ha             20        20           20           20
                       Levelling                   ha             10        10           10           10
                       Harvesting / threshing      kg              1         1            1            1
                       Transport to farm gate      ha              7         7            7            7
       Total Farm Costs                                                                 617          582
                       Labour                    man-day         163        85          323          169
                       Others                     US$              7         7            7            7
       3. Net Farm Cash Income                                                        1,320        1,812




Table 8a shows that the net farm income per ha for triple cropping (WS rice, AW rice and maize) increased by
US$161 from US$ 2,243 (without-project) to US$2,404 (with-project); in the PAD, this figure is US$1,141 for
without-project and US$1,340 for with-project.

Table 8b shows that the net farm income per ha for double cropping (WS rice and SA rice) increased by US$492
from US$1,320 (without-project) to US$1,812 (with-project); in the PAD, this figure was US$501 for without-
project and US$760 for with-project.




                                                                                                               32
  Table 2a     Changes in land use between PAD, MTR and ICR in the South Mang Thit sub-project
               area

                                        PAD                            MTR                              ICR
Land Use by Crops              Without With         Without With         Changes With                    Changes
                                               W-WO                 W-WO
                               Project Project      Project Project      in MTR Project                   in ICR
Total Agricultural land   ha   171,837 171,442 -395       171,671 171,441 -230       -1        171,442       -0
Annual crops              ha   146,813 144,443 -2,370     151,649 127,176 -24,472 -17,267      126,742    -17,701
Triple cropping           ha   46,954   98,206   51,252   61,249   36,551 -24,698 -61,655      79,225     -18,981
 Triple rice              ha   31,954   61,206   29,252   61,249   35,049 -26,200 -26,157      34,779     -26,427
 Double rice + fish       ha
 Double rice + upland     ha   15,000   37,000   22,000                              -37,000   30,001     -6,999
 Double rice + shrimp     ha                                       1,502    1,502     1,502    12,153     12,153
 3 upland crops                                                                                 2,292         2,292
Double cropping           ha   47,039   26,437 -20,602    52,549   46,146   -6,403   19,709    40,010     13,573
 Two rice                 ha   47,039   26,437 -20,602    52,503   34,202 -18,301    7,765     24,401     -2,036
 One rice + one shrimp    ha                                46     11,944   11,898   11,944    15,609     15,609
 Upland + shrimp          ha
 Rice + fish              ha
 Rice + upland            ha
Single cropping           ha   52,820   19,800 -33,020    37,851   44,479   6,628    24,679     7,507     -12,293
 Single rice              ha   46,212   7,000  -39,212                        0      -7,000       0       -7,000
 Upland crops             ha                      0       20,433   27,798   7,366    27,798      0           0
 Industrial crops         ha    6,608   12,800 6,192       8,279   14,408   6,128     1,608     7507      -5,293
Other agricultural land   ha                       0       9,139    2,273   -6,866   2,273       0           0
Fruit trees               ha   25,024   26,999   1,975    20,004   39,758   19,754   12,759    39,758     12,759
Fishery (Shrimp)          ha                       0        18      4,506    4,488   4,506     4,942       4,942
Total Cropped area        ha   312,784 394,291 81,507     346,718 290,694 -56,024 -103,597 369,902        -24,389
Cropping intensity        %      182     230     48         202     169     -33      -61     216            -14




                                                                                                                33
    Table 2b        Changes in Land Use between PAD, MTR and ICR in the O Mon - Xa No sub-project
                    area

                                                   PAD                                     MTR                            ICR
Land Use by Crops                  Present Without With W-WO                WO      WP     WP-WO Changes       With Changes
                                    1997   Project Project                                             In MTR Project in ICR
Total Agricultural land       ha   39,130   39,130   38,803       (327)    36,634 38,999     2,365      196      41,580     2,777
Annual crops                  ha   33,403   32,831   31,929       (902)    31,529 32,068      539       139      33,751     1,822
Triple cropping               ha   19,823   19,823   27,929       8,106    16,651 19,483     2,832     (8,446)   18,937     (8,992)
  Triple rice                 ha   19,823   19,823   17,929       (1,894) 16,503   1,105 (15,398) (16,824)       13,010     (4,919)
  Triple rice + fish          ha                                                   2,307   2,307    2,307         2,584      2,584
  Double rice + upland        ha              0          10,000   10,000           11,551 11,551    1,551          901      (9,099)
  Double rice + shrimp/fish   ha              0            0                148    4,520     4,372      4,520    2,442      2,442
Double cropping               ha   9,814    9,242                 (9,242) 10,421   8,036    (2,385)     8,036    8,705      8,705
  Two rice                    ha   9,814    9,242          0      (9,242) 10,421            (10,421)             3,273      3,273
  One rice + one shrimp       ha                                                                                  205           205
  Upland + shrimp             ha                                                                                   0
  Rice + fish                 ha                                                                                  255           255
  Rice + upland               ha                                                   8,036     8,036      8,036    4,972      4,972
Single cropping               ha   3,766    3,766        4,000     234     4,457   4,549      92        549      6,109      2,109
  Single rice                 ha    223      223           0      (223)
  Upland crops                ha                                           3,457   3,412      (45)      3,412    1,557.0    1,557
 Industrial crops             ha   3,543    3,543        4,000     457     1,000   1,137      137      (2,863)   4,552          552
Other agricultural land       ha                                           2,729            (2,729)
Fruit trees                   ha   5,727    6,299        6,874     575     5,094   6,529     1,435      (345)    7,427          553
Fishery                       ha                                            11      402       391       402       402           402
Total Cropped area            ha   88,590   88,018   94,661       6,643    8,6543 9,1608     5,065     (3,053)   88,159     (6,502)
Cropping intensity            %     226      225          244      19.0     220     235      14.8       (9.4)     212           (32)




                                                                                                                                34
  Table 2c Changes in Land Use between PAD, MTR and ICR Quan Lo - Phung Hiep sub-project
           area

                                        PAD                            MTR                              ICR
Land Use by Crops              Without With         Without With         Changes With                    Changes
                                               W-WO                 W-WO
                               Project Project      Project Project      in MTR Project                   in ICR
Total Agricultural land   ha   202,394 201,586    -808    201,586 201,586     0        0       201,586         0
Annual crops              ha   177,989 172,919 -5,070     189,782 167,627 -22,154    -5,292    167,383    -5,536
Triple cropping           ha   14,002   40,000   25,998   23,996   13,808 -10,188 -26,192      27,585     -12,415
 Triple rice              ha   10,502   21,000   10,498   23,996   10,228 -13,768 -10,772      25,553         4,553
 Triple rice + fish       ha                                                            0         0          0
 Double rice + upland     ha    3,500   19,000   15,500     0        0        0      -19,000      0       -19,000
 Double rice + shrimp             0        0        0       0      3,580    3,580     3,580     2,032      2,032
Double cropping           ha   110,413 101,819 -8,594     152,278 145,063 -7,215     43,244    114,210    12,391
 Two rice                 ha   110,413 101,819 -8,594     146,666 127,418 -19,247    25,599    103,559    1,740
 One rice + one shrimp    ha      0       0       0        1,707  17,645 15,938      17,645     10,651    10,651
 Upland + shrimp          ha                               2,962     0     -2,962       0         0          0
 Rice + fish              ha                                502      0      -502        0         0         0
 Rice + upland            ha                                442      0      -442        0         0          0
Single cropping           ha   53,574   31,100 -22,474    13,508   8,756    -4,752   -22,344   25,588     -5,512
 Single rice              ha   45,117   18,600 -26,517     6,631     0      -6,631   -18,600     0        -18,600
 Upland crops             ha     0        0       0        1,205   1,453     249      1,453    16,651     16,651
 Industrial crops         ha    8,457   12,500   4,043     4,880   6,137    1,256    -6,363     8,937     -3,563
Other agricultural land   ha     0        0        0       791     1,166     375     1,166      1,166         1,166
Fruit trees               ha   24,405   28,667   4,262     6,036   12,407    6,371   -16,260   18,839     -9,828
Fishery (Shrimp)          ha     0        0        0       5,768   21,552   15,784    21,552   14198      14,198
Total Cropped area        ha   340,811 383,405 42,594     401,855 374,265 -27,590    -9,140    370,966    -12,439
Cropping intensity        %     168      190      22       199      186      -13       -4       184            (6)




                                                                                                                35
Annex 4.        Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

Task Team members
                                                                           Responsibility/
Names                      Title                                   Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Mei Xie                    Senior Water Resource Engineering       EASRD   Task Team Leader
S. Husain                  Senior Economist                        EASRD   Economics/Institutions
M. Schiffler               Economist                               EASRD   Economics
C. H. Zhang                Social Specialist                       EASSD   Social/Resettlement
R. Zweig, R. Crooks        Senior Environment Specialist           EASEN   Environment
W. Cuddihy                 Senior Agriculture Specialist           EASRD   Agriculture
C. H. Pham                 Irrigation Specialist                   EADCF   co-TTL
R. Pollard                 Water Specialist                        TWUEA   Water Supply/Sanitation
T.V. Somanathan            Financial Specialist                    EAPCA   Financial Management
C. Escudero, K. Hudes      Country Lawyer                          LEGEA   Legal
O. Ladipo                  Disbursement Officer                    LOAAS   Financial Management
Yani Wiguna                Program Assistant                       EASSD   Task Assistant

Supervision/ICR
Syed Husain               Consultant                               EASRE   Instutional aspects
Minhnguyet Le Khorami     Program Assistant                        EASRE   Program Assistant
Hung Viet Le              Senior Financial Management Spec.        EAPCO   Financial Management
Thu Thi Le Nguyen         Senior Program Assistant                 EACVF   Program Assistant
Lan Thi Thu Nguyen        Operations Analyst                       EASVS   Social & resettlement
Son Duy Nguyen            Operations Officer                       EACVF   Portfolio
Cuong Hung Pham           Senior Operations Officer                EASVS   Task Manager
Kien Trung Tran           Senior Procurement Spec.                 EAPCO   Procurement
Thong Quang Tran          Financial Management Spec.               EAPCO   Financial Management
Chaohua Zhang             Senior Social Sector Spec.               SASDS   Social safeguards
Qun Li                    Senior Agricultural Operations Officer   EASRE   Agricultural. Economics
Ronald D. Zweig           Senior Aquaculturist/Ecologist           EASRE   Aquaculture/Environment


Staff Time and Cost
                                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
        Stage of Project Cycle                                          US$ thousands (including
                                              No. of staff weeks
                                                                        travel and consultant costs)
 Lending
                 FY93                                                                 1.20
                 FY94                                                                 5.25
                 FY95                                                                18.13
                 FY96                                                                64.40
                 FY97                                                               247.59
                 FY98                                                               102.91
                 FY99                                                                -0.25
                 FY00                                  3                              7.18
                 FY01                                  11                             1.01
                 FY02                                  1                             0.00
 Total                                                  9                           447.42
 Supervision/ICR
               FY93                                                                  0.00
               FY94                                                                  0.00

                                                                                                       36
                  FY95                                                                           0.00
                  FY96                                                                           1.71
                  FY97                                                                           0.00
                  FY98                                                                           5.22
                  FY99                                                                          72.33
                  FY00                                     47                                  47.54
                  FY01                                     14                                  63.67
                  FY02                                     28                                  124.32
                  FY03                                     27                                  95.76
                  FY04                                     20                                  91.65
                  FY05                                     22                                  45.19
                  FY06                                     20                                  20.70
                  FY07                                     17                                  33.03
                  FY08                                     15                                    0.00
Total                                                     210                                  601.12

Note: Data on staff weeks for FYs before SAP was implemented is not available in the system.




                                                                                                        37
Annex 5.        Beneficiary Survey Results

No survey of beneficiaries was carried out.




                                              38
Annex 6.       Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

No stakeholder workshop was carried out.




                                                         39
Annex 7.        Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                           Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
                                    Central Project Office (CPO)

Address: 23 Hang Tre, Hanoi, Vietnam
Tel: 84-4-8253921/8249638                                                 Fax: 84-4-8242372


To:   Mr. Pham Hung Cuong
From: Mr. Nguyen Hong Phuong                                              Date: 25/4/2008
      Deputy Director of CPO

Subject:                 CPO's comments for the Bank's draft ICR

Attention: Mr. Cuong

Mekong Delta Water Resources Project ­ Cr.3198a

In refer to your letter of 25/4/2008 requesting our comment for the Bank's draft ICR. First of all, we
would like to extend our warmest thanks to the Bank for your kind assessment of our project management
and implementing units. We are also very happy with the Bank's rating of the project implementation as
satisfactory. On careful consideration of the draft, CPO would like to make the following comments:

In section 3.2.1 of section 3 (assessment of outcomes):

Paragraph 4 in section 3.2.1 (increased water fee collection) shall have the words "this project objective
has not been achieved, indeed it had been reversed due to the GOV's abolishment of the water fee for
farmers following Decree No.67" deleted and replaced by "this indicator has not been reached, indeed it
had been reversed due to the GOV's abolishment of the water fee for farmers following Decree No. 154".

In section 2.5 of the section 2 (Key factors affecting implementation and outcomes):

Section 2.5 (summary of findings of beneficiary survey and/or stakeholder workshops) shall have the
words "IDA is currently considering an additional financing option to further engage in supporting the
full development in the project areas" deleted and replaced by "IDA is currently considering an
additional financing option under a new investment project to further engage in supporting the full
development of this project since GOV is expressing its expectation for futher investment by the Bank."

In section 6.1 of section 6 (lessons learned):

Paragraph (b) of section 6 shall have the words "the maximum disbursement rate achieved under the
project was about US $1.8M per month" deleted and replaced by "the average disbursement rate
achieved under the project was about US $1.8M per month". (according to our statistics, from March to
December 2007, the actual disbursement rates were always over US $2.0M per month).

In Paragraph (b) in section 5.2 of section 5

The paragraph writes: "One of the conditions in the DCA was that CPO should relocate to HCMC to
more effectively manage the project. However, this did not happen and the project was continued to be
managed from Hanoi. One consequence of this was that communications between CPO and the SIO
offices were frequently ineffective, despite many requests from IDA to improve performance. Many of the
original CPO staff associated with the project since the start left in the period 2006-2007. This caused a
major problem with continuity and CPO were left with almost nobody who could give first-hand accounts
of project implementation from the start in 2000."

                                                                                                          40
We think the fact is, since the year of 2000, with the rapid development of the communication technology
in Vietnam, communication between CPO and SIOs has been made made easier, which means CPO's
relocation to HCMC is not really necessary. Another reason for the CPO's decision to keep managing the
project from Hanoi is to ensure the connection between SIOs, other relevant agencies and the World Bank
headquarters which is also located in Hanoi.

Above are our comments for the draft ICR of the Bank. We are looking forward to your agreement on
these issues.

Thanks for your cooperation.


CPO Dputy Director

Nguyen Hong Phuong.




                                                                                                     41
Annex 8.   Comments of Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                                     42
Annex 9.       List of Supporting Documents

Below is a list of the relevant documents, some referred to in this ICR, from which an assessment of the
project outcomes and impacts has been made.

Project Appraisal Document (PAD), World Bank, March 15, 1999.
Project Implementation Plan (PIP), World Bank, February 25, 1999.
Development Credit Agreement dated August 3, 1999, and; Amendment No.1 (September 1, 2000);
Amendment No.2 (September 3, 2001); Amendment No.3 (March 7, 2003); Amendment No.4 (April 6,
2005); and Amendment No.5 (May 17, 2005).
Project Feasibility Study, GOV, approved June 8, 2000.
Advisory Monitoring on Fish Migration, Final Report (2001-2007), Institute of Tropical Biology, HCMC,
March 2007.
Development of Integrated Rice-Fish Farming, Final Report (2001-2006), Vietnam-Russia Tropical
Centre, Hanoi, May 2007.
Socio-Economic Impacts of Fish Losses in the O Mon ­ Xa No Sub-Project, Can Tho University, College
of Aquaculture and Fisheries, Can Tho, May 31, 2007.
Environmental Monitoring Network, Final Report for 200-2006 period, SIWRP, HCMC, June 2007.
Final Report on Resettlement Independent Monitoring and Evaluation of Resettlement Plan
Implementation, Institute for Environment and Sustainable Development, Academy of Social Sciences of
VN, Hanoi, June 2007.
Establishment of Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) System, Final Report, 2nd Base of Water Resources
University, HCMC, October 2007.
Procedures of Operation and Management for South Mang Thit Irrigation System, SIWRR, Hanoi, June
2007.
Temporary Procedures of Operation of O Mon ­ Xa No Hydraulic Works System, Water Resources
University, HCMC, October 2007.
Operational Procedure of Quan Lo ­ Phung Hiep Hydraulic Works System, SIWRP, HCMC, October
2007.




                                                                                                     43
                MAP




O Mon ­ Xa No




                                             South Mang Thit


                      Quan Lo ­ Phung Hiep




                                                               44
