                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                    Report No.: 64344




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                    SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

             MEKONG DELTA WATER RESOURCES PROJECT
                       IDA 31980, TF 26488


                               September 6, 2011




IEG Public Sector Evaluation
Independent Evaluation Group
   Currency Equivalents (annual averages)

   Currency Unit = VND
   1999    US$1.00          VND 13,928
   2000    US$1.00          VND 14,084
   2001    US$1.00          VND 14,833
   2002    US$1.00          VND 15,273
   2003    US$1.00          VND 15,497
   2004    US$1.00          VND 15,741
   2005    US$1.00          VND 15,856
   2006    US$1.00          VND 15,995
   2007    US$1.00          VND 16,125
   2008    US$1.00          VND 16,614

   Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADB    Asian Development Bank                    MOF   Ministry of Finance
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy               MONRE Ministry of Natural Resources and
CERWAS Center of Rural Water Supply and               Environment (Vietnam)
       Environmental Sanitation                  MPI  Ministry of Planning and Investment
CPO    Central Project Office                    MRC Mekong River Commission
DARD   Department of Agriculture and Rural       O&M Operation and Maintenance
       Development                               OMXN Omon-Xano Subproject
DFID   Department for International              OP   Operational Policy (World Bank)
       Development (UK)                          PAD   Project Appraisal Document
EAP    Environmental Action Plan                 PCERWAS Provincial Center for Rural Water
ERR    Economic Rate of Return                        Supply and Sanitation
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction     PDO  Project Development Objectives
       and Development                           PPAR Project Performance Assessment Report
ICR    Implementation Completion and             PPC  Provincial People's Committee
       Results Report                            QLPH Quan Lo-Phung Hiep (sub-project area)
IDA    International Development Association     RAP  Resettlement Action Plan
IEG    Independent Evaluation Group (World       RWSS Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
       Bank)                                     SIO  Sub-Project Implementation Office
IMC    Irrigation Management Company             SMT  South Mang Thit Subproject
MARD   Ministry of Agriculture and Rural         TN   Tiep Nhat Subproject
       Development (Vietnam)                     WUA Water Users Association
MDMP Mekong Delta Master Plan                    WUG Water Users Group

   Fiscal Year

   Government:              January 1 – December 31




   Director-General, Independent Evaluation           :   Ms. Daniela Gressani (Acting)
   Director, IEG Public Sector Evaluation             :   Mr. Mark Sundberg (Acting)
   Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation              :   Ms. Monika Huppi
   Task Manager                                       :   Ms. Lauren Kelly
                                                                    i



Contents
Principal Ratings ................................................................................................................ iii
Key Staff Responsible........................................................................................................ iii
Preface................................................................................................................................. v
Summary ........................................................................................................................... vii
1. Background ..................................................................................................................... 1
2. Relevance of Objectives and Design .............................................................................. 2
   Relevance of Objectives ................................................................................................. 2
   Relevance of Design ....................................................................................................... 3
3. Implementation ............................................................................................................... 5
4. Monitoring and Evaluation ............................................................................................. 6
5. Efficacy ........................................................................................................................... 7
   Increase agricultural production ..................................................................................... 7
   Reduce rural poverty ....................................................................................................... 8
   Facilitate sustainable water resource development and management in the Delta. ........ 9
   Improved living conditions ........................................................................................... 10
6. Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 11
7. Project Outcome............................................................................................................ 12
8. Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................................... 12
9. Safeguards ..................................................................................................................... 14
   Involuntary resettlement ............................................................................................... 14
   Indigenous peoples........................................................................................................ 15
   Environmental assessment ............................................................................................ 15
10. Bank Performance ....................................................................................................... 18
11. Borrower Performance ................................................................................................ 19
12. Lessons ........................................................................................................................ 21
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ............................................................................................... 22
Annex B. Persons Consulted............................................................................................. 27
References ......................................................................................................................... 28
Box 1: Objectives and Components of the Mekong Delta Water Resources Project……..2
Box 2: “Shaking hands with the flood?: Indigenous Rice Cultivation in the Mekong
Delta offers Lessons on Adaptation……………………………………………………...17




This report was prepared by Lauren Kelly who assessed the project in December 2010. Peer and Panel
Reviews were provided by Kenneth Chomitz, Senior Advisor, IEG (who accompanied the mission) and
Keith Pitman, Consultant IEG. Research Assistance was provided by Ms. Tu Chi Nguyen, JPA, IEG.
Romayne Pereira provided administrative support.
                                                              iii


Principal Ratings
                                       ICR*                          ICR Review*                             PPAR
                                                                                                         Moderately
Outcome                           Satisfactory                       Satisfactory
                                                                                                         Satisfactory
Risk to
Development                         Moderate                          Moderate                            Significant
Outcome
                                                                                                         Moderately
Bank Performance                  Satisfactory                       Satisfactory
                                                                                                         Satisfactory
Borrower                                                                                                 Moderately
                                  Satisfactory                       Satisfactory
Performance                                                                                              Satisfactory
** The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR Review is an
intermediate IEG product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.


Key Staff Responsible
                                                                Division Chief/
Project                Task Manager/Leader                      Sector Manager                     Country Director
Appraisal                        Mei Xie                        Geoffrey B. Fox                       Andrew Steer
Completion                Cuong Hung Pham                           Hoonae Kim                         Alain Barbu
                                                           iv


                 IEG Mission: Improving development results through excellence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
      To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                             v


Preface
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) of the Mekong Delta Water
Resources Project (IDA-31980, TF-26488). The total cost of the project at appraisal was
US$147.60 million; actual cost was US$152.25 million. The Bank Credit at appraisal was
for US$101.80 million equivalent. The actual level of disbursement was US$101.95
million equivalent. A total of US$5.1 million was cancelled. The Borrower contributed
US$49.00 million, considerably more than the US$32.30 million planned. Beneficiaries
contributed US$1.30 million, a tenth of the US$13.50 million planned. The project was
approved in May 1999 and closed in December 2007, 2.5 years after its originally
planned closing date of June 2005.

The report is based on a review of project documents, including Implementation
Completion Reports, Project Appraisal Documents, legal documents and project files,
and on discussions held with Bank staff involved in the project. It is also based on a
mission to Vietnam that was conducted in December 2010. IEG held meetings in Hanoi
and Ho Chi Minh City, and conducted site visits in all of the sub-project areas: in South
Mang Thit, Trà Vinh, and Cần Thơ and the Omon-Xano Subproject areas.

In Hanoi, IEG was kindly received by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural
Development in Viet Nam, alongside several Directors and staff of the International
Cooperation Department, and the Deputy Director General of Viet Nam’s Ministry of
Planning and Investment, in charge of Mekong Subregion. The mission to the Mekong
Delta included interviews of Representatives of the Provincial People’s Committees, the
Provincial Departments of Agriculture and Rural Department, Irrigation and Drainage
Management Committees, the Provincial Centers for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation,
and project beneficiaries and affected persons.

The mission and writing of this report was strongly supported by Ms. Viktoriya
Yevsyeyeva and Ms. Romayne D. Pereira. The Hanoi office provided excellent mission
coordination services. IEG wishes to thank Ms. Khanh Linh Thi Le, Ms. Hoa Chau
Nguyen, Ms. Nuong Dieu Nguyen, Ms. Dung Thi Thuy Dao, Ms. Phuong Minh Le, and
Ms. Khai Hoan Nguyễn for their strong mission support. The mission is also very grateful
to Mr. Alessandro (Alex) Nguyen Thanh Nha for his enthusiasm and vigor while working
as translator for the team in the Delta.

Following standard IEG procedures, copies of the draft PPAR were sent to government
officials and agencies for their review but no comments were received.
                                            vii


Summary
This is a project performance assessment of the Mekong Delta Water Resource Project.
The project was approved in May 1999 and closed in December 2007, 2.5 years after its
originally planned closing date of June 2005. The total cost of the project at appraisal was
US$147.60 million; actual cost was US$152.25 million. The project’s objectives were to
(1) increase agricultural production; (2) reduce rural poverty, (3) improve living
conditions in the project area, and (4) facilitate sustainable water resources development
and management in the Mekong Delta.

Results

The objective of increasing agricultural production was substantially met. The project
helped to increase agricultural and aquaculture productivity in the project areas by
rehabilitating and developing irrigation, drainage and flood protection infrastructure in
the Mekong Delta. The project directly contributed to enhanced irrigation, better
drainage, and the provision and regulation of brackish water by supporting the
construction of 41 main sluices and 125 secondary sluices. It supported the Government
of Vietnam’s efforts to dredge or enlarge some 483 km of main canals and 586 km of
secondary canals. These infrastructure inputs provided the security for farmers to increase
their use of higher-yielding rice varieties and fertilizers that increased agricultural
productivity. It also enabled farmers to successfully expand aquaculture.

The objective of increasing agricultural production was also achieved through mitigation
of the effects of flooding in Omon-Xano, an area especially vulnerable to annual
inundation. The project supported the construction of 234 km of dikes and other sections
of existing dikes were raised to protect agricultural land from 1-in-20-year flood events.

The project investment plan shifted after design from a concentration on providing year-
round freshwater mainly for rice production to serving the dual purpose of supplying
freshwater for paddy and saline water for aquaculture production. The average project
yield for rice increased from 4.49 tons/ha at appraisal to 5.044 tons/ha at project
completion. Paddy production was expected to reach 3.45 million tons by 2008,
compared to 2.30 million tons in 1997. Paddy production was increased, but only to 3.30
million tons in 2008, because of changes in cropping patterns from triple and double rice
cropping only to single or double rice with shrimp, rice with fish, and rice with upland
crops. The area of land allotted for fish and shrimp rose from 18,321 ha to 65,473 ha over
the lifetime of the project. Fish and shrimp yields increased from 1,100 kg/ha to 1,200
kg/ha for fish and from 475 kg/ha to 592 hg/ha for shrimp. By project close, the net
financial benefits for an average farm of 1.25 ha increased from US$361 to US$2,826.

The objective of reducing rural poverty is rated modest due to a lack of information
concerning the beneficiary groups directly affected by this project. While the project-
supported investments – namely the increased aquaculture production - led to higher farm
incomes on average, shifting cropping patterns resulted in a 24 percent decrease in
employment in the project areas. Without disaggregated data it is not clear to what extent
the poor benefited from the higher farm incomes. While the decrease in employment in
the project areas may have represented a removal of surpluses in the farm labor market,
                                            viii


information regarding the welfare or current employment status of this significant
percentage of previously employed is not available.

The poverty rate in the Vietnam portion of the Mekong Delta declined from 23.7 percent
in 1999 to 12.4 percent in 2007 and absolute poverty decreased in each of the three sub-
project areas. But poverty reduction is affected by a host of factors and without
household level data and baselines it is difficult to establish how the project affected
poverty reduction in the target area.

Other non-quantified benefits occurred due to enhanced flood protection in the northern-
most sub-region of the project (Omon-Xano), through the protection of properties and
crops and access to schools and health facilities during the flood season. However it is
not known to what extent enhanced flood protection benefitted poor households.

The third objective of improving living conditions was substantially achieved through the
provision of clean water and improved sanitation in the project area. The project
provided access to piped water and improved sanitation to some 761,447 persons living
in the project areas as compared to the originally planned 280,000 targeted beneficiaries.

The fourth objective of facilitating sustainable integrated water resource development
and management in the Mekong Delta was only modestly achieved. The project was
designed to support policies that would enhance the financial sustainability of the
irrigation systems in the Delta. While the project’s support helped to put in place
provisions for and facilitated the collection of some water fees during the project period,
the mandate that supported water fee collection was abolished shortly before project
close. The project was also designed to support institutional capacity building for
sustainable integrated water resource development and management in the Mekong
Delta. The project supported the establishment of the Mekong Delta River Basin
Organization yet this institution lacks the authority to ensure that water resource
management decisions are taken within a basin-wide planning framework.

Implementation

Involuntary Resettlement was a major implementation issue in the Mekong Delta Water
Resource Project affecting some 39,470 persons living along the waterways and canals of
the Delta. Resettlement costs accounted for 25 percent of the total project cost. Most
persons included in the Resettlement Action Plan were temporarily resettled in so far as
the irrigation works affected only a portion of the project affected person’s land.
Although the government contributed an additional US$8.9 million to implement the
Resettlement Action Plan, compensation reached only 98 percent of the targeted
population; some 864 persons had not been compensated fully at the time of the IEG
mission three years after project close.

Ratings

The Outcome of the project is rated Moderately Satisfactory, based on the assessment
of the relevance of the objectives and design, efficacy, and efficiency. The project’s
objectives were and remain highly relevant: the Delta, home to 22 percent of the national
population, is Vietnam’s “rice bowl?, responsible for the production of roughly 20
                                            ix


million tons of rice (in 2008), equivalent to about half of the country's total rice
production. The project supported the government’s efforts to engage in land
reclamation, irrigation, soil drainage and embankments, to continue to reap the benefits
of managing the flood plain. The design of the project was modestly relevant. While the
original and revised project design placed a heavy emphasis on increasing agricultural
(and later aquaculture) production, water resource management in the Delta proceeded
for the most part outside of a sound basin-wide planning and decision making structure.
The increased agricultural and aquaculture production attributable to the re-engineered
project design brought significant net financial benefits to famer households in the sub-
project areas, but the change in design did not account for the various effects that it
would have on upstream users – particularly in weak brackish zones, at the front of
expanding irrigation areas, where the salinity levels are too low for shrimp aquaculture
but too high for rice. Although the project recognized the need to support Delta-wide
coordination of water resource management, it apportioned off analytical work related to
institutional capacity building for integrated water resource management in the Delta to
AusAID so that, rather than underpinning the Bank’s project support, this component was
conducted in parallel to it. The modified project design could also have been enhanced
by making available the Bank’s analytical knowledge related to shrimp farming and
related diseases threats – economic and sector work that was conducted in the mid-
nineties – to brackish shrimp farmers in the Delta.

The project substantially achieved its objectives of increasing agricultural production and
improving living conditions through the provision of clean water and improved sanitation
in the project areas. It only modestly achieved its objective of facilitating delta-wide
sustainable water resources development and management. And lack of adequate data,
particularly concerning the significant increase in unemployment in the sub-project areas,
prevents a clear conclusion about the effects of this project on poverty reduction in the
Vietnam Delta.

The Efficiency of the project is rated Substantial. Although the project’s Economic Rate
of Return calculated at completion was less than the rate calculated at appraisal (15.7
percent versus 30 percent, applying a discount rate of 12 percent), the project’s modified
technical design generated greater benefits than anticipated through the newly-developed
aquaculture production with adjusted cropping patterns and substantial improvements in
crop diversification. The lower economic rate of return calculated at project close was
due to increased prices of inputs, higher than expected investment costs, and project
delays caused by the slow rate of approval and release of resettlement funds during
project implementation.

Risk to Development Outcome is rated Significant. Upstream developments and
climate change will need to be factored into development planning to sustain the current
level of productivity that is enjoyed in the Delta. Upstream water resource development
will affect the flow regime of the Mekong River system, with particular uncertainties
related to sediment trapping. Impacts will depend on the operations of the dams already
constructed in China and the dams planned for the mainstream in the Lower Mekong
Basin. Risks to development outcome are also posed by the lack of integrated water
resource management planning in the Delta, including increasing social tensions related
to land and water use within and between agro-ecological zones, between the Upper
                                            x


Delta irrigated zone, the acid sulphate soil zone, and the downstream coastal zone.
Additional risks are faced by shrimp farmers who in some cases are losing entire harvests
to disease. And ecological risks exist related to the heavy use of agro-chemicals used in
intensive rice farming. There are also risks related to the operations and maintenance of
the rural water supply and sanitation infrastructure supported by the project.

Bank Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. Quality-at-Entry is rated
Moderately Satisfactory. The World Bank supported a Government led, multi-donor
effort to develop the Mekong Delta. Sites chosen included some of the poorest areas of
the Delta. Strong efforts were made by the Bank to support the collection of water fees in
light of the need for increased operations and maintenance costs. However preparation
paid too little attention to integrated water resource planning in and around the water
resource infrastructure that was supported by the project. This was despite the World
Bank Board’s recommendation that additional efforts be made during project
implementation to strengthen environmental understanding and improve the monitoring
of social and environmental impact in a broader scope in the Delta.

Bank Supervision is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. Project supervision was flexible
and responsive to farmers’ needs. In early 2002 the Bank task team recognized the
growing demand from local communities in relation to the discharge capacities of sea-
sluice gates and gaining access to more flexible water supply for both agriculture and
aquaculture/fisheries. The task team undertook various discussions involving both
communities and Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development’s technical institutions
to accommodate these growing demands. Yet while the Bank’s technical supervision was
of high quality, the decision to switch the engineering designs of the sluice gates from
one-way to two-way during project implementation should have triggered a revision of
the Bank’s Environmental Impact Assessment and Mitigation Plan. Also, the project was
closed prior to the resettlement process being fully completed and the Implementation
Completion and Results Report did not propose a future course of action such as
continued supervision by the Bank as part of its ongoing portfolio.

Borrower Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. Government Performance is
rated Moderately Satisfactory. The government has placed high priority on the economic
development of the Mekong Delta. It contributed over one-third of project costs,
including increased funding for resettlement. However, not all project-affected persons
included in the Resettlement Action Plan were compensated, and the Central Project
Office did not provide reconciled accounts of the advances and receivables related to the
resettlement activities that were paid for by its counterpart funds. While agreeing to a
doubling of the water fee collection within the project period, the government abolished
the irrigation service fees in 2007. Recognizing also that a Delta-wide water resources
management body is needed, a River Basin Organization for the Delta was put in place in
2005 to promote coordinated water planning and management, however, to date, the delta
remains characterized by provincial, rather than inter-provincial water resource
management.

Implementing Agency Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory for the Sub-Project
Implementation Offices that were in charge of administering the infrastructure and
related resettlement requirements. While most of the planned infrastructure was built and
                                            xi


in some cases it exceeded appraisal targets (e.g. construction of main sluices), some
secondary sluices were not completed and less than half of the secondary canal system
targeted in the project areas had been dredged or enlarged. Project supervision also
reported that Sub-Project Implementation Office responsiveness to Bank requirements on
improving fiduciary and social safeguards compliance was sometimes slow and
ineffective. The performance of the Provincial Centers for Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation, responsible for the Rira Water and Sanitation services delivered through the
project, is rated Satisfactory. The Provincial Centers established good relations and sound
sub-contracts with local villagers as operators on-site, although in general many of these
operators require greater technical assistance and training and new models will have to be
developed pursued to extend the services to the poorest rural areas.

Lessons

   Large scale water resource infrastructure development in a Delta environment
    needs to take place within a river basin systems planning process. This process
    needs to take into account the varying flow scenarios due to upstream water
    developments, the potential future adverse effects of climate change, and within the
    delta, the cumulative ecological and social impacts that a project in one part of the
    delta may have on another. It also requires balancing development with sound natural
    wetland ecosystem management.

   It is important to ensure complementary inputs when supporting introduction of
    new agricultural production. In this case, while the shift to aquaculture was
    supported, the lack of attention to advising farmers on how to avoid and manage
    shrimp disease has led to suboptimal outcomes.

   When project design is adjusted it is important to ensure that environmental
    and social safeguards management is updated to correspond to the re-designed
    approach. In particular, if safeguard implementation is not fully completed by
    project close, the Bank can use its ongoing project portfolio in dialogue with the
    government to ensure compliance with the Bank’s operational policies so that project
    affected beneficiaries are fully compensated and environmental mitigation continues
    to be appropriately managed.

   In a fast growing economy in which land prices are increasing, compensation
    rates for resettled individuals in a project area will rapidly shift. An independent
    monitor, market surveys, and contractor interviews are tools that can be utilized to
    periodically determine compensation rates throughout a process where conditions are
    in flux. However if the process is unnecessarily delayed, implementation of the
    Resettlement Action Plan runs the risk of providing uneven rates of compensation.



                                    Daniela Gressani
                                 Acting Director-General
                                       Evaluation
.
                                                                 1


1. Background
1.1      The Vietnam Delta covers approximately 3.9 million hectares, or about 12 percent
of total land area, that is home to 18.6 million people or 22 percent of the national
population in 2009. The Delta has been formed by the sediments that have been deposited
by the Mekong River system and continues to be shaped by the interplay of tides, waves
and currents. This sediment stream has deposited a huge amount of rich and beneficial
silt across the area, a factor that underlies the Delta’s role as Vietnam’s “rice bowl?,
responsible for the production of roughly 20 million tons of rice in 2008, equivalent to
about half of the country's total rice production. But to achieve this, the Government of
Vietnam has had to invest heavily in activities such as land reclamation, irrigation, soil
drainage and embankments to reap the benefits of managing the flood plain.

1.2     Since 1975, water resource investments in the Delta have historically been carried
out to pursue “rice –first policies for subsistence?: primary and secondary irrigation
canals and salinity-control structures were developed to expand rice cultivation in
floodplains and in areas with acid-sulphate soils (World Bank, 2011). The Mekong Delta
Water Resource Project (MDWRP), implemented between 2000-2008, supported the
construction of sluice gates, rehabilitation and improvement of existing main, primary
and secondary irrigation and drainage canals, structures and embankments with the aim
of increasing agricultural production and reducing rural poverty. 1

1.3      The MDWRP was conceived to support the implementation of the Master Plan for
the Mekong Delta, prepared in the early-1990s, funded by the United Nations
Development Program and administered by the Bank. Its subprojects in the lower Delta
aimed to prevent salinity intrusion and increase the supply of freshwater to allow an
additional rice crop to be grown in the dry season. Improvement of drainage in the wet
season and the enlargement of existing canals where necessary would secure a second or
even third crop. In the Omon-Xano, an area that lies above the salinity line, the main aim
was to improve flood protection and drainage through extension of embankments,
building of drainage control sluices, and completion of secondary canals. These
developments were to be undertaken as part of a broader effort to improve the
institutional framework for Delta-wide water resources management, including improved
cost recovery for both irrigation systems and clean water supply systems.

1.4     The government also requested supported for expanded Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation systems in the Mekong Delta which has historically had a low coverage of
rural clean water supply and sanitation, compared to the country as a whole. The
government sought donor support for its National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Strategy, which has the aim of gradually moving to full cost recovery. It sought project

1
  The MDWRP was part of a package of IDA supported provided to Vietnam during over the past decade. Between 1999-2009 there
were 32 water-related interventions approved or completed in Vietnam and financed by the World Bank. These programs, projects,
and grants represented a total of US$2.74 billion (IEG 2009). A recent Project Performance Assessment of four of complementary
projects in Vietnam (the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, the Water Supply Project, the Inland Waterways and Port Rehabilitation
Project, and the Coastal Wetlands Protection Project) found that these projects overally performed satisfactorily. Two of these
projects, the Inland Waterways and Port Rehabilitation Project and the Coastal Wetlands Protection Project were implemented in the
Mekong Delta.
                                                             2


 support to test including community demand driven clean water provision, community
 based participatory planning and management, and greater cost recovery of both capital
 investment and system O&M.

 2. Relevance of Objectives and Design
 Relevance of Objectives
 2.1     The objective of the Mekong Delta Water Resource Development Project as
 identified in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) has four parts: (1) to increase
 agricultural production; (2) to reduce rural poverty, (3) to improve living conditions in
 the project area, and (4) to facilitate sustainable water resources development and
 management in the Mekong Delta. The PAD objective was identical to the objective
 cited in the Credit Agreement with the exception of the third objective statement of
 improving living conditions in the project area. This assessment uses the PAD version of
 the PDO, as it is more comprehensive and aligned with all major project components.

Box 1: Objectives and Components of the Mekong Delta Water Resources Project

Project Development         Project Components
Objective (PDO)

The Project                 Component 1: Improvement of Water Resources Infrastructure (Estimated Cost: US$131.6
Development Objective       million; Actual Cost: US$128.4 million). (i) Rehabilitation and improvement of existing
of the Mekong Delta         main, primary and secondary irrigation and drainage canals, structures and embankments;
Water Resources             construction and upgrading of access roads, bridges, and boat lift facilities; (ii) Development
Project was to increase     and improvement of tertiary and on-farm systems to be implemented by
agricultural production,    farmers/beneficiaries; and (iii) Resettlement of affected persons.
reduce rural poverty,
improve living              Component 2: Improvement of Rural Water Supply/Sanitation (Estimated Cost: US$ 5.7
conditions in the project   million; Actual Cost: US$19.6 million) (i) Improving water supply and sanitation through
area, and facilitate        preparation and implementation of commune-level Clean Water Improvement Plans,
sustainable water           construction of small-scale piped water supply systems, and provision of rainwater
resources development       catchment systems, hand pumps, and small water filtration systems; (ii) Construction of
and management in the       household-level sanitation facilities; and (iii) Carrying out sanitation and safe water
Mekong Delta.               awareness campaigns, and provision of hygiene education.

The project targeted        Component 3: Institutional Support for Water Management and Project Implementation
five geographic             (Estimated Cost: US$10.3 million; Actual Cost: US$8.5 million). (i) Undertaking studies to:
subproject areas: O         recommend a framework for Delta-wide coordination of water resource management;
Mon, Xa No, Quan Lo,        improve hydraulic modeling for the operation of sluices; monitor fishery migration; and
Phung Hiep and South        improve the concurrent of cultivation of rice and fish in the same area; (ii) Strengthening
Mang Thit -- with a         the institutional framework for environmental, water quality and flow monitoring; (iii)
total area of 535,000 ha    Strengthening the institutional framework for decentralized irrigation management systems
(about 14% of the           and improved cost recovery for irrigation, by: establishing Irrigation and Drainage
Mekong Delta).              Management Companies (IMCs) in Kien Giang and Bac Lieu Provinces; strengthening the
                            capacity of IMCs in the remaining project provinces; supporting cost recovery through water
                            fee collections; and strengthening the capacity at the central, provincial and farmer levels for
                            O&M of irrigation systems, including preparation of an IMC improvement plan and
                            Tertiary Development Plans, and training of staff at central, provincial and farmer levels in
                            irrigation management; and (iv) Strengthening the capacities of agencies for implementation,
                            technical design, supervision, monitoring, and quality control, through training, study tours,
                            consultants’ services etc. equipment and vehicles.
                                             3


2.2      This four part objective of the MDWRP was and remains Highly Relevant. The
project was conceived as an input into the Development Master Plan for the Mekong
Delta. As such, it laid out a framework for investment and policy interventions by the
government in partnership with the donor community. It also supported the
implementation of Government Decision No. 99 (1996) that called for increased
agricultural productivity and improved water and flood control in the Mekong Delta and
facilitated the implementation of the recommendations of the Water Resource Sector
Review for Vietnam (1996) carried out by the government in cooperation with the ADB,
FAO, UNDP, NGOs and the World Bank. The Water Resource Sector Review called for
priority to be given to investments in completion and rehabilitation of irrigation
infrastructure to increase the efficiency of existing systems. The project also facilitated
the implementation of Vietnam’s Country Assistance Strategy that, inter alia, prioritized
the development and improvement of irrigation infrastructure. The agriculture of the
Delta has historically and continues to play a key role in supporting the country’s
economy. At approval, Delta agriculture accounted for nearly 30 percent of national GDP
and 40 percent of total agricultural production.

Relevance of Design
2.3     The relevance of the design of the Mekong Delta Water Resource Development
Project is modest since modifications in project design during implementation neglected
to attend to potential negative social and environmental impacts.

2.4     The original project design followed the strategies as recommended in the
Mekong Delta Development Master Plan that called for separate investment strategies for
the different agroecolocial zones of the Delta. In the inner part of the lower Delta, it
recommends supporting improvement in water control and rural services, in order to raise
production and rural incomes. In contrast, flood-preparedness is the main focus of
support in the upper part of the Delta where development interventions are designed to
help beneficiaries “live with the floods.? In the mid-reach of the Delta, where floods are
shallow, development interventions focus on controlling and mitigating early flood
damages. The MDWRP was implemented within various subdivisions based on
hydrological boundaries within the inner part of the lower Delta– in South Mang Thit and
Quan Lo Phung Hiep, and in the mid-reach of the Delta, in Cần Thơ and Omon-Xano –
encompassing a total of 535,000 ha, or about 14 percent of the Mekong Delta. The Delta
Development Master Plan also supported protection of coastal resources– however
support for coastal zone management was included in a separate Bank operation – the
Coastal Wetland Protection and Development Project.

2.5     The main thrust of project design was placed on the rehabilitation and
development of irrigation and flood control infrastructure. The project’s original results
chain was based on the prevention of salinity intrusion – in the inner part of the lower
delta-- by supporting the rehabilitation and/or construction of sluice gates on canals
serving the agricultural areas, together with improvement of existing irrigation systems.
Existing canals would be enlarged where necessary and the density of secondary canals
would be increased to improve water delivery capacity for both irrigation and drainage by
increasing the flow of freshwater, an additional crop could be grown in the dry season; a
second or third crop could be grown with additional improvements in drainage in the wet
                                                                     4


season. The aim of the project in the Omon-Xano sub-project area, which lies above the
salinity line, was to improve flood protection and drainage through extension of
embankments, building of drainage control sluices, and completion of secondary canals.

2.6      In response to changing market opportunities, the then promising performance of
new short duration (115-120 days) and relatively salt tolerant rice varieties and a national
policy shift in 2000 towards agricultural diversification that promoted an expansion of
aquaculture (shrimp and fish) and fruit production, project design was adjusted shortly
after effectiveness (2001). 2 This was most notable in the lower portion of the Delta,
where engineering design solutions were adjusted to allow wider and two-way operations
of the sluice gates to allow brackish water into the canal system where needed and to
facilitate better transportation and flood discharge during the wet season. These changes
brought additional benefits in the form of an increase in shrimp and fish production, as
well as in rice-shrimp intercropping.3

2.7      However these significant engineering adjustments were made without revisiting
the environmental and social mitigation plans developed as part of the original project
design. Missing was a discussion of the effects of the modifications on upstream and
downstream users – particularly in weak brackish zones, at the front of expanding
irrigation areas, where the salinity levels are too low for shrimp aquaculture but too high
for rice. The project’s economic rate of return analysis also fell short of recalculating
these losses. The modified project design also fell short of providing support for
aquaculture extension services. The World Bank had conducted economic and sector
work in the mid-nineties on the disease threat facing shrimp farming; design
modifications promoting brackish shrimp farming could have incorporated these
analytical components.

2.8     Project design also recognized the need to support Delta-wide coordination of
water resource management and cost recovery through water fee collections. The 1998
Water Law called for the management of water based on hydrological boundaries and for
the establishment of river basin organizations. The project included support for the
establishment of a Delta-wide management body to address delta-wide water
management issues and to coordinate with the MRC. Yet too little priority was placed in
project design on water governance issues. This priority should have been elevated given
the ecological and social ramifications of the design changes that affected land and water
use decisions of farmers’ upstream. A decision to assign the analytical portion of this
work to AusAID –work that ultimately resulted in a study of the Delta-wide water
management and policy options – drove too wide of a wedge between this analytical
undertaking and the Bank’s focus on infrastructure rehabilitation.

2
  In the midst of the current food crisis however, by some reports, the retail price of rice in the Mekong Delta during the first half of
April 2011 increased by 10 percent (1000-2000 dong per kilo) while the price of exported rice remained attractively low. However,
analysts note that the end of the winter-spring crop, and farmers tend to store rice instead of selling out during this period – the end of
the winter-spring crop - that prices tend to increase. See http://english.vietnamnet.vn/en/business/7392/domestic-rice-price-high--
export-rice-price-low.html
3
  The Mekong Delta has about 12,100 fishery farms, accounting for 72% of the whole country (Cuyers, L and T. Van Binh, 2008).The
market share of aquaculture in the Vietnamese economy increased from 26.2% of total fisheries’ production in 2000 to an estimated
46% in 2006. Revenues generated from aquatic exports have expanded considerably over the project period, from just over US $1
billion in 2000 to $3.36 billion in 2006. Catfish and shrimp are by far the largest share of aquatic exports, accounting for over 22%
and 44%, respectively, of total export earnings in 2006 (USDA 2007).
                                             5


2.9     Project design boldly addressed the need to enhance the sustainability of the
Operations and Maintenance of the infrastructure developed under the project through
support for water fee collection. Irrigation and Drainage companies in Vietnam are
expected to be self-financing, however many of these companies were and remain under-
staffed and under-funded in light of the increasing expansion of investments being made
in water resource infrastructure in the Delta today. Although ambitious, the Bank
recognized that support for water fee collection should be initiated through the project
dialogue and continued in discussions across the present and future portfolio.

2.10 Project design also included support for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Services. The World Bank is assisting the Government of Vietnam implement its
National Rural Clean Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy for 2020. The national
program aims to provide 85 percent of Vietnam’s rural population with safe water and 70
percent with basic sanitation facilities. The Bank’s support picked-up where the United
Nation’s Children’s Fund (UNICEF) had left off: UNICEF had supported RWSS in the
area for several years with small grants. However the Bank support represented the first
time that the government had borrowed for RWSS. Project design was relevant as it
focused on remote areas and scattered rural populations which had limited access to clean
water and sanitation.

3. Implementation
3.1    Overall coordination of the project was placed within a Central Project Office
mapped to Vietnam’s Ministry of Agriculture in Hanoi. The project was implemented
within various subdivisions within the Delta – in South Mang Thit, Quan Lo Phung Hiep,
Cần Thơ and Omon-Xano – encompassing a total of 535,000 ha, or about 14 percent of
the Mekong Delta. (A map of these project areas is included at the end of this report).
The infrastructure development was overseen by MARD through the Sub-Project
Implementation Offices (SIOs) in the provinces and the RWSS components were
implemented by the Provincial Centers for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
(PCERWAS).

3.2     There was no formal revision of the original project objective during the
implementation period. However, major changes in project design were introduced early
in the project period that resulted in an adjustment of the project performance indicators
at mid-term. These mainly involved a revision downwards of the targets set for rice
production and a revision upwards of the aquaculture and cash-crop production targets.
At the request of the GoV, the scope of the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Services
was significantly expanded: the project was designed to provide facilities to improve
clean water provision to rural poor populations in six Delta provinces; the increased area
coverage resulted in the addition of five provinces during the MTR, and the subsequent
tripling of the credit allocation.

3.3    Project Costs: The project was extended by 2.5 years because of slow
implementation progress, mainly the result of the resettlement process and technical
design modifications. Rising land prices over the project period, coupled with delays in
the approval or release of resettlement funds due to bureaucratic factors, delayed
                                             6


implementation and increased total project costs. The total cost of the project at appraisal
was US$147.6 0million; actual cost was US$ 152.25 million.

3.4      Fiduciary Aspects: Overall financial management and disbursement functioned
satisfactorily, although the disbursement schedule was significantly different that
envisioned at appraisal (See Annex A): the bulk of project disbursements occurred
beginning in the fourth year of the project as opposed to during the first three years of
implementation The project team was overall satisfied with the working relationships
with dedicated project management office (CPO) located within the central Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development. The financial reporting template used to monitor
contract implementation and payment was adequate. Procurement was conducted in a
satisfactory manner: all contracts subject to the Bank’s prior review were given a “no-
objection? and compliance reviews that were conducted found that procurement was
overall in compliance. However, there were delays in payments due to the complex
institutional settings caused by the central management of the project and its local, or
provincial and district level, implementation. The least effective aspect of the financial
management arrangements associated with this project was the failure to reconcile the
advances and receivables related to the resettlement activities that were paid for with
government counterpart funds.


4. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.1     M&E Design. The project M&E selected a large number of indicators to track key
project outputs and outcomes that were monitored separately by local and regional
agencies which were then designed to be consolidated by the CPO within MARD.
Implementation units were established at different levels and an external monitoring
system was set up for RAP implementation and environmental impacts. The indicators
chosen were not comprehensive enough to fully report on the achievement of the project
objectives. Agricultural Production, for example, was measured against an increase in
cropping area. Area is only a partial contributor to productivity. Timeliness and
availability of water, adequate drainage and flood protection are also major contributors.
In addition non-water inputs (seeds, credit, better management etc) also contribute, as
does a shift to higher value crops. Increased farm level income and employment were
useful indicators but it is not possible to directly attribute these gains to the specific
project interventions since incomes rose steadily in Vietnam, due to a myriad of
government policies and investments and donor assistance provided throughout the
decade. Only quantitative output data was collected for the Rural Water and Sanitation
services delivered throughout the project despite the fact that these activities were
intended to enhance quality of life.

4.2      M&E Implementation. Monitoring data that was collected by the SIOs included
quantitative accounting of the number of sluice gates that had been rehabilitated and the
number of canals that had been enlarged. Although the SIOs reported that the
infrastructure development led to significant improvements in freshwater supplies for
irrigation and regulation of brackish water, the level and quality of this freshwater supply
was not reported. While recognizing that the IEG mission was conducted 2.5 years after
project close, the SIOs visited were not able to provide clear data on the specific
                                             7


infrastructure investments that had been made by the World Bank including information
on the status and maintenance of those operations. The IEG mission was not able to
obtain agriculture and aquaculture data beyond the project completion period. IEG was
also not able to obtain specific household income or water quality monitoring data.

4.3     M&E Utilization. A Management Information System (MIS) was set up early in
project implementation however while the project demonstrated strong capacity for
physical reporting and financial accounting, monitoring and accountability of
performance is weak at all levels of the irrigation management system. The MIS was
mainly limited to monitoring and reporting on the costs of works, procurement,
disbursement, construction, and RAP implementation. Data was collected by the
PCERWAS on the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation services supported by the World
Bank, but IEG found that the data had not been centrally collated and there was no
reporting on the quality, upkeep and sustainability of the rural water and sanitation works
supported by the Bank to help inform provincial level priority setting and central level
resource allocation.

5. Efficacy
5.1     The Project Development Objectives of the Mekong Water Resources
Development Project was to increase agricultural production, reduce rural poverty,
improve living conditions in the project area, and facilitate sustainable water resource
development and management in the Mekong Delta. For the purpose of this review, the
objective statement has been broken down into its parts, and has been evaluated against
the corresponding key indicators utilized during supervision.

Increase agricultural production
5.2     The objective of increasing agricultural production through the provision of
reliable agriculture water supply and flood control was substantially met. The project
helped to increase agricultural and aquaculture productivity in the project areas by
rehabilitating and developing irrigation, drainage and flood protection infrastructure in
three sub-project areas of the Mekong Delta. Other inputs, including higher-yielding rice
varieties and fertilizers, were provided outside of the project scenario however these
inputs could only be effective after massive improvements in irrigation, drainage, and
flood control were implemented. The project directly contributed to enhanced irrigation,
better drainage, and the provision and regulation of brackish water by supporting the
construction of 41main sluices and 125 secondary sluices. It supported government
efforts to dredge or enlarge some 483 km of main canals and 586 km of secondary canals.

5.3     The objective of increasing agricultural production was also achieved through
mitigation of the effects of flooding, in OMXN, an area especially vulnerable to annual
inundation. The Bank’s project supported the construction of 234 km of dikes and other
sections of existing dikes were raised to protect agricultural land from 1 in 20 year flood
events.

5.4    The project investment plan shifted from a concentration on providing year-round
freshwater mainly for rice production to serving the dual purpose of supplying freshwater
                                                                  8


for paddy and saline water for aquaculture production. The average project yield for rice
increased from 4,490kg/ha at appraisal to 5,044 kg/ha at project completion. Paddy
production was expected to reach 3.45 million tons by 2008, compared to 2.30 million
tons in 1997. Paddy production was increased, but only to 3.30 million tons in 2008,
because of changes in cropping patterns from triple and double rice cropping only to
single or double rice with shrimp, rice with fish, and rice with upland crops.

5.5    The area of land allotted for fish and shrimp rose from 18,321 ha to 65,473 ha
over the lifetime of the project. Fish and shrimp yields increased from 1,100kg to 1,200
kg/ha for fish and from 475 kg/ha to 592 hg/ha for shrimp, however this yield represents
only 87 percent of the MTR target.

5.6     Famer incomes in the project area increased, in part, due to shifting from single
rice to double or triple rice cropping, but also due to inter-cropping with rice with shrimp,
fish and/or upland crops. By project close, the net financial benefits for an average farm
of 1.25ha were increased from US$361 to US$2,826. Increases in both the market price
for rice and brackish water shrimp helped to spur a significant increase in farm level
income in the project area. 4

5.7      An increase in aquaculture production was especially successful in Quan Lo
Phung Hiep, where decisions have been taken to open up the sluice gates to allow for
shrimp cultivation in the west. However, as a result of this decision, there is some tension
between farmers in Soc Trang -- that have requested more access to freshwater for rice
cultivation-- and the farmers in Bac Lieu who prefer shrimp to rice. Tensions have arisen
due to the creation of a relatively weak brackish zone at the front of the expanding
irrigation area where the salinity levels are too low for shrimp aquaculture but too high
for rice.

Reduce rural poverty
5.8      Rural poverty is rated modest due to a lack of information concerning the relative
effects that this specific project had on the welfare of the different population groups
affected. The poverty rate in the Vietnam portion of the Mekong Delta declined from 23.7
percent in 1999 to 12.4 percent in 2007 and absolute poverty decreased in each of the
three sub-project areas in which the project was located. The project supported
investments led to higher farm incomes on average, but without disaggregated data it is
not clear to what extent the poor benefited from such higher average farm incomes. In
addition, shifting cropping patterns resulted in a 24 percent decrease in employment in
the project areas. While this may have represented a removal of surpluses in the farm
labor market, information regarding the welfare or current employment status of this
significant percentage of previously employed is unknown. Also, poverty reduction is
affected by a host of factors and without household level data and baselines it is difficult
to establish to what extent poverty reduction in the target area was due to project
interventions rather than other factors.

4
  The area of land cultivated for cash and fruit crops also expanded significantly with production from 29,300 ha to 70,106 ha
however baseline data on upland and cash crop yields is not available for the project areas
                                                               9


5.9     Some non-quantified benefits t hat were observed by IEG occurred due to
enhanced flood protection in the northern-most sub-region or the project (O Mon-Xa No),
through the protection of properties and crops and access to schools and health facilities
during the flood season. However it is not known to what extent these improvements
benefitted poor households.

Facilitate sustainable water resource development and management in
the Delta.
5.10 The objective of facilitating sustainable water resource development and
management in the Vietnam Delta was only modestly achieved. This objective was
designed to be achieved through multiple interventions, including a doubling of water
fees collected and the establishment of a delta-wide resources management body.5 The
increased water fee collections were viewed as a means to increase the financial capacity
of the provinces to provide adequate O&M of project infrastructure. Specifically, the
project aimed to double water fee collection by 2002 beginning with a baseline value of
17 Billion VNDs in 1997 to 34 Billion VNDs. The government collected 60.2 Billion
VND by 2007. However beginning on January 1, 2008, all farmers were exempted from
paying water fees following the government tax exemption policy under Decree No.
154/2007/ND-CP (dated October 15, 2007) and funds were advanced by the government
to cover the O&M cost for 2008.

5.11 An Inter-Ministerial Project Steering Committee was put in place to develop and
oversee policy-decisions regarding Delta-wide water management. It included all twelve
provinces as represented by the Provincial People’s committees and the Vietnam
National Mekong Committee. The Steering Committee helped to put in place a Mekong
Delta River Basin Organization that was officially established in 2001 by the
Government of Vietnam. Yet while the organization has been operational for almost a
decade, it is presently only modestly functioning. Its mandate as defined by Vietnam’s
Water Law is limited to water planning rather than management.

5.12 Inequitable access to irrigation water remains a problem. Several areas of work
were scaled back during project implementation, mainly due to the costs of resettlement
that rose alongside increasing land values over the past decade in Vietnam. Areas of work
that were scaled back include sections of embankments, some secondary canals, plus a
significant amount of planned work on the tertiary canals in the delta. The planned, but
unfinished work on the tertiary canal system is significant in so far as it may exacerbate
water-use tensions in the project area. During the dry season, tertiary canal networks are
usually shallow and their flow rates are low due to poor maintenance and sedimentation.
Consequently, within a community, upstream households have better access to water than
downstream users, in terms of water availability and quality (Nhan, Dang Kieu, Nguyen
Van Be and Nguyen Hieu Trung, 2007).

5.13 Drainage issues in OMXN still pose serious problems. OMXN has a flooding
regime of once every three years. The water level in Can Tho rose by 12 cm over 50

5
  Parallel funding in support of the water management component was provided by AUSAID shortly after the MDWRP became
effective. AUSAID provided a grant to the Government to fund the study of the Delta-wide water management and policy options.
                                             10


years, but then rose by 30cm since 2000. Interviews with the DARD in Can Tho reported
that while the exact cause of this spike is unknown, it is possible that the water level rise
is resulting from a loss of storage in the landscape due to the construction of water
infrastructure that forces more water into the main canal. Many small sluices had not
been completed by project end, and the system was still not fully operational at the time
of the PPAR mission visit. There is a follow-on proposal to unify the dyke system around
most of the delta and to construct it at level that will protect it against a 30 cm sea level
rise.

Improved living conditions
5.14 The key means by which living conditions were improved by this project was
through the provision of clean water and improved sanitation to rural households. The
project substantially achieved its quantitative target of increasing the number of people
served with clean water and improved sanitation from its original target of 280,000 (from
a baseline value of 110,000) to 761,447 persons living in the project areas. The project
supported the construction of 605 small-scale piped water supply systems, point source
supplies for 4,040 wells, 2,060 filters and provided 61,814 water jars. The project was
able to exceed its original targets by adding five additional provinces at mid-term (Hau
Giang, Ben Tre, Dong Thap, An Giang and Tien Giang) and by allocating over three
times the amount originally planned (from US$5.1m to US$17.2m). The credit made
available for the expansion of these services came from funds that would have been
otherwise used for irrigation and drainage infrastructure development.

5.15 In Vietnam, safe water is “activity? water, that is, the water is safe enough to use
for activities such as bathing or washing clothes. Clean water, on the other hand, is safe
for drinking if treated and/or boiled. Safe water is inspected by the Department of Health
across 14 parameters; the standard for clean, or drinking water, includes over 130
parameters. Living conditions in the project area improved in so far as beneficiary
households had greater access to activity water allowing them to free up time for other
activities. However, the project did not supply clean drinking water, as opposed to safe,
or activity water, to these households. Households visited for this review were relying
either on bottled water or small household filtration systems. In some cases, beneficiaries
using lower cost filtration systems (e.g. ceramic ball) were unaware of how to maintain
them.

5.16 Rural water supply is coordinated by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development while the lead responsibility for implementation of RWSS programs lies with
the provincial governments, through the Provincial Centers for Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation (PCERWAS). The provincial Departments of Health and the Vietnam Women’s
Union have historically been assisting with the provision of rural sanitation and hygiene
promotion. IEG visited several piped water supply stations and found that capacity varied
greatly across the project sites visited; each PCERWAS team interviewed managed its
contracting differently (in terms of hiring, salaries, technical training etc.). Interviews
with the PCERWAS teams indicated that sufficient revenue is being recovered through
tariffs to meet operational costs but there is no provision for depreciation or for the
rehabilitation or replacement of major facilities.
                                            11


5.17 Sanitation Services. The PCERWAS located in the MDWRP project areas signed
Memoranda of Understanding with the Vietnam’s Provincial Women’s Union to conduct
participatory hygiene promotion, health training, campaigns at the commune and
household level and to manage revolving funds for the construction of sanitation
facilities. Some 6,916 household sanitation facilities were constructed (compared to the
mid-term projection of 1,539) and 64,000 persons, or 173 percent of the appraised target
of 40,000 persons were reached by the hygiene education campaign administered by the
Provincial Women’s Union. An AUSAID review of its bilateral assistance in Vietnam
(2007-2009) concluded that the GoV’s 2006 commitment to give clean water to 85
percent of rural people by 2010 is on track, but the provision of hygienic latrines to 70
percent of the population, especially in rural households, was unlikely to be met.

6. Efficiency
6.1     The efficiency of the MDWRP is rated Substantial. Although the efficiency of
the project was negatively affected by delays in the approval and release of resettlement
funds that resulted in project delays, the project generated greater benefits than
anticipated through the newly-developed aquaculture production with adjusted cropping
patterns and substantial improvements in crop diversification.

6.2     Due to the engineering changes in project design made shortly after project
appraisal, cropping patterns, cropping intensity, and crop diversification patterns were
adjusted at mid-term. While at appraisal it was estimated that overall agricultural
cropping intensity would increase by 11 percent, it actually declined because of the shift
from triple and double rice to rice with fish and rice with shrimp. Cropping patterns
shifted from triple and double paddy crops occupying 71 percent of the total cropped area
to 50 percent, while land use representing a combination of paddy and high-value
brackish and freshwater shrimp rose from 0 to 16 percent.

6.3     Yields for both agricultural and aquaculture production increased. These increases
were achieved due to the modified technical design for a more flexible water control
system: integrated freshwater with saline water in different seasons and areas. The
average project yield for rice increased from 4.49 ton/ha at appraisal to 5.04 ton/ha at
project completion. Fish and shrimp yields also increased from 1,100kg to 1,200 kg/ha
for fish and from 475 kg/ha to 592 hg/ha for shrimp, however this yield represents only
87 percent of the MTR target. Although no explanation was provided in the project
documentation for this less than expected yield, interviews with shrimp farmers in the
lower parts of the Delta revealed that there were major losses due to shrimp disease. In
some cases, farmers indicated that they were experiencing a 100 percent loss of their
second shrimp harvest.

6.4     The project conducted an ERR both at appraisal and completion for the three sub-
project areas and the project as a whole. The ERR calculated at completion was 15.7
percent with a NPV of about US$84 million (using a discount rate of 12 percent). This
was well beneath the appraisal ERR estimate of 30 percent and a projected NPV of
US$168 (also applying a 12 percent discount rate). The lower ERR at completion is due
to: increased prices of inputs; higher than expected investment costs in SMT and project
delays. Representing the first time that the government borrowed for RWSS, this
                                            12


assessment found it was not cost-effective to promote the acquisition of water jars on
IDA terms given the affordability and wide availability of these jars in the Mekong Delta.
Efficiency was reduced due to delays in the approval or release of resettlement funds that
delayed implementation and increased total project costs.

6.5     If the potentially negative environmental effects of intensive shrimp farming were
taken into account, the rate would be potentially lower. While the methodology of
integrating the costs and benefits of environmental changes in economic analysis is still
evolving, it is important that such valuation be carried out for large or environmentally
sensitive projects. Intensive shrimp farms may release effluents into the delta
environment. Chemical inputs (such as antibiotics and hormones) mixed with waste may
contaminate the groundwater supplies. Likewise, the lower rice productivity of farms
affected by salt water intrusion because of the introduction of the rice-shrimp farming
systems has not been factored into the calculation. Although the rural water supply and
sanitation component accounts for 12.9 percent of project costs, neither the costs nor
benefits of this component were included in the ERR calculation.

7. Project Outcome
7.1     The overall rating of the project outcome is Moderately Satisfactory. The
objectives of the MDWRP were and remain highly relevant: the project supported the
Government of Vietnam’s efforts to engage in land reclamation, irrigation, soil drainage
and embankments, to continue to reap the benefits of an otherwise unmanageable flood
plain. The design of the project was only modestly relevant however since modifications
in project design neglected to attend to negative social and environmental effects. The
project substantially achieved its objectives of increasing agricultural production and
improving living conditions through the provision of clean water and improved sanitation
in the project areas. It only modestly achieved its objective of facilitating delta-wide
sustainable water resources development and management. And lack of adequate data
prevents a clear conclusion on the extent to which the project contributed to the
substantial poverty reduction witnessed in the Delta. The Efficiency of the MDWRP is
rated Substantial. The project conducted an ERR both at appraisal and completion for the
three sub-project areas and the project as a whole. The ERR calculated at completion was
15.7 percent with a NPV of about US$84 million; beneath the appraisal ERR estimate of
30 percent and a projected NPV of US$168 million.

8. Risk to Development Outcome
8.1     Basin Management. A number of factors that will affect the flow regime of the
Mekong River will pose challenges for maintaining the Delta’s productivity and the
increased living standards that many farmers in the region now enjoy. Foremost among
these is an increasing demand for water resource development upstream. China is in the
process of constructing a series of eight hydropower projects on the upper Mekong and
Lao PDR has proposed an additional eleven dams in the lower Mekong Basin. The
proposed developments pose various trade-offs both within the countries and between
users located up and downstream. A Sector Environmental Assessment commissioned by
the MRC warns that development on the Mainstream will result in ecosystem impacts
                                                                 13


that will severely affect human livelihoods: fifty to 75 percent of total river sediments
would be trapped behind dams and prevented from moving downstream to nourish river
primary productivity and floodplain farms. (M. Kummu, X. Lu, J. Wang, and O.Varis as
reported in Science 2011). Decisions taken exogenously of Government and donor
support for infrastructure development -- especially concerning the rules and guidelines
governing minimum and maximum flow and water quality ---will greatly affect the future
effectiveness and sustainability of the Delta’s productivity. 6

8.2     Livelihood Risks. Diseases (like white spot disease or yellow head) that have
affected tiger shrimp farming in the Mekong Delta -- the Soc Trang province lost over
VND1 trillion due to shrimp diseases this past year – also pose a risk to livelihoods.7

8.3     Social Risks. There are risks of increasing land and water use tensions in the
Mekong Delta. An increasing body of research on the Mekong Delta points to the trade-
offs between the positive impacts of infrastructure development on food production and
national economic development versus the increase in local water-use tensions within and
between agro-ecological zones: between the Upper Delta irrigated zone, the acid sulphate
soil zone, and the downstream coastal zone. The water tensions documented relate to
intensive water abstraction for rice farming in the upper delta, effluent discharges from
aquaculture farming, acidity and metals released from land reclamation in acid sulphate
soil zones and water conflicts among crop culture, shrimp farming, mangrove forests and
fishing in coastal zones (Minh et al, 1997, Tin and Ghassemi 1999, Hashimoto 2009,
Nhan and Be, 2005, Nhan et al 2006).

8.4     Environmental and Human Health Risks. There are serious environmental and
human health risks associated with the large scale infrastructure development in the
Mekong Delta. Intensive rice farming abstracts a large quantity of freshwater. It also
requires heavy application of agro-chemicals (Berg 2002; Cantrell 2004). Intensive
abstraction of water for rice farming in the upper delta (eight upper provinces account for
an average of 85 percent of dry season and 73 percent of wet season crop) might also
exacerbate salinity intrusion downstream of the delta during low flow periods.8 Intensive
and semi-intensive aquaculture also consumes a large volume of water through water
exchange in order to dilute metabolites within ponds or cages (Nhan et al 2007). The
effluent discharge threatens to surface water bodies in surrounding and downstream
areas, harming the environment and potentially damaging domestic water supplies.

8.5    O&M Risks for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Services. An evaluation of the
National Target Program conducted by donors for the period 2006-2010 found that the
sustainability of the RWSS results achieved thus far through the program “are not high.?
6
  The World Bank has and continues to support the work of the Mekong River Commission - a river basin organization involving the
governments of Cambodia, Lao PDR, Thailand, and Vietnam (China and Myanmar are observers) that provides assistance and advice
on the development, utilization, conservation and management of the Mekong River Basin water and related resources. IEG has
reviewed the World Bank’s assistance to the Mekong River Commission provided through the Water Utilization Project (WUP) in a
separate project performance assessment that can be accessed through IEG’s website (refer to public website domain name for IEG
here).
7
    See http://www.vneconomynews.com/2011/05/diseases-hit-deltas-tiger-shrimp.html
8
 During 2000 and 2004, the upper provinces of Long An, Tien Giang, Dong Thap, An Giang, Kien Giang, Can Tho, Vinh Long, and
Hau Giang shared an average of 85% in the dry season and 73% in the wet season of the total rice farming area and productivity in the
delta (CSO 2005 as reported by Nhan et al 2007).
                                            14


The amount and quality of water supply in many places is degrading, and water quality
monitoring and inspection has not been done in accordance to procedures, especially for
individual water supply facilities? (NTP, 2005 p.5). IEG’s interviews with individual
water supply facility managers in the project area affirmed that water quality monitoring
and inspection, a function of the Ministry of Health, was taking place less frequently than
legally required. The NTP also reported that many piped water systems have not been
sustainably managed mainly due to lack of budget for management and maintenance.
While government budgets have been increasing for RWSS, it is mostly used to construct
new systems rather than for the management, operation and maintenance of works
already constructed

8.6     A subsequent phase of World Bank support will be provided through the Mekong
Delta Water Resources Management for Rural Development Project (approved on June
4, 2011), which will support on-farm level issues such as pest management and efficient
water use and assist the Government to review and refine the Mekong Delta Master Plan
prepared in 1994. The project provides an opportunity for the World Bank to bring its
analytical knowledge to bear on developing and implementing complex IWRM schemes,
tackling emerging disease and productivity threats in the commercial shrimp sector,
designing and implementing dispute resolution mechanisms related to land-use change
and resettlement, and adapting to climate change. Other projects projected to come on
stream, like the Coastal Resources Sustainable Development Project, will be designed
with features to help mitigate environmental and disease related risk in coastal
aquaculture (in Ca Mau and Soc Trang provinces within the region).

8.7     The overall Risk to Development Outcome is Significant. In the near term, there
are only moderate risks to sustaining development outcomes. Operations and
maintenance costs of the irrigation and water control infrastructure supported by the
project are being financed by the central and local governments, with each sub-project
supported by the project having been handed over to the respective provincial water
body. However these costs will rise over time and without a water fee collection system,
the government may need to continue to seek donor assistance to maintain the works
constructed under the project. In the medium to long term, there are risks associated with
reduced productivity in the Delta due to ongoing and planned upstream water resource
developments in the Upper and Lower Mekong Basin and projected water level rise due
to climate change.

9. Safeguards
Involuntary resettlement
9.1     Involuntary Resettlement was a major implementation issue in the Mekong Delta
Water Resource Project. Although risks related to land acquisition and compensation
were assessed as Substantial at appraisal, and mitigation measures were put in place
(through a cautiously-estimated Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), unforeseen increases in
land prices resulted in a need for higher levels of compensation. This caused significant
project delays. Efforts were made at appraisal to mitigate risk. Some IDA financing was
                                             15


included up-front to cover part of the costs of the RAP and monitoring of the
implementation of the RAP was built into M&E design.

9.2     The implementation of the RAP turned out to be much more time-consuming and
costly than envisaged at appraisal. The project affected roughly 40,000 persons living
along the waterways and canals of the Delta: any irrigation and drainage work would
necessarily have an impact on the persons living and farming in this highly densely
populated area. The compensation processes were lengthy, involving information
disclosure, consultation, back and forth negotiations with PAFs, resolution of disputes,
budget approval by central and local governments, and actual compensation. IEG
discussed RAP implementation with the government during its mission and learned
39,470 persons were covered under the RAP. Most persons included in the Resettlement
Action Plan were temporarily resettled in so far as the irrigation works removed a portion
of the project affected person’s land. However compensation only reached 98 percent of
the targeted population; some 864 persons were not compensated, representing a
violation of the Bank’s safeguard policy. The cost of full RAP implementation would
have equaled US$35m however only US$32m, or 92 percent of the total, was actually
paid.

9.3     Given the benefits that accrued under this project, some farmers may have “won
big? (if they happened to live in the project area where benefits would accrue) or
conversely may have “lost much? (due to the loss of even a fraction of the beneficiary’s
land) in this deal. Land compensation was awarded, per the Bank’s operational policy, on
the basis of the net present value of the land at the time of the negotiation. So while a
farmer may have received just compensation for the value of the land that was lost as part
of the project’s efforts to widen a canal for enhanced irrigation, for example, the farmer
whose land was just beyond the area affected by the works, saw the value of his/her land
rise significantly during the remaining life of the project. Enhanced irrigation schemes
helped farmers in some areas to move from single to triple cropping (rice) and drainage
works helped to reduce the effects of flooding. Delayed implementation of the RAP
resulted in some farmers being compensated less than other farmers with equivalent
assets, due to the rising cost of land and the timing of the compensation process due to
entrenched negotiations. Delayed implementation also resulted in less than 100 percent
coverage of the project affected persons covered in the RAP.

Indigenous peoples
9.4     The implementation of the project’s Ethnic Minority Development Plan (EMDP)
complied with the Bank’s OP 4.10 (OD 4.20 previously) on Indigenous Peoples. The
main ethnic minority is the Khmer group, about 19 percent of the project population
living in Tra Vinh and Soc Trang provinces; almost all are rice farmers who rely solely
on agriculture for their income, and are the most significant project beneficiaries.

Environmental assessment
9.5    The MDWRP was classified as a Project B category project since, according to
pre-feasibility studies conducted for this project, “the project was found to have relatively
                                                                  16


limited environmental impact potential.?9 The Environmental Review and
Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan concluded that “there would be no
major adverse environmental impacts which could not be mitigated under the project, and
the project activities would not impact upon critical habitats in the project area? (PAD
Annex 11 p.66). Project design, for example, avoided working in areas with the most
severe acid sulfate soils occupied by shrimp farmers (in the QP subproject region).
However increased uncertainties would have arisen due to the change in project design –
that allowed for increased salinity intrusion and expanded shrimp and brackish fish
farming in the lower parts of the Mekong Delta - but the EIA/EMP was not revisited.
Given these uncertainties, the project should have been recategorized as a Category “A?
project.

9.6     There are many potential negative environmental effects of intensive shrimp
farming (due to organic waste, chemicals and antibiotics) that should have been
considered in an addendum to the EMP. However, IEG found evidence of potential
environmentally friendly fish/rice farming that converts shrimp waste into fertilizer. It
would be useful to study and disseminate lessons about these potentially environmentally
friendly techniques in other parts of the Delta and to delta shrimp farmers worldwide.

9.7     The project was implemented in a piece-meal fashion, with decisions being taken
at the provincial level, outside of the framework of a delta-wide integrated water resource
management strategy. The construction of flood protection structures and diversion of
flood waters, combined with the conversion of brackish water areas to permanent
freshwater areas would contribute to the reduction in floodplain and estuarine habitats
that are used by fish for feeding and spawning. Water pollution in the Delta due to
agricultural activities, including soil reclamation, has been well documented (Tran Duc
Kham, 1988; Minh et al., 1997c). The MDWRP supported more intensive cultivation.
Switching from single to double and triple rice cropping would result in greater pest build
up and a higher removal of soil nutrients. The Mekong River Report Card on Water
Quality published in June 2010 by the MRC’s Environment Program has confirmed the
increasing severity of human impacts on the Delta, assigning an average grade of “D? to
the water quality measured at three stations in the Delta (Tan Chau, My Thaun, My Tho)
in 2006, 2007, and 2008 whereas these stations scored “B?s and “C?s the five years prior.
This finding contrasts sharply with the results of the environmental monitoring supported
by the project and reported in the ICR found that as a result of the construction and
operation of new water facilities, integrated pest management, balanced fertilizer use, the
development of clean water supply and sanitation facilities, “the project has begun to
improve the agro-ecology, the water flow and water quality for agricultural production
and domestic use in the project area? (p.8).

9.8     There are also traditional rice cultivation practices in the Mekong Delta, based on
the collection and cultivation of floating and deepwater rice and the capture of wild fish,
that are environmentally sound and have proven to be highly adaptive to the annual cycle


9
  The potential environmental impacts of the project were reviewed as part of the project pre-feasibility study reports prepared by the
government and and a team of consultants (NEDECO/SMEC) as input into the Mekong Delta Master Plan and by ESSA
Environmental Engineering as part of the project pre-feasibility studies.
                                                 17


of flood waters, however traditional varieties used in such systems have a lower yield and
are not as profitable (Box 4).

   Box 2: “Shaking hands with the flood?: Indigenous Rice Cultivation in the Mekong
   Delta offers Lessons on Adaptation

   Many unique traditional livelihoods existed in the flood- affected regions of the Mekong
   Delta, based on the collection and cultivation of floating and deepwater rice and the
   capture of wild fish, prior to the expansion of high-yield variety rice cropping this century.
   Archaeological evidence confirms that the first area to be settled in the delta was not the
   shallow- flooded middle delta, but instead the flood-affected upper delta near the
   Cambodian border where people collected wild floating rice. This practice was maintained
   in the Plain of Reeds until 1977.

   Floating rice has been cultivated in the deep flooded areas for over 150 years. Sowing
   commences with the annual rains, the rice stalk then rapidly lengthens as the floodwaters
   gradually rise, growing to a height of two to three metres. After several months the rice
   plants collapse with the receding waters and then flowers before being harvested. The
   cultivation of upland crops, such as mung bean, following the floating rice crop benefits
   from the capture of silt and other nutrients by the long stalks of the floating rice.

   In the shallow flooded zone of the middle and upper delta, farmers have developed a
   double-transplanted deepwater rice system appropriate to the local flood and tidal regime.
   One month after sowing when floodwaters begin to rise farmers transplant the rice
   seedlings, then just before the peak of the flood two months later the rice is transplanted
   again. The rice is harvested just after the floods recede.

   Although the traditional varieties used in such systems have a lower yield than high-yield
   variety rice they display key environmental and economic advantages. Both the systems
   are highly adaptive to the annual cycle of flood waters and are reliant on the flood's silt and
   nutrients to maintain soil fertility. These traditional rice systems produce stable returns yet
   require little to no tillage and use of expensive puts such as chemical fertilisers and
   pesticides. Farmers in An Giang province, involved in studies with the Cuu Long Delta
   Rice Research Institute and Can Tho University, have shown that by planting floating rice
   in rotation with dry season crops, such as soy beans, peanuts, mung beans, fruit, sesame
   and corn, the financial returns are comparable to cultivation of two crops of short duration
   high-yield varieties. However, the area under floating rice has decreased over recent years
   from 500,000 ha in 1975 to less than 50, 000 ha in 1995.

   Farmers in the Mekong Delta have developed more than 1,000 traditional rice varieties.
   These are highly valued for their taste, fetching higher prices than high-yield variety rices,
   and often form an essential ingredient in traditional dishes at cultural festivals, such as Tet
   (Vietnamese New Year). However, these traditional varieties have been rapidly replaced
   by high-yield variety rice promoted through agricultural extension programmes; less than
   150 traditional varieties are now being cultivated in the Mekong Delta.


   Source: http://www.probeinternational.org/mekong-utility-watch/environmental-threats-mekong-
   delta
                                            18


10. Bank Performance
10.1 Quality at Entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The World Bank supported a
Government led, multi-donor effort to develop the Mekong Delta: the Delta Master Plan.
The subproject areas were chosen against sites chosen by other donors, namely the Asian
Development Bank, and included some of the poorest areas in the Delta. The project was
designed as part of a portfolio of projects that would assist development in the delta that
included a Mekong Inland Waterway Transport Project, a Coastal Wetland Protection and
Development Project, and a Rural Transport Project. Project preparation did not pick up
on cues in relation to the changing market economies or farmer preferences, suggesting
that the social assessment could have been stronger or had more influence over project
design. Project preparation also paid too little attention to integrated water resource
planning in and around the water resource infrastructure that was supported by the
project e.g. the ring dyke around Can Tho and too little attention was paid to local water
governance issues.

10.2 Quality of Supervision is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. Project supervision
was flexible and responsive to farmers’ needs. In early 2002 the Bank task team
recognized the growing demand from local communities in relation to the discharge
capacities of sea-sluice gates and gaining access to more flexible water supply for both
agriculture and aquaculture/fisheries. The task team undertook various discussions
involving these communities and MARD's technical institutions to accommodate these
growing demands.

10.3 The Bank’s technical supervision was of high quality. The Bank advised the
counterpart to increase the width of every gated sluice built under the project so that it
helped ensure the drainage capacity of these schemes during the flooding season. The
Bank task team also recommended several technical design solutions to handle landslides
on weak soil foundation and the realignment of rural access areas and river dykes to
reduce the level of land acquisition while still maintaining the technical integrity. The
Bank task team contributed to the development of farm models to pilot integrated
agriculture/aquaculture operations, which have been subsequently replicated in and
outside of project areas. The Bank task team also worked closely with the MARD team to
come up with the most reasonable technical solution to complete the construction of the
My Thanh-Phu Huu river dyke in Soc Trang province prior to project’s closing date. This
effort was technically demanding and involved significant time pressures

10.4 Yet the decision to switch the engineering designs of the sluice gates from one-
way to two-way during project implementation, allowing for the intrusion rather than the
exclusion of brackish water in the lower portions of the Delta, should have triggered a
revision of the Bank’s Environmental Impact Assessment and Mitigation Plan. Bank
supervision did not adequately address the environmental and social issues that arose
from changing the water and land use options in the project area, even though the Board
had recommended that additional efforts be made during project implementation to
strengthen environmental understanding and improve the monitoring of social and
environmental impact in a broader scope in the Delta. The assessment of supervision also
reflects the incompleteness of the project’s resettlement process. Although the project
was extended and efforts were made to complete the compensation process by project
                                            19


end, some 864 persons were left uncompensated at the time of the IEG mission, as
pointed out in meetings with the MARD during the IEG Mission. As stated in BP 4.12, a
project is not considered complete--and Bank supervision continues--until the
resettlement measures set out in the relevant resettlement instrument have been
implemented. The project’s Implementation Completion and Results Report did not
propose a future course of action, including, as appropriate, continued supervision by the
Bank as part of its ongoing portfolio.

10.5 Supervision also did not assess or address the technical assistance needs of the
beneficiaries who would be adopting new farming practices, such as brackish water
shrimp farming. Farmers in the target area experienced a high rate of shrimp mortality.
This challenge facing the farmers could have been addressed with the addition of a
support stream of TA for beneficiaries beginning early on in the project cycle. Likewise,
although the introduction of brackish shrimp farming caused increasing tensions in the
project area between the rice-shrimp farmers and the rice farmers, supervision did not
treat the need for enhanced dispute resolution mechanisms as a result of the redesign of
the project.

10.6 Infrastructure development occurred in the absence of sound integrated water
resource management planning. The latter was supposed to be addressed through support
for a Mekong Delta River Basin Organization, but very little priority was placed on
institutional issues, apart from the collection of water fees, during supervision. Although
supervision helped to ensure sound financial management, too little emphasis was placed
on overseeing compliance with the Bank’s operational policy on Involuntary
Resettlement. The Bank was responsive to government requests to expand its Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation Services, in an effort to support the GoV’s National Target
Program.

11. Borrower Performance
11.1 Government Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The Government of
Vietnam has placed a high level of priority on the economic development of the Mekong
Delta. And it has placed a high level of emphasis on rural development and income
generation for alleviating rural poverty in the Delta, as signaled both through its own
investments and the strong level of IDA support that it sought throughout the past decade.
In the Mekong Delta Water Resource project, these aims were to be achieved through
development and improvement of infrastructure such as irrigation. The government
contributed heavily to these aims, having contributed over one-third of project costs,
including increased funding for resettlement. However, as discussed in the Safeguards
section of this report, while 98 percent of the project affected persons included in the
Resettlement Action Plan were compensated, some 847 persons by project close were
not, representing a violation of the World Bank’s Operational Policy on Resettlement.

11.2 While recognizing the need to introduce water fees, and while agreeing to a
doubling of their collection rate within the project period, the government abolished the
irrigation service fees in 2007 in order to increase farmer’s income and ease farmer’s
financial burden. Interviews with project staff and members of the government indicated
that the local and central governments were currently financing O&M needs. Interviews
                                            20


also indicated that discussions with the World Bank concerning international best
practices in the water sector will continue in the Bank’s follow-on projects. Recognizing
also that a Delta-wide water resources management body was needed, the Ministry of
Agricultural Development put in place a River Basin Organization for the Delta in 2005
to promote coordinated water planning and management. IEG found that decisions
concerning water resource use in the Delta are still being taken primarily by the
Provinces, in communication with Central Authorities, but that there is little coordination
at a delta-wide level.

11.3 While there is clear commitment on the part of the government to contribute to
and maintain infrastructure in the Delta, more emphasis will need to be placed in the
future on balancing growth with sustainable integrated management of the resource,
including enhanced consideration for ecological and human health considerations in the
fragile delta environment.

11.4 Implementing agency performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory on balance.
Overall coordination of the project was placed within a Central Project Office mapped to
Vietnam’s Ministry of Agriculture in Hanoi. The infrastructure development was
overseen by MARD through the Sub-Project Implementation Offices (SIOs) in the
provinces and the RWSS components were implemented by the Provincial Centers for
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (PCERWAS).

11.5 The performance of the SIOs is rated Moderately Satisfactory. While most of the
planned infrastructure was built and in some cases it exceeded appraisal targets (e.g.
construction of main sluices), some secondary sluices were not completed and less than
half of the secondary canal system targeted in the project areas had been dredged or
enlarged. Project supervision also reported that SIO responsiveness to Bank requirements
on improving fiduciary and social safeguards compliance was sometimes slow and
ineffective.

11.6 The performance of the Provincial Centers for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
(PCERWAS), responsible for the Rira Water and Sanitation services delivered through
the project, is rated Satisfactory. IEG met with representatives of the PCERWAS in each
sub-project area and visited several RWSS sites supported by the project. Overall, IEG
found that the PCERWAS had established good relations and sound sub-contracts with
local villagers as operators on-site, although in general many of these operators require
greater technical assistance and training. While O&M of the systems visited were being
conducted, interviews revealed that repair of electrical and mechanical items were taking
place, but at a pace that was slower than needed for effective functioning of the systems.
A tariff system had been put in place that charged users between VND 2500-3500/ m3 of
water consumed. Interviews with operators and users revealed that there is a general
willingness to pay and that payments are being collected, however the tariff system is not
sufficient to cover the full O&M costs of the water supply systems or to adequately
extend it.
                                            21


12. Lessons
12.1 Large scale water resource infrastructure development in a Delta
environment needs to take place within a systems planning process. This process
needs to take into account the varying flow scenarios due to upstream water
developments, the potential future adverse effects of climate change, and within the delta,
the cumulative ecological and social impacts that a project in one part of the delta may
have on another. It also requires balancing development with sound natural wetland
ecosystem management.

12.2 It is important to ensure complementary inputs when supporting
introduction of new agricultural production. In this case, while the shift to aquaculture
was supported, the lack of attention to advising farmers on how to avoid and manage
shrimp disease has led to suboptimal outcomes.

12.3 When project design is adjusted it is important to ensure that environmental
and social safeguards management is updated to correspond to the re-designed
approach. If safeguard implementation is not fully completed by project close, the Bank
can use its ongoing project portfolio in dialogue with the government to ensure
compliance with the Bank’s operational policies so that project-affected beneficiaries are
fully compensated and environmental mitigation continues to be appropriately managed.

12.4 In a fast growing economy, in which land prices are increasing,
compensation rates for resettled individuals in a project area will rapidly shift. An
independent monitor, market surveys, and contractor interviews are tools that can be
utilized to periodically determine compensation rates throughout a process where
conditions are in flux. However if the process is unnecessarily delayed, implementation
of the resettlement action plan runs the risk of providing uneven rates of compensation.
ANNEX A                                           22


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
Vietnam Mekong Delta Water Resources Project – P004845

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                              Appraisal                        Actual or              Actual as % of
                              estimate                      current amount           appraisal estimate
Total project costs                       147.6                    152.3                       103
Credit amount                             101.8                    102.0                       100
Cancellation                                -                        5.1                        -


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                   FY00      FY01     FY02        FY03    FY04     FY05     FY06      FY07     FY08         FY09

Original
Appraisal             11.1     35.3       64.5     89.1    97.1     101.8    101.8     101.8        101.8   101.8
estimate (US$M)
Revised estimate
                      2.5      3.5        6.2      17.5    30.5     45.9     67.8      84.5         101.9   102.0
(US$M)
Actual as % of
                      22.5      9.9        9.6     19.6     31.4     45.1     66.6      83          100     100.1
revised estimate
Date of final disbursement: August 2008


Project Dates
                                           Original                                   Actual
Negotiations                              02/22/1999                                02/22/1999
Board approval                            05/04/1999                                05/04/1999
Signing                                   04/30/1999                                08/03/1999
Effectiveness                             10/29/1999                                10/29/1999
Closing date                              06/30/2005                                12/31/2007
                                            23                                      ANNEX A


Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget only)
  Stage of Project
       Cycle                 No. of staff weeks               US$ thousands (including travel and
                                                                       consultant costs)

Lending
FY93                                        -                              1.20
FY94                                        -                              5.25
FY95                                        -                             18.13
FY96                                        -                             64.60
FY97                                        -                            247.59
FY98                                        -                            102.91
FY99                                        -                              - 0.25
FY00                                        3                              7.18
FY01                                       11                              1.01
FY02                                        1                              0.00

Total                                       9                           447.92
Supervision
FY93                                        -                              0.00
FY94                                        -                              0.00
FY95                                        -                              0.00
FY96                                        -                              1.71
FY97                                        -                              0.00
FY98                                        -                              5.22
FY99                                        -                             72.33
FY00                                       47                             47.54

FY01                                       14                              63.67
FY02                                       28                             124.32
FY03                                       27                              95.76
FY04                                       20                              91.65
FY05                                       22                              45.19
FY06                                       20                              20.70
FY07                                       17                              33.03
FY08                                       15                               0.00
Total                                     210                           601.12
ANNEX A                                     24


Mission Data
                                                                  Responsibility/
                        Name                             Unit
Task Team members                                                 Specialty
Lending
Mei Xie                 Senior Water Resource Engineering EASRD   Task Team Leader
S. Husain               Senior Economist                 EASRD    Economics/Institutions
M. Schiffler            Economist                        EASRD    Economics
C.H. Zhang              Social Specialist                EASSD    Social/Resettlement
R. Zweig, R. Crooks     Senior Environment Specialist    EASEN    Environment
W. Cuddihy              Senior Agriculture Specialist    EASRD    Agriculture
C.H. Pham               Irrigation Specialist            EADCF    Co-TTL
R. Pollard              Water Specialist                 TWUEA    Water Supply/Sanitation
T.V. Somanathan         Financial Specialist             EAPCA    Financial Management
C. EScudero K. Hudes    Country Lawyer                   LEGEA    Legal
O. Ladipo               Disbursement Officer             LOAAS    Financial Management
Yani Wiguna             Program Assistant                EASSD    Task Assistant
Supervision/ICR
Cuong Hung Pham         Senior Operations Officer        EASVS    Task Manager
Minhnguyet Le Khorami   Program Assistant                EASRE    Program Assistant
                        Senior Financial Management
Hung Viet Le                                             EAPCO    Financial Management
                        Specialist
Thu Thi Le Nguyen       Senior Program Assistant         EACVF    Program Assistant
Lan Thi Thu Nguyen      Operations Analyst               EASVS    Social & Resettlement
Son Duy Nguyen          Operations Officer               EACVF    Portfolio
Kien Trung Tran         Senior Procurement Spec.         EAPCO    Procurement
Thong Quang Tran        Financial Management Spec.       EAPCO    Financial Management
Chaohua Zhang           Senior Social Sector Spec.       SASDS    Social safeguards
                        Senior Agricultural Operations
Qun Li                                                   EASRE    Agricultural Economics
                        Officer

Ronald D. Zweig         Senior Aquaculturist/Ecologist   EASRE    Aquaculture/Environment
                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 38582

                                                                               VIETNAM
                                        LOCATION OF WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT
                                            SUB-PROJECTS IN THE MEKONG DELTA
                                                               RAINFALL STATIONS                             PROVINCE CAPITALS

                                                               SUB-WRDP                                      MAIN CITIES

                                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                        Ho Dau
                                                                                                                                      Pieng
                                                                                                                   Tay Ninh
                                        CAMBODIA
                                                                            Svay Rieng

                                                                                                                                           Thu Dau Mot
                                                                                                                                                                                                Bien Hoa




                                                                                                                                                                                           Do
                                                                                                                                                                                           ng
                                                                                                                                                                                            Nai
                                               Tan Chau                                                                              Ho Chi Minh City
                                                                                   Moc Hoa
                                                               Me




                                         Chau Doc
                                                                  ko
                                                                  ng
                                                                  Ri v
                                                                       er




                                                                                                                            Tan An
                                                                                 Cao Lanh
                                                     Long Xuyen                                                                            My Tho
                                                                                                                                ho
Ha Tien                                                                                                                    My T



                                                                                    Vinh Long                                                    Ben Tre



                                                                                                                                                  H
                                                                                                                                                       m

                                                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                                                           Lu
                                                                                                                                                                o ng
                                                                            Can Tho      as                                          Co                                R.
                                                                                         B




                                         Rach Gia                                             sa
                                                                                                   cR
                                                                                                        .
                                                                                                                                          Ch
                                                                                                                                               ie n
                                                                                                                                                      R.
                                                                                                                    Tra Vinh


                                                          Vi Thanh



                Gulf of                                                               Soc Trang

             Thailand


                                                                                                                                                                                                        CHINA
                                                                                      Bac Lieu
                                                                                                                                                                                                HANOI

                                                      Ca Mau                                                                                                                  LAO
                                                                                                                                                                            PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                                            DEM. REP.




                                                                                         South China                                                                          THAILAND
                                                                                                            Sea

                                                                                                                                                                                         CAMBODIA
This map was produced by the
Map Design Unit of The World
Bank. The boundaries, colors,
denominations and any other
information shown on this map do
not imply, on the part of The
World Bank Group, any judgment
on the legal status of any territory,
or any endorsement or acceptance
of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                 Area of Map

                                                                                                                                                                                                        MAY 2011
                                           27


Annex B. Persons Consulted
    Name                        Position                           Location
    Ministry of Planning and Investment (MPI)
    Hoang Viet Khang            Deputy Director                    Ministry of Planning and
                                                                   Investment (MPI)
    Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD)

    Minister Mr. Cao Duc Phat   Minister of Agriculture and        Ministry of Agriculture and
                                Rural Development                  Rural Development (MARD)
    Mr. Luong The Phiet         Director General                   International Cooperation
                                                                   Department (ICD) MARD
    Mr. Ho Thi Minh Chau        Acting Director, Multilateral      ICD, MARD
                                Cooperation Division
    Madame Nguyen Thi Tuyet     Deputy Director                    ICD, MARD
    Hoa
    Mr. Nguyen Van Tinh         General Director                   Central Project Office, MARD

    Nguyen Hong Phuong                                             Central Project Office
                                Deputy Director General
                                                                   MARD

    Mr. Do Van Nhan             Director of SIO10                  SIO 10 Can Tho
    Mr. Tu Van Loi              Director                           PCERWAS Can Tho
    Mr. Vu Binh Nguyen
                                Director                           CERWAS
    Mr. Le Thieu Son            Director General, Central
                                                                   CERWAS
                                Center for Environment, Rural
                                Water & Sanitation
    World Bank
    Douglas J. Graham           Senior Environment Specialist      EASVS, World Bank
    Cuong Hung Pham             Senior Operations Officer; TTL     EASVS, World Bank
                                of MDWRP
    United Nations
    Ms. Lotta Sylwander         Representative, UNICEF             UNICEF, Vietnam
    Academia
                                Associate Professor and Director   Vietnam Institute of
                                of Vietnam Institute of            Meteorology, Hydro Vietnam
    Dr. Tran Thuc                                                  Institute of Meteorology,
                                Meteorology, Environment
                                (IMHEN)                            Hydrology and Environment
                                Hydrology and                      (IMHEN)
    Mr. Nguyen Viet Cuong                                          National Economics University

    NGOs
    Ms. Rebecca Y. Ng           Program Officer                    WWF
                                                                   WASH
    Mr. Bruck w Aregai          Programmers Leader                 SNV-Netherlands
                                                                   Building B La Thanh Hotel,
                                                                   218 Doi Can Street
                                              28


References
Agriculture and Environment Division Country Department I, East Asia and Pacific Region. 1996.
        Viet Nam Water Resources Sector review. The Socialist Republic of Vietnam/MARD/CPO.

Brennan, D.C., N. Preston, H. Clayton and T.B. Tran. 2002. Shrimp Farming and the Environment:
       An Evaluation of Rice-Shrimp Farming System in the Mekong Delta. World Bank –
       Netherlands Partnership Program, World Wildlife Fund (WWF), the Network of Aquaculture
       Centers in Asia-Pacific (NACA) and Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
       Nations (FAO).

CGIAR Challenge Program on Water and Food (CPWF) in the Mekong. 2010. Mekong Basin
      Development Challenge: Reducing poverty and fostering development by optimising the use
      of water in reservoirs. Vientiane.

Cuong, Truong, and van der Weid. 2010. “Poverty and Inequality Maps for Rural Vietnam: An
       Application for Small Area Estimation.? World Bank Policy Research Working Paper 5443,
       World Bank, Washington, DC.

International Hydrological Programme. 2002. Water Management in the Mekong Delta: Changes,
         Conflicts and Opportunities. Paris: UNESCO.

Mekong Delta Water Recourses Development Project. 1998. MDWRDP, Feasibility Study Update.
      Annex I. Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Action Plan. The Socialist
      Republic of Vietnam/MARD/CPO.

MRC. 2010. The Mekong River Report Card on Water Quality (2000-2006) Volume II, June 2010,
      Mekong River Commission, Vientiane.

Reis, Nadine, and Peter P. Mollinga. 2009. “Microcredit for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation in the
        Mekong Delta: Policy Implementation between the Needs for Clean Water and Beautiful
        Latrines.? ZEF Working Paper Series 49, Center for Development Research, Bonn.

Sara, Jennifer, and Travis Katz. 1997. “Making Rural Water Supply Sustainable: Report on the
        Impact of Project Rules.? UNDP – World Bank Water Sanitation Program. Washington, DC.

World Bank. 1999. “Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit of SDR 72.8 Million to the
       Socialist republic of Vietnam for the Mekong Delta Water Resources Project.? Report no.
       18732 – VN. Washington, DC.
