                                                                                                             96067
In Vietnam, Control of Mekong River Boosts Incomes                                                        June 4, 2008
Last updated: Jun 2, 2008



    Mekong Delta Water Resources Project (1999-2007)

                                                                   SLIDE-SHOW:
                                                                   Taming the Mekong Delta




                                                                   LEARN MORE:
                                                                   - Project documents
                                                                   - World Bank in Vietnam
                                                                   - Agriculture & Rural Development in
                                                                   Vietnam
                                                                   - Contact us




   In 1999, the Mekong Delta’s agriculture accounted for 30% of Vietnam’s GDP and more than 80%
   of its rice exports. However, without appropriate infrastructure, the delta’s many canals and
   irrigation networks were vulnerable to salt water intruding from the South China Sea during the dry
   season and flooding during the rain season, thereby threatening the quality of farm soil and the
   reliability of harvests. Poor drinking water supply and inadequate rural transport also held back
   production levels and rural incomes.




   Substantially improved availability of freshwater supplies for irrigation and ability to control
   salinity and floods in the delta. .

        Overall agricultural production has decreased slightly because of the change in cropping
        patterns toward more mixed uses (rice + shrimp or rice + cash crops for example), but
        productivity per crop has increased. The average yield for double rice cropping has increased
        from 4.7 t/ha in 1999 to 5.3 t/ha in 2007. The average productivity of rearing fish and shrimp
        in rice fields has tripled.
        Sluice gates help contain seasonal floods to allow farmers to complete their harvest.
        Average farmers’ income has doubled between 1999 and 2007 from VND 300,000 to VND
        625,000 (about $1,000).
        Connection rate to clean water supply has gone from about 40-30% in 1999 to about 75% at
        the end of 2007. About 1 million people are likely to benefit from the expansion of clean water
        and improved sanitation facilities.
         
        41 main sluice gates and 125 secondary sluice gates built. Over 1,000 km of primary and
        secondary canals dredged and enlarged.
234 km of dikes protecting towns from floods. The impact is especially noteworthy in the O
Mon – Xa No area, entirely protected by a ring dike system.
The delta is to some extent better prepared to withstand rising sea levels and weather
catastrophes. 
The doubling of water fee collections envisaged by the project did not occur: a government
decree exempted all farmers and individuals from paying water fees from 1 January 2008.




IDA credit of $102 million out of total project cost of $148 million.
Regular supervision and meetings with local authorities helped accelerate the process of land
acquisition and resettlement of households affected by the construction of new infrastructure.
AusAid conducted a study on Delta-wide water resources management.




The project’s impact will be sustained provided proper attention is paid to operation and
maintenance. Because of the decision to exempt farmers from water service fees, heavy
subsidies will be needed to maintain the newly created infrastructure. But beneficiary farmers
whose livelihoods depend on irrigation and drainage are likely to continue to use the new
facilities effectively.
Further investments in sea dikes and sluices could help the delta cope with the effects of
climate change (droughts, floods and rising sea levels).
Investment in agricultural processing, marketing techniques and information technology could
help maximize the impact of irrigation infrastructure.
