Document Of
The World B
FOR OMFCIAL USE ONLY
,/g 2 y93:- C//4
Rewt N. P-3931-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANRK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$117.0 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
SECOND POWER PROJECT
.
January 29, 1985
docnomn h  a restrictht distitio ad may be sed by recipients only in the performance of
tbeir offial dties Its contentr my not othrwise be disdosed without Word  ank authorinon.



CURRENCY EQUrVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Calendar 1983     November 1984
S1.00      =           Y 1.98           Y 2.60
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Weights and Measures
km     - Kilometer (= 0.62 miles)
kWh    - Kilowatt hour (= 86o.42 kcals)
Gwh    - Gigawatt zour (1,000,000 kilowatt; hours)
kW     - Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
kV     - Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA    - Kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
MVA    - Megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
MN     - Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
ABBREYIATIONS USED
ECEPA    -   East China Electric Power Administration
ECEPDI   -   East China Electric Power Design Institute
ECPS     -   East China Power System
GOC      -  Government of China
IAEA     -   International Atomic Energy Agency
JPEPB    -  Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Bureau
Mocd     -  Ministry of Coal Industry
MOF      -  Ministry of Finance
MOP}     -  Ministry of Petroleum Industry
MWREP    -  Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power
SAA      -  State Aucit Administration
SEC      -  State Economic Commission
SEPSB    -  Shanghai Electric Power Supply Bureau
SPC      -  State Planning Commission



FOR OFFICuI USE ONLY
CHINA
SECOND POWER PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                The People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:             Jiangsu Provincial Electric Power Bureau (JPEPB)
Amount:                  $117.0 million.
Terms:                   20 years, including 5 years of grace, at standard
variable interest rate.
Relending:               The proceeds of the loan will be onlent from the
Government to JPEPB under a subsidiary loan
agreement, with a 20-year term including five years
of grace and an interest rate of 8.5% p.a. JPEPB
will bear the foreign exchange risk (between the
dollar and the Borrower's currency).
Prolect Description:     The project comprises the construction of a 500 kV
transmission line from Xuzhou to Shanghai, installa-
tion of five substations and provision of associated
equipment, consultant services, and training. The
project seeks to support industrial growth in East
China by facilitating bulk power transfer between
optimal generating sites and demand cenzers. It
provides for the transfer of technology in extra high
voltage (EHV) line and substation design,
construction, operation and maintenance, overall
system planning, investment programming and financial
planning and control. The project faces no special
risks. Cofinancing has been secured from the Italian
Government ($10 million).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performu'e
of their ofricial duties Its contents may n't otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                                  Local      Foreign   Total
--   ($ million) -- -
500 kV transmission line                        64.6        32.1      96.7
500 kV substations                              42.0        60.4     102.4
Tele-control & tele-coamunication
equipment                                     0.9          6.4       7.3
Installation, commissioning and
testing equipment                              1.5        5.6        7.1
Engineering & consultant services               5.3          1.0       6.3
Training                                         0.3         2.6       2.9
Base Cost                                  114.6        108.1     222.7
Physical contingencies                          11.8         5.3      17.1
Price contingencies                             5.9         19.6      25.5
Total Project Cost                          132.3       133.0     265.3
Interest during construction                    7.9          9.6      17.5
Total Financing Required                    140.2       142.6     282.8
Note:  Identifiable taxes and duties are about $9.2 million; the total project
cost net of taxes and duties is $256.1 million.
Financing Plan:                                   Local      Foreign    Total
_$ million)
Source
IBRD                                              -         117.0     117.0
Bilateral credit                                  -          10.0      10.0
Local banks                                -   140.2         11.2     151.4
Government                                        -          4.4        4.4
Total                                      140.2       142.6    282.8
.
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY              1985    1986    1987      1988      1989
… ------------- ($ million)…------
Annual                     4.5   25.5    45.0    35.0          7.0
Cumulativ,e                4.5   30.0    75.0    110.0       117.0
Economic Rate of Return:  14.0%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5147-CHA, dated January 22, 1985



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE SECOND POWER PROJECT
1        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the People's Republic of China to help finance the Second Power Project.
The loan for $117.0 million equivalent would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, at standard variable interest rate. The proceeds
of the loan would be onlent from the Government to the Jiangsu Provincial
Electric Power Bureau (JPEPB), with a 20-year term including five years of
grace and an interest rate of 8.5% p.a. JPEPB would bear the foreign exchange
risk (between the dollar and the Borrower's currency). Cofinancing has been
secured from the Italian Government ($10 million loan for the Yangtze River
crossing section of the transmission line and substation equipment).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A country economic memorandum, entitled "China:  Recent Economic
Trends and Policy Developments" (No. 4072-CHA), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. Ar. economic mission that visited China
early in 1984 is currently preparing a report on long-term development issues
and options, which is expected to be submitted to the Executive Directors by
May 1985. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex 1.
Background
3.        To address problems of economic inefficiency and structural
imbalances, the Government initiated a program of reform and adjustment in
1979. Reform implempntation proceeded most rapidly in agriculture and
culminated with the introduction of the "production responsibility system" (in
various forms), which gave households and small groups autonomy in production
and investment decisions and allowed them to keep most income earned after
contracted payments to the state and collective. By the early 1980s, the vast
majority of production teams in China had implemented such a system.  Reform
of the urban economy started out much more slowly, but nevertheless signi-
ficant systemic changes occurred, including bonuses for individual workers;
profit retention by state-owned industrial enterprises (at first on an
experimental basis); fiscal decentralization measures, which allowed provinces
to share in the benefits of increased revenues and gave them more freedom in
budgeting; and some decentralization of foreign trade authority. Adjustment
policies resulted in an increase in the share of consumption in GDP; a rise in
the share of light industry in total industrial output, substantial improve-
ments in living standards, rapid growth of foreign trade (particularly
manufactured exports), and relatively modest (in relation to past trends) GDP
growth.



-2-
4.        A number of problems emerged in the process of reform and adjust-
ment, including large budget deficits in 1979 and 1980, a deterioration of the
external position and a significant current account deficit in 1980,
inflationary pressures and some overt price increases, and excessive invest-
ment demand resulting from decentralization of investment decision making and
financing. In response to these difficulties the Government imposed a stabil-
ization program in early 1981, which relied mainly on administrative con-
trols. It resulted in a slowdown in growth, a reduction in price inflation
(to around 2% p.a.), a sharp cutback in budget-financed investment, a lower
budget deficit (1% of GDP in 1981); and a current account surplus of $1.5
billion in 1981 and $5.6 billion in 1982.
Economic Performance. 1981-84
5.        Economic growth picked up in 1982 with the resumption of rapid
growth of heavy industry and the rebound in investment. Overall performance
has continued to be strong since then, and real GDP growth averaged over 8%
p.a. from 1981 to 1984. Shortages of energy, many producer goods, and con-
struction materials were exacerbated by the rapid growth of demand, yet price
increases were limited by further strengthening of administrative price
controls (particularly in 1983). Government budget revenue grew very slowly
in 1982 (1.3%) but much more rapidly in 1983 (7.9%) and 1984 (as much as 10%),
due to a new tax on enterprise retained funds and extrabudgetary incomes of
Government organizations. This permitted an increase in budget expenditures
on investment of 17% in 1983 and a further rise in 1984, while maintaining a
relatively small budget deficit (less than 2% of GDP in 1983). Growth of
subsidies was largely stemmed by stopping increases in most of the agricul-
tural procurement prices.
6.        Gross industrial output value grew at over 10% p.a. between 1981 and
1984, with heavy industry growing somewhat faster than light industry (12% vs.
9%), a reversal of the 1978-81 pattern. The energy constraint on industrial
growth was eased by rising coal output (8% p.a. in 1981-84) and maintaining
annual crude oil output at over 100 million tons, along with improvements in
the efficiency of energy utilization (primary commercial energy consumption
grew only 60% as fast as GDP in 1981-83). Agriculture has continued its very
strong performance, with gross agricultural output value rising at 9% p.a. in
1981-84 and grain output at 7% p.a. (reaching over 400 million tons in
1984).  Cash crops and animal husbandry have also grown very rapidly,
stimulated by rising demand and attractive prices.
7.        There have been impressive increases in personal incomes throughout
the period 1978-83. Average per-capita income in rural areas rose by about
12% p.a. in real terms and urban incomes by about 5% p.a. Rural income growth
was mainly due to production increases, efficiency improvements, and growth of
employment in nonagricultural activities, as well as substantial agricultural
procurement price increases (through 1981). Urban income growth, on the other
hand, can be attributed primarily to wage and benefit increases, which have
exceeded growth of labor productivity.
8.        Control of the aggregate level of investment and its composition has
continued to be a serious problem. Enterprise and local government investment



- 3 -
continued to increase sharply in 1982, far exceeding plan guidelines. In
1983, more stringent measures brought this part of investment under control
(though it still exceeded plan targets). But investment outside the rural
sector remains rather inefficient, and improvements in efficiency have been
hindered by administrative controls. Construction costs have risen
continuously (10% p.a. in 1978-83).
9.        China has maintained a strong external position.  The dollar value
of both exports and imports stagnated in 1981-83, but this masked considerable
increases in t!he volume of foreign trade. Since 1983, imports have grown more
rapidly than exports, and in the first 11 months of 1984, exports rose by 18%
and imports by 25%. Manufactured export growth was slower in 1981-84 than in
1978-81, but it started from a much higher base and occurred in the face of
worsening world market conditions. Foreign debt and debt service ratios
remained at very low levels ($6.4 billion and 5.5% respectively in 1983);
China's foreign currency reserves (excluding gold) rose to $17 billion (over 7
months' imports) by mid 1984 and have stabilized at that level since then.
The value of the Chinese renrminbi declined by about 36% against the SDR
between the end of 1981 and late 1984 (60% against the US dollar).
Recent Reforms
10.       Rural reforms have continued to progress more rapidly than reforms
elsewhere in the economy. A salient trend has been the spread of nonagri-
cultural activities like processing, transport, and commerce. "Specialized
households' (which concentrate on one type of pursuit - often cash crops,
animal husbandry, or nonagricultural activities) and pooling of capital by
small groups of households in various types of ventures are becoming increas-
ingly common forms of economic organization in China's rural areas. Wholesale
markets for some agricultural products have emerged. To encourage investment
in land improvement and development, farming contracts between collectives and
peasant households (which typically had been fixed for no more than 3-5 years)
can now be extended to as long as 15-20 years. In early 1985, it was
announced that planned procurement quotas for agricultural commodities will be
abolished; more methods of financing investment in rural nonagricultural
activities will be permitted (including tax exemptions, local government
bonds, higher interest rates to attract more saving, etc.); and the growth of
the agricultural processing industry in coastal areas will be promoted.
11.       The momentum of urban reforms has revived, with significant progress
on a number of fronts. Since early 1984, a main focus has been further
broadening and clearer delineation of the decisionmaking authority of urban
enterprises. Profit retention now extends almost universally to state-owned
industrial enterprises and in nonindustrial sectors like transport, commerce,
construction, and other services. Urban collectives and individual enter-
prises as well as a variety of joint ventures between them and state enter-
prises have grown rapidly (the number employed in urban individual enterprises
rose from 150,000 in 1978 to 2.31 million in 1983).



-4-
12.       In financial reforms, the most important new development was the
implementation of a profit tax system to replace profit remittances to the
Government budget by state enterprises. Though most enterprises have switched
to this system, the benefits have been limited because ot the application of a
different effective tax rate for each enterprise, to offset the impact of
distorted relative prices and other factors. Similar problems have resulted
in the ab:ndonment of an attempt to impose a fee or charge on the fixed
capital provided to state enterprises by the Government, and they ha-e
hindered the~ shift from grant to loan financing of new fixed investment,
despite strong Government support. Financial discipline at the enterprLse
level remains weak, in spite of efforts to strengthen accounting and auditing
systems and more strictly enforce existing financial regulations.
13.       In the crucial area of price reform, a major price adjustment for
textiles and textile raw materials occurred in early 1983; it helped balance
supply and demand, to a large extent equalized profit rates for synthetic and
cotton textiles (which are close substitutes in production and consumption),
and drastically reduced subsidies for cotton procurement, with only a small
net effect on the Government budget. Prices of many "minor" consumer goods
(which individually do not have a significant impact on living standards) and
the majority of agricultural commodity prices have been decontrolled and are
now set by negotiations between producers and commercial units. "Floating
prices" (up to 20% above or below official prices) are now allowed for many
industrial producer goods (either for all output or for output above the
mandatory plan target). Price adjustments for key energy products and raw
materials (which in many cases are severely underpriced) and for subsidized
basic consumer goods like grain and edible oil have proven more difficult to
implement, hindered by the potential impact of price changes on urban living
standards and on the finances of energy-using enterprises. Nevertheless, some
price rises have occurred (e.g. for coal and petroleum), and moreover the
share of free market transactions (at largely uncontrolled prices) has
increased in recent years.
14.       Reforms in the employment and wage system have made limited
progr!ss.  The bulk of urban labor is still allocated administratively, and
transfers of workers or professionals among enterprises are heavily impeded.
Numerous attempts are being made to link individual performance more closely
with rewards, including piece-rates, "floating wages," and various types of
contractual "responsibility systems." These have achieved some success, but
problems of egalitarian distribution of bonuses remain, and many enterprises
give out bonuses in kin. or disguise them as allowances in order to evade
regulations.
15.       China's foreign exchange rate system has been unified with the
abolition of the "internal settlement rate" (Y 2.8 to $1) at the beginning of
1985. Direct foreign investment (which was first allowed in the late 1970s
but developed slowly due to the lack of a legal framework) is being actively
encouraged and joint venture agreements have increased sharply. In addition
to four "special economic zones" open to foreign investment and subject to
more flexible policies, 14 coastal cities were recently opened up in the same
way.



16.       Significant steps have been taken to develop new tools of indirect
macroeconomic management. The central banking functinns of the People's Bank
of China were separated from its commercial banking functions (which were
given to the newly-established Industrial and Commercial Bank of China) at the
beginning of 1984. The central bank relies on redeposit requirements and a
discount window to influence the operations of specialized banks, and even-
tually may use discount rates and interest rates in general as a flexible tool
of macroeconomic management. Adjustments in indirect taxes may be used to
affect profitability and supply, in the absence of or as a supplement to price
reform. Scope for horizontal flows of investment funds is also being widened,
with enterprises investing in each other and in joint ventures and in some
cases purchases of stocks by individuals occurring. Though restrictions on
secondary trading remain, Government bonds purchased by individuals now can be
sold to banks or used as collateral for loans.
Long-term Issues and Prospects
17.       The Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party issued a major
document on urban reforms in October 1984, which reaffirmed and consolidated
recent reforms and gives some general guidelines for the direction of future
reform. It emphasizes the need for breakthroughs in the following areas:
(a) enlivening and better motivating urban enterprises; (b) clearly separating
Government and enterprise functions (and limiting direct intervention by
Government organizations in enterprises' day-to-day operations); (c) reforming
the price system; (d) improving incentives in the wage and bonus system;
(e) establishing a planning system that is in harmony with greater reliance on
the market mechanism and developing indirect macroeconomic management; (f) up-
grading managerial personnel to meet the new demands on them in a reformed
economy; (g) removing obstacles to a unified national market and promoting
cooperation and technology transfer among regions; and (h) expanding utiliza-
tion of foreign capital and advanced technology. Among the main themes of the
document are the role of competition in promoting a more dynamic, flexible
economic system; the recognition that a certain degree of income inequality is
necessary to provide better incentives for economic development; the need for
clear responsibilities and appropriate incentives at all levels in the
economy; ard the recognition that thoroughgoing price reform must involve
liberalizing the mode of price determination, not just adjustments in
administratively set prices. Managers of large state-owned enterprises,
however, will still be appointed by Government organizations; a few key
products will still be subject to mandatory planning and distribution by the
Government; state ownership and control over certain institutions like banks
and railways will not be relinquished; and establishment, relocation, changing
product lines, mergers, and shutdown of enterprises will still be subject to
Government approval.
18.       The Central Committee declaration represents a political commitment
to economic reform, which will help foster an environment in which fundamental
reforms can be gradually implemented in a coordinated way. But specific
policy measures will take a considerable length of time to design and then to
implement. Many of the reforms required will be very difficult, particularly
since reforms in different areas are closely interrelated, and thus appro-
priate sequencing and coordination become essential. For example, price



reform in the absence of improvements in enterprise financial discipline will
have limited benefits, yet the more profit-oriented behavior that would result
from tighter financial discipline would exacerbate the adverse impact of
distorted prices. Similarly, reform of the labor allocation system will be
incomplete without eliminating many of the "social responsibilities" of enter-
prises (which now provide housing, medical care, and pensions for their
workers and in many cases educatLon and jobs for workers' children) and
replacing them with Government supported social service programs.
19.       China's objective of quadrupling the gross output value of industry
and agriculture between 1980 and 2000 (which means GDP growth of well over 6%
p.a.) will require significant improvements in efficiency as well as continued
high saving and investment rates. There will be major structural changes in
the economy over the next two decades, including a reduction in the share of
agriculture, a rise in the share of industry and possibly in that of services
(which at present is unusually low), and substantial urbanizatior (in smaller
towns if not in large cities). There will also be a shift within agriculture,
away from grain and basic crops and into cash crops and animal husbandry.
20.       Certain physical/technical constraints will hinder the attempt to
achieve China's targets for the year 2000 and its longer-term goal of catching
up with the developed countries. Despite rapid growth and substantial
improvements in efficiency in recent years, agriculture may again become a
constraint on overall growth, since land in China is severely limited. In
energy, shortages of fuel (primarily coal) and electricity may continue to
constrain growth as they do now. Transport and commercial infrastructure will
become increasing drags on the economy without large new investments (as well
as improvements in efficiency). In mobilizing resources in all these areas,
China could profitably make use of foreign borrowing. Finally, the rising
share of the elderly in China's population (related to the slowdown in popu-
lation growth) means that m.ore resources will have to be devoted to main-
taining their consumption levels, especially in the decades after 2000.
21.       Poor motivation and inefficient utilization of labor in the state
sector of the economy are a major problem which can be solved only by coor-
dinated reforms in labor allocation, the wage system, enterprise management,
and social services, among other things. Reforms in the system of education
and training to develop China's "human capital" potential also are crucial.
Backward technology and inefficient utilization of existing technology must be
dealt with by a combination of reforms, appropriately directed investment, and
transfer of advanced foreign technology. Irrational location of factories,
suboptimal scale of many plants, and poor utilization of physical capital in
general are related problems.
22.       If reforms successfully transform the economic system, with a
beneficial impact on growth and efficiency, a new set of issues will come to
the fore. Management of a reformed economy with indirect fiscal, monetary,
and other instruments is one of the most important ones. In this context,
maintaining an adequate saving rate (if the Government no longer accounts for
the bulk of aggregate saving) and avoiding inflation (as well as deep cyclical
downturns) will be major goals. Assuring an adequate minimum standard of
living for the population and an appropriate level of social services will



-7-
become a major challenge as enterprise and rural communal responsibilities in
these areas are reduced. The problem of poor, backward rural areas in various
parts of the country will continue to require attention. Redistribution of
financial resources through the fiscal system, easing restrictions on migra-
tion out of the poorest areas, and lower nonagricultural wages to make invest-
ment in them more attractive are among the options for alleviating poverty in
these areas.
23.       The Government is now in the process of finalizing its Seventh Five
Year Plan (covering the period 1986-90). The combination of potentially
fundamental reforms and the urgent need for large investments in many parts of
the economy to build the foundation for further growth makes this task a
difficult one. In order to mobilize the investment resources needed for
rapid, sustained economic growth and development, China will need to rely in
part on foreign borrowing. This is recognized by the Government, which plans
to gradually draw down its substantial foreign exchange reserves and hopes to
attract foreign capital through a variety of channels. China also has a claim
to concessionary lending because it is still one of the poorer countries of
the world. But its access to concessionary capital to finance its development
and modernization program is limited; apart from Bank Group funds, a
significant amount of concessionary capital is likely to come only from Japan
and a few other bilateral donors and will probably average no more than $500-
600 million p.a. during the rest of the 1980s.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
24.       For China to sustain rapid growth over the coming decades, with
increases in efficiency and innovation while maintaining equity in distribu-
tion, will require continuing and fundamental reforms. These challenges are
compounded by China's large investment requirements and the difficulties
associated with its efforts to open up to the rest of the world. In light of
this, there are several broad objectives for the Bank to pursue in its
relationship with China. First, the Bank can offer China its development
experience and institutional knowledge as well as the opportunity for
interaction with the Bank's other member countries. Second, the Bank can
assist China in removing major constraints on development and in improving
investment planning and policy coordination in the priority sectors - particu-
larly energy, transport, other infrastructure, human development and
industry. Third, the Bank can assist the Government in its efforts to remove
the remaining pockets of poverty.
25.       The Bank Group's strategy to meet these objectives is formulated in
line with China's broad development priorities and related issues outlined in
Part I of this report. However, Bank Group lending can provide only a small
portion of overall resource needs. As a key element of the strategy,
therefore, the Bank's lending operations will aim to create a substantial
demonstration effect applicable to China's overall development efforts. For
example, projects involving new techniques for land development or for provi-
sion of social services have been designed so that they can be repeated by
local authorities within their existing resources. Some of the agriculture



-8-
projects and the rural health projects are examples of this approach. The
introduction of international competitive bidding through Bank projects (first
to finance goods, and later civil works) is now being adopted by the
Government for most local purchases and many domestic construction projects.
26.       Bank assistance can help improve the efficiency of investment,
through introduction and dissemination of improved analytical techniques for
investment and project planning and through institution building. Preparation
of the project appraisal manuals for the China Investment Bank and the
Agricultural Bank of China, consultant assistance and the EDI sponsored
programs, as well as specific sector work in transport, industry, health,
education and other sectors have improved the quality and content of project
proposals. Assistance to Chinese enterprises and agencies through staff
training, consultant assistance, creation or reorganization of institutions,
and improvement of costing and financial management has been included in a
number of projects ranging from the ports and railway projects to the several
education and petroleum projects. Specific sector work in enterprise manage-
ment, urban development, health and industry has also provided assistance for
improvement of investment efficiency.
27.       Human resource constraints are a particularly serious problem for
China's development. There are severe scarcities of higher level trained
manpower. Substantial economic and sector work and technical assistance and
training components in most of the Bank projects are providing support. In
terms of poverty alleviation, the rural health project, proposed urban and
water supply projects and sector work on labor mobility and regional
development options address poverty, health and equity issues.
28.       Transfer of technology in the broad sense is of fundamental impor-
tance in China's efforts to improve efficiency of the economy. Outmoded,
inefficient and costly industrial technologies are serious impediments to
development and are wasting valuable energy resources. Here, the Bank can
play the role of an intermediary. In transportation, energy, industry,
agriculture and even education, the Bank can finance transfer of technology
through equipment imports, provision of foreign consulting assistance,
arrangement of training and promotion of licensing and other agreements such
as are now being discussed in the railways and other projects. Long-term
investment for new technology will require increased foreign borrowing in the
future and the Bank can assist China through cofinancing. Progress is being
made in introducing co-financing under the first and second power projects,
coal, urban, water, and some agriculture projects, and the Bank will continue
these efforts.
29.       For most of these elements of country strategy, however, progress
will be gradual and will require sustained Bank involvement over a series of
projects in various sectors.
Economic and Sector Work
30.       Economic and sector work in China was initially designed in part as
a learning experience to provide the Bank with a basis of knowledge on the
development and functioning of the Chinese economy. It also introduced the



- 9 -
Government to alternative ways of economic analysis and views about its
achievements.
31.       In the last four years, the above approach has been well received
and has allowed economic and sector work to be particularly relevant to the
problems of adjustment and reform which have been in the forefront for the
Government. Followup to the first economic report emphasized technical
assistance and sector work for investment analysis and selection techniques
and enhanced sector planning. The content of the lending program has been
directly influenced as a result. The rural credit project, the China
Investment Bank projects, and future regional industry projects are among
examples of the links between economic and sector work and the lending
program.
32.       More fundamental research into the problems of enterprise management
is now nearing completion in collaboration with Chinese economic research
institutions. It has yielded insights into the thinking and reaction of
enterprise managers to system reform and led to better understanding of how
policy changes can improve plnning, performance and management of
enterprises. In addition, there is a variety of project-related sector work
underway through studies included in the projects. These are expected to
produce the basis for detailed discussion of development options and policies
in the various sectors.
33.       Current economic work focuses on future options and issues to the
year 2000 and a comprehensive report will be ready later this fiscal year. In
light of the experience of other countries in =iaking the transition from low
to middle income levels, the report will pay special attention to inter-
sectoral linkages and cross-sectoral and economy-wide issues.
34.       Future economic and sector work will be based on the conclusions of
the economic report and will look in more detail at some of the issues
raised. It will continue to improve our knowledge of the economy - its struc-
ture, the issues and constraints in key sectors, and the functioning of the
economic management system. Collaboration on issues of institutional and
policy change with Chinese research institutions will continue. Review of the
investment program in key sectors when the Seventh Five Year PLan (1986-90) is
finalized will help develop the next generation of projects for the lending
program.
Lending Operations
35.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in
May 1980, 19 projects involving lending of $1883 million to China have been
approved. Annex II contains a summary statement on these loans and credits as
of September 30, 1984. For this fiscal year we hope to present a total of ten
projects to the Board. These include the already approved Second Agricultural
Research Project, the proposed Second Power Project and projects in education,
seeds development, coal mining, rural water supply, railways, roads, ferti-
lizer production, and irrigation.



- 10 -
36.       For FY86 and beyond, the China lending program should continue to
grow from current levels. Areas of emphasis would include development of
energy resources, transport infrastructure, skilled manpower and improved
technology. We will also investigate the feasibility of a regional approach
in a number of sectors and will take better account of intersectoral linkages.
37.       In the energy sector, lending has included four projects. which have
emphasized increased energy output and technology transfer through financing
of equipment, technical studies, training and consultant as,istance.  The
Lubuge Hydropower Project has resulted in the Government's extensive use of
comDetitive bidding for power projects. The proposed Second Power Project
places particular emphasis on better system planning. Fuel alternatives for
electric power, generating plant location and interconnection of power grids
will be the subject of future work. For development of China's petroleum and
coal resources, Bank Group assistance will emphasize acquisition of
appropriate technologies, least cost plani.ing of investment and related
transport investment programs-
38.       In the transport sector, railway, port and road capacity must be
substantially increased. So far, one project each in ports and railways has
focussed on increasing capacity, upgrading technology for lower cost opera-
tions, and establishing better costing systems. Expanding domestic capacity
to manufacture improved transport equipment will continue to be a theme in the
sector and this should provide scope for substantial foreign private sector
involvement. Improved management and information systems and analytical
techniques for better cost control will be encoura-d under the projects,
which, once proven, will be suitable for wider use throughout transport enter-
prises. Inter-modal coordination and planning and assessment of alternative
investment choices will have increasing prominence in both lending and sector
work.
39.       In agriculture, five projects have emphasized support services
through improved research and education, production increases through new land
development, reclamation, use of improved technologies and management, and
strengthening of the agriculture credit ystem. Future projects in seeds
development, forestry and agriculture credit will continue to strengthen sup-
port services and rural institutions. Land and area development projects will
endeavor to provide models of integrated regional development. Specialized
activity projects such as fisheries, livestock and agro-processing may also be
developed to support on-going structural transformation in agriculture.
4o.       In the industrial sector, two projects have Zacused on establishing
and strengthening the China Investment Bank. Improved investment selectiun
criteria, incentives for more efficient management, technology transfer, and
energy conservation are priorities for future projects. Lending will ha-re a
two-pronged approach - further strengthening of the China Investment BanK (and
perhaps other financial intermediaries) and financing large regional
production-oriented projects such as for fertilizer, machine tools, and
cement, to expand output and demonstrate the merits of improved subsector
E- ilysin and planning.



- 11l -
41.       Further expansion of higher education and improvement of teaching,
curricula and graduate quality will be needed to the end of the century. The
human resource constraints have already been addressed by four education
projects and a component of the Rural Health/Medical Education Project. The
value of international competitive bidding for equipment purchases and of
international advisory panels for educational policy and curriculum reform has
been demonstrated in the first projects. Improved university management is
being encouraged through establishment of quantitative targets for growth,
student-teacher ratios, classroom utilization, laboratory experiments per-
formed, and other reforms (including development of evaluation and monitoring
procedures and greater decentralization). Future projects in health, urban
development and water supply will assist the Government in addressing diffi-
cult poverty-linked questions of affordability, cost recovery, and minimum
r.;andards with focus on particularly impoverished regions.
42.       Implementation.   Project implementation is generally proceeding
well. While there were some initial delays in procurement because of the
Government's unfamiliarity with the concept of bidding, it has since estab-
lished a specialized central procurement agency and has largely overcome this
problem. Most project agencies, as well as the Ministry of Finance and the
State Planning Commission, have establishei and staffed offices to handle Bank
Group projects. To support further expansion of the lending program,
accelerate project preparation, improve project implementation, and facilitate
further economic and sector work, the Bank Group is planning to open a
resident office in China early in FY86.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND THE POWER SUBSECTOR
Overview
143.      China is the fourth largest producer and third largest consumer of
commercial energy in the world. Coal is by far the most important source (70%
of total production in 1982), but oil production has increased rapidly since
19T2 to become an important source of both commercial energy (22% in 1982) and
of export revenue (accounting for about one quarter of the total). About 20%
of oil production and 1% of coal production is currently exported. Natural
gas, hydroelectric power and small quantities of shale oil and geothermal
power constitute the balance of commercial energy. Noncommercial energy
resources supply energy equivalent to about 40% of commercial production.
Commercial energy production grew at 10% p.a. from 1952-T5, but the growth
rate has fallen since then and between 1979 and 1981 it declined by 2.1%.
This trend was reversed in 1982 and 1983, when commercial energy production
rose by 5.6% and 6.7% respectively.
44.       China's achievements in developing energy resources over the past
three decades have been impressive. Production of coal has increased from
some 60 million tons in 1952 to 715 million tons in 1983. During the same
period power generating capacity increased from about 2,000 MW to 76,440 MW.
Oil production increased from about 0.1 million tons in 1950 to 106 million
tons in 1983. These developments notwithstanding, the future prospects remain
uncerF3in. The major oil fields, which together account for about 90% of
China's oil production, have peaked. Only a few new discoveries have been



- 12 -
made. Rapid expansion of the coal industry faces very difficult problems in
terms of investment, location and transportation. The remoteness of large
hydro sites from load centers, the relatively large capital requirements, and
long gestation period of major hydro projects preclude sizeable increases in
hydropower s share of energy production in the near term.
Resource Endowment
45-       China is well endowed with primary energy and has abundant resources
in terms of coal, hydrocarbons, oil shale and hydropower potential. Coal and
lignite reserves are concentrated largely in the north and northeast, which
represent about 70% of the total recoverable reserves in China (640 billion
tons). While future plans call for increasing coal production significantly
by such measures as opening new mines and increasing mechanization, transport
(essentially railroad capacity) appears to be the single most important con-
straint to achieving this objective. Proven recoverable reserves of oil are
estimated at about 1.8 to 2.5 billion tons in the onshore regions and 4-8 bil-
lion tons offshore. Recoverable gas reserves are about 130 billion cubic
meters. Reserves of oil shale are estimated unofficially at 400 billion
tons. Current production of shale oil from the Liaoning and Guangdong mines
is about 300,000 tons p.a. China's exploitable hydropower potential, among
the largest in the world, is estimated at 1.9 million GWh p.a.; present hydro
generation is about 86,450 GWh. Verified uranium reserves in China are
sufficient to sustain 15,000 MW of nuclear power plant for 30 years. Much of
China remains to be surveyed for uranium, but abundant thorium resources are
already known. While geothermal phenomena are abundant in the mountainous
southwestern part of the country, geothermal energy has not been developed to
a significant extent and its role is likely to remain limited. As in other
developing economies, noncommercial fuels such as crop residue and animal
waste are used extensively, especially in rural areas. China has pioneered
and is now the leading producer of biogas.
46.       China's energy resources are not evenly distributed.  As much as 75%
of the known commercial energy in terms of coal and oil is in the north and
northeast, which have nearly 30% of China's population and more than 45% of
gross industrial output. The east, with one-fifth of the total population and
30% of industrial output, is almost devoid of any energy resource. In the
southwest, there is considerable hydropower and coal potential, but the
central south is largely bereft of energy resources except for some hydro
potential. Northwest China has considerable coal and oil resources but most
of these are in such remote and sparsely populated areas that development
would be extremely difficult and slow.
Sector Problems and Policies
47.       China's level of commercial energy consumption is very high in
relation to its economic activity. Indications are that there is substantial
potential for improvement in industrial energy efficiency in China. The
Government is well aware of this problem and is according energy conservation
equal priority with increasing energy production.



- 13 -
48.       Under the Sixth Five-Year Plan, (1981-1985) the Government is putt-
ing major emphasis on the development of the energy and transport sectors.
Although several coal and hydropower projects were postponed in 1981 because
of overall investment reductions, energy investment has since been restored to
the previously planned level. Progress is being made in building a number of
hydroelectric and thermal power stations, developing open pit and underground
coal mines, and increasing the capacity of transport facilities for coal
handling. To accelerate petroleum development, the Government has invited
foreign oil companies to help develop both offshore and selected onshore areas
with difficult drilling conditions.
49.       In the short run, the Government is trying to ease the problem of
energy shortages through energy conservation policies and programs. They
comprise a mix of administrative measures and price incentives. Cutbacks in
plan allocations of energy to major industrial users appear to have been the
principal measure thus far. Energy consumption norms have been reduced and
more strictly applied. Some very inefficient plants have been closed down.
Oil-fired units are being converted to coal-firing to the extent possible.
Fifty-five energy conservation centers have been established to provide
enterprises with technical assistance in improving energy efficiency. These
programs have resulted in energy sav-ngs estimated at 35 million tons of
standard coal equivalent in 1980 and 26.5 million tons in 1981. About half of
these savings, however, have been due to the shift in the industrial structure
from heavy to light industry. There is still much potential for further
energy-saving efficiency improvements in such industries as iron and steel,
non-ferrous metals, chemical products, fertilizer and thermal power genera-
tion. Some price increases have also been effected. In 1979, the prices of
coal and natural gas were raised. More recently, special subsidies on diesel
fuel for certain users were eliminated, an excise tax of Y 70 per ton of crude
and heavy oil (burned as fuel) was introduced, and marginal coal prices to
industrial users have been increased. However, the present price structure is
not sufficiently conducive to energy conservation.  Further increases in the
price of coal, combined with increases in the price of petroleum products for
industrial users, would be necessary. High industrial electricity rates would
also encourage conservation and provide resources for capacity expansion,
thereby helping to eliminate the chronic electricity shortage, which accounts
for a loss of about 20% in industrial production.
The Power Subsector
50.       Power development in China has registered high rates of growth
during the last three decades. Of the total installed capacity of 76,440 MW
in 1983, 32% was hydro and 68% was thermal.  Total electricity generation has
increased from 4,310 GWh in 1949 to 351,440 GWh in 1983.  Annual per capita
generation of electrical energy has grown from 8 kWh to 348 kWh during the
same period. In 1982, power accounted for about 24% of the total commercial
energy consumption. Power is distributed through 32 grids, of which 13
(representing over 80% of the total capacity) exceed 1,000 MW each. Six of
these are regional grids; the remainder serve individual provinces or smaller
areas. Energy sales in 1983 reached 301,600 GWh, having grown at an average
rate of 14% since 1949.  Of this, 78% represented industrial consumption, 15%
agricultural, 1% transportation, and 6% residential and urban commercial.
About 60% of the population has access to electricity.



- 14 -
Institutions
51.       There are three principal ministries responsible for the energy
sector: the Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power (MWREP), the
Ministry of Coal Industry (MOCI) and the Ministry of Petroleum Industry
(MOPI). Following the reorganization of the Government in 1982, MWREP
oversees all aspects of water resource management and electric power develop-
ment including policy making, system planning, and the design, construction
and operation of power and water resource projects of regional importance.
Under MWREP, there are six regional power administrations which coordinate
operations and load dispatching of the regional power grids and formulate
long-term development plans for approval by MWREP and the State Planning
Commission (SPC). Below the regional administrations are 16 provincial power
bureaus operating as regional grids, while 10 other power bureaus still
operate in isolation.
Tariffs
52.       Electricity tariffs have in general remained constant since 1953.
Through minor regional adjustments over the years, they have become reasonably
uniform all over the country except in the northeast where historically they
have been lower. However, special reduced rates are from time to time intro-
duced to help new industrial and agricultural users in the initial years of
their establishment. Hence, the average revenue per unit has been declining
due to increased consumption by these groups. The national average was about
6.6 fen/kWh (USd2.5/kWh) in 1982.  However, the relatively low tariffs in
China so far have not prevented the electric power sector as a whole from
achieving satisfactory financial results.
Manpower and Training
53.       MWREP has about two million employees of whom about 48% are directly
under the Ministry and about 52% are under provincial administrations. Of the
total, less than 30% have received formal education beyond junior secondary
school level. The percentagL of technical personnel has declined from over 9%
in 1965 to about 8% at end-1982. MWREP .suffers from the acute shortage of
well-trained administrative and technical staff.
54.       In the late 1970s, MWREP initiated a long-term training program to
upgrade the quality of its existing staff at all levels. Although MWREP
organizes the program, much of the implementation is carried out by the pro-
vincial power bureaus.  The Ministry's ultimate goal is to establish by 1985 a
comprehensive program which will provide training to existing staff in a
systematic fashion. MWREP is also strengthening its capacity for full-time
training of potential employees through its Education Department which spon-
sors 48 universities, 49 technical colleges, television and correspondence
universities and 23 secondary vocational schools. Enrolled students totalled
53,000 in 1982. About 14,000 graduates are assigned to MWREP annually - 3,000
at 4-year college level and 11,000 at junior college level. These programs,
supplemented by periodic short courses for managerial and technical staff and
by on-the-Job training for workers, are expected to lead gradually to improve-
ments in the effectiveness of the workers in the sector.



- 15 -
Planning and Investment
55.       Regional and provincial planning is carried out by the regional
electric power administrations and the provincial electric power bureaus.
Overall planning is the responsibility of the Planning Department of MWREP
which reviews the plans proposed by the regional administrations and provin-
cial bureaus on short-term (annual), medium term (5-year) ar.n long-term (10-15
year) bases. For major hydro projects, the investigation, planning and design
are carried out by the regional hydroelectric investigation and design insti-
tutes under the supervision of the Water Resources and Hydroelectric Power
Construction Corporation. For system expansion, transmission lines and sub-
stations above 110kV and major thermal projects, the study, planning and
design are carried out by the regional electric power design institutes under
the supervision of the Power Planning Institute. MWREP, like other line
ministries, operates under the overall supervision of the State Planning
Commission (SPC) and the State Economic Commission (SEC), in which are vested
the ultimate authorities for project approval, budget illocation, financing
arrangements and supervision. The administrative arrangements for sector
planning are satisfactory, but the planning tools and methodology in some
cases need updating. Investment in the power sector constituted about 7-8% of
total national investment in capital construction from 1977 through 1983. A
significant increase in the share of power will be required to meet the
Government's development targets up to the year 2000.
Subsector Policy and Strategy
56.       The key points in the Government's strategy for electric power
development are as follows:
(a) the power industry should keep pace with industrial development to
ensure that demands can be met;
(b) power grids should be planned and managed on an increasingly
integrated basis;
(c) hydro development should be accelerated, particularly for rivers
with abundant hydro potential;
(d) mine-mouth coal-fired thermal stations should be developed,
supplemented, where necessary, by stations located near suitable
port areas and load centers;
(e) extra high voltage transmission lines should be developed to
transport power from remote hydro sites and mine-mouth thermal
stations and for interconnection between regions;
(f) medium and low pressure thermal units should be replaced
progressively by larger size and higher pressure units to improve
fuel efficiency, and oil-fired units should be converted to coal-
firing to the extent practicable;



- 16 -
(g) nuclear units should be developed in areas where other forms of
conventional energy are scarce; and
(h) efficiency should be improved and conservation should be encouraged.
Subsector Problems
57.       Shortage of Generating Capacity.  In spite of considerable growth in
generating capacity, supply capability has lagged behind the demand and short-
ages are reported in most regions - particularly in the northeast, north and
east China grids. The power shortage was estimated at about 10,000 MW in
generating capacity and 40,000 GWh in energy in 1982 which caused a loss of
20% in industrial production. Demand management has been carried out in these
regions by staggering holidays, changing working hours, and load shedding
during shortages according to agreed priorities. As a result, the north China
grid has increased its daily load factor to 86% and annual load factor to 75%
and the east China grid has achieved a daily load factor of 90% and an annual
load factor of around 83%. The overall average annual running hours for
thermal units in the country was around 5,500 hours, indicating a high degree
of utilization and a heavy burden on the existing facilities.
58.       Inadequate Transmission and Distribution Facilities.  The develop-
ment of transmission lines and substation facilities has lagged behind that of
generation. The most common high transmission voltage is 220 kV (about 36,800
km of transmission lines) but this is too low to permit significant power
transfers over long distances. There are only two lines of 330 kV (about
1,088 kbm) in northwest and three lines of 500 kV (1,594 km) in central and
north China in operation. No interconnection has yet been made between
regions and there are about 10 provincial grids still operating in iso-
lation. MWREP has estimated that China has a shortage of about 10,000 km of
transmission lines at voltages above 110 kV. Similar shortages exist in
substation capacity. The present plan is to develop 500 kV lines for the
regional backbone transmission systems, to be overlaid by higher voltage a.c.
and d.c. transmission lines for regional interconnection in the future.
59.       Lower voltage subtransmission and distribution are currently being
financed by the provincial governments or municipalities. The local
authorities usually do not allocate sufficient funds for the improvement and
extension of these facilities.
60.       Financial Constraints.  Financial constraints have been one of the
main reasons for the shortage of generating capacity and the inadequacy of
transmission and distribution facilities. In the past, limited budgetary
allocations have caused considerable slow-down of power projects. Recently,
however, the funding mechanism has undergone considerable revision. This, and
the possibility of increasing the level of sectoral self-financing through
tariff increases, should improve the availability of finance.
61.       Technology Transfer and Training.  Despite the progress already
made, technology in least-cost investment programming, load dispatching and
computer application is behind the levels prevailing in developed countries.
The age profile of the engineering staff is striking: most of them are in



- 17 -
their 50s and 60s. Strenuous efforts will be needed to narrow the gap by
training young graduates now emerging from universities. This may require the
establishment of specialized training institutes, on-the-job training within
the country and training in utilities and institutions abroad.
Role of the Bank
62.       The Bank's role in the electricity subsector will be to promote the
transfer of modern technology, staff training, and institution building with
emphasis on system planning and modern financial management, as well as to
finance expansion of China's generating and transmission capacities. The Bank
will continue to assist in arranging cofinancing of major power projects. The
first power project (Lubuge) supported the Government's objective of maximiz-
ing the use of renewable energy resources by financing the construction of a
major hydropower facility, and in so doing successfully introduced interna-
tional competitive bidding for civil works, modern construction techniques and
institutional development of state enterprises (by enhancing their financial
autonomy, etc.). Future lending will focus on hydropower development,
backbone transmission lines and coal-fired thermal stations. Such projects,
together with sector work, will form a vehicle for a continuing dialogue with
MWREP and the regional and provincial administrations on sectoral management
and planning issues, including power pricing.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
63.       The project was identified in November 1983 and appraised in March
1984.  Negotiations were held in Washington on November 5 through 9, 1984,
with a Chinese delegation headed by Mr. Ge Fucun, Director, External Finance
Department, Ministry of Finance. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5147-CHA,
dated January 22, 1985) is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Prolect Objectives
64.       A number of the key points in the Government's strategy for power
development (para. 56) are reflected in the conception of the project; in
particular, the provision of adequate electric power to support industrial
growth; development of mine-mouth thermal power stations to exploit China's
abundant coal reserves; and construction of a network of EHV lines to transfer
power between optimal generating sites and load centers and to facilitate
eventual regional inter-connections. Given the Bank's objectives in the elec-
*      tricity subsector in China (para. 62), the project seeks to:  promote transfer
of technology for design, construction, operation and maintenance of EHV lines
and substations; foster the adoption of more appropriate techniques of system
planning, investment programming, and financial management; and provide an
opportunity for cofinancing.



_ 18 -
Project Description
65.       The proposed project comprises:
(a) construction of a 500 kV transmission line of ab ut 683 [cm from
Xuzhou to Shanghai, including the 3 km crossing over the Yangtze
River;
(b)  installation of five substations at Xuzhow  Jiangdu, Sunan, Huangdu
and Nanqiao, and provision of equipment for three other substations
in JPEPB's grid;
(c) provision of tele-control and tele-communication equipment at
project substations and the dispatching centers at Shanghai and
Nanjing for load dispatching and system control;
(d) provision of equipment for installation, commissioning and testing
of substation facilities;
(e) provision of consultancy services to assist ECEPDI and JPEPB in
design, procurement, construction and staff training for the 500 kV
transmission lines and substations; and
(f) establishment of a training center and provision of equipment to two
existing electrical training schools for the operation and
maintenance of 500 kV transmission lines and substations.
Implementation
66.       The beneficiary of the proposed project would be the Jiangsu
Provincial Electric Power Bureau (JPEPB), a state-owned enterprise under the
direction of the East China Electric Power Administration (ECEPA). It is
assigned responsibility by the State for the execution within its jurisdiction
of the national plan for power generation, capital investment, power sales and
tariffs, employment and payroll, materials consumption and tax and profit
remittances to the State. A charter of JPEPB acceptable to the Bank has been
issued.
67.       JPEPB is headed by a director.  Four deputy directors and a chief
engineer are functionally responsible to him respectively for construction;
production and technical matters; finance, labor and supply; personnel and
training; and engineering and design. A number of operating units, each
headed by a chief with line responsibility to the director of JPEPB, are
responsible for generation, distribution, construction and repair.
68.       JPEPB had about 61,000 employees as of the end of 1983.  Except for
a core group of key technical and managerial personnel, virtually all



- 19 -
employees are assigned 11 or recruited locally and hired on a permanent
basis. Of the total employed, only about 6% have received technical training
equivalent to or above college level. JPEPB recognizes the need for training
and administers through its Education Division five institutes for the
training of junior engineers, mid-level technicians and skilled workers. In
^983, over 1,000 graduated. However, in some specialized areas, such as EHV
lines and substations, JPEPB is still limited in terms of experience,
expertise and facilities. Accordingly, a training component is included under
the proposed project. Assurances have been obtained that JPEPB will carry out
a training program satisfactory to the Bank (draft Project Agreement, Section
2.08).
69.       The feasibility studies for the project were carried out by the East
China Electric Power Design Institute (ECEPDI). Detailed engineering and
design of the project are being carried out by ECEPDI with assistance from
consultants (para. 65(e)). The construction and installation of transmission
lines and substations would be the responsibility of JPEPB, which may subcon-
tract all or part of the work within the metropolitan area of Shanghai to the
Shanghai Electric Power Supply Bureau (SEPSB). Construction supervision would
be carried out by the 500 kV Transmission Project Office under JPEPB in
association with ECEPDI. The facilities when constructed would remain in the
ownership of JPEPB, which would have ultimate responsibility for their
operation and maintenance. At its discretion JPEPB may entrust operation and
maintenance of the facilities in Shanghai to SEPSB.
70.       The Xuzhou-Jiangdu section (northern half) of the line and the
substations at Xuzhou and Jiangdu are scheduled for completion by December
1986. The Jiangdu-Shanghai section (southern half) and the substations at
Sunan, Huangdu and Nanqiao are expected to be completed by early 1988.  The
project completion date is June 30, 1988. The closing date of the Bank loan
is June 30, 1989, which would allow adequate time for payment of retention
monies.
Cost Estimates
71.       The total financing required is estimated at $282.8 million equiva-
lent, including interest during construction.  Identifiable taxes and duties
amounting to about $9.2 million are included.  The cost estimates are based on
end-1984 price levels.  Physical contingencies include 5% for foreign costs,
which comprise only imported goods and services, 15% for civil works, and 10%
for other local costs.  The price contingencies for all foreign costs were
calculated on the basis of assumed annual rate of escalation of 3.5% for 1984,
8% for 1985 and 9% for 1986 and thereafter. The price contingencies for local
costs were calculated at 3%.
1/ Engineers witih formal university education are centrally trained and
assigned by MWREP.



- 20 -
Financing Plan
72.       The proposed Bank loan of $117.0 million would meet about 46% of
total project cost (net of duties and taxes) or about 82% of the foreign
exchange requirements. It would be used to cover the costs of the following
items:
(a) construction equipment and materials for the transmission line,
including 2teel towers, conductors, ground wires, insulators and
hardware;2
(b) equipment and materials for substations including steel structures
and supporting insulators, transformers, power circuit breakers,
disconnecting switches, main control boards and equipment, power and
control cables, protection equipment, shunt reactors and other
installation, operation and testing equipment;
(c) tele-control and tele-communication equipment;
(d) a computer plotter and office equipment;
(e) consultancy services; and
(f) training.
73.       About $0.6 million has been provided under the Technical Cooperation
Credit (Cr. 1412-CHA) for project preparation. Besides the consultancy
services related to project preparation (para. 65(e)), it will provide funding
for a study tour and training of staff in design and construction. The
balance of the foreign exchange requirement for consulting services and
training for operation and maintenance of 500 kV transmission lines and
substations would be provided by the Bank loan.
74.       The Government of Italy has agreed to provide a soft loan of $10
million 31 for the supply of steel towers, conductors, insulators, hardware
and erection supervision services for the Yangtze River crossing work and the
supply of selected substation equipment. All local costs of the project and
interest during construction on local and foreign loans would be financed by
local bank loans and government funds.
Onlending
75.       The Bank loan would be made to the People's Republic of China at the
standard variable interest rate for a 20-year term including 5 years of
2/   Except for steel towers and other line materials for the Xuzhou-Jiangdu
section which would be supplied by domestic manufacturers using local
sources of financing.
3/   Fifteen years including two years of grace at 2.5% p.a. interest.



- 21 -
grace. The Government would relend the proceeds of the loan to JPEPB under a
subsidiary loan agreement, with a 20-year term including 5 years of grace and
an interest rate of 8.5% p.a. JPEPB would bear the foreign exchange risk
(between the dollar and the Borrower's currency). Execution of a subsidiary
loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness
of the loan (draft Loan Agreement, Sections 3.01(b) and 6.01(a)).
Financial Position
76.       The financial condition of JPEPB is sound.  For the five years, 1979
through 1983, revenue from energy sales grew at an average annual rate of
7.5%. Net income averaged 30% of sales revenue although as a result of the
income tax (55%) introduced in 1983 and remittance of after-tax profit, very
little (3.5%) was retained by JPEPB. The operating results represent a rate
of return of around 27% of the net value of assets employed. The proportion
of debt is low (8:92) because loan financing was introduced only in 1980.
77.       Forecasts through 1990 show that JPEPB would continue to produce
satisfactory financial results. The rate of return on assets employed would
decline but would still be over 8%. Because of the build-up of debt service,
remittances of after-tax earnings would dwindle to negligible levels. JPEPB
would still be conservatively capitalized with a 63:37 debt equity ratio. The
forecasts indicate that no change in tariffs would be required to maintain
JPEPB's satisfactory performance through the end of the decade. This conclu-
sion is, however, sensitive to changes in JPEPB's operating costs, particu-
larly the price of coal which currently represents 55% of JPEPB's variable
costs and rises to over 60% by 1990. Significant change in the coal price
would require a corresponding adjustment in the electricity tariff to preserve
JPEPB's financial stability. Assurances have been obtained from JPEPB that it
would take all such measures, including adjustments to electricity tariffs as
determined by the Government, as may be necessary to maintain its gross reve-
nue at a level sufficient to cover its full costs of operation including
depreciation, and to meet all its financial obligations including debt
service, taxes, allocations to special funds, distributions of earnings and
other cash outflows (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.03). Furthermore, the
tariff for bulk power transfers within ECEPA should also be closely monitored
since it is the price at which a substantial proportion of the power transmit-
ted through the project would be sold by JPEPB to SEPSB. Assurances have been
obtained from the Government that if the ECEPA bulk power price prevailing at
the time of project commissioning is insufficient to cover the full cost
(including generation) of power to be transmitted through the new EHV line and
substations, an appropriate adjustment would be made in the bulk price (draft
*      Loan Agreement, Section 4.02).
78.       Since JPEPB is now assuming responsibility for servicing its own
debts, it must begin to adopt a systematic approach to planning its financial
affairs.  Asssurances have been obtained that JPEPB would institute in its
financial year 1985 the preparation of a five-year financial plan, rolled for-
ward each year (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.05). With the aid of such
a plan, JPEPB will be better equipped to accommodate the present and possible
future changes in its financial systems and accounting, and to initiate and
monitor the measures necessary to maintain a sound financial position. To



- 22 -
further encourage prudent financial management, it has been confirmed that
JPEPB may incur additional debt if a reasonable forecast of its revenues and
expenditures indicates that internal cash generation will at least exceed
projected debt service (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.04).
Accounting and Audit
79.       JPEPB operatrs on an accrual-based system and follows accounting
procedures laid down by the Ministry of Finance. Accounting is decentralized
into the subsidiary enterprises and is consolidated centrally. Monthly
operating and quarterly full financial statements are submitted to NWREP
through ECEPA.  JPEPB has an internal audit staff that carries out scheduled
examinations of the accounts of each operating unit at least once a year, plus
occasional spot checks. As an instrument of safeguarding public investments
and encouraging efficiency in public administration, the State Audit Admini-
stration (SAA) which has the status of a ministry, was established in 1983.
For the time being audits of MWREP enterprises which are beneficiaries of
World Bank loans will be carried out by SAA's Capital Construction Bureau.
SAA has drafted national auditing regulations, which are awaiting approval.
It is planned that a new Foreign Loan and Joint Venture Bureau will be esta-
blished and staffed with specialists capable of working and reporting accor-
ding to international auditing standards as well as to Chinese regulations.
This Bureau will assume responsibility for World Bank audits. The Bank is
actively supporting these initiatives both through technical assistance
provided by staff and by supporting an audit training through the Technical
Cooperation Credit (Cr. 1412-CHA). Assurances have been obtained that JPEPB
would submit its annual financial statements, audited by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank, within 6 months of the end of each financial
year (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.02).
Procurement and Disbursement
80.       Equipment and materials financed under the proposed Bank loan will
be procured by International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Under ICB, qualified domestic manufacturers
will be permitted to participate and be eligible for a 15% margin of prefer-
ence or the prevailing customs duties, whichever is lower, in the evaluation
of bids. Minor equipment estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract
could be procured on the basis of three quotations, up to an aggregate amount
of $2 million, from qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines. For
the procurement of equipment and materials financed under bilateral credit,
procurement procedures of the donor country would be followed.  All bidding
packages for equipment and materials financed by the Bank and estimated to
cost over $500,000 equivalent would be subject to the Bank's prior review of
procurement documents, which is expected to cover nearly all the contracts.
Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:



- 23 -
PROCUREME  ARRA NS
($ million)
Procurement Method          Tot=al Cost
Project Element              ICB      3 Quotations   Others /b
Equipment and material       117.4          2.0       56.1        175.5
(111.4) /a     (2.0)                 (113.4)
Consultancy services
and training                 3.6           -         5.6          9.2
(3.6)                                (3.6)
Land, civil works,
installation and
other costs                   -            -        80.6         80.6
Total                   121.0          2.0      142.3        265.3
(115.0)        (2.0)                 (117.0)
/a   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
loan.
/b  "Others" include procurement of domestic goods, civil works and installa-
tion by various contruction companies operating under JPEPB and SEPSB.
81.       Disbursement of the loan for this project is estimated to be faster
than the average Bank profile because: (a) consultants have already been
appointed and they are reviewing the tower and substation design for the
southern section of the transmission line; (b) procurement is well under way
and bids for the first package of substation eqipment are being evaluated; and
(c) oonstruction of the northern section of the transmission line was started
in October 1984. The Bank loan would be disbursed against: (a) 100% of the
foreign expenditures of directly imported equipment and materials; (b) 100% of
local expenditures ex-factory of locally manufactured items; (c) 75% of the
cost of other items procured locally off-the-shelf; and (d) 100% of the cost
of consultancy services and overseas training. Documents in support of the
statement of expenditures for overseas training and contracts each valued at
less than $20,000 equivalent need not be submitted to the Bank but should be
retained in the project office for review by the Bank's supervision missions.
Technical Assistance on System Planning
82.      To improve MWREP's capability in system planning, it was agreed that
the Bank will assist MWREP in seeking technical assistance of the International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in demand forecasting and least cost investment
programming using IAEA's MAED and WASP III computer programs. IAEA has
already agreed to provide such assistance on a grant basis. In addition, the



- 24 -
project also includes a training component for development of MWREP's capabil-
ity in system planning.
Benefits and Risks
83.       East China i- one of the most important industrial areas in China,
accounting for about 2ip of total national nroduction. Shortage of electri-
nity has been one of the major constraints to economic development in this
area. The loss of gross indust-.ial production is estimated by ECEPA at 5 Yuan
for every kWh of electricity not supplied.
84.       In JPEPB's service area, ene.-gy consumption has been growing at an
average annual rate of about 10% from 1949 to 1970 and about 1-% from 1971 to
1983. Growth rates in peak demand and energy generation over the past 14
years from 1970-83 are averaged at 8.1% p.a. and 10.5% p.a. respectively. Of
the 19,889 GUh total energy consumpcion (including self-generation by captive
plants) in 1983, 68% was consumed by industrial users, 26% by agricultural
users, and 6% by transportation, residential and commercial users. Based on a
reasonable load projection, the peak demand and energy generation for ECEPA
would increase from 8,874 MK and 63,000 Gwh in 1983 to 14,700 MW and 100,000
GWh in 1990, which represent average annual growth rates of 7.9¶ and 7.0%
respectively. Those for JPEPB would be increased from 3,230 M-1V end 18,235 GVh
to 5,400 MW and 36,200 GWh respectively, growing at annual rate of 8.0% and
6.7%.
85.      ECEPA's power development plar (1984-90) indicates that its gener-
ation program in the 1980s depends largely on the development of coal-fired
plants located at mine mouths or near ports or load centers. The No. 1 and
No. 2 thermal power stations at Xuzhou are the two important ones. But the
existing 220 kV sy.-om is inadequate to handle the added loaa.  A least- cost
study demonstrated -.hat the optimal solution would be 2 circuits of 500 kV
line.
86.      Since it is difficult to separate the-benefits of transmission lines
and substations from those of generation facilities, the economic analysis has
been made on the basis of a complete system comprising the Xuzhou thermal
power stations and the prop--,sed project. This system would be fully balanced
between generation and tr-nsmission capacity. Shadow pricing was applied.
Benefits were calculated using the revenue at the prevailing average tariff.
On this basis, the IERR is 14.0%.
87.      Ecological factors have been taken into account in the design of the
line in accordance with internationally accepted safety practices, particular-
ly with respect to radio interference, audible noise, visual nuisance and
ground gradients. The line route has been selected to minimize disturbance to
the environment; substation sites have been selected away from populated
areas. No safety hazards are foreseen.
88.       As most of the transmission line trave ses flat agricultural, areas
in Jiangsu province, little problem in obtaining the right-of-way for line
construction is expected. The right-of-way for the section from Huangdu to
Nanqiao close to the outskirts of Metrooolitan Shanghai %- , already been
secured. No other risk is envisaged.



- 25 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
89.       The draft Loan Agreement between the People's Republic of Chine and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Jiangsu P ovin-
cial Electric Power Bureau, and the Report of the Comnittee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
90.       Soecial conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex II. Special conditions of effectiveness are that China's State Council
shall have approved the Loan Agreement and that a satisfactory subsidiary loan
agreement shall have been signed between the Government and JPEPB (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01).
g9.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
92.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
January 29, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-26 -                                              ANNEX T
Page 1 of 6
CBA.14 FEOFLC-S WE.r O. - SOCX%L TTCA2  OM    E
aNA,. PlOFLKS M:F. OF szui 8r -uuainm A133AGXS3 I
MOST                CPOST NEEZET ESWITDK  lb
£sea&b      zsi'o!k.   ZSnMaLb    ASIA 4 vaCc            ASIA & mcXnc
AMa (aInCU W. 3
oTvAL                             9511.0       956L0o      955110
4~I~LUM.                          325=7.       3032.0      31_.9
c  gm  cV   COSS)                      40o0 IC     30.0       310o            273.                   109L.2
CKfG0AU  Or OOL   IVAr)            191.0       250.0 o         .           272.0                   567-3
1in0SAnU AM  IAL S=TSTI  a
IOUOLATIO.JgO-EZAZt ( IANbS3)   68030.0    34700.0   10075 -7.0
rAE 1090L51r  CZ OFr 7GTAL)         13-4 Ie       ..        20.6            21.7                    34.7
SO: LATOF Ix ffA1 200 CUM)                               1196.3
SMT*1Ma1 9OFc1aT1  CELL)                                1141.0
NFErLATTOU 20stx                                            L.7
mogATmE DEES
M  S. 1L                          7L.9        885         103.3          164.4                   2119
P0 SO_ 3. aDit LAND              211_1      Z27.9         256 8          34.                    173551
FOFULATIOKAC SIZUCZ  CZ)
0-14 1S                          39           37-7        30.9           35                      39.0
L-646 .S                          56S3 57.2               63.3            59.                     57.1
65 A23 A0l                         4.3         Si           5.5            4.3                     3-3
POFMATIO  U       g M   CE()
ODTL                               1.3          2.1         1.S            1.                      2.3
Voan                                 ,           -           -             4_1 .13
Km   am  (Fim Tem15)          39.2 I/      34.0   1S5.                27.7                    301
can MATE RUE (PM T )                23.5         10.1         4.1          10.1                      9.5
GO   3eUII00genO3  zATE                 .£       L3           1.             L.                      2.0
-.gbS_. *aIWL (T_U_)                                         ,_             _
mce    CZ or  flD WMEN)                          .         19.4 i     /f               _2.7
D OFX CW0FOOD 1rOD F CAuIT
169-71-e100)                         .-        1Q00       122 .0         11.                      230
MR CAFQrA iUPr.x 0r
C5Mx  CZ OF _ESUIK3NTO)           93.0         M0         10t70           97.7                   11i
FROTEI15 (5AMS FER DAT)           56.0        53.0         6.0           5.                       57.0
or muI *3302L *13 PMSZ          16.0         16.0        17.0           I"                      14.1
c.D  (AS 1-4) MMTE   =              26.0         14.0         7.0           98                       7-.2
LDm  m=. AT uTI  C2A)- *            41.0 lb      52.3        66.5           60.0                    60.4
WAT 37  am (PU TO  )   '   165.0 7e    109.0                 67.0          83.8                     66.3
A=SS To San WAMr (:POP
252*1.                        --                           41-0          3Z.9                     37.0
t,BAN                               ..                    gsu             70.9 
RURAL                                                        -      -    2                        26.4
ISUS TO Z 4 DISPOSAL
CZ OF POPmUAXO)
TOrAL                                                                     ml...  1-               6-3
mm                                  .,          ,,          ,,           7Z.8                     47.4
_AL                                     _,,_ 46                                                   33.3
POFOLITIS Fa PSUICIAs             8390.0 t    3330.0 1±   1810.0 /t      34.2                     7769.4
POP. PM   K=SIPS                  4050.0      2370.0       1790.0        473.1                    2660.4
pOF- PM maIT.AL MM
TOTL                             1060.0       7b0.0       490.0         1066.5                  1044.2
Utz"                             210.0          ,,        160.0          25".0                   651.Z
ZUAL                            10140.0         ,,       1020.0         59"34                   2594.6
A_SSXa3S FM 8OSP2`L IED               -.    ,                                .                      27.0
AVEA*  SUE OF  1Se013
TOTAL                                           5.2                                                  - 5.
SARiS ~ ~     ~      ~     ,    _.     . -          2             --                        --
*em                                                          4-2s 
IMAL                                .            .5.5
TOTAL                               -.           --
m,,, ._                                        ..
3 AL                                _. _- _. _                __
AcSS TO ELgrT. CXOF D02LIUG)
O._AL                                                   ..                ..
um.AL                               ..          ..
303*1      ..          ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



-27                                       ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
CRIA.PUOPLES W. OF - 6D9CAL DUCATOS DATA 
cmzNA,  iLEs xW. o.W    ic M3                     mugs)   C I Gc   /a
MosT                 (MST MZC1U ESssNa) /b
a90 ~ 17W   UmET        Low                 mIDE ZDK   E
SSTMA=/b     SA  p%=AWC          4514I 1 AII
r mmrun
PRIM==:  TOWAL                    10.O         110.0        180             9 .4                    102.0
M                          -.          ..        130.0           110.S                    105.9
FUZ                        -.          ..        106.0            37                      5s.2
SCJ . TOTAL                        21.0         23.0        44.0            35.9                    G4.0
t                          -.          ..         53.0           4.6                       4.7
ixLt                       ..          ..         35.0           26.8                     43.1
VOCAT AL CZ Or S30tV                   ..           .. -.2                     2.2                     17.5
r                                    ..           ..    -   26.0            38.5                     31.
SEUMr                                ..           ..         17.0           18.7                     23.5
A=DL LuEAO   RTEN (1)                43.0 Id.       .          69.0           53.4                     729
AEC   ARS/TJOOSAmD  P                  ..           ..         0.2             0.9                     10.1
IIIO    IW3 oroSASD VW                            14.2        18333          11221                    113.4
%V  'Iv05fEG01AN                       ..          0.6        27.4            15.7          S     Lz
MM D a    PuZAU.                                  ..           ..           14.2                     53_9
C       AAL a. UNmML   A cfUCT         ..           _.           _             3.6                      3_.
zxmm FOC  v
TOMXAL     FORCE CnKM)           32144.0    380555.0    47136..0
lZK=  (lUCEl                       38.3         36.0        37.2            33.3                     33_5
311ZLTE (9l:E)                       ..           ..        638.9           1J6                      52.2
?Amclmzw  am  (PKw)4263-
TOTAL                              448          45.0        47.0             6                       38.7
KALE                               55.9         54.5         57.2           54.7                     50.9
Yf1ALE                             37.0         35.0        36.0            29.8                     24.6
ECONOIC nDeNzEN  RATIO                0.9          1.0         0.4             1.0                      1.1
RECEVE OFHVASi
,,v _,_ mOD                      ..      _     .    _ 12.5 Li        __                Z2.2
1CST 202 OF  1D                      _.           ..        ..                ._                     41.0
L1IRS? 20S 0   1O0SEOD                _           _          6.84, / t-
OSR? 0 01  SIUOS               - __           ..          4.4 Sv          *-                    1U_5
iuTEL CSS PR cA )
93345                                                          _           133.9                    188.4
nL  _,     t111.6                    152-0
ZS-A    mCATIN  POVERTY XNM
LD. (1CUSS15S CAIIT&)
Mtn"5                                ..           ..          ..              ..                    177.9
VFM''''                                               -                                   166-
mESMATED      BLOW ABSOME
mm                                   ..                       3. *8                                  23.A
RAL                                   .           ..                         1.7                     37.7
NOT &VAILAX.E.
NO? APPLICABLE
L E ~  ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    OE
a     u gr p aoereg  for each indicetor are poratcON-0e0ghtad eritheetic _sa.   CDWeraa of cumetrief amin  the
Indicators deperds n avaiLablltey of data amd is not usifore.
Jb  Unles. otherwse soted. Daza for 1960 ref er to a  Fear betwee  1959 and 1961; -Dta for 1970- betwee  190 aed
1971: s.d data for  ose Recent Zetst e  betwee_ 1980 and 1982.
/c  loerpolnted 1957-62 dara: Id 1966; la 1955-1965 averag; If   _rceutae of all merriad  amm, of chlUd basing
age practicing cotzeracptiole  /p 19??; /h 1355-44 arage; /I Senior doccor of water. sedicioe ;
a1 Distibertiom of people rkaTbhoeselda per capita income. 1979 data.
* A11 po_laton and vital stetitce ame elak etl_ete mkich differ faro Cinese official statletica
Formal edution only;  _ot-foeal encollat Is enbtan *  ial-
DAfnicinez and cveora  differ fro these of Cbinse offical *tatietics.
JIN. 1984



ye   5.16 ld 51    .3       .5ae "e a- A V .a-. Ap-
*la   ~ .   .Ss.1  tsqn a - 15n  A33          - -i- .-s
OKe   - l ll.*a0 I      e.elsedpi.den..sas             asa
n.el3- e.e3- r- M.e41      a*5 )3        ft slt  3e1
_.;   . . a ---  -1.-   y                                    n  e~An   pa-.e   sj..    a.i.e-en'
j-I-P   -a                                                     $M~~~~~~4  IIS- s -z  W.  --3I  IA1wl 513 et-a P-"51 sW -
nd-  .W .9.n                                                    o"-p~~~~~~~~~~ *   nsejld-Jt53  .e5ia  -eese.a     (en  Cesa-
set                                                                          ye LW V   WMad   '1-1ft5 -PeS.n. 3-a .83fl 3- MI- p.se
eI*~  *w   ye V 3A_  t a;ea                                                          .me as .-s  -a-  tac-  V-te          - y     - Af en-l) id.ed  ..Id.
v- -1A. -     -   - I.A., t..!~~~~~~                         - -2l  ye  3*ql 31333-   (elISIa d  3e*se)  P.a- *5  5IJ
-.t-n A_~~ J.    -   _1~~         p-s-1 I.,                        tz  -n *31  4- .  e-n - (18 . P35 5355 51
SAM     .d ae 3.y eels lew. As.inec3
'333   -  I.-.  e nlaS)t3ll~'.  53  .5J4- lJed 1*        ..ee  edi a. 5or 1- aa         3*e    i.eI313-aae
- tes y  .esa -(e33.5-  a1r-t-s  .i sel  -t3.~men ft        3.In                         A,ye     -  313     -I-eS-J 33  53I.   P-l  *) 13
- e  ess- 1etye-  leV e. .e3sl  ss.eAnen- --   8sip   .                    sasy    -i*eshr!1-a- .%yeee     ye.yv
I-s.st    s. Jte. -9. s-n en is-n a1-se.5.e3  etln                              e   *AieAeced-s5    e(s   a   itea333eR
ml s- 4L.1 ;CyMCe 5                               , tye..  a  e.s413135Jaaam 5
* tsm   a yin.s- nsls y  ne~en n.n~ ades   elJd4.  )ea..A.d          Ast.-Se            ..3- -      (5it-              a- i5  -S `jss tssa-m
*Ie.ee 3-  .5. ..sse 815       -1353.  eenft3,s-s enee3yeCe                   yes - n ii.eP e.nn
30- J-i-5s3 138- ens- yee5 3*   - isesIS)  33eleesaae.
J_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ eP13                       ~         re   e*a*   es,  enn   2a  dCa    a.   ..se-.e
.331   83 !5se5a.n5nase he    335a1 ese yeaene ~Aaalsses.  3 ~.a33es's-I Il .lsaead  seeeimn       nensI   eet y'Weiy
yebl*sra  nes.fies  lnI..3na  -n     sss.jlseps9,5eslia  3.as  elmp   s.ses  ae                                             p yss  aa
esls3   e ot ans  531.5313 nseshe   lead        3111             '113 eM-PeC  dasetti in    3-neeM  ees    dsp3.  eny   e
en.- seesen *s..52.3Amp£u.se. .e.  l....PIM     .Al l..o P. .,                       -'4         lt   n.np0e             IeleI-  ft.   Cea...y
el  e   les t.aesa.ad =3a.    see   .3a.- .s    e m
_.P~ _   T~ J.  _A AI          'e te Al  3                    45           ea3 s--  "e   .a-~   .s.Jes -             P resn  Inen
. s  3.3      - C   4-       3--       'Zt..fla  .es    n...em  n               esnen %lye  le-sle    -J tAhi-"-l   aas   .s              nt
esee...        a-taasenaeeS  na  55e*                      se.leel                              .'   (Ceeas  tes   .at531  -t    -gmAt
so e     P-   A-e ~ 'ad.    a-teamf 11-      3-nIl. 5. te55sn                        e3_S'8e             l    a.-  f  ~.Lel  515-I   Pee 'nn-s
015   - et.n  eea  *3) tman~a3 ate.n                  .sn.ae0  ne.'ne-udIte  -Se 15  -et,l -csess - ts.
.1la  e  -I.   ame3.333*   e- tes  en_2 ye-J5                            lsF5I         S-I  -23 dS  -e J j    Al=e -.- eial 
te8a- h.tltddp   ee M A -"   "nle  seAs.-   .esen3eet   saneip.    - s'a. - Isesav-  .a-1 -m%. e.,en
Iwss   ll-a5e1d   1y-(spee   yes                        . a.peae.   -Asen                           *Lw-es. ye   . 5J11 0-.  21-s  ln   see
.e-i!nse£enl                    I  muses_ a. 3.n   'seJ  351 -  . -2 (s.aaa   5B.sI-c tesee
ye  ~~jn 'sesel tm-la..     It-e. all ent neen         z_                         .       I-i5eAI".. 'e-    P-n ye   A.ft  nla           sed
d.sa  ea atesI  - neen  pte.l 1A3 PI-    ot.iseA.---                                  33.4     gs.    .see Is FM3.  e3jedi
V.Pp"  A-   .ft"     .~  V   -1- .1- esd                         -neeeat. "'35e.   t-    tn -,J.           3-5A33-nI-a           p -nen
58.  eas   s  Cam ~  lnn- iCenasee   e  sgms                                                                                  I55.5  ei-lld
en  eflse..~te58- snyse y    ea.na -" e;a           "'-es.tn                                                                 eeseid-A  583 '5..'e-t,     43p-"
s-g-gntne  As58m.    31 .sA-a34.y   --,- n ea.nT *esi  a5 1-*  a-IF                             a  3CtedA.nl.sa e-a
*-p    si -M  -M-do P.3 Ate -  nn-Al-.                 V-. W-5                    eldja.  msS  na              58dft  ..-e      A Uat.nes   A-eslii
tensanse  nna-ee '-.   --J.- 3 Vftaa  enns  nsa.-S   .esl         .i -ad5  -se5deese
491.0p.mAd  ...vist           -ps.e    -ie.e.                            ..-*elsaa. Alm.a  --   sm ass  ..a  e
-E    n3eaa- =iea V-ts..-. 13        - v-n*5e8  -Nel-  -33.1                    a-sW HIMSild5  3   .ea  t  n--                           ~s
?.seaa-t*58t   y...    p ..84a-s  --n   . a-n-b  Ces.                        etSn.   5 tAnt a    .t                      a *-- ems  P-eas6
A5.Wse'se-I.- P~5l  - .ndye  n   nm - 3C8  -Iye-S                       a-   sc  'ilwla   *1'1355    PS35V l1  58 31 315
*3    es   13565    8.    81Si as 3-.1e   I- .-                              .see-  e e-s .ns   s P-ne.aes  en  -:ssse  aese,f
*55  en -n.  35-e  a-s   -  a- woy -1 a.33 n-                     -v.Laa            atnu -    sAta-.-e  e       -0 sm.   -    ei - -n -se-Is
S e. yeW Ase- -i.e  -0 t-iie .    SI.3 .snstasaa,a           ." A .5-al   aC 3As           Vf13 "ae8la. d-      AI U -       ft. ell -i Cete  .1-en
eaC   .les  3--"---N                   at-   a.a     e va-a.~.  -W n.$ .ei .nsee.    -teCe
S_$e53  n.de_              a-4.    s_CIna    _.  Pi-".e   enn                        itniseset- ~   en sinlss-aen  ye- 
nnleE gv    leI aay    ne  n eNst .3  C55      3                                                       ls(e   55ld   ese     ett n5
xa m                                                         oz..e  nint.a;    ema                  .5yinye~35epte-3



- 29-                                                    AUNKE I
page *of 6
Popilatton       1,0R ntilion  n ld-19R2)
ONP per Capita: '1S310 (1982)
CRINA - FCNO?IC INICATOPS
Annual  rowth (2) at Constant Picl
rndicator                                    1957-70   1970-77   1e7R       1979       10R30     1931      19R2       1931     193
(eatiu_te)
Production
Croas output
Agriculture                                2.2        R04 9f             R.3.       3.4      6r.        11.0       05.
Light inAdutry                             R.3        7 R      10.3      9.6      I.4       14.1       S.7        R,7
weavy industry                            11.6        9*3      15.6      7.7        1.4      -4.7       0,q       12.4
Net matertil Product (191)                   S.2        4.3      12.4      7.0        6.1       4.3       7.4        0.1
1957 1-70           1977       1A73      1979      1930       1931     1P2       19_3
Prices1
Retail prIce index rl)70-100)   92.2      10 0       102.7     103.3     105.4      111.7     114.4     116.r      113.lIh
NMP deflator        (l17o-10n)   00.7      on0.0      09.1    1M.        104.5      InR.4     1:0.5     ii".6      i IjAW
Exchanpe rate       YIUss)        2.46      2.46       1.6      1.63      1.55       1.Sn      1.71     IR9        1.9LA
Ammumt                                                            Averape Annavl Crovth  -
19A2                 Sharms of CDP (2)                         C() at Consetnt  rite
National Accounts           (S bi-n     1957      IQ70     1932     lq3     I'm       1457-In   1970-79   1979.R2   1-93-Zo
ClUP                         264.5      inn.0  inf).0    1nn.0    100.0   100.0            . S,R    IM         S.1       6_S
Agriculrtre                 97.5 s             32.5      36.0     4. n     29.4         1.6       3.2       5.1        1.2
Industry                   107.0         --    43.5     4n.4    43.0       45.7        12.1       M*0       7.*4      S,
Other                       60.0               74.10    22.7      23.0     74.9         3.5       4.3       0.3        7.?
Canoumption                  184.4       76.4    6R.4      69.7     7n.0     71.0         2.7       5.4       5.R        6.3
'nvestment                    76.0       23.2    32.5      28.7     30.3     24.9         9.R       6.3       0.9        7.n
Exoorts CMII                  23.5        3.7/b   6.0       R.9      e.0      9.6         1.6th    R3n/h    19.0         7.5
Is-ports  WFS                 10.4        3.571;  6.R       7.3      °.3     10.4         2.,17;    4.471;    7.7       11.3
National savings              An.1       23.6/c  31.9      30.3    3n,0      29.0          ,.
A  ' OF CGTP
Public Finance                                                      1957            1979           1961          I93
current revenues (excluding foreign horrowingl                    2R.7           14.5            31.0           2e.1
current expenditures                                              16.1           22.R            23.1           21.7
Surplus (+) or deftcit (-)                                       +12.6          +11.7            40.6           +7.1
Capital expenditure                                               11.9           16.9             9.9            9.4
Foreirn borroming Id                                               0.7            n,9             1.             0 .7
Orher IndIcators                                                  1457-7Q        1q79-R2         1982-90
clP growth rate CZ)                                               5Ki             5.1             6.5
CDP per capita growth rate (1)                                     3.R             3.9            5.3
Energy consuu'tion growth rate (21                                 R,S             1.9
ICOR                                                               5.4
Mnarginl savings rate                                              0.42
Isport elasticity                                                  1.6             1.5
/a NMP basts.
7    Coods only.
7T Cos.
Td- Crnas.



-30-                                                    ANNE  I
Page 5 of 6
Population        1.008 milLion (nid-a:82)
CGP per Capita:  US$310  (1982)
CRINA - EXTF.RAL TRADE
Amount
(million USS at                Annual growth rates (Z) (at constant 1900 prices)
current prices)                    Actual                                Projected
Indicator                              1983        1980        1981        1982       1983       1984         1985        1986
External Trade
Merchandise exports                22,223          17         16           6          10        14            4             4
Energy                           4,466          ..          ..          ..         ..         ..          ..            ..
Other primary                    4,947          ..          ..          ..         ..
ianufactures                     12,557         ..          ..          ..         ..
Other                               253          .          ..                      ..
Merchandise imports                18,970         17          -9          10         29         20           10           10
Food                              2,735         ..          ..          ..         ..
Energy                               99                           ..         ..                ..                       ..
Machinery and equipment           3,537         ..          ..          .          ..         .
Other                           12.599          ..          ..          ..          .
Prices
Export price index (1980-100)                    100         103          99         89         92           96          100
Import price index (1980-100)                    100         105          91         79         82          86            90
Terms of trade index (1980-100)         .        100          98         108        113        112          111          111
Conposition of merchandise trade (2)                     Average annual increase (Z)
(at current prices )                                (at constant prices)
1980     1981      1982     1983      1985     1990      1957-70  1970-79  1979-82  1982-85  1985-90
Exports                 100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0        100       100        1.6       8.0     12.9       9.3      4.0
Energy                 25.1     ZZ.9      23.8     20.1        11         0         ..        ..
Other primary          28.4      24.1     ZZ.8     22.3        24        24         ..        ..       ..        ..
Manufactures           46.5     47.8      50.5     56.5        60       71          ..        ..
Other                   0.0       5.2      2.9       1.1        5         5         ..        ..
Imports                 100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0        100       100        2.3       9.4      5.4      19.4     10.0
Food                     .       19.6     22.5     14.4        16        17         ..        ..
Energy                  0.0      0.0       0.0      0.5         0         8         ..        ..
fachinery and
equipment            27.5     24.2      19.1     18.7        24       25          ..        ..
nther                    ..     56.2      52.5     66.4        60       50          ..        ..
Share of trade with          Share of trade with        Share of trade with countries with
industrial countries (2)      developing countries (2)    centrally planned economies (Z) /a
1978    1981    1983         1978    1981    1983              1978       1981      1983
DirectLon of Trade /b
Exports                       37.3    45.9    42.1          51.6    50.2    53.1              11.1       3.9        4.7
Inports                       73.3    76.8    68.1          17.5    18.7    24.2              9.2        4.5        6.4
/a  Includes the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Cuba, North Korea and ?t1ngolta.
/b  Based on LMF: "China - Recent Econonic Developments." October 1984. p. 90b.



- 31 -
Page 6 of 6
Population    :  1,008 million (mid-1982)
GNP per Capita: USs310 (1982)
CHINA - BALANCE OF PAIKENTS, ExTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(tllionas uss at current prices)
Actual                                   Pro"ected
Indicator                                           1979       1980       1981      1982       1983      1984       1985      1990
Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services                   15.351    20,901    25.157    25,989    26,389    30,610    33,100    53.300
Of wbich:  Merchandise f.o.b.                 13,658    18,492    22,027    22,476    22,223    26,180    28,400    45,700
Imports of goods and services                   18,204    24,752    24,380    20,793    22,448    28,280    32,500    62,600
Of wbich:  Merchandise f.o.b.                 16,212    22,049    21,047    17,830    18.970    23.620    27,300    52,600
Net transfers                                      596        500       680        412        511       600        600       800
Current account balance                         -2,257    -3,351      1,457      5.608     4,4"2      2,930      1.200    -84500
Foreign direct investment (net)                      -         57       265        359       478        670       750    1t5no
NLT Loans (net)                                    800      1,130       416        426       899      1,000     1.200      4.000
Official                                         350        446       479        557       789 9.
Private                                          450        684       -63       -131        110
Other capital                                    2,054      2,555       365       -102    -2.481    -2,000    -1.500       1.000
Change in net reserves (-'  - increase)           -597      -391    -2.503    -6,291    -3.338    -2,600    -1,600         2,000
Internattonal reserves                           7.274     7.665    11,168    16.459    19.797    22,400    24.000
of which:  gold                                5.120      5,120     '.,120     5,120     5,120
Reserves as nonths imports                         4.8        3.7       5.0        9.4       10.6       9.5        7.4
External Capital and Debt
Gross disbursements
Concessional Loans
DAC                                               ..
OPEC
IDA                                               ..
Other                                             ..
Nonconcessional Loans
Official export credits                           ..
IRRD
Other multilateral                                 .
Private                                                                           .
External debt
Debt outstanding & disbursed                              5,433     5,785      6,058     6,397
Official
Private                                          .
Undisbursed debt
Debt service
Total service payments                             .
Interest                                        ..
Payments as Z exports GNFS                                  5.8       8.6/a    10.9/a      5.5/a
Average interest rate on new loans (2)
Average naturity of new loans (years)
/a Including some early repayment of principal.



- 32-                               ANN   II
STATUS OF RANr CROUP nPERATIONS IN TRF PEOPLE'S REPURLIC OF CRINA
A. STATEMENT OF RANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 19R4)
Loan or                                                     USS million
Credit                                               Ancunt  (less cancellation)
Number  Year   Rorrover               Purpose         Rank    InA   Tnudisbursed
2021/    1981   People's Republic   Univ. Dev.        100.0   100.0      S4.9
1167            of China
1261     1982   People's Republic   Agric. Dev.         -      6n0n      33.9
of China
2207     19R2   People's Republic   Ports              69.0      -       65.1
of China
1297     19R2   People's Republic   AX. Ed. snd         -      75.4      40.2
of China             Research
2226/    1982   People's Republic   Industrial         40.fi    3n0n     64.3
1313            of China             Credit
2231     19R3   People's Republic   Ilaqing           162.4      -       155.4
of China             Petroleum
2252     1983   People's Republic   Zhongyuan         Inn1 R     -       100.0
of China             Petroleum
22611    1983   People's Republic   Reilongjiant   35.3    45.0           51.0
1347            of China             Land Recla-
mation
1411     19R3   People's Republic   Polytechnic/TV    -        R5.0      79.5
of rhina             Univers0ty
1412     19R3   People's Republic   Technical           -      1n0o       8.9
of China             Cooperation
1417     19R4   People's Republic   lubler              -    10nn0       RQ.3
of China             Development
2382     1984   People's Republic   Lubuge Rydro-  14S.4         -      142.7
of China             electric
2394     1984   People's Republic   Railway 1        220.0       -      219.5
of China
1462     19q4   People's Republic   Rural Credit        -      50.n      47.2
of China
1472     1984   People's Republic   Rural Health 4    -        R5.0      7R.3
of China             Ned. Educ.
2426     1984/a People's Republic   Yaramay           10n.3      -       1n0.3
of China             Petroleum
2434/    1984/b PeopLe's Republic   Industrial        105.n    70.n      170.R
1491            of China             Credit 1I
24441    1984/c People's Republic   Second ARri-    45.3    2.5          fiR.R
1500            of China             cultural Educ.
1516     1985/d People's Republic   Second Agri-        -      25.0      25.0
of China             cultural Research
Total                              1,124.1   758.9   1,625.1
Total now held by Rank and IDA            1.124.1   758.9
Total undishursed                         1.0R7.8   537.3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC rNVF.STMFNTs
(as of September 30, 1Q84)
None
/a  Recame effective on October 9, 19R4
7T  Became effective on October 9, 1984
7c  Recaue effective on October 17, 1q84
7T  Signed on December 3, 19R4.
Note: The status of the prolects listed in Part A is described ln a separate
report on all Bank/TnA financial proiects in execution, which is uD-
dated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on
April 30 and October 31.



- 33 -                        ANNEX III
CHINA
SECOND POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  2 years
(b)  Project prepared by:  East China Electric Power Design Institute
(ECEPDI) under the general guidance of East China Electric Power
Administration (ECEPA)
(c)  First presented to the Bank:  November 1983
First Bank mission: November 1983
Ed)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  March 1984
Ce)  Completion of Negotiation:  November 1984
Cf)  Planned effectiveness:  April 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(i)  JPEPB would take all such measures, including adjustments to
electricity tariffs as determined by the Government, as may be
necessary to maintain its gross revenue at a level sufficient
to cover its full costs of operation (para. 77).
(ii) The Government would adjust the ECEPA bulk power price
prevailing at the time of project commissioning to cover the
full cost of power to be transmitted through the project works
(para. 77).
(iii) Beginning in 1985, JPEPB would institute the preparation of a
five-year financial plan, rolled forward each year (para. 78).
(iv) JPEPB would restrict long-term borrowings (para. 78).



IBRD 18258
117                 le                   119-                120-               12                  12-                 123- MY 19e
-35-    S H A N D O N G   r                                                                           CHlINA                            35*
---.   H_ A N D 0 N                                                      SECOND POWER PROJECT
V.                 f-J                                                       EAST CHINA POWER SYSTEM (BY 1990)
_r  :.   k  r               tmnyungong0                                tglsTIMO CON tR9CTIoN  UIJEN   PROJECT
XrU2HOAI WeoI J'o AlV WI                                                                                5OO kVTronsm.ission Line
Xujh    °,A,rUNOU (;1-100^MVA)                                                                       A       Ak  50kV Subs,a,ions
XNA/d I                      0                    0            Thermal Power Plants
34('C  . J                                                      Hydro Power Plans 3r
3                                                   d(IC 4-: I10.Nuclear Power Plant
I                  A2'~.'~'&. ;:   41V4                                       Rivers
Provincial Boundariess
~~~~                                          0         50  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~100  ISO
I          \                       \ ~~~~~~~~~~J I A N G S U               °1        50Jo 
33'                                                                                                       stJ %ItOMETERS                 33
£     'Zngbu             (
IZ -( -JJ _ANGDU 11-500AJVAJ
IU                   -   .         3,6lMW) °°Yb ou
ALA Nil         \    ZhClen1in% -]f<5,rXjSfVC~
0
32.  A   N   H  U ~       ~         jUN I                          0s       WO3 AMWI                                     32
^%/  * ;; 4 ^   \u__5 I050 0AV         A i(N%.
0     J800!f j           AOSMAN S Hf l  f2x350 A Wj(350AMw)
*-__\   /  \\_  J    t_                      Se~~~~~~5zhou              NA(VH AA .ff   {MWI
MU4ACW1W              HA-  (4646AW,
31_                                                                                        f5P8AfW_ ..3.  5 .........-750  A1-  31 
31                 f3~~7AEWJ TON                                                        \i N
3ONOL t N -w-WI                                                         -:.( PJAN          f(-750 VAfVA3
- _ , . , .' .. ,: -. b-  . ... : e16-   r               /              J ' _ItNS//AN I2S1.M5WJ
AncinlJ                            /150e At W
4ANSHgANO  Hrngrho.
U124MW)
30'
30-                                      ZmfHANAI (250MWI*
N.ngbo   tHiFf! UNrAAJG
N g   \               Jg                    _fUCHVNItANJLAG 
I          ZVHAEVJ IAAN 
29'
29-                         \
- NUANGANO rtU                                         0   A lZHOU (250 MW/
).    ~~   (302 aWStl
J I A  N  G  X I                                                                                                     ' "- *.'   w
UIAPVZwfeVt                                                           _>"   *_
< F ~~U  J I A  N >'
117;118'                                                       120                  12                   122                  123'



