Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
'j4t  £      T~~ tReport No. P-3160-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
November 30, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofAcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Won (W)
Calendar 1980    September 1981
Won 1.00        =    US$0.00151        US$0.00146
US$1.00         =    W 660             W 685
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
mm     =  millimeter                   =  0.04 inches
cm     =  centimeter                   =  0.39,inches
m      =  meter                        =  3.28 feet
km     =  kilometer                    =  0.62 miles
sq km  =  square kilometer             =  0.39 square miles
ha     =  hectare                      =  10,000 square meters or 2.47 acres
cu m   =  cubic meter                  =  264 US gallons
cu m/s =  cubic meters per second    =  22.8 million US gallons per day
1      =  liter                        =  0.26 gallons
lcd    =  liters per capita per day  =  0.26 US gallons per capita per day
mg/l   =  milligrams per liter         =  parts per million (ppm)
m/s    =  meters per second            =  3.28 feet per second
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB     -  Asian Development Bank
EPB     -  Economic Planning Board
FAO     -  Food and Agricultural Organization
ISWACO  -  Industrial Sites and Water Resources Development Corporation
MHA     -  Ministry of Home Affairs
MOC     -  Ministry of Construction
MOHSA   -  Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
OOE     -  Office of the Environment
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Program
WHO     -  World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Korea.
Beneficiaries:    The Municipalities of Gwangju, Daegu, Masan, Changwon and
Jinhae and the Ministry of Construction (MOC).
Amount:            $90.0 million equivalent.
Terms:             15 years with a grace period of 3 years at an interest
rate of 11.6% p.a.
Relending terms:  The Government will relend $86.5 million out of the loan
to the five municipalities on the same terms and condition
as the Bank loan to finance the foreign exchange costs of
improving their respective water supplies. The balance of
$3.5 million will be allocated for technical assistance to
MOC for project preparation studies and training.
Project
Description:    The principal objective of the project is to improve
access to safe water supplies to the populations of the
municipalities of Daegu and Gwangju (3rd and 5th largest
cities in the nation) and for the Masan Region serving
jointly the cities of Masan, Changwon and Jinhae. All of
these cities are growing rapidly and are currently
experiencing water shortages, the most serious of which
occur in Gwangju and Masan. At the time of project
completion in 1985 the total population benefitting from
improved water service is projected to be 3.4 million or
about 90% of the project population as compared to the
2.5 million presently served. The beneficiaries include
the urban poor in these cities, 18% according to Bank
estimates. The project would also support the Government s
efforts to improve the organization and coordination of
the sector as well as to increase capability of institu-
tions: at the national level where the Water Resources
Bureau of MOC would receive assistance and training in
project planning and implementation; at the regional level
where three cities under this project would jointly build
and manage source works for more efficient water
utilization; and at the local level where individual city
water bureaus would receive technical assistance to
improve their financial and management capabilities.
No unusual risks are anticipated in connection with
project implementation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:
/1 Local   Foreign   Total
…- ($ million) -----
Part A
Municipal Water Supplies
Daegu                             35.3      21.8      57.1
Gwangju                           51.8      29.4      81.2
Masan Region
Masan                              16.9     11.4      28.3
Changwon                           8.5       6.1      14.6
Jinhae                              2.1      1.5       3.6
Baseline Costs                 114.6      70.2    184.8
Physical contingencies            13.7       7.0      20.7
Price contingencies               21.7       9.3      31.0
Subtotal                       150.0      86.5    236.5
Part B
Technical Assistance
Preparation of second water
supply project and training    0.5         3.5       4.0
Total Project Cost             150.5      90.0    240.5
Financing Plan                          Bank    Government   Cities   Total
------------ $ million ------------
Part A                                 86.5     88.2          61.8    236.5
Part B                                  3.5       0.5            -      4.0
Total          90.0      88.7         61.8    240.5
IBRD FY
1982   1983    1984       1985    1986
------------ $ million -------------
Estimated Disbursements:
Annual                       7.9   29.6    33.2       17.8      1.5
Cumulative                   7.9   37.5    70.7       88.5    90.0
/1  Includes estimated duties and taxes of the local currency equivalents of
$12.8 million.



- iii -
Rate of Return:  Daegu 16%; Gwangju 11%; Masan 13%; Changwon 11%; and
Jinhae 10%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:         No. 3292-K0 dated November 6, 1981
Map IBRD 15431R






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
WATER SUPPLY LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Korea for the equivalent of $90.0 million to help
finance a Water Supply Project. The loan would have a term of 15
years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea:  Current Developments
and Policy Issues" was distributed under cover of Sec M80-449, dated May 20,
1980. The following paragraphs are based on this Report together with
updating information obtained during Bank missions in November/December 1980
and March/April 1981. The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
A. Past Performance
3.        During the last two decades, Korea achieved remarkable economic
progress. At the beginning of the 1960s, Korea was one of the poorest
developing countries, with heavy dependence on agriculture and a weak balance
of payments, financed almost entirely by foreign grants. By the late 1970s it
had become a semi-industrial, middle-income country with a strong external
payments position. During 1960-1978, GNP grew by 9% p.a., and per capita
income more than tripled in real terms. The manufacturing sector grew at
18 percent a year in constant prices, increasing its share in GNP from 14
to 27 percent. At the same time the share of agriculture fell from 36 to
22 percent. Merchandise exports, principally manufactured goods, rose from
$33 million in 1960 to $13 billion in 1q78. The growth of exports was 27%
p.a. in real terms and exports in 1978 constituted 34% of GNP, as against
a mere 4 percent in 1960.
4.        Rapid industrial growth, based on the expansion of export-oriented
manufactured goods, contributed to high rates of growth of employment. More
than 2 million jobs, constituting more than 40 percent of total additional
employment, were created in manufacturing during 1962-76, the years
corresponding to the first three Five-Year Development Plans. Unemployment
during these years declined from 8 to 4 percent, while real wages increased by
more than 7% p.a. The rising demand for labor in the industrial and urban
sectors caused heavy out-migration from the rural areas. Nevertheless,
value-added in agriculture grew at 4 percent a year, indicating a fairly good
rate of productivity growth in this important sector, which still employs
more than a third of the labor force. This performance, combined with
deliberate government policies after 1968 to improve the agricultural terms



of trade, tended to ensure growth in per capita rural incomes more or less
in line with the rest of the economy. While there has been some worsening
of income distribution during the seventies, Korea compares favorably with
most developing countries and the ratio of the urban and rural population
below the poverty line is estimated to be under 15 percent.
B. Adjustment to the First Oil Crisis
5.        Between 1973 and 1978, Korea succeeded in achieving a high rate of
growth (10% p.a.) and substantial external adjustment, despite a total depen-
dency on imports for its petroleum needs and the quadrupling of oil import
prices between 1972 and 1974. Among the policy instruments which contributed
to Korea's success in rapidly overcoming the effects of the first oil crisis
were: (a) devaluation in 1974; (b) continued emphasis on export diversi-
fication in products as well as markets; (c) restraint in wage increases; and
(d) an increase in public sector savings, mainly reflecting a strong tax
effort. Notwithstanding the recession in developed countries and growing
protectionism, the growth in export volume averaged 23% p.a. during 1974-78,
thereby contributing to the high growth momentum. In addition, increased
borrowing from abroad helped to maintain the rate of growth. The Korean
economy also gained from an improvement in terms of trade during 1976-78
(reflecting in part a decline in the real price of oil from the peak of
1974-75), and a spectacular growth in overseas construction contracts.
6.        However, the very success of the Korean planners in stimulating
growth during 1975-78 seriously strained the economy. With export volume
doubling, the level of real fixed investment also doubling, and the terms of
trade improving by 28 percent between 1975 and 1978, aggregate demand (con-
sumption, investment and exports) grew by an unprecedented 57 percent. This
rapid expansion understandably created bottlenecks in the economy and created
inflationary pressures. In addition, aided by subsidized credit directed by
the Government through the financial system, the sharp growth in investment
was focused on the heavy and chemical industries. While this trend was in
line with the Government's view of the changing comparative advantage of
Korean industry, the investment in some key areas was excessive, leading to
poor capacity utilization, while in some other areas investment lagged. Also,
labor markets witnessed a major transformation in this period. Nonagricul-
tural employment expanded by 30 percent and employment in the construction
sector increased by 61 percent. At the same time, a significant part of the
existing construction work force went abroad to work on overseas construction
contracts. Reflecting the tightening of the labor market, money wages in
manufacturing increased by 33% p.a. during 1975-78, and real wages growth (at
around 18% p.a.) clearly outstripped the 10 percent annual growth in produc-
tivity. The rate of growth of money supply and domestic credit also acceler-
ated. The resulting sharp rise in Korea-s price level, compared with its
major trading partners, combined with exchange rate rigidity after 1974,
eroded export competitiveness. By the end of 1978, export volume was showing
signs of stagnating.



- 3-
C. Developments in 1979 and 1980
7.        In order to tackle the problem of inflation and structural imbal-
ances, the Government announced in April 1979 a far-reaching program of
stabilization-cum-restructuring. The general strategy was to follow tight
monetary and fiscal policies while initiating basic structural changes aimed
at giving greater play to market forces, further opening up the economy to
international competition, and providing direct assistance to the poor.
Specific measures included a reduction in the Government program of construc-
tion and rural housing, lower fiscal deficits, a sharp reduction in the
growth of domestic credit, a review of investment projects in heavy and
chemical industries, decontrol of prices of a large number of commodities,
vigorous pursuit of import liberalization, lowering of tariff rates on
necessities, and a program of direct assistance to the poor in order to soften
the impact of price decontrol. In the light of the above stabilization
program, the Government prepared a new Economic Management Plan for 1979-81,
scaling down the targets for growth, exports, and investment in the original
Fourth Five-Year Plan (1977-81) for these years, and allowing for a higher
level of foreign capital inflows than envisaged in the Plan.
8.        Unfortunately, however, the economic program embodied in the
Economic Management Plan was overwhelmed by a series of unexpected shocks; and
during 1979 and 1980, the Korean economy experienced the most difficult period
in its recent history. The oil price hikes in 1979 and 1980 raised Korea's
petroleum import bill from about $2.3 billion in 1978 to $6.2 billion in 1980
with the price-induced increase equal to nearly 6 percent of GNP in 1980. In
October 1979, President Park Chung Hee, the chief architect of Korea's
"economic miracle" since the mid-sixties was assassinated. This was followed
by a period of the severest political uncertainty and social unrest in twenty
years (with the situation returning to normal only after the ascendancy of a
new Administration under President Chun Doo Hwan in September 1980). On top
of these developments, the weather turned out to be unfavorable, resulting in
a drop in agricultural output of about 22 percent in 1980, or over 4 percent
of GNP. Compared to the first oil crisis in 1974, the external shocks during
1979/80 were significantly larger, and this made adjustment considerably more
difficult than in 1974-75. The deflationary effects of these developments
on the economy were exacerbated by the effects of tight financial policies
during 1979-80, and by the weakened competitive position of exports owing
mainly to rising wage rates and (through 1979) exchange rate rigidity.
9.        As a combined result of the various adverse factors, the economy
went into a recession in the second half of 1979, which further deepened
during 1980. The real GNP growth was reduced by half to 6 percent in 1979,
with the seasonally adjusted GNP declining during the last two quarters of
1979. GNP continued to decline during 1980, falling almost 6 percent for the
full year. While the slowing of real growth in 1979 mainly reflected a
decline in real exports (by about 4%), the contraction of real economic



- 4 -
activity in 1980 reflected the fall in fixed capital formation (-15%) and in
inventories and consumption (-1%), which offset an improvement in exports
(+10%). The unemployment rate increased from 3.2 percent in 1978 to 5.2 per-
cent in 1980.
10.       The rate of increase of wholesale and consumer prices accelerated
from 12 percent and 14 percent respectively in 1978 to 39 percent and 29 per-
cent in 1980. A large part of the price increase in 1980 was due to external
factors, particularly oil prices and devaluation of the won. The inflation
resulting from domestic factors reflected in part the reduction of government
price controls in 1979 and increases in the administered prices of some food
grains. To some extent, the cost push pressures were accentuated by the
tight credit policy which raised interest costs to producers.  Balance of
payments developments in 1979-80 were heavily influenced by the already-
mentioned sharp increases in oil prices and slowdown in growth of exports.
The current account deficit rose from US$1.1 billion (2.3% of GNP) in 1978
to US$ 4.2 billion (6.9% of GNP) in 1979, and reached US$5.7 billion (10% of
GNP) in 1980, a level that could not be sustained on a long-term basis.
11.       Although mid-1979 through 1980 was a most difficult period for the
Korean economy and the political situation was marked by considerable uncer-
tainty, the Government nevertheless succeeded in taking a number of major
policy initiatives which gave substantial impetus to the adjustment process.
Among these, the most important steps were the January 1980 devaluation of
the won, and the adoption in February 1980 of a flexible exchange rate
policy. The new policy involves adjustment of the value of the won from time
to time on the basis of a multicurrency basket, with other factors affecting
Korea-s external position also taken into account. The won depreciated
vis-a-vis the US dollar by a total of 26.7 percent during the course of 1980
and the real effective exchange rate in the fourth quarter of 1980 was 11%
lower than that in the corresponding quarter of 1979. Partly due to the
exchange rate depreciation, export volume which was stagnant in 1979 rose by
10% in 1980 and import volume, which rose by 9 percent in 1979, declined by
7%. The reduction in imports in 1980 can also be traced to the fall in
consumption expenditure (due to a decline in agricultural incomes following
the poor crop and to a decline in real wages in the manufacturing sector) as
well as a decline in gross fixed investment (due to the slowdown in economic
activity).
12.       With continued exchange rate flexibility, the process of adjustment
is expected to be carried further in 1981.  The export volume is projected to
increase by 16% and import volume 10%, including extra-ordinary and tempor-
ary rice imports costing about $1 billion (4% of imports). The nonoil trade
surplus is expected to improve further to $2.8 billion, and excluding special
rice imports, to $3.7 billion. However, because of an increase in interest



- 5 -
payments by about $1 billion (rising to $3.2 billion), the current account
deficit in 1981 is projected to remain high at $5.5 billion, or about 8.5% of
GNP, of which 1.5 percentage points is due to the special rice imports due
to abnormal weather conditions in 1980.
13.       During 1980 and 1981 the Government has been following a policy of
wage restraint. As a result wages, adjusted by the consumer price index,
declined by about 5% in 1980 and are projected to decline by another 3% in
1981. Another of the major initial adjustments was in domestic energy prices.
The average price of petroleum products was increased by 225 percent between
March 1979 and December 1980. In addition, the Government adopted a series
of measures in 1980 for the consolidation of investment programs, reduction
in agricultural subsidies, improvement in energy efficiency and improvement
in trade and foreign investment policies. The balance of payments impact of
these adjustments will, as discussed below, be largely felt over the medium
term.
14.       While substantial external adjustment has been obtained in 1980-81,
this has been associated with stagnation in the economy and a continuing
large current account deficit. There are signs of slow recovery in 1981,
and GNP is likely to grow by about 6%; but that would only offset the 6%
decline experienced in 1980. This situation indicates the need for
longer-term structural adjustment so that the external balance can be
improved consistent with restoration of growth momentum. The need for such
a program is heightened by the possibility that international interest rates
might remain high for some time and that real energy prices during the 1980s
may not decline as they did after the first oil crisis.
D. Medium Term Prospects
15.       The Government is in the process of finalizing the Fifth Five-
Year Plan which will cover the years 1982-86. The basic objectives of the
Plan are to restore growth momentum along with the achievement of price
stability and equity. For this purpose, the Plan puts emphasis on (a)
economic stabilization, (b) export promotion and import liberalization,
(c) establishment of a competitive industrial structure, (d) promotion of
the market mechanism, and (e) expansion of social development expenditure.
The goal of price stabilization is to be pursued mainly through reduction
in budgetary deficits and reduction in the growth rate of the money supply.
Export promotion efforts will be helped by price stability as well as by
quality improvement and product innovation. The Plan also proposes a
program of import liberalization as well as tariff reduction to improve
price competitiveness. An important change in industrial policy during the
Plan period will be the reduction of the Government-s role in promoting the



so-called strategic industries. Investment choices will be left
increasingly to the initiative of the private sector with the Government
only providing the general framework. For promotion of the market
mechanism, new legislation, designed to increase competition, has already
been enacted and the Government has started a program for liberalization of
the financial sector including denationalization of some of the commercial
banks. The Plan also proposes that relatively more government resources
will be allocated to meet the "basic needs" of people such as education,
housing, social security and improved sanitation and water supply.
External Capital Requirements
16.       At the last meeting of the Consultative Group for Korea, held in
June 1980, there was a consensus that in spite of the current difficulties,
Korea's longer-term prospects remained good. Among the sources of strength
for the economy are: a large investment base, the young, skilled and
rapidly growing labor force, the scope for exports of capital goods
including construction equipment, and the dynamism of its private sector.
It is generally recognized, however, that even with strenuous government
efforts for structural adjustment, Korea's balance of payments can improve
only over a period of several years.  The current account deficit is
expected to be reduced from $5.7 billion (10% of GNP) in 1981 to about $3.6
billion (3% of GNP) by 1986 with the GNP growth rate reviving to 7.6% p.a.
during 1982-86. Allowing for debt service, export credits and addition to
reserves, the gross external capital inflows required during 1982-86 are
estimated to be about $9 billion per year, of which only 15% could be
expected from public sources (excluding Ex-Im banks but including the IMF),
and the rest from private sources.
17.       Korea is extending its use of commercial financing from
traditional suppliers and private banks, credits from Euro-dollar syndicated
loans and bond issues in the Korea-bond and Asian bond market, and is
expected to derive an increasing proportion of its total requirements from
such sources. Nonetheless, the magnitude of these external capital
requirements is such that it will have to continue to rely on considerable
capital inflows from official sources. Servicing of the debt should not pose
difficulties given the present debt service ratio and the continuing emphasis
on export growth. The projected debt service ratio for medium and long term
debt is not likely to rise much above its current figure of 14% of the value
of exports of goods and nonfactor services.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
18.       As of September 30, 1981, Korea had received 57 Bank Loans
(including one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $3,335 million
in loans and $106.8 million in credits (taking into account cancellations
and the refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank Loan). As of
that date, $1,162.3 million of the total Bank lending remained undisbursed
on effective Loans and Credits, mostly from commitments in the past two
years. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans, IDA Credits,
and IFC Investments as of that date and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects. As indicated in the notes, progress on project implementation is
generally satisfactory, however, delays in several projects - irrigation,
highways and population have occurred due primarily to shortfalls in govern-
ment budgetary contributions. The Government is taking measures to increase
local funding of the affected projects.
19.       In recent years, the thrust of the Bank Group's lending operations
in Korea has been towards assisting the Government's efforts: (a) to secure
the external resources required to supplement domestic savings in sustaining a
high GNP growth rate by following a policy of rapid export-oriented
industrialization; (b) co avoid the emergence of infrastructure bottlenecks;
and (c) to complement industrial development with agricultural and rural
development schemes aimed at bringing about a better dispersal of the fruits
of growth through raising incomes and improving the quality of life in the
rural areas.
20.       A substantial part of Bank financing has been directed towards the
vital industrial sector through lending to Korea's four major development
banks. The Korea Long-Term Credit Bank has received $410.0 million, the
Korea Development Bank, $352.5 million, and the Small and Medium Industry
Bank, $205 million in Bank loans for relending to private industry, and the
Citizens National Bank $30 million to meet the financial needs of the small
enterprises. The primary beneficiaries of these loans have been the
numerous industrial enterprises which have received funds through the
financial intermediaries. This has contributed to the overall development
of the industrial sector, and also to the achievement of institutional
improvements as well as the Government's objective of decentralizing
industry.
21.       As Korea's economy has continued to grow and the pace of
industrialization has quickened, there has had to be a parallel expansion of
transport facilities. The Bank Group, through its association with the
Government's efforts to modernize and expand the transport sector, dating back
to 1962, has played an important role in these developments. Financing of
$432 million has been provided for seven railway projects designed to increase
the railroad's capacity and improve its operations; four loans totalling



- 8 -
$334.5 million have been made for highway construction and paving of high
priority sections of the national network and for a countrywide maintenance
organization; and two loans amounting to $147.0 million have been provided for
the expansion of port facilities at Busan and Mugho.
22.       Korea's paucity of natural resources and dependence on the manufac-
turing segment of its economy have resulted in the adoption of a strategy
based on maximizing the advantages of a skilled and hardworking labor force.
The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements for
appropriately trained workers and certain categories of skilled manpower
through its lending for four education projects, which have pursued the broad
objectives of technical manpower development either through the expansion of
relevant subsectors or through specific quality improvements. Together, these
projects have catered to a wide range of manpower training needs.
23.       Korea's record of achievement in modernizing its agricultural
sector, although less spectacular than the gains made in the industrial
sphere, is nevertheless commendable. The past 15 years have seen agricultural
output grow at an average 4.2% p.a., which has resulted in the country
becoming nearly self-sufficient in its staple food, rice, and made possible a
steady and perceptible improvement in the living standards of the 35% of
Korea's population who live in the countryside and rely primarily on agrarian
pursuits for their livelihood.  The Bank has lent $325.5 million for the
improvement of irrigation facilities, land and seed development and the
provision of agricultural credit to farmers and processors of agricultural
products.  In addition, $155.0 million has been provided for two rural infra-
structure projects in support of the Government's rural development program,
initiated in 1971, to improve the quality of life and the standard of living
in the rural areas. In 1979, a $125.0 million loan was provided by the Bank
to help meet the growing demand for municipal, industrial and irrigation
water in the Han Basin southeast of the capital city, Seoul; reduce flood
damage; and generate electricity to augment and provide peaking capacity for
Korea's power system. A $50.0 million Bank loan was approved in April 1981
for a Third Agricultural Credit Project.
24.       The Bank's first essay into the field of regional development in
Korea, through the project approved in January 1975, has proved successful.
The project was designed to support Government policy by financing high
priority investments in the poor, primarily agricultural, southwest region.
A loan of $65.0 million for a second project for the development of the
region was approved by the Executive Directors in September 1979. A loan
for $90.0 million was approved in April 1981 for a National Urban Land
Development and Housing Project.
25.       A primary objective of the Bank's future lending to Korea is to
provide assistance in sustaining the growth momentum and in addressing the
emerging issues which the Korean economy is facing.



- 9 -
26.       In order to revitalize the economy while ameliorating inflation
and promoting social equity, the Government has taken a number of policy
measures such as those described in Part I above. These measures are incor-
porated into a structural adjustment program for which Bank support has been
requested. A proposed $250 million structural adjustment loan is expected
to be presented to the Executive Directors during December 1981. The
maturity of many of the Korean institutions suggests that it would be
appropriate to adopt a sector lending approach in some areas along the lines
of the loan for higher technical education approved in 1980 which will
contribute to the modernization and improvement of the system of higher
technical education so as to increase its flexibility and responsiveness to
the changing requirements of the economy.
27.       Another strand in the lending strategy is increased support of the
Government's efforts to spread the fruits of growth even more equitably by
the diversification and expansion of the output of the agricultural sector
and through nationwide development programs. To support such diversification
and expansion, projects are envisaged for land/water resource development, for
agricultural marketing, for low-income housing, and for the further develop-
merit of rural infrastructure and facilities in selected provincial areas,
which would enhance incomes and quality of life in the lesser-developed
regions of the country and would have a significant impact on the problems of
migration to the major metropolitan areas.
28.       The further development of the industrial and agricultural sectors
and the anticipated growth of exports will require concurrent infrastructural
development. Although the transport sector will be given less emphasis than
in the past, the investments required are large and, thus, future Bank
lending will provide considerable support for this sector.
29.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea-s total external debt disbursed
and outstanding at the end of 1980 was about 11%, and its share of debt
service was of the order of 7% at that time. These ratios are expected to be
around 9% and 7% respectively by the mid-eighties.
PART III - SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
30.       Korea-s rapidiy growing economy and cities both have created the
need for major expansion of water and sewerage facilities and are associated
with some of the critical environmental problems. A lack of coordination
among the institutions with responsibility for the sector, both at the local
and national levels, has led to disorganization and unreliable and inadequate
data about the water and sewerage sector. Despite the overall weakness of



- 10 -
sector information it is clear that there is an urgent need to expand water
supplies in the major cities of the country and to deal with the hazards to
health caused by pollution of the country's water resources, while institu-
tional and organizational weaknesses are being addressed.
B. Water Resources
31.       About two-thirds of the land in Korea is mountainous and largely
unsuitable for cultivation. There are ten major river basins in the country
which account for three-quarters of the land area and of these the basins of
the four largest rivers, the Han, Nagdong, Keum and Yongsan cover two-thirds
of the land area. Rainfall averages about 1,000 mm per annum mostly
occurring between April and September, when floods are common. The climate
is characterized by dry and cold winters, warm summers and cyclical droughts.
Multipurpose dams have been constructed, or are in the course of construction
in four of the river basins to reduce flooding and also to store water for
municipal and industrial needs, agriculture and power generation.
C. The Environment
32.       Koreas industrial development and simultaneous rapid urbanization
have been responsible for a noticeable decline in the quality of the environ-
ment because of increasing water, soil and air pollution. Several streams,
rivers, estuaries and bays have been grossly polluted from the discharge of
untreated or partially treated municipal and industrial wastes and urban
runoff. Soil pollution, caused by herbicides, pesticides, the application
of night soil, municipal solid wastes and industrial sludges, sometimes with
toxic materials, pollutes both surface and ground water supplies. Dissolved
oxygen concentrations below the 4 ppm minimum level required for most
aquatic life to survive have been measured in the Han and Nagdong Rivers.
Fish kills have been reported in coastal waters off Ulsan, Masan and Jinhae.
The major air pollutants are sulphur dioxide, suspended particulates, carbon
monoxide, nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons, heavy metals and fluorides. The
Korean standard for long term exposure to sulphur dioxide was exceeded in
Seoul in 1979 by more than 100% and in Busan by more than 16%.
D. Public Health
33.       Threats to health exist both from air pollution and from contamin-
ation of some water supplies. Water-borne diseases such as dysentery,
typhoid fever and cholera are prevalent. In the summer of 1980 there was an
increase in the incidence of cholera in the project cities of Gwangju, Daegu
and Masan. Intestinal parasitic infections are prevalent in farming areas
where nightsoil is commonly used as fertilizer.
E. Population - Growth and Distribution
34.       Overall population growth is expected to remaiat   cbi , Ito I..9% per
annum recorded during 1970-78.  The population, as of Deeumlne3 1979, is
estimated at 37.4 million and projected to rise to 50 mil3ion by the year



- 11 -
2000. Migration to urban areas, which resulted in an average urban growth
rate of 5.2% during 1970-78, is expected to be less rapid in the 1980s, with
the urban population levelling off at about 80% of the total population by
the end of the century.
F. Sector Organization
35.       There is no single agency in charge of overall planning and pro-
gramming of the water supply, sewerage and sanitation sector. At the central
government level there are five institutions directly involved in the sector
but with overlapping responsibilities. These are: the Ministry of Con-
struction (MOC) for industrial and regional projects and general sectoral
planning; the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for the smaller cities; the
Ministry of Health and Social Affairs (MOHSA) for simple rural schemes; the
Office of the Environment (OOE) charged with developing control strategies
for protecting air and water quality including night soil treatment plants;
and, finally, the Economic Planning Board (EPB) for external borrowing. In
addition there are several "special" cities with varying degrees of autonomy
carrying out development works in the sector. For example, the two largest
cities - Seoul and Busan - are almost completely independent and carry out
sector development with little or no consultation with institutions at the
provincial or central government level. In the absence of national prior-
ities, each Ministry or special city prepares its own plans and implements
projects. Tariffs are set by the Government through MRA. The Government has
agreed to set up an Interministerial Committee in the MOC to initiate a
study and make recommendations for improving coordination between the
institutions and for the long-term rationalization of the sector.  it has been
agreed that such a committee would be established under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank not later than June 30, 1982. The study would be
completed not later than June 30, 1983, its findings would be discussed with
the Bank, and its recommendations would be implemented in consultation with
the Bank (Section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement). Also, the Government has
advised the Bank that major investments for municipal and industrial water
supply in the Masan region (containing three of the cities included in the
Project) would be implemented only with the prior approval of the Government
and on the basis of a technical and economic review by MOC.
G. Water Supply - Population Served
36.       At the end of 1979 slightly over 70% of the total population was
served by piped water systems /1 with approximately 80% of urban dwellers
having house connections.  Within urban areas, city size is positively
correlated with the proportion having house connections, ranging from 85% in
cities over 50,000 population, to 50% in cities between 20,000 and 50,000
and only 40% in communities of less than 20,000 people.
/1 UN data for 1976: of total population 62% were served with water
supply and 61% were served with excreta disposal facilities.



- 12 -
37.        The quality of service of piped water supply is generally poor
because most of the water utilities have not kept pace with the rapid urban-
ization and population growth. The fringe areas of many cities suffer from
restricted supply, water rationing and frequent low pressure.  The fluctua-
ting pressures and high leakage - with unaccounted for water of the order of
40% to 50% - together with the discharge of sewage effluents into street
drains and consequent infiltration makes the quality of the water in the
distribution systems in most cities generally unsafe. Except for the rural
systems, the treated water is chlorinated before distribution. However,
because of poor operational standards the required optimum doses are not
cons is tently maintained.
H. Waste Water Disposal - Population Served
38.        In cities with populations over 50,000 only 22% of the dwellings
had flush toilets in 1979; the rest used night soil collection systems.
Except for the two biggest cities - Seoul and Busan - which treat a part of
their domestic sewage, most of the waste water derived from septic tank
effluents, domestic use and urban runoff is discharged, untreated, into the
surface waters. There are also vault privies with night soil collection and
treatment facilities in many large cities, but in 1976 only 61% of the
population were served with any type of excreta disposal facilities. Night
soil is used as a fertilizer after composting with rice husks in the rural
areas. Currently there is a move away from night soil treatment plants to
conventional sewerage in some of these cities, where municipal and domestic
wastes pose a serious threat to the water supply.
39.        In addition, there are about 16,000 industrial plants in the
country generating pollutants that require disposal.  Of these about 2,000
discharge industrial waste waters, often toxic in nature, consisting of
organic materials, heavy metals, oils, acids and synthetics. In terms of
organic loadings it is estimated that 42% of water pollution is due to
municipal sewage and night soil, 45% to industrial wastes and 13% to
agricultural runoff. Pollution studies for two of the country's most
important basins, the Han and Nagdong River Basins are being prepared. The
Asian Development Bank (ADB) will be assisting with studies of the Han River
Basin following which the Office of Environment will undertake the Nagdong
River Basin studies. Draft terms of reference for the Nagdong studies have
been reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank, and the Government has
agreed that these studies will be completed by December 31, 1986. This timing
will accommodate the schedule for detailed design of the next stage
expansion of the Daegu and Masan water supply systems which draw from the
Nagdong River (Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement).
I. Past Investments in the Sector
40.        In the Government s Fourth Five-Year Plan (1977-81) W 198.0 billion
was allocated for public works in the sector and W 62.9 billion for health
and environment. Actual expenditure up to the end of 1980 was about 66% of



- 13 -
plan targets and by the end of the plan period investment is expected to
reach only 75% of planned amounts. For regional water supplies and
metropolitan sewerage about W 30 billion and W 29 billion respectively were
provided in the Plan but no major investment had been made up to end-1980.
Per capita investment ranges widely from W 4,749 in Seoul and W 3,334 in
Busan to W 648 in Chungcheong Nam province. With the exception of Daegu,
there has been no major investment under the Fourth Plan in the five cities
included in the proposed project.
J. The Fifth Five-Year Plan
41.       The Government's policies for the sector in the next Plan (1982-86)
include preservation of water quality, replacement of obsolete equipment and
pipelines and investment for sewerage expansion. The Fifth Plan sets
targets for percentage of population served with piped water systems at 80%
by 1986, and with sewerage service at 25% in 36 cities by the same year.
The investment program is W 486.0 billion (1980 prices) which is
approximately two-and-one-half times as much as the Fourth Plan budget.
42.       No investments for environmental abatement are envisaged in the
Plan, except for the studies of the Nagdong River and Han River Basins
mentioned in para. 39 above.  It is expected that these studies would have
identified projects which will require priority investments.
K. Manpower
43.       There is a lack of basic information on availability of manpower
in the sector and on training needs. A survey will be made by the
Government in the context of national planning by MOC and OOE to identify
manpower resources (water supply, waste water treatment and environmental
protection), their utilization, future needs, competing demands and the
factors Which give rise to attrition.  It has been agreed that the survey
report would be conducted under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and
completed by December 31, 1982, and following discussion with the Bank provide
a basis for the development of a manpower training program to be carried out
on a timetable acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.08 of the Loan Agreement).
L. Bank Lending in the Sector
44.       The proposed loan is the first water project for urban water
supply in Korea other than minor investments and studies made under the
Bank's Kyongju Tourism Project (Loan 953-KO) and the Second Regional
Development Project (Loan 1758-KO). 'rhe Bank's Rural Infrastructure
Projects (Loan 1216/18-KO and Loan 1530-KO) included about 11,400 simple
rural piped water systems. No evaluation of these projects has yet been
prepared.



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       A Staff Appraisal Report No. 3292-KO, dated November 6, 1981 is
being distributed separately. Negotiations were held in Washington from
October 13 to 16, 1981 with the Korean delegation led by Mr. S.Y. Wei,
Economic Counsellor at the Korean Embassy.
Project History
46.       The rapid urbanization in Korea since the 1960s has been highly
concentrated in Seoul and Busan. As part of a strategy to spread economic
activity throughout the country the Government adopted a policy of making
secondary cities more attractive by improving the level of services
including water supply. The five cities selected for this project are among
those identified by the Government as regional centers with growth
potential.
47.       The project was prepared in about 18 months by the Water Supply
Bureaus of Gwangju, Daegu and Masan, and Water Supply Sections of Changwon
and Jinhae with the assistance of consultants and was appraised in
September/October 1980. Since that time the cities have substantially
completed detailed design and project implementation is expected to take
place soon after loan approval.
Project Objectives
48.       The main objectives of the project are to improve access to safe
water supplies for the populations in the five project cities, to support
the Government's program for improving the institutional organization of the
sector and to prepare priority water supply projects for the future.
Project Description
49.       The main features of the project are described below:
Part A - Municipal Water Supply Systems
(a) Source development including the construction of two river
intakes and pumping stations for Daegu and Masan and the
construction of a rockfill dam and pumping station for Gwangju;
(b) the construction of raw and treated water transmission systems
including booster stations;
(c)  the construction and upgrading of water treatment facilities;
(d) the construction and upgrading of water distribution systems
including reservoirs, booster stations, pipelines, service
connections and metering;



- 15 -
(e) leakage control;
(f) consultant services for financial management, engineering and
construction supervision; and
(g) training.
Part B - Technical Assistance
50.       This component will finance (a) consultant services for preparing
water supply projects with emphasis on smaller cities; and (b) consultant
services for a manpower survey and training.
Project Implementation
51.       The Water Bureaus of each of the five project cities, Gwangju,
Daegu, Masan, Changwon and Jinhae would implement their respective portions
of the project except as noted in the following paragraph in respect to the
bulk water supply system. The Ministry of Construction (MOC) through its
Water Resources Bureau (WRB) would provide overall coordination of the
project. Strengthening of the staff of WRB by the selection of one
additional water supply engineer and two financial analysts would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement).
WRB would also employ consultants to undertake a sector manpower survey, to
design and implement training programs and to identify and prepare priority
water supply projects (Sections 3.03 (a)(v) and 3.08 of the Loan Agreement).
52.       The three cities of Masan, Changwon and Jinhae would enter into a
Regional Management Agreement to create a new Project Office within the
Masan City Water Bureau for the purpose of designing, constructing and
operating a bulk water supply system (Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement).
Ratification of the Regional Management Agreement is a condition of Loan
effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the Loan Agreement). A leakage control
program would be prepared for and implemented by Daegu, Gwangju and Masan
cities (Section 3.09 of the Loan Agreement). Land acquisition for the
project has already commenced and would be completed by June 30, 1983 for
all project cities except Gwangju where it would be completed by June 30,
1984 (Section 3.12 of the draft Loan Agreement).
53.       In connection with the construction of the rockfill dam, Gwangju
city has prepared a resettlement program for the 880 families now living in
the area to be inundated by the dam-s reservoir. Finalization of the
program would be a condition of disbursement for the Gwangju portion of the
project (Section 3.06 and Schedule 1, 4 (b)(i)(A) of the Loan Agreement).
Appointment in consultation with the Bank, of a Special Board of Consultants
to advise on the safety of the dam's design and construction (Section
3.03(b)(i) of the Loan Agreement); and securing the services of the
Government-s Industrial Sites and Water Resources Development Corporation
(ISWACO) to assist in supervising the construction of the dam and in
formulating and applying operating and maintenance procedures (Section
3.03(c) of the Loan Agreement) are also conditions of disbursement for
Gwangju.



- 16 -
Project Costs
54.       The project costs are estimated to be $240.5 million including a
foreign exchange component of $90.0 million. The foreign exchange component
of Part A is $86.5 million representing 37% of the total costs of municipal
water supplies. The cost estimates are based on feasibility studies of
September 1980, as updated and revised on the basis of detailed surveys,
field investigations and geological studies for dam foundation, river intakes,
and treatment plant sites. The average man-month cost for internationally
recruited consultants including housing, transportation and local costs is
expected to vary between $9,000 and $11,000 depending on qualifications,
experience and country of origin. Local counterpart staff average $1,200 per
man-month. In total, internationally recruited consultant man-months are
estimated to be 370 and local counterpart man-months approximately 750.
55.       The project cost estimates are calculated at a base line of
September 1981 to which were added physical contingencies: 25% for river
intakes, 15% for the rockfill dam and other major civil works on source
development, and 10% for all other categories except land and 5% for service
connections in Gwangju. The project is to be constructed over a period of
four years. Price contingencies were calculated at 14% for 1982 and 11%
thereafter for the local component and 8.5% for 1982 and 7.5% for 1983 to
1985 on the foreign component. The project cities do not pay income tax but
pay customs duties ranging from 10% to 15%.
Financing Plan
56.       The proposed Bank loan would cover the foreign exchange component
of the project. The total cost of $236.5 million for the municipal water
supply systems (Part A) would be financed as follows the Government would
relend $86.5 million of the Bank loan to the five project cities under terms
and conditions identical to those of the Bank loan plus a service charge of
0.05 percent per annum. These transactions would be covered under
subsidiary loan agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, the signing of which
would be a condition of disbursement for the respective project city
(Section 3.04 and Schedule 1, 4(a)(ii)(A) of the Loan Agreement). The
foreign exchange risk will be borne by the individual cities. The Central
Government will make available to the municipalities loans for $88.2 million
equivalent for 20 years at an interest rate of 13% p.a. (Section 3.05(a) of
the Loan Agreement). The cities would provide the remaining $61.8 million
from internally generated funds including the issue of city bonds (Section
3.05(b) of the Loan Agreement). Retroactive financing for $1.0 million of
consultants services for detailed engineering carried out after the
appraisal of the project is recommended (Schedule 1, 4(a)(i) of the Loan
Agreement).
57.       The $4.0 million for the technical assistance package (Part B)
would be financed by $3.5 million from the Bank loan and by $0.5 million
from the Government budget.



- 17 -
Current Financial Situation
58.       The water bureaus of Gwangju, Changwon and Jinhae are presently in
a satisfactory financial position. Daegu and Masan are estimated to have had
a negative rate of return in 1980 with depreciation charged on revalued
fixed assets; however, the financial studies of the bureaus of both these
cities is expected to have improved after substantial tariff increase in
1981. In addition, they will have nonoperating revenues, mainly from
connection fees, which will improve their liquidity position.
Tariffs and Rates of Return
59.       Tariffs are customarily reviewed every one or two years, municipali-
ties presenting their requests for tariff increase to the MHA through the
provincial government. The tariff structures are progressive, penalizing
wasteful use of water. It has been agreed that the Bureaus fixed assets
would be revalued every year. A self-financing ratio of 20% during
construction for all project cities, when the asset base is growing rapidly,
has been agreed upon. The following minimum rates of return on net revalued
fixed assets have been agreed to be implemented after project completion:
Gwangju 10%; Masan, Daegu and Jinhae 8%; and Changwon 7% (Section 4.08 of
the Loan Agreement). Although the average tariffs required to achieve these
rates of return will necessitate substantial increases in the early years,
they are considered realistic given their present low level, the users
capacity to pay and the municipal and central government s demonstrated
willingness to bring their water rates to levels more in line with the
financial needs of the systems. The latter is evidenced by the 60% average
increase undertaken in April 1981.
Other Financial Covenants
60.       To protect the financial position of the Water Supply Bureaus of
the five cities, several covenants are included. It has been agreed that
the cities on behalf of their Water Supply Bureaus (Gwangju, Daegu and
Masan) and the Water Supply Sections (Changwon and Jinhae) will not, without
the Bank-s approval, incur any long-term debt unless the projected net
income of the water supply system for each year of the term of such debt is
at least 1.3 times the maximum projected debt service in each such year
(Section 4.07 of the Loan Agreement). It has also been agreed that funds
generated in the water supply operations of a city not be applied to other
purposes (Section 4.06 of the Loan Agreement) and that improved accounting
and financial planning systems be established in the project cities (Section
4.05 of the Loan Agreement). Agreement has also been obtained from the
municipalities that their Water Supply Bureaus be covered by insurance
against the normal risks related to operations (Section 4.04 of the Loan
Agreement).



- 18 -
Procurement and Disbursement
61.       Civil Works.  All of the major facilities in the construction
program will be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Minor works, such as local
improvements estimated at $7.7 million, will be constructed at different
times and in many scattered areas in the five municipalities and would not
interest international bidders. The replacement and upgrading works and
extensions to the distribution system at Jinhae, estimated at $2.2 million are
also unlikely to interest international bidders because of their relatively
small size, the nature of water treatment plant upgrading works and the
remoteness of Jinhae. The total value of these minor civil works is about
$10.0 million (foreign exchange component of about 45%) and represents about
4% of the project cost. These works would be advertised locally and
interested foreign bidders would have opportunities to participate. In
respect of the leakage reduction program and service connections totalling
about $9.5 million the municipalities would use their regular staff and/or
local plumbing contractors.
62.       Specialized Equipment.  Leakage control equipment estimated at
about $1.0 million would be procured through limited international
tendering. This equipment is highly specialized with a limited number of
suppliers and deliveries are required to be carefully coordinated with staff
training, which would be difficult to achieve through normal ICB. Up to
$500,000 of small items needed on an urgent basis would be procured through
local shopping.
63.       Disbursement.  Disbursements for civil works would be 40% of
expenditures. For equipment and materials, disbursements would be 100% of
the foreign exchange cost of directly imported equipment, 100% of the
ex-factory price of locally manufactured equipment, and 65% of goods
procured locally for emergencies, with a ceiling of $500,000 for such
purchases. For costs of consultants and training, disbursements would be
100% of expenditures. Because detailed design is substantiallly complete,
project implementation is expected to commence soon after loan approval. No
special disbursement problems are anticipated.
Benefits
64.       The proposed project, while meeting the urgent water supply needs
of these five cities, would support the Government's efforts to begin
reorganizing the sector and would assist in the preparation of future high
priority water supply projects, especially in the smaller cities of Korea.
The project would put special emphasis on the application of sound financial
and management policies in the water bureaus of the five cities and also
increase the efficiency of the allocation and use of water resources in the
country, beginning with the bulk water supply to be built under this project
in the Masan Region.



- 19 -
65.       The beneficiaries are the population served in the five cities
which would be 3.5 million on project completion or about 90% of their total
population. The urban poor /1 benefitting would be about 630,000. Regional
development efforts of the Government would be supported by improving the
quality of urban services in these five secondary cities. Project
construction is expected to generate employment totalling 420,000 man-days
of skilled, 840,000 man-days of semi-skilled and 2,000,000 man-days of
unskilled labor. In addition, permanent employment in the city's water
supply systems is expected to increase in Masan region by 50; Gwangju by 60
and Daegu by 80.
66.       Most benefits resulting from this project are related to improved
health and sanitation that are not readily quantifiable. Nevertheless, the
incremental rate of return (IRR) for each one of the five project cities was
calculated at border prices using revenues from consumer charges as a proxy
for the economic benefits of the project. Assuming that the consumers will
be willing to pay the projected tariffs, the IRR for the five projects are
adequate considering that they represent the minimum benefits expected. The
IRR for each bureau is: Daegu 16%, Gwangju 11%, Masan 13%, Changwon 11%,
and Jinhae 10%. Sensitivity analysis indicates that the project would
remain economically viable after taking into account a reasonable range of
uncertainties including the possibility of an increase in capital costs or a
reduction in project benefits.
Project Risks
67.       This is the first major water supply expansion being undertaken by
the Water Supply Bureaus of Masan and Gwangju and the first time that MOC has
been involved in a major Bank project in the sector. There is, however,
adequate provision in the Project for engineering consultants to advise on
project preparation and in designing and supervision of construction of all
the major components. There is also an adequate number of skilled
contractors in Korea who can construct the project. No unusual risks are
therefore anticipated with the implementation program.
68.       With regard to the institutional changes, the Government recognizes
their need, and as Bank supervision missions will give this aspect special
attention, no unusual problems are anticipated.
/1 As defined by the Bank.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the Bank,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. The main features of the Loan Agreement are referred to
in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III. Selection of staff for
MOC and the due execution of the Regional Management Agreement are conditions
of effectiveness.
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 30, 1981



-21 -                                             ANNEX I
KOREA REPUbLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET             Page  1  of  5
KOREA REPUBLIC OF                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE%GES
LAND AREA (THCoSAND SQ. KM.)                                                           - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) M
TOTAL             98.5                                MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRlCULTURAL      22.6              1960 fb    1970 /b ESTIMATE jb          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 180.0       410.0   1480.0 *                1136.1                 1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     261.1       772.6    1641.6                1150.6                  1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                  *
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 25003.0    31923.0  37814.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.7        40.7      53.4                   40.8                   64.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      52.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        72.0
YEAR STATlONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. VM.                      253.8       324.1    383.9                   373.1                   34.3
PER S4. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND   1168.4      1358.4    1643.0                 2382.8                   94.5
POPULATIUN AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         42.9        42.1      35.1                   39.8                   40.7
15-64 YRS.                         53.8        54.6      61.1                  56.7                    55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.3         3.3       3.8                   3.5                     4.0
POPULATION GROUTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.1         2.4       1.9                    2.3                    2.4
URBAN                              4.7         6.3       4.9                   3.8                     3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     43.0        30.0      25.3                   29.7                   31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     13.5         9.4       7.9                    7.5                    8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.8         2.1       1.6                    1.9                    2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       672.0    686.0
USERS (PERCENT UF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         32.0      49.1                  44.1
FOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.0        99.0     144.0                 123.7                   108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREYENTS)                   94.0       110.0     119.0                 112.6                   107.6
PROTEINS (GRAHS PER DAY)          55.0        65.0      73.0                  62.5                    65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        7.0         8.0      15.0                  19.7                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     12.3         7.5       4.5                   4.8                     7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.2        59.5      63.4                  64.0                    64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           62.0        43.0      37.0                  50.2                    70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULAT ION)
TOTAL                             12.1        58.0      71.0                  45.9                    65.7
URBAN                             18.5        84.0      85.0                  68.0                    79.7
RURAL                              9.5        38.0      54.9                  34.4                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TUTAL                               ..        25.0      61.0                  53.4                    59.9
URBAN                               ..        59.0      68.0                  71.0                    75.7
RURAL                               ..          .       50.0                  42.4                    30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          3539.5      2216.3    1986.1                4428.7                 1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     3220.O0c    1768.9/C   553.2                2229.7                  1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2482.0      1930.3     643.8                 588.5                  471.2
URBAN                               ..      1084.5     755.9                 579.6                  558.0
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        14.9        *                   36.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.6         5.5       5.3
URBAN                              5.4          ..
RURAL                              5.6          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOIAL                              2.5         2.3       2.0/.  
URBAN                              2.8         2.7       2.1j/
RURAL                              2.4         2.2       2.Oe.
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             28.4        49.9
URBAN                             67.3        92.4
RURAL                             12.4        29.9      64.9



- 22 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KOREA REPUBLIC OF                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE0AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT KATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  94.0        105.0      111.0                   99.8                      101.7
MALE                   99.0        106.0      112.0                   100.6                     103.0
FEMALE                89.0         105.0     111.0                    98.8                      101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  27.0         43.0       74.0                    53.5                      35.3
MALE                  38.0          52.0      81.0                    58.4                       34.9
FEMALE                14.0         34.0       67.0                    48.6                       35.6
VOLATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  14.0            14.0       20.0                   21.1                       30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              58.0         57.0      48.0                    34.2                       29.6
SECONDARY                           34.0          37.0      39.0                    31.7                       15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          70.6         87.6       93.0                    86.5                      80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER ThOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.5           1.9       6.2                    12.7                      42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          31.2         125.7     398.7                   174.1                     215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.3          13.1      95.9                    50.6                      89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    69.0        137.7      196.1                   106.8                      62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0             5.0        1.8                     4.3                       3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       8339.7      11173.8   14351.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    25.8          32.7      32.6                    37.4                      22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               66.4          51.0      35.8                    50.2                       35.0
INDUSTRY (PEKCENT)                   9.3         20.1       30.1                    21.9                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  33.4         35.0       38.0                   40.2                       31.8
MALE                                   49.5         46.8       50.7                    49.8                      49.0
FEMALE                                 17.2         23.0       24.9                    31.1                      14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.4          1.3        1.0                     1.1                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   15.1i/d         17.1      16.1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF hOUSEHOLDS  42.37d         44.5       45.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.77-           7.1       5.7
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.07F          17.7      16.9
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAP1TA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      320.0                   248.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..      270.0                   193.7                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      370.0                   249.8                     513.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..     310.0                   234.3                     362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        18.0                   21.2
RURAL                                  ..           ..      11.0                    32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Registered, not all practicing in the country; /d 1965; /e 1975.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates to be shown
in the 1981 World Bank Atlas are $1520 (at 1978-80 prices) and 38,455.0
thousands.
May, 1981



-3 -                                                                       ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
fl   c fOtab  O    ar  or"    tsI- aso.           to,, I '-4ao  tOo 00.5 b.okslaala saO  1 tLAAte  it ox.d                        -A :1s sl.d It ap  may mac be 15W'
Ma.leUy botla  m.... fr t.a;-b  t  tsodoa   I  t  s.o.s -d ssaapto  -.5  b7  tiff-ott                       aa -    2. s. Hoolta, t6. e-             TM  dae" s-s. 
tha..., social todat  Oriole4-    .1 Oa%tttrlO   'ta,- -ea.s. oaf dhetasoo. ottala sdla   d9f"ftaOt  bOto    OttC
The  at sam     pow. are (l( tO    so.  sro-o7 tf-too of t;  O5.o   oot    5  (2)a teloy Too  07-10-t  -msto    blfhr  ataSC4  L00o  ah- the 4segaso   F
fthe  -bi-,55  ac.tM  s'i(er     f.,  lapi.Al f-o9-  Ca   1 t5rOM-' fYcP otee  "9fIAdil.s(500  90000 kiWa. sd 0041. l.50' tO No-os  hOrs  of 50mw
-1.ts.-oss'al af,IssJ   1. cI,  -oats  oo-  do,. the  -o.owe  50   st.ass  a bt,,   t5s.t0c   for a.ht Otat.t0  -ot  A sat  eba 
jolt  .  thet c.eesAt   is a .a tmo.~. dare Uar tOot toalatmr.  Sion. the otrags of sa rmoa.  mw4  Lk. x'.oodc,.as     0epose. s  tab ssumiiell±y Of dat
- utlast.  f  .-  -.j ....... tly - P..-t..abls    tbIk -Al, .o  t,ri-e   Xosotl tsd  w-olslisd bstultJ  ad re-
P for . ..  ,oo70   s t b-1.5  B.-   or a. Ii. Walloo  1470 dora.                           h, iucts. bso.tO          Isoottle  -t  oetasb 1A~t  ps           mtety .taufd
by as toat  -e   htiie    %.00  .20shb.50porle  ptitOelyam-
GW                  W   P."-  ~     toi,at. .st,te    . r-et  -orba  proo   o-                  d1.1 ---0  --s ea  ktcIed.toa  hbopLto. bs-.r.  L-L."e OmItS
esiesot by oe.  01 00   LoS  _o   ta.  1  oa-k At.. Ul27-7B (soela; 19*0,s 0.0 .oooo  bsattar  -o  Paosaa                               ly sftale   by * phydJala  (he: by a
1970. ssd 1979 dat-                                                                                -o2sal "staoot. oac.. sOa              . s.)  kt10 off for 1-pecsste &50mm
e.t,.   at p-7otlS  . lOtd tot     "   to  -d..dAo  teSlUtls.  i~satetir0-
VIM    ~ ~ ~    ~ ~         sai  oorrts   fOoOrllso-d  (4s.al                                Otaat ,ttme                        I-It~httoO s.Aes VW* psetplgseelheita.
sed                        --ic,  otla.ss,.1 %o  -od 479.roo  tale-  teowthssmi 'lao-              05  oct lsottlo. Io-1  r totl. boepttLa tad. Adlbal 550 eStti
-1.1tsy) L. kllaSrea  .4 tt7pqxel.  to               Ios  1960. 1910  eM  1975mats    9fattalfe5   heststls are Otoded   iy  -des   astl.
dose.                                                                                             L1booie.         jzjL.w  - Tt01.1   bw of oadoOtelas  Ot    dlfWam
dat.                                                                                         brfej
(rarars  f ,.oall- lola t  atbe.  ttot"al   oma   orod  t,taal,ttr  fat-o    of iadwtdrL4sl   0  sh.                                a   aes
dlffw-t J.CW,aotaof  ao  .tfact oc-,oaobtiIlptt    otot                                  sot  to,.sr  -ine e.ols.  A bst      rC.d5sa e.   0 my Mt be leaLs"e  tO
PosoLatietos  roim Aot4sa                                                                                                                                                         sa-
Potootlo. ittsa  1170    tcs'o  ,tjs7at    Ollsolsd Ste 600.0 or 1960                Iso sf Per...  p-5 -os  Ia sIt  ftutt.  at totOe  tOto d oa't ~suale
total poPeis-e  by s.  sots. .A     od rOo.  ooo t  sot tes-IlIty  tot.                        d-ajloRa.  -o  -tl-jy.  DsoLI0a0   -zSlot  -Osro            wt eto       ate.  sat
Prajetla   eolsr  a-.t.irolt   rate  a               o f Oto.- Jo.tle eam                       so.p       trs
L-& Hif. saysatos     - at blo    toa..aoIg sit.   oet'   O   allOt Oega                     .t5  otOtIl1               0       fdlsoa       ...eO.a    oa
legal. sA fel. Ills  -Wr-yso   -obCtsle s&  t'75 yet.o.  tho psms.                             I;as*reetlel dlAlIh!gM  to   looaat  t tbnal"  4.5010 s   PeCSCW~
ssat"  for 0 eslty rst.-  asa b-o  -ost  J.-I. omo.,o  dslo.  ts                               of total   V, sf .0.  o  tota  doutilto   raroatro-ly .
toatlltty  -aolotbg to  -sto0 1-oa  sd Pat tsi-ly pLOOoo r0foOO..
leek te-r   Is tOmaaolo -A so o- f che." 5155 s.& olssr            of asrtality            o7Cf.T0c
sot torttlsty  arsede fir prajot6lo  peopoas..                              551ms t8                                                      . (6" "tf  tOt
3th.it b .L.slot. i   .4. to    atae d.ht -popolatCaa   tbos  Ia.a  t-sm 10.~.It.   Osl aol tattlo  .- lss -o Pat. el  s.d fin
.sla    t.ostot.  Thi. to  --bord  -tir sIta  tettUty rts.t  d-oLa  St                          Ps eeY ao 1-sttf  9011`sltoi.,    - 511    IttaS  thLUCss ad f-01
th.  -sPL.smst leo  . at 1 -alt       - tot    .  t..o..t.e ea    omasea. staOtzS                ,s.-r  h- r47 td for dlfl-a  IOet   of fOOtoty odao,f 
of:    a at    ss - it-0l  sotly.  Th. a,tatl-oy pprletlosas L..                                 torcoaiso otol soo-aol aasoafo.k  ...rlJa  -, seta   100 P00tt
otisstod soCb lss   ht.l p-tl .s-d   tbar -sta          Itts tf the yooo.l-ta                   st-. am  P,sbl.l ass k.de or ee.a  the efI.1ua.  sae  MPe.
Ioal tsh r2M0) OdW -b a.s   alot   f'rIly                      ts os -ttle-                                     I     .!L         -            - Co5t5   tr;ests
.sOt brat.                                                               e~~~~~~~~~~~~d-satlo  oorf_t". at best 1000 ystr. Pf eppas-    paisety ILeetOsett
sits hoe bee  rosbed.                                                                            totll  tI .1  - 1  7-ret of slt arosSe testeStStSeiY
Palttos  -Ime
p.o so.he. - Od-ysorparlat to  P-1 -W...s tllcota  (120 h-e--a) of                         'itIsa   asls.        ota  so!.oat.Y    Ootattel IsttlsAe
total 00.   1960. 1070 atd 1919 dat                                                              ble. L-." t-beLla.l   osr, otbohe  potIOos  501sh  V50.0. tedepat
Pe  o   atr.slara ..oad - C.. Ip s   s 50.  0  ta- asrto,atnal loot                        _stlyor    de0toar-ts ot sttoOde   isbtitotas-
toly  190, 170  ad 170  ata.Portl-tstb(.to~.~l~(m. eo                                                    ~         70.1 sott    mel, 2
1portlet 'los55  SO-atal (os.'-chlJda    (9-16 y-)s,                                                    L--7oh-e  13  prt.d  5.0.0.07 Iesb - 1. &l,,U     by -.sht     of  -sesat  1  the
6.. y500). sad rttd(65 yoao- ed  oa)sopae.ss   tO  9-yas  foo.P.                                   o.,ras.Ap ts.e   ss.
Iats-  191.  M97. sa  1975 .1 lao.                                                                Molit It -s   -teo   oo'et    UL-at    "It1. (ots  -o red  .d ante)
Porletot  ros   ats                      A.rta)    At .  es  OtS-b  -sse of at.tl sO-            sosp-troas   of to-io badt pOPoI.lOtl    ect HS Psre eedse.
ys ppltssfat  9501-60, 190-0-t  sod 1907979.
lotte   I a-9190-6O. 1969-70, s.d 99-70.Psoaalt   trtoso   oosl                                                                                P....rtt.tSple  es
lCds littt  Ots (-o  boed  -A-eoe IIt  bIrtbs fo   boad.   a-ootO    ette Is... thea steht 7o--t-. eleds.   b0ss.0                                                         0  e.d
aplta;1000. 1979,.at 1079 tatUfltt-ot.
itod. Death lo.. (p-r tboo-Oa  - A--Il doatba pa.taboses. of sId-loel                            0.410 RoaI000 os              ihaotee to5   - All ryps  aftelsfor  -LU1
pp Let.s; 1990. 1970  . a   0779 dots                                                        bratseae to assora  pahll  Pot ttr-.sad of pteltstel                    .-o
Cr00 Oroostoa  ot  - A00t55  bshb- of Iots      a               .12.1 b-e  is                 lI -totrt-to     Io a-mt~lbs ed 50 "-o   b- 05g510050  of teddO
Il tY ot .-IoalY lAr-voar aorso   -.die  Io 1960. 1970,. s- 1975.                                -tta,t.i-  etathsd litosele.
75.11,_tLssLa-asssos0o,               4tsoa          -A_ooI oots  af sopeeTV aloo (-0  htse satta                                              TV O   ~       f r.a..ta   basesee tso
of btta- Ms!arr drrt..KSa  eaatcO   f                    iota sl sely p1&--Irtr.eaao  P70611  pa- thoot.ad porola.t-o; motOs luss50  TV osa
Psei, Plosla  - Ooro( -oot of osrtd .t            -P_eas.tl  at esartO                       L. otatra   Wo is y--t 00.5rsS           -tOas  of TV .5.  -  s. ioff-ot.
s  ofsbil-baolso550(195-44 Yb-. ) she s borlab-osaao  dsalos  to                        I-P.o.g  Cftroslt 0o. (oa   0oo_       jsOa~  tshe  the eoe.e  alt-
.11 eerrts         to Is   aso  &-ro.                                                            tllsof  .111esotl ttt                        assos". adfed 05   psadatda
p,oi-btteao   4sootd polesaly to  -tda.rd$ ess-s                 It 1. s.."..Ode
Y=  ABS 5011105                                                                                       tO 00  dly" if it efec  ts sO   es  foe  ale  a  s.
Proh..     teatI  -   laj.(t97.lO -ld.     .,1 asplt   .-.Io                                                                          T.A   - A...d a   ee   we of
ptdaL" of al  teed t dlylt.  Poodaatiss seel,Ma  0.8 td fd so  sd                            tiasa   -Id0 d.-lsg the pe-. LleIdIOe ~.1alsab-  to  ta-t 
is oe  a_sd_t P_s  ba1--i..  l      4estts  -to   plomy rood. (s... sosae.                       A. eeOl.l  asta
leesed of -oWs)  b50h -o, olbl.    bbs ot.t  o-tlsas-  (..s. aoff- sod
teeta m50d85). AetoAsge   Ioatlof seat  -osy to b-Aoe  00                                   3,L)2Sf1Z
Setissl oasao ftdssetpotts oslt,  It-d.1970, 004 1170 data.                           Total Lobo   Ft... (tjts ..      -~ U s... ..lCy eati-s p-n, issledle
Ptt ta.01, o  a Ioro   fpbroos of r.'oAspffICU) - Coeps-s  fo-                           eaee  force. so    aos   bts ael,1al               .         -as.s t     sOt..,
epssaoo of eat teed sopOHo.  -ollotl  20 tsetr   pr-  taplta                       0505020  popelat- of oI sea.0.9Odl.Ltlse 10 t-I.er  soatios 
p.r day.  A-ollobla soPPIls  -Matos dorsta p-ooteet, iUVa--  I.e                               sot  teoal;1060. 1970 sa  1970 d-t.
55.05. esd sheogo  L. oak.  let soppito   -Lo."  alee.lI f.d.A  o.s.,                       £e La)og. ) - V.-I. bor f-rt so  osstgof total Ibte  foot.
baaltasee  is food P- Ia.ofa ,        lasoI.- t d0robo i.a.toisra.                     wjL atr (.t.            - Wobso foota L. ftoSie. foasrr. Omolee s
-osses   ttosd by #A0 b-se  -0 fbyhiiogw.al .0.85 f., -aoe  sti-                         flrblad s.preao f  -.11  laSso  foot.; 1960. 1070 at 1979 de~s..
otty sod heath a-osldeoS  assosetal aer                  s.body s.igtts. aoajAoa,5yao    - Uab-r f-r. I. atala. to stios.                                         teet.ale
s.d -   dicibtibets of pooaro,  e  ollat     19 Peetm   for ass  ot                            sAd sltO.ary             ..As  s . -s at      .% pot ts of-W  labor for; 1960.
heoe -ldCoa; 1961-65. 10)0, so  1977 data.                                               1970 s.  1079 data.
Pot t..DI  sorrl of ProttO.Lat              rp,d    - pastel.  -te t of  ee  spt               P-tol-lsoto,           --s0rotet  -rts,as. edfel       srIl..o
set sopply .  food Per day.  U.t sotpY of toed I. dofu"ta   Or.    .                           e.ttsrt-tsotso... od sottl,el., ed fels tobr forts s
qolomt  ts f.     l . etta   setabL!.ho   by OlIA  -0004  tot  L.01-                           porteetag     of  -at., ostl   -,0 laeel  papototb. of .11 aS_  -OPst.e-LY;
o-U -.es  at 60 S-  of tota  Proasio.s  day rod 20 P-  at ssl 000                              1260. 1970. tot 1919 d-ta   Thos  -t I.-LA  -t TO's p-otllpatle  ase
Pale. pos.of  h"la  10 Iree  hoosd bs aelm. p ...sla.  Thee  sped-                             rstleettaS  st--a oaot ts ofOt psst ..aaO , at lose also at.  A
eods ste Io-s  th   tshe.. of 75  r.-   0 tota  Pstes sad 23  ravs  tf                         few sotte  toISeti.lo                W s
5.1.5  p00t020 as so soog  foo tOo  -iad, 7ptrp..  by PAO ta th. n-sd                        zcsaeftil00pl-      Oro-taoo    plttost.1   .   1sd
Osald Fasa S-Toty  l96t-t, 1907  aM  1977 ds.".                                               Uo .1.ft-du LOtbor tarts
Partaotta ortja  500   ~Lro   sel95,Mf   Pt5005 tePPlY at load do-
rld fr.-o.ol   a  pbl-d  Catospr day;  961-95. 1970 tad 1277att-                         Tuco          5110
Child   ase. I-) t_trslO  Ogy.tIlb0)    - "--Ia.. .1001. P- tbjo,oe  10                          _                        str't    1opht L)-Oe.C.db                            ha
.o:. Yts      -     . er, to thlldoo   to tht.o ste g1.sW; £5   atorlta   Oto9otoo   tdso   bioat   tr. -C prtee                                            1 te -p' tree  60p st
trt   aadsaled 0. lto111  t.bleo; .9601. 1910 -Ad 1979 dart.                               at bt.,..sPold40o.-
ills e.sotao~ o SIt-b (<osos)    ttsa5.  .e  .1 aOca 0  lIt     edall    70  0 st!sEoa tttao-  er.   07                       - -taeeooosa  of P-.o"  1.-J.1,
atbirth;, 1960,.9     - td 1979 do..                                                          aTh   tok.  otsspoc,   lt   tataoOosott
Ift so  P-tla   a96      .001Iosao   otasssaO.It                                                                                                  o    -;Its) - orbs sod totl 
ad..7% pro. olsasoasdt-. 2.10  910h..elsoatoP-ot   lac-    1.0,1   th tst tore.  1.01 0010. sOlo    ..10
lets. to 100 Osot t,aaeet5! oot.ittost- ctat.bsa~  o.O ncsl .tOo.        55lttlc.os&oy   da s            , Iboplo.  *o.nat,. es-te.l re  tltt     iss ee
boo of P-PtI.  totl,   h, soo 6-te) oat.   --hlr.Os oo  to nit                                   aSf-,rcsolois
sate  seb astho  tuepraeete  baehet.  srIW., so4 sa-ey 0.11*) 00ttltl,  o)tst   os    r.                                         s-tlad of  -roea  pet toolts
Psotetass. of Obalt -sPstttoo   1asalo . I  a  a-as ors . pobll                                   ooaItt    0tst fo.lb.1011  deod  t.hers
tottat statfae  10015  tt  sr  tbha 200 rt,-. Itao. *  as  .r be                         t-                                         b .-         . r-     -        b  
d- -t hs~~~~% t. -PsPA  P-t  f   Jy 1.                                   -A~~too  -too  -  ote f porolotle  lobos ssd sara) s.  -o  0sheOl.tt
do .55.bea  as opera s                                                                           P-eporoa.s(a   fth  6l.t  i 
tft.lbr of petsc   (ttal   sbe. .58 nata)  -orrd by  -r.os. dlopasa. s
".raetisss of thala ospelstpol-co                   rasodoos.   o   olds
-od  aassatby Osror-Oto.oaoo  aba as   f t p pt l_re   tro  'ol.                                                                      ttsfoelbto    tofIo.lao_
-      -?-Us          41oies . elaaa  by sd.   bf pt,ootIaa 70",1-                                                                   sy1921
oe.q_alifis4 ft_. s             _sb_lOsl 00ta,  sot  te.-i
POOtlaio tr Orls oat-    pLotsOrdild   y7 a                        fota  p-oct.Oa
..J. ant t.lo. %.A-.o. oar.., ytaott.aI soe..0sesfIm



- 24 -
ANNRX I
Population:  38,445 (mid-1980, thousands)                                                                                  PjTe      5
GNP Per capitai  US$ 1,516 (1980)
KOREA - E0ONnMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million USS at                        Annual growth rntes (1) at constant prtees
current prices)                            Atl ...                                 PrI "e ted
Indicator                            198n/a             1976      1917       1978      1979       1980/a     1981      1985      I19§
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product             59,177             13.9      10.1       11.3       7.1       -3.4        6.2       7.6        8.0
Agriculture                       9,754             10.7       2.1       -4.0       6.7      -22.0       24.0       2.5        2.5
Industry                         24,396             20.1      15.8       20.8       8.4       -0.4        4.0      10.0       10.0
Services                         25,027             10.8       9.7       11.0       6.0        2.4        1.4       7.0        7.0
Consumption                        45,215              8.8       7.1       11.0       7.4       -0.9        2.3       4.8        6.4
Gross investment                   t7,889              8.0      24.0       35.9      17.5    -24.3         10.9       8.5        7.6
Exports of GNFS                    21,145             43.0      25.7       17.5      -3.6        9.6       11.6      11.0       10.6
Imports of WNFS                    25,846             26.9      23.8       29.1       8.6       -6.8        7.7       7.4       8.8
Gross national savings             12,268             42.3      17.3       14.9       2.4    -19.5          -         -          -
PRICES
CDP deflator (1975 * 100)                            116.3     135.8      164.6     197.4     250.3
Exchange rate (US$1 -)                               484.0     484.0      484.0     484.0     607.6         -         -         -
Export price index (1975 - 100)                      112.8     120.2      137.2     161.2      168.7      179.9     240.9     321.1
Import price index (1975 - 100)                      103.0     103.9      108.4     137.3      175.2      170.2     233.5     316.6
Terms of trade index (1975 - 100)                    109.5     115.7      126.6     117.4       96.3      105.7     103.2     101.4
Share of GDP at market prices (2)                     Average annual increase (Z)
(at current prices)                                (at constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990       1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product           100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0  100,0           8.6        9.8       8.2       7.3        7.7
Agriculture                     36.7    26.9    24.5    16.5    15.9    12.4          4.3       4.9       -1.2       5.3       2.5
Industry                        20.1    29.5    33.8    41.3    44.4    49.2         17.4       15.3      13.5       9.1      10.0
Services                        43.2    43.6    41.7    42.3    39.7    38.3          8.1        7.7       7.6       6.2       7.0
Consumption                     85.3    83.0    80.1    76.4    65.7    58.1          6.7        7.8       7.1       4.8       6.1
Gross ir,vestment               1i.0    26.9    29.0    30.2    33.2    33.8         23.6       11.2      14.6       9.2       8.8
Exports of GNFS                  3.4    14.3    27.6    35.7    43.7    49.6         29.3       25.4      16.1      10.9       10.5
Imports of GNFS                 12.8    24.1    36.3    42.7    42.6    43.9         20.2      15.8       17.0       7.2       8.4
Gross national savings /b        8.0    19.5    20.6    21.7      -       -          17.2       14.6       -         -         -
As x of GDP
1960      1970      1975       1980        Labor Force in 1980         Millions    (2)
PUtBLIC FINANCE                                                                         Agriculture                 4.7      32.2
Current revenues                        18.5       17.8      17.9       19.9          Industry                    3.9      27.1
Current expenditures                    14.3       13.1      15.4       15.6          Services                    5.1      35.5
Current surplus                          4.2        4.7       2.5       4.3           Unemployed                  0.7       5.2
Capital expenditure                      3.4        6.4       6.4        5.9
Foreign financing                        ...       .1.0       1.3        1.0              Total Labor Force      14.5     100.0
1960-70         1970-75          1975-80          1980-85         1985-90
OTHER IND)ICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (S)                               8.7             9.0              7.9              7.5             8.0
Annual CRP per capita growth rate (2)                    5.9             6.9              5.2              5.9             6.4
Annual energy consumption growth rate (2)               14.2             9.6             12.3/c            7.7
ICOR                                                     1.9             2.7              5.4              4.7             4.4
Marginal savings rate                                    0.3             0.3              0.3
Import elasticity                                        2.2             1.6              2.0              1.0             1.1
/a Preliminary.
/b Including net transfers.
,/c 1975-79.
F.nsr Asia end Pacific RegionAl Office
September 1981



ANNEX I
-  25  -                                           Page 5 of 5
Populatlon    t  38,445 (mid-1980 thousands)
CDP per capital  USS 1,516 (1980)
KOREA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
Indicator                                                      Actual                                     Projected
1970    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980/a    1981    1985    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services         1.379   5,909   9,467  13,059  17,124  19,487  22,496    27,114  55,074 121,068
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.          882   5,028   7,821  10,035  12,678  14,694  17,212    20,846  43,368  97,476
Imports of goods and services         2,180   7,991  10,119  13,272  18,651  24,163  28,638    32,848  59,815 120,745
Of vhich: merchandise f.o.b.        1,804   6,670   8,407  10,517  14,436  19,266  21,972    24,508  45,557  95,014
Net transfers                           178      225     345      222      467     439      454        495      668      893
Current account balance                -623  -1,858    -307         8  -1,060  -4,236  -            -5,415  -4.072  +1,235
t(  of GNP)                           (-T:2)  (-9.2)  (- IA) (+O0.2)  (-2.2)  (-7.1   (-9.9)    (-8.2)  (-3.2)  (+0.1)
Direct investment                        66       53       75      73       61       16      -7         30      115      231
MLT loans (net)                         242   1,303   1,257   1,464   2,702   2,934   1,694          3,280   3,633   5,819
Official                              147     486      663      594      663     853      864      1,108      706     708
Private                                95     817      594      870   2,039   2,081       831      2,173   2,927   5,111
Other capital                           191   1,111      532       -1       -1   2,291   4,862       2,479   1,682  -4,628
Change in reserves                      -57    -376  -I 314  -I           -707    -898    -863        -843           -2657
_        _               37 -!      7      _!9    *86        -83- 5
International reserves                  610     797   1,985   2,992   2,828   3,112   3,975          4,818   9,370  19,545
Reserves as months Lmports              3.4      1.2     2.4      2.7      1.8      1.5     1.7        1.7      1.8      1.9
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements
Official grants                         -        -       -        -        -       -        -
Concessional loans                    123     123      238      163      184     193      138
DAC                                 122     108      226      132     167       73      T21
OPEC                                  -       -        -       21       13      20       17
IDA                                   1      14       10        9       3        -        -
Other                               -3        1        2        1        -       -        -
Non-concessional loans                317   1,580   1,579   2 091   3 756   4,496   3 306
Official export credit        lSI                    132      262     219      340      61
iBRD                                  7     189      286      190     321      476      248
Other multilateral                    5      88       85       86       88      91       90
Private                             257   1,151   1,078   1;553   3,127   3,639   2,353
Medlum_ and Long-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                        1,797   6,082   7,377   9,160  12,461  15,068  16,462
Official                            613   2,780   3,482   4,244   5,139   5,790   6,674
Private                          1,184   3,302   3,896   4,916   7,322   9,278   9,788
Undisbursed                           902   1,628   3,459   4,793   4,295   5,342   5,999
Debt Service on MLT Loans
Total service payments                268     732      987   1,288   1,933   2,731   3,192
Interest                            70     332      427     498      695      976   1,442
Payments a. X exports               20.5    12.6    10.6    10.1    11.6    14.3    14.2
Short-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                           ...   2,409   3,045   3,239   3,575   6,279  10,047
Interest payments                     ...      ...     ...      152     236      377      907
Ilterest as Z exports                 ...      ...     ...      1.2     1.4      1.9      4.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans (1)
Official                              4.5     7.9      7.1      7.9     7.4      7.6
Private                               7.1     9.3      8.3      8.4     9.7    11.5
Average aturity of New Loans (years)
Officia                              28.0    19.3    21.7    18.3    19.2    17.1
Private                              10.9     5.7      8.7      8.8     9.3      8.9       ..
As Z of debt outstanding
at end of must recent
year (1980)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within  5 years                          63.6
Maturities due within 10 years                         110.1
Imtereet structure of debt outstanding
Interest due vithin first year                          11.0
/s Prelisinary
Eat Asia *nd Pacific Regional Office
September 1981



- 26 -                               ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1981)
Loan or                                                                                Amount ($ million)
Credit       Calendar                                                                 (less cancellations)
Number         Year         Borrower             Purpose                         Bank      TW    IDA   Undisbursed
Twenty-nine loans and eight credits fully disbursed                            1,221.52  40.0  106.81
1096          1975    Republic of Korea        Education III                      22.5                         0.11
1203          1976    Republic of Korea        Highways III                       90.0                         2.02
1319          1976    ADC                      Irrigation                         29.0                        15.83
1364          1977    ADC                      Irrigation                         95.0                        45.89
1401          1977    Republic of Korea        Ports II                           67.0                        32.90
1474          1977    Republic of Korea        Vocational Training                23.0                         5.04
1503          1978    ADC                      Agriculture/Irrigation             36.0                       29.35
1507          1978    SMIB II                  Dev. Finance Co.                   55.0                         0.07
1530          1978    Republic of Korea        Rural Infrastructue II             95.0                        37.29
1542          1978    Republic of Korea        Railway VI                        120.0                         1.40
1574          1978    KDB III                  Dev. Finance Co.                  110.0                         1.44
1635          1978    KLTCB                    Dev. Finance Co.                  100.0                         4.93
1640          1978    Republic of Korea        Highways IV                       143.0                       94.84
1666          1979    Republic of Korea        Chungju Multipurpose              125.0                       78.39
1676          1979    Republic of Korea        Electronics Technology             29.0                       14.89
1749          1979    SMIB III                 Dev. Finance Co.                   60.0                        7.63
1758          1979    Republic of Korea        Second Gwangju Regional            65.0                       59.83
1774          1979    Republic of Korea        Population I                       30.0                       30.00
1788          1979    Korea Electric Co.    Power                                115.0                      114.48
1800          1980    Republic of Korea        Education V                       100.0                       98.59
1829          1980    CNB I                    Dev. Finance Co.                   30.0                       23.29
1836          1980    Republic of Korea        Railway VII                        94.0                       61.56
1851          1980    AFDC                     Agriculture II                     50.0                       41.87
1932          1981    KLTCB VIII               Div. Finance Co.                   90.0                       76.84
1933          1981    KDB IV                   Div. Finance Co.                  100.0                       83.82
1974          1981    Republic of Korea        Third Agriculture Credit           50.0                       50.00
1980          1981    Republic of Korea        Nat. Urban Land & Housing          90.0                       90.00
2004          1981    SMIB IV                  Dev. Finance Co.                   60.0                       60.00
Total                                                           3,295.02  40.0  106.81   1,162.30
of which has been repaid                                        236.42   -        2.79
Total now outstanding                                           3,058.60  40.0  104.02
Amount sold                        8.83
of which has been repaid        8.17                              0.66   -        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                                3,057.94  40.0  104.02
Total undisbursed                                               1,162.30   -        -       1,162.30



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                                                         Amount ($ million)
Year     Obligor                 Types of Business            Loan  Equity Total
1968   KDFC                       Development Financing          -     0.7    0.7
1969   Honam Silk Co.             Textiles                      1.4    0.3    1.7
1970   Atlas Paper                Pulp and paper                4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.           Capital Market Development   -        0.7    0.7
1974   KDFC                       Development Financing          -     0.4    0.4
1974   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.           Capital Market Development   -        0.3    0.3
1975   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products            16.0    1.3   17.3
1975   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.           Capital Market Development  5.0    0.6    5.6
1975   Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.           Synthetic Fibers              6.9    2.1    9.0
1975   Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.      Tourism                       2.8    0.7    3.5
1976   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.           Capital Market Development   -        0.4    0.4
1976   Chungju Paper Mfg. Co.   Paper                           5.0    0.5    5.5
1976   Korea Zinc. Co., Ltd.    Zinc                           15.0    4.0   19.0
1976   KDFC                       Development Financing        17.8     -    17.8
1976   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products            10.0    0.4   10.4
1977   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products              -     0.2    0.2
1977   KDFC                       Development Financing          -     0.3    0.3
1977   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.           Capital Market                 -      0.5    0.5
1977   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.           Capital Market               15.0    0.4   15.4
1978   KDFC                       Development Financing          -     1.1    1.1
1979   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products              -     1.7    1.7
1979   KIFC                       Capital Market                 -     0.6    0.6
1979   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.                                          -      0.2    0.2
1979   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products              -     1.5    1.5
1980   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products              -     1.8    1.8
1980   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.           Capital Market                 -      0.6    0.6
1980   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.                                          -      0.8    0.8
1980   KDFC                       Development Financing          -     2.2    2.2
1981   Taihan Bulk Terminal       Grain Port Terminal           7.0    2.5    9.5
Co., Ltd.
Total gross commitment                                106.4   27.3  133.7
less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                  65.1    3.7   68.8
Total commitments now held by IFC                      41.3   23.6   64.9
TOTAL undisbursed                                       4.2      .5    4.7
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1 AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project; $29.0 Million Loan
of August 5, 1976; Effective Date: October 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This project, located in the central region of Korea, is being
financed under the first Bank loan for area development in Korea. Con-
struction work is progressing on two of the originally scheduled six major
civil works contracts with the first contract nearly completed. The project
area has been reduced to 7,100 ha from 12,685 as a result of deleting 2,300
ha of land development which, because of the sharp escalation of construction
costs due to inflation have become uneconomic. The award of contracts for
the next two areas was made in May 1981. Due to the escalation of costs and
inadequate local project budget allocations to compensate for the increase,
the project is currently about two years behind schedule.
Loan No. 1364    Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II; $95.0 Million
Loan of February 11, 1977; Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide irrigation and land development on 20,700
ha in the lower reaches of the Yong San River.  Project works include an
estuary dam, sea dike, pumping stations, irrigation canals, reclamation of
5,500 ha of tidal lands, conversion of 3,250 ha of uplands for irrigation of
paddy, land consolidation of 3,200 ha, and irrigation of 1,050 ha of up-
lands. Construction of the access roads and a portion of the estuary dam
has been completed. The main contract for estuary dam construction, awarded
in December 1977, is on schedule and the dam will be completed in 1981.
Other parts of the project have fallen behind schedule due to a sharp esca-
lation of costs and insufficient budget allocations to meet the increases.
It is now expected that in addition to the estuary dam, eight of the ten
subprojects will be completed by the end of 1984. Tidal reclamation is
scheduled to start in 1983 and would be completed in 1986, about 2-1/2 years
behind schedule; the Bank is discussing with the Government measures to
accelerate this schedule.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-  29 -                  ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1503    Ogseo Area Development Project - Stage I; $36.0 Million
Loan of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 29, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project will provide irrigation and drainage improvements
for 10,800 ha including 5,800 ha of land consolidation, and conversion of
1,800 ha of upland and forest to paddy land. Construction was to have been
carried out under seven civil works contracts and three were awarded in late
1979. Award of the fourth contract was made in July 1981. The project is
currently about two years behind schedule due to local budget allocations
which were insufficient to meet the sharply increased cost escalation.
Award of the remaining three constracts depends upon funding availability
and a review of their economic justification.
Loan No. 1530    Rural Infrastructure Project II; $95.0 Million Loan of
March 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 8, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes about 46 minor irrigation, 8,300 river
training and 7,400 water supply subprojects as well as a rural telephone
program. The river training and rural telephones components were completed
on schedule in 1979 and the water supply component was completed in 1980.
Design work on the minor irrigation component is complete. The total area
of the irrigation subprojects has been finalized at 9,192 ha. Contracts
have been awarded for all 36 subprojects but construction progress is slow
due to shortfalls in local budget allocations.
Loan No. 1851    Second Agricultural Products Processing Project;
$50 Million Loan of June 27, 1980; Effective Date:
September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1984:
The project would support investments in Korea's agroprocessing
subsector. Enterprises engaged in freezing and cold storage, canning,
drying, pickling and other preservations of fruits, vegetables, meat and
fisheries products, oil and extraction, processing of grain based foods, raw
silk spinning, and production of fruit juice based beverages, dairy products,
and animal feeds would be the main subborrowers. The project will benefit
the farmers through widening their market opportunities, provide increased
supplies, better quality and larger variety of processed food throughout the
year to consumers, and create about 5,000 additional jobs. The project
would also contribute to the institutional strengthening of the Agriculture
and Fishery Development Corporation (AFDC). Sublending is progressing well
and loan disbursements have commenced.
Loan No. 1974    Third Agricultural Credit Project;  $50 Million Loan of
M,ay 13, 1981; Effective Date: August 11, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
The project would help increase of (a) production of high-value
fruits and vegetables; (b) farm productivity; and (c) off-season employment.



- 30 -
ANNEX ii
Page 5 of 12 pages
Over the four-year period, the project would provide credit nationwide for
financing a wide range of activities, notably: greenhouses, sprinkler
irrigation, on-farm storage, chilled storage, spraying equipment, small-
scale agro-processing and backyard livestock. The project was declared
effective in August 1981 and implementation is underway.
Multipurpose
Loan No. 1666    Chungju Multipurpose Project; $125.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: July 11, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial and irrigating water in the Han Basin for about 20 years
following its completion in 1984, and would substantially reduce flood
damage, generate an average of 770 million kilowatt hours annually and
provide 460 MW of peaking capacity for Korea-s power system. The principal
features of the project are a 90 m high concrete dam across the South Han
River, a power plant containing four 115 MW generating units, and associated
transmission facilities; a reregulating dam about 20 km downstream of the
main dam; relocation of about 100 km of roads and 10 km of railway,
protective works in the reservoir area including the raising of an existing
embankment of a cement plant and other miscellaneous works; implementation
of a resettlement program for some 9,300 families affected by the project;
and consulting services. The major civil works contract was awarded in
December 1979 and progress to date is good, and detailed planning is
underway for the resettlement program.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1507    Second Medium Industry Bank Project; $55.0 Million Loan of
January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 10, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides $55.0 million to be used by SMIB to help cover
the foreign exchange requirements of industrial subprojects. A portion of
the loan - $20.0 million - was eariarked to assist small-scale, labor-
intensive subprojects creating employment at a gross capital cost per job
not greater than $6,000 or enterprises whose fixed assets are not greater
than $250,000.  Funds have been entirely committed and final disbursement
will be made shortly.
Loan No. 1574    Third Korea Development Bank Project; $110 Million Loan of
June 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
meats of subprojects to be financed by KDB3; apart from direct imports, the
loan would be utilized by KDB to finance the foreign exchange component of



- 31 -
ANNEX II
page 6 of 12 pages
domestically produced capital goods. An amount of up to $10.0 million of
the proceeds of the loan was made available to KDB-s subsidiary, the Korea
Industrial Leasing Corporation Ltd. (KILC), by way of subloans in order to
finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects. Progress is good.
Loan No. 1635    Seventh Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$100.0 Million Loan of December 7, 1978; Effective Date:
February 6, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan was made to cover the foreign exchange requirements of
subprojects to be financed by KDFC over the years 1979 and 1980. In order
to support relatively labor-intensive enterprises, a component of $20 mil-
lion was earmarked for financing specifically: (a) enterprises with fixed
assets not exceeding $750,000; or (b) projects generating employment at a
fixed investment cost per job not greater than $12,500.  Also, in order to
finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects, an amount of up to
$10.0 million of the proceeds of the loan was made available to the Korea
Development Leasing Corporation (KDLC), a leasing company affiliated to
KDFC, by way of subloans. Progress is good and only about 6% of funds are
still to be disbursed.
Loan No. 1676    Electronics Technology Project; $29.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979: Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After initial delays in completing final specifications and
bidding documents for engineering, support and research equipment, the
project is progressing. Bids have been received and are being evaluated for
a major proportion of the equipment. The training program is also under
way. Recently some shortage of counterpart funds has affected the project
and proposed institutional changes have given rise to concern; these
matters are under discussion with the Government.
Loan No. 1749    Third Small and Medium Industry Bank Project; $60 Million
Loan of July 23, 1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979,
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan would be
utilized by SMIB to finance the foreign exchange component of domestically
produced capital goods. To ensure that a reasonable proportion of the loan
is directed towards small, labor-intensive projects, an amount of $25 mil-
lion of the proceeds of the loan will be earmarked to finance: (a) enter-
prises with fixed assets not exceeding $300,000; or (b) projects generating
eLmployment at a fixed investment cost per job not greater than $8,500. The
loan would assist SMIB in its efforts to support the Government's policy of
increasing the regional dispersal of employment opportunities and of deep-
ening the industrial structure, and also to continue SMIB support of projects
wlhich would complement larue-scale manufacturing enterprises. Progress is
good.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1829    Citizens National Bank (CNB); $30 Million Loan of May 7,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980, Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The loan is being used to cover part of the foreign exchange
requirements of subprojects to be financed by the Citizens National Bank
(CNB) over a two year period, and would assist CNB in its efforts to support
the Government-s policy in increasing regional dispersal of employment
opportunities and of deepening the industrial structure. Apart from direct
imports, the proceeds of the loan are being utilized by CNB to finance the
foreign exchange components of domestically produced capital goods. The
project would also enable the Bank to help build up CNB's project appraisal
capabilities. Sublending is progressing well and loan disbursements have
commenced.
Loan No. 1932    Eighth Korea Long-Term Credit Bank Project; $90.0 Million
Loan of January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 19, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KLTCB over the next two years. In
order to encourage increased mobilization of medium-term foreign commercial
borrowings by KLTCB, the loan incorporates a special amortization feature,
which would permit the blending of Bank and commercial resources. The
project incorporates a package of financial sector policy measures which
would be implemented by the Government as a part of a comprehensive reform
of the financial system of Korea.
Loan No. 1933    Fourth Korea Development Bank Project; $100 Million Loan
of January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 19, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB over the next two years. In
order to encourage a reduction in KDB-s reliance on long-term official
borrowings, the loan incorporates a special amortization feature, which
would permit the blending of Bank and commercial resources. The project
incorporates a package of financial sector policy measures which would be
implemented by the Government, as a part of a comprehensive reform of the
financial system of Korea.
Loan No. 2004    Fourth Korea Small and Medium Industry Bank Loan;
$60.0 Million Loan of July 7, 1981; Effective Date:
October 6, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange
requirements of subprojects to be financed by SMIB over the next two years.
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan are being utilized by
SMIB to finance the foreign exchange components of domestically produced
capital goods (estimated at 60%). The loan assists SMIB in its efforts to



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12 pages
support the Government-s policy of increasing the productivity of Korea-s
small- and medium-scale industrial sector which plays a vital role in
providing employment opportunities and in assisting the country's export
effort. It also initiates an attempt to improve and expand extension
services for the SMI sector.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1774    Population Project;$30 Million Loan of December 27, 1979;
Effective Date: March 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project will assist the Government to reduce fertility over the
next five years, and simultaneously reduce infant and maternal mortality,
particularly in rural areas. It is estimated that about 10 million people
would be provided primary health care services under the project. Progress
is being made on a number of fronts. Training to convert unipurpose into
multipurpose workers is going on, the development of curricula for midwifery
training is advancing, workshops have been conducted and coordinators
appointed. Designs for the civil works are being prepared. Although some
delays in training have occurred, this has been due to budget constraints
rather than to managerial problems. The budget allocations made by the
Government for 1980 and 1981 correspond to only about 10% of the amounts
required. This implies a delay of at least one year in project execution.
The Government has indicated that it plans to compensate for the shortfall in
1982. Project management is coping with this situation well and is trying to
make do with the funds available. Loan disbursements have not yet commenced.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1474    Vocational Training Project; $23.0 Million Loan of
July 22, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project includes the establishment of eight new Vocational
Training Institutes (VTIs), equipment for a National Central Vocational
Training Institute (NCVTI) and technical assistance to be provided by UNDP
and Germany. After an initial delay implementation is now on schedule. All
civil works contracts have been awarded. Six VTIs are now in operation.
About 80% of equipment has been awarded and about 60% delivered. All experts
are in post and the fellowship program has been completed. Management
performance has also improved.
Loan No. 1800    Higher Technical Education; $100.0 Million Loan of
February 21, 1980; Effective Date: April 7, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is the Bank-s first subsector loan in education. It
finances public and private institutions in higher technical education and
will be approximately allocated as followed: $60 million for engineering,
$36 million for technicians and $4 million for technical assistance. The



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12 pages
project includes about 10 national programs for staff and curriculum develop-
ment and 55 subprojects for equipment. The objectives of the project are:
(a) to alleviate manpower problems, (b) to improve quality and (c) to reduce
the investment gap between public and private institutions. Initial imple-
mentation of the project is satisfactory with all 10 national programs and
55 subprojects already prepared. Management capability for implementation
has been strengthened with additional staff. Actual performance on teacher
recruitment is about the same as planned.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1758    Second Gwangju Regional Project; $65.0 Million Loan of
September 27, 1979; Effective Date: February 15, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Implementation on the Second Gwangju Regional Project is underway
satisfactorily. The physical works have been divided into 15 subprojects.
Civil works contracts for two subprojects (Mogpo Water Supply and Gwangju
Industrial Estate Access Road) were awarded in December 1979 and
construction works are on schedule. Contract awards fC- two subprojects
were made in October 1980 and another seven in December. Detailed designs
for the remaining subprojects have also been completed but bid award has
been postponed to 1981 primarily due to budgetary problems. Progress on
implementation of the aquaculture development program has been slow due to
staffing changes in the National Federation of Fisheries Cooperatives
(NFFC). Preparation of Terms of Reference for various studies under the
Technical Assistance Program are underway. On the whole, project
implementation is satisfactory, though rapid escalation in construction
costs in Korea is expected to cause a cost overrun of about 37%.
Loan No. 1980    National Urban Land Development and Housing Project;
$90.0 Million Loan of May 13, 1981; Effective Date:
August 11, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The objectives of the project are to provide housing for low-
income families and to further develop the capabilities of the major public
institutions serving the housing sector, namely KLDC and KNHC. These
objectives are to be pursued in the context of an ongoing dialogue on
housing policy issues between the Bank and the Korean Government which will
be intensified through the technical assistance and housing sector study to
be financed from this loan. The project includes development of about
380 ha of urban residential land in ten medium-sized cities including
off-site infrastructure, construction of about 8,500 housing units for
low-income households, community and commercial facilities and technical
assistance covering staff training, professional services, project
preparation, studies and monitoring and evaluation.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12 pages
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 1203    Third Highway Project; $90.0 Million Loan of February 20,
1976; Effective Date: May 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The loan provides funds to help finance: (a) the construction,
chiefly on new alignments, including paving, of about 195 km of four
national highways, including supervision of the work by consultants;
(b) paving and improvement, chiefly on present alignments, of nine national
highways totaling about 600 km, including supervision of the work by
consultants; and (c) feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km of
national and provincial roads, to be followed by detailed engineering. All
contracts for construction and paving were completed by June 1979. Feasi-
bility studies by consultants were completed in 1980 and a contract for
detailed engineering has been negotiated. Disbursements are nearing
completion. The Saudi Fund for Development is providing a loan of $35
million to assist in financing the project.
Loan No. 1401    Second Ports Project; $67.0 Million Loan of April 28, 1977;
Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The project consists of: (a) a 700 m extension of container
berths being financed under the First Ports Project and a 335,000 sq m
expansion of the container stacking area provided under that project with
ancilliary works; rehabilitation of piers 3 and 4, the central wharf, and
lighter wharf No. 5; (b) procurement of container cranes, mobile container
handling equipment, and tugboats; (c) Engineering Consultant Services and
(d) Technical Assistance and Training. Contracts for the extension of
container berths and for rehabilitation of pier No. 4 and lighter wharf No.
5 were let in 1979, following delay in appointing the consultants for final
engineering. Estimated costs have increased to $161 million ($98 foreign
exchange) compared with the appraisal estimate of $112 ($70 foreign
exchange). KMPA expects to introduce commercial accounting from January 1,
1983.
Loan No. 1542    Sixth Railway Project; $120.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1978; Effective Date: August 3, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project would provide KNR with the capacity required to meet
forecast traffic, and reduce operating and maintenance costs. It includes
continued double tracking and electrification of lines, extension of yards
and terminals, continued installation of centralized traffic control, track
and rail renewal, separation of road and rail at crossings, installation of
a permanent way workshop, procurement of diesel locomotives, passenger cars
and freight cars, provision of a new passenger car workshop, installation
of additional telecommunication and power facilities and provision of tech-
nical assistance to KNR. The loan will also finance transport sector



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12 pages
studies. Contracts for about 98% of the equipment to be financed under the
loan have been awarded and most of the equipment is under delivery. Studies
of the feasibility of major investments for 1980 and 1981 have been carried
out and the transport sector studies are under way.
Loan No. 1640    Fourth Highway Project; $143.0 Million Loan of December 7,
1978; Effective Date: March 14, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) construction and improvement,
including paving and supervision by consultants, of 36 sections of national
roads totaling about 950 km; (b) construction and improvement, including
paving and supervision by consultants, of 10 sections of provincial roads
totaling about 280 km; (c) procurement of additional road maintenance
equipment for maintaining national roads; (d) a study by consultants of the
institutions involved in the planning, design, maintenance, construction,
administration and financing of provincial and county (gun) roads, and the
preparation of a program for improving the organization and functions of
such institutions, upgrading provincial and gun road maintenance and the
future development of the Gun road system, to be followed by detailed
engineering of about 2,000 km of gun roads; and (e) provision of fellowships
for training staff of the Ministry of Construction. A contract for the
study was signed and work started in September 1979. Construction of one
road was started in April 1979, and the remaining roads in September 1979.
Costs have escalated sharply due to inflation, and due to budgetary
constraint, construction work is proceeding about one year behind the
original schedule.
Loan No. 1836    Seventh Railway Project; $94 Million Loan of May 21,
1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 12, 1983
The project focuses on the goals set jointly with the Government
on the transport sector, namely to increase the capacity of the transport
system in the most economically efficient way and to develop and strengthen
the institutions dealing with the transport sector. The main component of
the project aims at:  (a) initiating the institutional changes necessary to
gradually transform the Korean National Railroad (KNR) into a public
corporation; (b) providing KNR with the capacity required to meet forecast
traffic; and (c) reducing operating and maintenance costs. The loan will
finance rails, track maintenance equipment, breakdown cranes, passenger
cars, freight cars, workshop equipment, technical assistance and training.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12 pages
Power Sector
Loan No. 1778    Gojeong Power Project, $115 Million Loan of December 27,
1979; Effective Date: March 21, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project constitutes the next logical step in the development
program of the Korea Electric Company (KECO) to meet the load growth up to
1986. The project would provide for the installation of two 500 MW
coal/oil-fired units and associated auxiliary equipment; coal handling and
storage facilities, fuel oil tanks, ash system and storage area, a fuel
unloading dock for ships up to 100,000 DWT displacement; a pumping station
and a 17 km steel pipe to transport fresh water to the station; and a 160 km
double circuit, 345 KV transmission line between the power station and
Seoul, and related terminal substations and management consulting services.
In September 1979, contracts for the main equipment which is not being
financed by the Bank were signed and call for bids for 12 equipment packages
will be made in mid-April. Power rates have been increased periodically and
KECO has been able to meet its 9% rate of return objective.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
KOREA
FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Supplemental Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 18 months
(b) The project was prepared by the five cities with assistance from
consultants
(c) First presentation to the Bank: April 1980
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: September 1980
(e) Post-appraisal mission: July 1981
(f) Completion of negotiations: October 16, 1981
(g) Tentative date of Board presentation: December 15, 1981
(h) Planned date of effectiveness: March 15, 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions:
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of effectiveness would be the:
(i) strengthening of the staff of Ministry of Construction's (MOC)
Water Resources Bureau (para. 51); and
(ii) ratifying of a Regional Management Agreement between the
cities of Masan, Changwon and Jinhae (para. 52).



- 39
ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) Conditions of disbursement (for the project city or cities affected)
would be:
(i) signing of subsidiary loan agreements (para. 56);
(ii)  staffing of Masan Project Office to implement the Regional
Management Agreement (para. 52);
(iii)  preparation by  Gwangju of resettlement program for the
rockfill reservoir (para. 53);
(iv) Gwangju appoints ISWACO and a special Board of Consultants
to supervise and oversee construction of rockfill dam
(para. 53); and
(c)  the Government would establish an Interministerial Committee to
make recommendations for sector coordination and planning
(para. 35);
(d)  the Government would carry out the Nagdong River Basin environmental
studies by December 31, 1986 (para. 39);
(e)  the Government would complete a sector manpower survey by
December 31, 1982 and carry out a manpower training program on a
timetable acceptable to the Bank (para. 43); and
(f)  Daegu, Gwangju and Masan cities would implement a leakage control
program (para. 52).






IBRD 15431R
-                                                         29'ti5.g; }  ;7   -  : Y2f   A   Y2:f   e   1  SEPTEMBER 1981
N 0ORT H  KORE AN
Jopon Sea 
KREA                                                                                                         ELst  Se a
W  NMg          *>                            G Y CE O  t 0> >~GANG 
Yel/ow  Se I3
Oce on                    jijeo II
China Sea~,I
1231~~~~~~~~M1  \PmcSo
nya 9        nu                 eong.ae~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Peon
375
\~~~~~~~iS  W ATEmR SUPY PROJECT k)
J~~~~~~~~~~odn Rie B5i on Project >J                                   t Loaton
Mon5"                     2   A                                           1t  Y  Y_  O  N  14Ai no
:   2                         FIRST  W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1ATER  SUPL  R JC
34~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    -.. INT11s R1NTNjf 11011199AR199
C;ay \. MAjOR~~~e                                                    RIV5R85N
J     .,3 o 20   4                                       0        V      119
Jej                                                   e--  -   Rv"CAuL'uR
w i                                          _._  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I(SMTERlTO9A  OCRE
12SSeoipo                            '    ' 20              "i 6,0    , BO          ,0e0
L35                                                                                            mch eo7 12'1'



