Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3917 BD 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Enterprise Growth and Bank Modernization Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
BANGLADESH BANK 
 
Dated June 23, 2004 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3917 BD 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 23, 2004, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and BANGLADESH BANK 
(Bangladesh Bank). 
 
 
WHEREAS (A)  by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between People’s Republic of Bangladesh (the Borrower) and the Association, the 
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred seventy two million three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 172,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Bangladesh Bank agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by an Administrative Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and Bangladesh Bank, a portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for 
under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to Bangladesh Bank on 
the terms and conditions set forth in said Administrative Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS 
(C) Bangladesh Bank, in consideration of the Association’s 
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to 
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) Bangladesh Bank declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and banking practices, and shall 
Page  4
-
2
-
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for Part A of the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Bangladesh Bank shall carry out  
Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
 
Section 2.02. In the carrying out of Part A of the Project, Bangladesh Bank shall 
enter into a participation agreement (Participation Agreement) with each PFI to provide a 
portions of the Credit allocated to Part A of the Project. For such purpose, Bangladesh 
Bank shall use a model Participation Agreement whose terms and conditions shall have 
been approved by the Association. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) Bangladesh Bank undertakes that Subloans will be made in 
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Bangladesh Bank shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment 
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association and of 
Bangladesh Bank; (ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement and the 
Administrative Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of Part A of the Project. 
 
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part A of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) Bangladesh Bank shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Bangladesh Bank shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and Bangladesh Bank, a plan 
for the future operation of Part A of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with Bangladesh Bank on said plan. 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
Section 2.06. Bangladesh Bank shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Administrative Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Bangladesh 
Bank shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Administrative Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Bangladesh Bank shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, 
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Administrative 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit. 
 
(b) 
Bangladesh Bank shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Bangladesh Bank of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Administrative Agreement. 
 
Section 2.08. Bangladesh Bank shall:  
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the performance indicators set forth in 
Schedule 6 to the Development Credit Agreement, the carrying out of Part A of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2006, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) above, on 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of Part A of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by February 28, 2007, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) above, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Part A of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Management and Operations of Bangladesh Bank  
 
Section 3.01. Bangladesh Bank shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and banking practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) Bangladesh Bank shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all 
in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, adequate to reflect its operations and resources and expenditures related to  
Part A of the Project. 
 
(b) 
Bangladesh Bank shall: 
 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year,  
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited, and  
(B) an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Bangladesh Bank shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Part A of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Credit, and 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and 
 
Page  7
-
5
-
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under Part A of the Project, 
as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than  
45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter, after the Effective Date, and shall cover 
the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under Part A of the Project through 
the end of such calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover 
such calendar quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Bangladesh Bank thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
 
(ii) 
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify Bangladesh Bank of this event. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party
’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
Page  8
-
6
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For Bangladesh Bank: 
 
Motijheel Commercial Area 
Dhaka - 1000 
 
People’s Republic of Bangladesh 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
632226 or  
 
  (880-2) 956-6212 
 
632227
BANK BJ 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Bangladesh 
Bank, or by Bangladesh Bank on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit 
Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Governor or such other person or persons as 
the Governor shall designate in writing, and Bangladesh Bank shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Dhaka, People’s Republic of Bangladesh, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Christine Wallich 
Country Director 
Bangladesh 
 
BANGLADESH BANK 
 
By /s/ Muhammad A. Rumee Ali 
Authorized Representative 
Page  10
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Terms and Conditions 
 
A.
 
Principal Terms and Conditions of Subloans, Investments and Participation 
Agreements
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the principal terms and 
conditions set forth in this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement with respect to Participation Agreements. 
 
1. Currency
All Subloans made under Part A of the Project shall be denominated in Taka.  
 
2. Interest 
Rates
(a) 
Interest on a PFI Subsidiary Loan shall be charged on the principal 
amount thereof outstanding from time to time at a reference interest rate which shall be 
based on Bangladesh Bank’s refinance rate, which is currently at 5% (the Reference 
Interest Rate). 
 
(b) 
Interest on Subloans to Beneficiaries shall be as determined by PFIs 
based on market conditions. 
 
3. Maturities
Subloans under Part A of the Project shall have maturities of up to five years, 
including grace period of up to one year. 
 
4. Repayments
PFI Subsidiary Loans shall be repaid by a PFI to Bangladesh Bank in accordance 
with fixed repayment schedules. 
 
5. Pre-payment
(a) 
If a Subloan shall be repaid to a PFI in advance of maturity or if a  
Subloan or any part of any such Subloan or loan shall be sold, transferred, assigned or 
otherwise disposed of for value by a PFI, the PFI shall promptly notify Bangladesh Bank 
and shall repay to Bangladesh Bank on the next following interest payment date the 
amount withdrawn in respect of any such Subloan or part thereof. 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
(b) 
Any amount so repaid by the PFI shall be applied by Bangladesh Bank to the 
maturity or maturities of the PFI Subsidiary Loan in amounts corresponding to the 
outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities of the Subloan so repaid or disposed of. 
 
6. Participation 
Agreement
Each Participation Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant to which each 
PFI shall: 
 
(a) 
continue to be duly established and operating under the laws of the 
Borrower;  
 
(b) 
continue to maintain a sound financial structure, a healthy portfolio, and 
the organization, management, staff and other resources required for the efficient 
carrying out of its activities;  
 
(c) 
continue to conduct its operations and affairs including interest rate 
policies in accordance with sound financial principles and practices;  
 
(d) 
continue to maintain a lending and investment policy acceptable to the 
Association and Bangladesh Bank, and suitable procedures and an adequate number of 
suitably qualified staff to enable it effectively to:  
 
(i) 
appraise the financial, technical, environmental and economic 
feasibility of Investment Projects and to make Subloans to 
Beneficiaries in accordance with sound lending and investment 
policy and on the basis of the criteria, procedures and principal 
terms and conditions set forth in this Schedule; and  
 
(ii) 
supervise, monitor and report on the carrying out by 
Beneficiaries of Investment Projects. 
 
(e) 
exercise its rights in respect of Subloans in such a manner as to protect 
the interests of the Borrower, the Association and Bangladesh Bank and to comply with 
its obligations under its Participation Agreement in order to achieve the purposes of  
Part A of the Project; 
 
(f) 
undertake not to assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements 
providing for Subloans or Investments or any provision thereof without the approval of 
Bangladesh Bank; 
 
(g) 
within six weeks of the end of the first and the second six months of the 
calendar year, furnish to Bangladesh Bank semi-annual progress reports outlining the 
progress of each Investment Project; and 
 
Page  12
-
10 - 
(h) 
furnish to Bangladesh Bank monthly reports on the operation of the sub-
accounts. 
 
7. Procurement
With respect to the procurement of goods and services to be financed under  
Subloans, each Participation Agreement shall contain provisions requiring each PFI to 
ensure that goods and services shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being 
taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability 
of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor and, in the 
case of services, of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them.   
 
B. 
Procedures and Terms and Conditions of Subloans
1. 
Subloans shall be made on terms whereby Bangladesh Bank shall cause each PFI 
to obtain, by written contract with the Beneficiary or by other appropriate legal means, 
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association and Bangladesh 
Bank, including the right to: 
 
(a) 
require the Beneficiary to carry out and operate the Investment Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
environmental and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records and accounts; 
 
(b) 
inspect, by itself or jointly, with representatives of the Association if the 
Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction 
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents; 
 
(c) 
obtain all such information as the Association or Bangladesh Bank shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and 
financial condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Investment Projects; and 
 
(d) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its obligations under 
its contract with the PFIs. 
 
2. 
Eligibility Criteria for Beneficiaries and Investment Projects
(a) 
All small enterprises that require loans not exceeding Tk 5,000,000 shall 
be eligible to receive Subloans from PFIs. 
 
Page  13
-
11 - 
 
(b) 
Subloans and Investments shall be used by Beneficiaries to finance 
rehabilitation and expansion of existing enterprises as well as for establishing new 
enterprises, including: (i) fixed assets (including machinery, equipment, factory buildings   
and related civil works), technical know-how, consultancy services and training;  
(ii) permanent working capital (including initial stocks or increases in stocks of raw 
materials, spare parts and components); (iii) free-standing working capital (including raw 
materials, spare parts and components) to expand capacity utilization of existing firms; 
and (iv) leasing of industrial and business equipment; provided however that no proceeds 
of the Credit shall be used to finance enterprises involved in the manufacturing, 
distributing, or servicing of alcoholic beverages, unmanufactured tobacco, tobacco 
refuse, manufactured tobacco (whether or not containing tobacco substitutes), tobacco 
processing machinery, radioactive and associated materials, nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for nuclear reactors, goods intended 
for a military or paramilitary purpose, and environmentally hazardous goods. 
 
