Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3917 BD 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Enterprise Growth and Bank Modernization Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 23, 2004 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3917 BD 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 23, 2004, between  
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
BANGLADESH (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated May 12, 2004, from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
strengthen the Borrower’s banking sector (the Program), and declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project;  
 
(C) 
the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Kingdom Department for 
International Development (DFID) a grant in an amount equivalent to fifty million 
Sterling Pound (GBP 50,000,000) (the DFID Grant), to be administered by the 
Association, to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth 
in an agreement to be entered into for such purposes (the DFID Grant Agreement); 
 
(D) 
Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Bangladesh Bank with the 
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make part of the 
proceeds of the credit provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Credit) available 
to Bangladesh Bank, as set forth in this Agreement; and  
 
WHEREAS (E) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and 
Bangladesh Bank (the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Administrative Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and Bangladesh Bank pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the Administrative Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Bangladesh Bank” means the Borrower’s central bank established and 
operating under the Borrower’s Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (P.O. No. 127 of 1972) for 
the purpose of carrying out the business of central banking; 
 
(c) 
“BSCIC” means Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation, 
within the Borrower’s Ministry of Industry (MOI); 
 
(d) 
“Beneficiary Enterprises” means any enterprise to which a PFI (as 
hereinafter defined) has provided or will provide a Subloan, and which enters into a 
Subloan Agreement with a PFI for an Investment Project; 
 
(e) 
“BEPZA” means Bangladesh Export Processing Zone Authority;  
 
(f) 
“BOI” means the Borrower’s Board of Investment;    
 
(g) 
“EMP” means each environmental management plan prepared by PC (as 
hereinafter defined), for the purpose of the Project; 
 
(h) 
“Finance Division” or “FD” means the Finance Division of MOF (as 
hereinafter defined);  
 
(i) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(j) 
“FY” or “fiscal year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower, 
commencing July 1 and ending June 30 of each year; 
 
(k) 
“Indicators” means indicators referred to in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(l) 
“Investment Project” means: (i) a new specific development project; and 
(ii) an expansion of an existing project, to be carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing the 
proceeds of a Subloan; 
 
(m) 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
Page  5
-
3
-
3
(n) 
“NCBs” means the Borrower’s nationalized commercial banks as set out 
in Bangladesh Banks (Nationalization) Order, 1972 (P.O. No. 26 of 1972) and include for 
purposes of this Agreement, Sonali Bank, Janata Bank, Agrani Bank and Rupali Bank; 
 
(o) 
“Participation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between Bangladesh Bank and each Participating Financial Institution (as hereinafter 
defined) pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement for Part A of the Project; 
 
(p) 
“Participating Financial Intermediaries” or “PFI” means, inter alia, the 
BASIC Bank, BRAC Bank, MIDAS Financing, Islamic Bank, Dhaka Bank and Prime 
Bank, or any other financial institution that meets the eligibility criteria as set out in  
Part A of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; 
 
(q) 
“PFI Subsidiary Loan” means the loan provided by Bangladesh Bank to 
a
PFI; 
 
(r) 
“PC” means the Privatization Commission; 
 
(s) 
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit, within the Finance Division 
of the MOF referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(t) 
“PMO” means the Borrower’s Prime Minister’s Office; 
 
(u) 
“Procurement Regulations” means the Borrower’s Procurement 
Regulations of October 1, 2003, acceptable to the Association, published in the 
Borrower’s Gazette, and which is to be observed in the carrying out of the Project;  
 
(v) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and 
Bangladesh Bank of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement; 
 
(w) 
“SME” means small and medium enterprises; 
 
(x) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement, and described in the Circular dated September 2, 1991, as revised on  
May 4, 1992 and December 24, 1992, of the Finance Division of the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Finance entitled “Procedures for Operation of Convertible Taka Special Account 
(CONTASA) of IDA-Aided Development Projects Under Government-Departments, 
Autonomous, Semi-Autonomous Bodies,” as such Circular may be amended from time to 
time in agreement with the Association;  
 
(y) 
“SOE” means state-owned enterprises, enterprises owned by the 
Borrower;  
Page  6
-
4
-
4
(z) 
“Subloan” means a loan, including lease financing, made or proposed to 
be made by a PFI to a Beneficiary Enterprise out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the 
Credit provided to it by Bangladesh Bank; and 
 
(aa) 
“Taka” or “Tk” means the currency of the Borrower.  
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred seventy two million three hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 172,300,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:  
(i) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by Bangladesh 
Bank on account of withdrawals made by a Beneficiary under a Subloan, to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Investment Project under Part A of 
the Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and 
(ii) expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Taka a special deposit account (MOF Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 2009, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
Page  7
-
5
-
5
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each  
June 1 and December 1, commencing December 1, 2014 and ending June 1, 2044. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 1, 2024, shall be one percent 
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) 
of such principal amount.  
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
Page  8
-
6
-
6
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall carry out 
Parts B, C, D, E and F of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial and telecommunications practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for Parts B, C, D, E and F of the Project; and (ii) without any limitation or restriction 
upon any of its other obligations under this Development Credit Agreement, shall cause 
Bangladesh Bank to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement 
all the obligations of Bangladesh Bank therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken 
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable Bangladesh Bank to perform such obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.  
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out Parts B, C, D, E and F of the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall make available to Bangladesh Bank the proceeds of 
the Credit allocated from time to time to the Category 5, under an Administrative 
Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and Bangladesh Bank under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
7
(d) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Administrative 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association 
and to accomplish the purposes of Part A of the Project, and, except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Administrative Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of Parts B, C, D, E and F of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the Project 
shall be carried out by Bangladesh Bank pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.03 of the 
Project Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to Parts B, C, D, E 
and F of the Project.  
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements) for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to 
by the Association), in accordance with consistently applied 
Page  10
-
8
-
8
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
 
Section 4.02.  (a) The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
Page  11
-
9
-
9
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
Bangladesh Bank shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement. 
 
(c) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Bangladesh Bank will be able to perform its obligations under 
the Project Agreement. 
 
(d) 
The DFID Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 
September 1, 2004, or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, 
that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement. 
 
(e) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the 
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the agreement providing therefor; or 
Page  12
-
10
-
10
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination is not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified: 
 
(a) 
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and  
 
(b) 
the event specified in paragraph (e)(i) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (e)(ii) of that Section. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely that the Administrative Agreement 
has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and Bangladesh Bank. 
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
 
(a) 
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
Bangladesh Bank and is legally binding upon Bangladesh Bank in accordance with its 
terms; and 
 
(b) 
the Administrative Agreement has been duly authorized by the Borrower 
and Bangladesh Bank and is legally binding upon the Borrower and Bangladesh Bank in 
accordance with its terms.
 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  13
-
11
-
11
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint Secretary, 
or Deputy Secretary or Senior Assistant Secretary or Assistant Secretary or Joint Chief, 
or Deputy Chief or Senior Assistant Chief or Assistant Chief of the Economic Relations 
Division of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Economic Relations Division 
Ministry of Finance 
Government of the People’s Republic 
 
of
Bangladesh 
Sher-e-Bangla Nagar 
Dhaka, Bangladesh 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
BAHIRSAMPAD 
 
642226 SETU BJ 
880-28113088 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  14
-
12
-
12
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Dhaka, Peop
le’s Republic of Bangladesh, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
 
By /s/ Mirza Tasadduq Hussain Beg 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Christine Wallich 
Country Director 
Bangladesh 
 
Page  15
-
13
-
13
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works  
14, 640,000 
 
80%  
 
(2) 
Goods 
5,590,000 
  100% of foreign 
 
expenditures; 
 
100%
of
local 
 
expenditures (ex- 
 
factory costs); 
 
and 80% local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items 
 
procured locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services, 
16,750,000 
  80% 
 including 
training 
 
(4) 
VRS Payments 
111,633,000 
  100% until 
 
September 1, 2004, 
 
70%
until 
 
December 31, 2007; 
 
and 0% thereafter 
 
(5) 
Subloans 
6,210,000 
  100% 
 
(6) 
Operating Costs 
250,000 
  80% 
 
(7) Unallocated 
17,230,000 
 
__________ 
 
TOTAL 172,300,000 
 
==========  
 
Page  16
-
14
-
14
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a)  
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower, for goods and services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b)  
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods and services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
 
(c) 
the term “VRS payments” means all payments made by the Borrower to 
the employees of SOEs separated under terms and conditions, and a plan acceptable to 
the Association; and 
 
(d) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the costs incurred by the PCU on 
account of office supplies, utilities and consumables and equipment maintenance. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 48,250,000, may be made in respect of Category 4 on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 1, 2003; (b) payments 
made on account of VRS payments under Category 4, unless the Borrower has furnished 
to the Association, evidence that the payments have been made in accordance with the 
terms and conditions agreed with the Association; and (c) payments made on account of 
Subloans under Category 5, unless the Subloans have been made in accordance with the 
terms and conditions agreed with the Association.  
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than $500,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) for services of individual consultants costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract; (d) for services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; and  (e) Operating Costs, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  17
-
15
-
15
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to trigger employment generation through 
private sector enterprise growth and modernization of the banking system; and (b) to 
promote urgently needed reforms within the SOEs and the NCBs. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Enterprise Growth
1. 
Provision of technical advisory services and logistical support to Bangladesh 
Bank, and other banking and financial institutions in developing markets to ensure 
sufficient funding flows to viable enterprise activities.  
 
2. 
Establishment of a credit line for Investment Projects to be developed by small 
scale enterprises and financial institutions fulfilling predetermined criteria, and financing 
of subloans therefor.   
 
3. 
Financing of a series of activities for the further strengthening of business 
development services to the under-served SMEs.  
 
4. 
Provision of technical advisory services to reducing administrative overhead 
costs related to SME lending and to make these activities more sustainable, including 
work with a select group of SME lenders to utilize ICT more effectively to reduce these 
costs. 
 
5. 
Provision of technical advisory services for the establishment of supply chain 
linkages between small and large scale firms to further develop the former class of 
business enterprises. 
 
6. 
Provision of technical advisory services to targeted geographical areas for 
expected SME growth, to help offset impact of closure of some of the loss making SOEs 
in those areas.    
 
Part B
:
Refurbishment of Assets 
Provision of technical advisory services and logistical assistance to develop plans 
for alternative use of the facilities, and carrying out of civil works related to renovation, 
up-gradation, rehabilitation, and dismantling of obsolete equipment to make them 
attractive for possible private sector investment, including: (a) demolishing of the 
Chittagong Steel Mills along with resolution of all environmental issues at the site, in 
Page  18
-
16
-
16
preparation for its conversion into an export processing zone; (b) conversion of the 
Adamjee Jute Mills into an industrial park, along with resolution of all environmental 
issues at the site; (c) demolishing of existing facilities at the Chittagong Chemical 
Complex site in preparation for its conversion into industrial park, by MOI or the private 
sector; (d) demolishing of existing facilities at the Khulna Newsprint Mills site in 
preparation for its conversion into industrial park, by MOI or the private sector, for SME 
use; and (e) refurbishing of any other enterprises identified by the Borrower.   
 
Part C
:
Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Support for investment promotion, provision of technical advisory services and 
logistical assistance to BEPZA, including: (a) organization of investment promotion 
seminars for prospective investors of different countries through arrangement of 
seminars, workshop and meeting with the investors through different government and 
non-governmental agencies and trade bodies; (b) training and familiarization tours for the 
senior officials of BEPZA to other EPZs/FTZs/SEZs of other countries; (c) ICT program 
to develop integrated management information system in BEPZA to provide faster 
services to the existing and prospective investors and other stakeholders in the process; 
and (d) employment of counselors to facilitate and upgrade a sound labor management 
relationship in the EPZs of BEPZA.  
 
2. 
Provision of equipment, technical advisory services and logistical assistance to 
BOI: (a) in the organization of a comprehensive and systematic training on computer 
literacy, investment functions and procedures, including the development of specific 
training modules to be imparted on-the-job and off-the-job, and executive development 
programs; (b) in the physical infrastructure for business process automation, through 
LAN Setup including a server, personal computers, LAN printers and other equipment 
and specialized database software development; and (c) cosponsoring selected 
promotional programs such as publication of Investment Handbook, Sector Guides and 
Newsletter, investment seminars, symposia and conferences and carrying out of policy 
research, sectoral studies and implementation and monitoring surveys.  
 
3. 
Provision of equipment and facilities, technical advisory services and logistical 
assistance to the Privatization Commission to enhance its capacity, particularly in the 
areas of asset valuation, appraisal, monitoring and evaluation of SOEs planned for 
privatization, including: (a) developing specific training modules; (b) funding executive 
development programs; (c) providing training on automation applications; (d) organizing 
functional training workshops; (e) provision of computer hardware and software such as 
LAN, personal computers, and specialized software development; (f) publication of 
investment handbook, sector guides and newsletters; and (g) organizing investment 
seminars, symposia and conferences.  
 
4. 
Provision of technical advisory services and equipment for BSCIC, in a number 
of areas relevant for the carrying out of the Project. 
 
Page  19
-
17
-
17
5. Provision 
of 
technical
 advisory services to the Borrower’s relevant agencies to 
draw up a set of rules and procedures on the winding up of SOEs and to design a flexible 
and transparent system for disposing of assets efficiently.   
 
Part D
:
Support to Voluntary Retirement Schemes
Provision of voluntary retirement packages to the staff of about 95 SOEs slated 
for liquidation, privatization or closure.    
 
Part E
:
Banking Reform
Provision of: (a) technical advisory services, logistical support, office equipment 
and running expenses of the revamped Joint MOF/Bangladesh Bank Working Group on 
NCBs to assist the Borrower in formulating the resolution strategy for the NCBs; and  
(b) all relevant technical advisory services to facilitate the privatization of Rupali Bank, 
provision of services of an external management team at Agrani Bank to implement the 
resolution plan, and provision of services of management experts at Sonali Bank and 
Janata Bank to implement their resolution plans and to provide management support.   
 
Part F
:
Public Awareness, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Tracking
1. 
Provision of equipment, technical advisory services and logistical assistance for 
awareness raising, measurement and evaluation of the reform process, and various 
tracking envisaged under the Project. 
 
2. 
Provision of equipment, technical advisory services and logistical assistance for 
the development of an improved information campaign to inform the public of the 
objectives, strategy, process, and positive impact of privatization.  
 
3. 
Provision of equipment, technical advisory services and logistical assistance to 
carry out public outreach campaigns, and monitoring and evaluation of the reform agenda 
supported by this Project.  
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 2009. 
Page  20
-
18
-
18
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and 
works to be financed out of the proceeds of this Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of this Section I. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
All goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more per contract and 
works estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more per contract, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and  
January 1999 (the Guidelines), and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.  
 
(b) 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
All contracts for works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, and all contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under National Competitive Bidding procedure in accordance 
with the Borrower’s Procurement Regulations. 
Page  21
-
19
-
19
2. National 
Shopping 
All contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under National Shopping procedure in accordance with the 
Borrower’s Procurement Regulations. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
All contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $2,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under Direct Contracting procedure in accordance with the Borrower’s 
Procurement Regulations.  
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, a procurement plan 
for goods and works, which shall include contract cost estimates, contract packaging, and 
applicable procurement procedures, shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Such plan shall be updated at least every 12 months during execution of the 
Project always covering the next 18 months, and each such updating shall be furnished to 
the Association for its review and approval. Procurement of all goods and works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for works and goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $500,000 or more each, and each first contract for goods and works, 
regardless of value, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
Association may, at its own discretion, carry out post review/procurement audit of any 
contract awarded in accordance with this Section. The Borrower shall carry out annual 
procurement review of such contracts by independent consultant in accordance with the 
provision of the Borrower’s Procurement Regulations.  
 
Page  22
-
20
-
20
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Quality- and Cost- Based Selection (QCBS)/Fixed Budget Selection (FBS) 
Services through firms estimated to cost less than $200,000 per contract may be 
procured following quality- and cost-based selection or selection under a fixed budget 
method, in accordance with the Borrower’s Procurement Regulations. All contracts 
costing $200,000 or more, but less than $500,000 shall follow the QCBS or FBS method 
in accordance with the Consultant Guidelines.   
 
2. 
Fixed Budget Selection (FBS) or Least Cost Selection (LCS)
Services through firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract may be 
procured following FBS or LCS method, in accordance with the Borrower’s Procurement 
Regulations. 
 
3. 
Single-Source Selection (SSS)
Specific consultants’ services through firms, estimated to cost less than $75,000 
per contract, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured following SSS 
method in accordance with the Borrower’s Procurement Regulations. 
 
Page  23
-
21
-
21
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks, estimated to cost $50,000 and more, 
that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. All other individual consultants may be 
selected following Borrower’s Procurement Regulations. 
 
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, contract packaging, 
and applicable selection procedures, shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines. Such plan shall be updated at least every 12 months during the 
execution of the Project always covering the next 18 months period, and each such 
updating shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as 
updated from time to time) as shall have been approved by the Association. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, 
experience terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. The provisions of  
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such 
contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
Association may, at its own discretion, carry out post review of any contract awarded in 
accordance with this Section. The Borrower shall carry out procurement review of such 
contracts by independent consultant in accordance with the provision of Borrower’s 
Procurement Regulations.  
Page  24
-
22
-
22
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
 
1.  
The Borrower shall carry out Parts B, D, E and F of the Project through MOF, 
and Part C of the Project through the PMO. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall establish a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in the Finance 
Division of the MOF to guide, supervise, coordinate and monitor all major activities 
under the Project. The overall Project shall be executed and managed by the Finance 
Division of the MOF, with the Additional Secretary of the Finance Division as the 
Project Coordinator. The specific technical assistance support for the PC, BOI, and 
BEPZA will be executed by those agencies, with the involvement of the MOF, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Jute, the Borrower’s Ministry of Textiles, the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Industry, the Privatization Commission, BOI and BEPZA. 
 
3. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of Parts B, C, D, E and F of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2006, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of Parts B, C, D, E and F of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by February 28, 2007, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Parts B, C, D, 
E
and F of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter. 
Page  25
-
23
-
23
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means all Categories set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of MOF Special Account; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of 
 
Tk 944,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the MOF 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule.   
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
Page  26
-
24
-
24
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the eligible Categories, and in the equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or  
Page  27
-
25
-
25
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  28
-
26
-
26
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
For the purpose of the monitoring of the Project, the Borrower shall use the 
following indicators: 
 
1. 
About 1,500 additional small enterprises receive financing from participating 
financial institutions/banks. 
 
2. 
Chittagong Steel Mills (CSM) handed over to BEPZA in Year 1 and refurbished 
and converted to an EPZ by the end of Year 3.  
 
3. 
Adamjee Jute Mills premises converted to an industrial park by the end of  
Year 4;  
 
4. 
Khulna Newsprint Mill and the Chittagong Chemical Complex refurbished and 
converted to industrial park by the end of Year 5.  
 
5. 
About 80,000 workers retired with a VRS package (of which 45,000 workers 
financed under the Project) by the end of Year 5.  
 
6. 
SOE losses for the 95 manufacturing SOEs reduced on average by 10% annually. 
 
7. 
Around 20 percent of workers retrained or counseled obtain alternative 
employment within 12 months and a further 20 percent within 18 months 
–
after 
receiving retraining/counseling services. 
 
8. 
PC privatizes/liquidates an average of 10 SOEs per year over the life of the 
Project. 
 
9. 
BOI and BEPZA facilitate US$40 million per annum additional FDI.   
 
10. 
A new external management team hired by mid-2004, to manage Agrani Bank.  
 
11. 
Management experts for key positions in place at Sonali Bank and Janata Bank 
by end-2004. 
 
12. 
Rupali Bank brought to the point of divestment by end-2004. 
 
13. 
Agrani Bank corporatized and by end-2005 brought to the point of divestment 
where it will hold out promise for potential strategic partner to bid for substantial 
shareholding with management control. 
Page  29
-
27
-
27
14. 
Janata Bank corporatized and by end-2006 brought to the point of divestment 
where it will hold out promise for potential strategic partner to bid for substantial 
shareholding with management control. 
 
15. 
Sonali Bank corporatized and brought to the point where a minority shareholding 
can be divested over the medium term. 
 
16. 
Newspapers and media report fairly and unbiasedly about the SOEs and NCB 
reforms in Bangladesh. 
 
