Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22889
IM)?LEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37640)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$230 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
PO'WER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 8, 2002
Energy Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective FY01 (average for fiscal year))
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs.)
Rs 1,000,000 = US$ 17,152.66
US$ 1.00 = Rs 58.3
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                  -      Asian Development Bank
CIDA                 -      Canadian International Development Agency
DISCOs               -      Distribution Companies
EHV                  -      Extra High Voltage
EMU                  -      Environmental Management Unit
ERR                  -      Economic Rate of Return
FESCO                -      Faisalabad Electric Supply Company
GENCOs               -      Generation Companies
GOP                  -      Government of Pakistan
IFC                  -      International Finance Corporation
KESC                 -      Karachi Electric Supply Corporation
NEPRA                -      National Electric Power Regulatory Authority
NTDC                 -      National Transmission and Dispatch Company
PEPCO                -      Pakistan Electric Power Company
STG                  -      Secondary Transmission and Grid
WAPDA                -      Water and Power Development Authority
Vice President:  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:   John Wall
Sector Director:  Vincent Gouarne
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Tjaarda P. Storm van Leeuwen/Rashid Aziz



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONT'ENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       I
2. Principal Performance 'Ratings                                                     I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               5
5. Major Factors Affectinly Implementation and Outcome                               13
6. Sustainability                                                                    17
7. Bank and Borrower Perfonnance                                                     19
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  25
9. Partner Comments                                                                 28
10. Additional Information                                                          34
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 40
Annex 2. Project Costs arid Financing                                               42
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                44
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 45
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 46
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   47
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               48
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their officia:l duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Power Sector Development Project
in Pakistan, for which Ln. 3764-]'AK in the amount of US$230 million was approved on June 23,
1994, and declared effective on April 11, 1995. The Loan was closed on March 31, 2001.
The ICR war prepared by Messrs. Rashid Aziz, Senior Energy Specialist, and Waqar Haider,
Senior Private Sector Development Specialist, Energy and Infrastructure Sector Unit, South Asia
Region. It was reviewed by, inter alia, Mmes./Messrs. Penelope J. Brook, Sector Manager
(Energy), Abid Hasan, Operations Advisor, Tjaarda P. Storm van Leeuwen, Lead Financial
Analyst, J. Fitzsimon (SARFM) and K. Casey (SARPS). The ICR is based on the findings of the
Implementation Completion Mission of March 2001, documentation in project files, and
documentation provided by the Borrower and the executing agencies. The Borrower and
executing agencies contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing their own evaluations
on the Project, as well as by commenting on the draft ICR.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization






Project ID: P010458                                      Project Name: POWER SECT. DEV. PRO
Team Leader: Rashid Aziz                                 TL Unit: SASEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: May 8, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: POWER SECT. DEV. PRO                          LIC/TFNumber: CPL-37640
Country/Department: PAKISTAN                                           Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: PD - Distribution & Transmission; PY - Other
Power & Energy Conversion
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   02/28/1991                            Effective: 01/12/1995         04/11/1995
Appraisal:  07/15/1992                               MTR: 06/30/1996           05/31/1997
Approval:  06/23/1994                             Closing: 06/30/1999          03/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  GOP/WAPDA & GOP
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishiinizu                         D. Joseph Wood
Country Manager:     John Wall                                Paul Isenman
Sector Manager:      Penelope J. EBrook                       Per Ljung
Team Leader at ICR:  Tjaarda P. Storm van Leeuwen
ICR Primary Author:  Rashid Aziz; Waqar Haider
2. Principal Performance Ratirigs
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=Bigh, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1  The objectives of the Pro,ject were to:
(a)    Set the stage for a gradual and orderly restructuring and privatization of the power sector
in general, and the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) in particular, through the



implementation of a comprehensive Strategic Plan for Restructuring and Privatization of the
Pakistan Power Sector; (b) Support WAPDA's investment program to minimize the country's
chronic shortage of electricity at least-cost while further enhancing demand-side management
measures, and facilitating the privatization process; (c) Enhance resource mobilization and the
operational efficiency, autonomy and accountability of the power sector entities; and (d)
Strengthen the environmental assessment and mitigation capabilities of WAPDA.
3.1.2 The Strategic Plan, which was approved in 1992, envisaged: (a)
Reorganization/corporatization of WAPDA into a holding company, with decentralized power
generation, transmission and distribution subsidiaries operating as discrete autonomous profit
centers; (b) Establishment of a naitional regulatory authority to set standards and regulate a
gradually privately-operated power sector; (c) Adoption of a pricing policy which would provide
the incentives needed to support the restructuring and privatization objectives; (d) Development
of a manpower transition plan to support the privatization of the power sector; and (e) Initial
offering for sale to the private sector of parts of WAPDA's assets. The Strategic Plan was to be
implemented in a number of stages, with the first phase (involving the corporatization of
WAPDA, establishing the regulatory framework, and initial privatization of part of WAPDA's
assets) to be completed over a four year period--FY95-98.
3.1.3 The objectives of the project were agreed between the Government of Pakistan (GOP)
and the Bank in the context of GOP's own strategy and plans to restructure (and ultimately
privatize) the power sector. These objectives therefore reflected GOP's full ownership and
commitment to the reform program. Project objectives were realistic in terms of the coverage of
issues involved in restructuring and privatizing the power sector. However, in light of the
experience during implementation, it would be fair to say that the complexity of the
corporatization process was underestimated at the preparation/appraisal stage. The planned
phasing of reforms was thus very optimistic, and the expectations regarding the time required for
completing all components of the program were not realistic. Secondly, while GOP was
committed to reforms, the assistance that was required from WAPDA staff and management was
underestimated. Finally, some of the risks involved in implementing the reforms (e.g. due to a
deterioration in operational and financial performance) were not fully recognized. A number of
scenarios which incorporated the impacts of all downside risks, and a (contingent) set of actions
to address these consequences should have been identified at the preparation/appraisal stage, and
adopted immediately -- once these downside risks (e.g. slowdown in electricity sales and
deterioration in WAPDA's financial performance) started materializing.
3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1  Actions on some of the components of the reform program were initiated by GOP and
WAPDA during FY95-98 -- e.g. the regulatory framework was established and the Act was
approved by Parliament in late 1997, and the privatization of one thermal power station was
completed in mid-1996. However, there were delays in starting work on a number of key
components including the selection of consultants for the corporatization of WAPDA, improving
WAPDA's efficiency and operational and financial performance, etc. Through a Policy Statement
on the Power Sector Reform Program issued in November 1998, and appointment of new
management in WAPDA, GOP reiterated its commitment to the reform program, re-defined the
key objectives and features, strengthened the implementation arrangements for management and
- 2 -



oversight, and established specific milestones for completing the restructuring of WAPDA. In
particular, the Policy Statement provided that:
i)     WAPDA's power functions would be separated from WAPDA and its 11
thermal generation units, transmission assets, and 8 Area Electricity Boards would be
converted into 12 limited cornpanies, of which 8 would be distribution companies, 3 would be
generation companies, and there would be a National Grid Company. All of WAPDA's assets,
except the National Grid Corapany, about which a decision will be made later, will be
privatized as soon as feasible. The Ministry of Water and Power will prepare an amendment to
the WAPDA Act, to enable this program to be fully implemented.
ii)   The Government has set up a Policy Committee on the Restructuring of
WAPDA's Power Wing, which has been assigned full power to take all decisions that may be
required, monitor progress on a regular basis, and to ensure that it is fully implemented. The
following is the composition of this Committee:-
1)    Minister for Water & Power     -     Chairman
2)    Chairman PEPCO                 -      Vice-Chairman
3)    Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission
4)    Secretary Finance
5)    Secretary Water & Power
6)    Secretary Law & Justice
7)    Secretary Privatization Commission
8)    Chairman WAPDA.
iii)   A new mzaagement team is being appointed in WAPDA, which will have
the specific responsibility to support the reform program; the management team will be held
accountable for implementing the reforms according to the timetable approved by the
Govermment. In particular, this management team would implement the separation of
WAPDA's Power Wing functions from the Water Wing, and once this separation is
completed, the team will be in charge of only the Water Wing.
iv)    Managing the reform program requires knowledge and skills which are not
available in WAPDA. It has, therefore, been decided that the restructuring and
corporatisation program would be managed by specialist professionals. A management
company, Pakistan Electric IPower Company (PEPCO), has been set up, to take over and
manage the reform of WAPDA's power functions and to prepare it for privatization. "
3.2.2 Therefore while the overall objectives of the reform program (and of the Project) were
largely retained, the implementalion arrangements were strengthened and the responsibilities for
executing various components of the program were explicitly defined. The reform program was
thus put back on track and the P roject was re-directed towards supporting the Government in
achieving the key objectives and milestones which were established in the 1998 Policy Statement.
The concept of a holding compajny was discontinued, and the thermal generation, transmission
and distribution functions of W.APDA were to be taken over by a number of independent
- 3-



companies, while (residual) WAPDA was to retain the management and operation of the
hydropower generation facilities as well as the development of the country's water and
hydropower resources. A high powered committee was set up to take key policy decisions to
facilitate the restructuring and reform program, and a new management tearn was inducted in
WAPDA and assigned the mandate to complete the restructuring of WAPDA according to the
timetable approved by GOP, and to improve WAPDA's operational and financial performance. In
addition, the Pakistan Electric Power Company (PEPCO) was established to provide professional
expertise and to support and manage the restructuring of WAPDA. These actions were taken
with a view to realigning the interests of the key stakeholders (including WAPDA's management
and staff) and to mobilize their support for the restructuring and reform program.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1 The Project included the following components:
Restructuring and Privatization ComDonent: Estimated cost US$20.2 million
This component supported: (i) Restructuring and corporatization of WAPDA into a holding
company with decentralized power generation, transmission, and distribution subsidiaries
operating as discrete autonomous profit centers. (ii) Establishment of a National Electric Power
Regulatory Authority (NEPRA) to set standards and regulate a largely privately operated power
sector. (iii) Development of a pricing policy which would provide the incentives needed to
support the Project's privatization objectives. (iv) Development of a labor transition program that
would allow the privatization of the power sector to occur in a manner that provides adequate
management flexibility to the private sector while addressing the concerns of labor. (v) Initial
offering for sale to the private sector of parts of WAPDA's assets.
Investment Component: Estimated cost US$4470 million
This component supported the implementation of a four-year time-slice (FY95-98) of WAPDA's
investment program, while improving the reliability of the system in order to make it more
efficient and more attractive to private investors.
Technical Assistance ComDonent: Estimated cost US$6.8 million
This component covered consulting services and training for the above two components, as well
as for strengthening WAPDA's environmental management capability.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1 The revised costs of the Project by component are:
Restructuring and Privatization Component: US$15 million.
Investment Component:                US$2,861 million.
Technical Assistance Component:      US$5 million.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1  Project preparation was initiated in 1991-92 following the establishment of a separate
-4 -



Privatization Commission for the Power Sector (subsequently merged with the Privatization
Commission, which until that time had been handling mainly the privatization of state-owned
industrial units and commercial banks), and the preparation of the Strategic Plan. The Project
was appraised during June-July 1992. The main prior actions for further processing of the Project
which were agreed at appraisal were the amendment of the WAPDA Act (to enable the
restructuring and privatization of the entity), and the design of the regulatory framnework.
Considerable effort and time were required (particularly on the part of GOP, but also the Bank) to
develop a consensus on the progiram, and to prepare the framework and legislation for
establishing the regulatory agency. Further processing of the Project was thus delayed by about
two years, and the Project was negotiated and presented to the Board in June 1994 following
approval of the amendment to the WAPDA Act by Parliament in April 1994, and GOP's approval
of the design of the regulatory framework in May-June 1994.
3.5.2 Work on preparing the physical components was initiated concurrently, and the conditions
for negotiation agreed at appraisal included preparation and approval by the Government of the
PC-Is for to the main physical components, release of bidding documents for contracts amounting
to about 20 percent of the value of the proposed loan, and submission by WAPDA of its annual
investment and financing plan to the Bank. During preparation and pre-appraisal, the Bank also
fielded specific missions and discussed with WAPDA the environmental and social aspects of the
proposed investment program, including specific reviews of the Muzaffargarh power station
(then under construction), and a new power station which WAPDA planned to construct at
Sahiwal. Based on these reviews, agreement was reached on the environmental components of
the Project, which involved establishing and strengthening of the Environmental Management
Unit (EMU) of the Power Wing, developing and updating environmental and social procedures
and manuals for the EM-U and field staff, and assisting WAPDA in carrying out environmental
assessments of its existing and under construction facilities.
3.5.3 While the Bank had not adopted the procedures for formal Quality at Entry reviews by
that time, the above-mentioned agreements and actions illustrate the emphasis placed by the
Government and the Bank on (a) the need to ensure full ownership and support for the reforms
prior to their actual implementation, (b) establishing the required legal and institutional framework
(including the amendment to the WAPDA Act and design of the regulatory framework), and (c)
to complete a number of procurement actions in advance. The ICR mission therefore rated the
quality at entry of this Project as "Satisfactory", despite the underestimation of the complexity of
the reform process.
4. Achievement of Objective a]nd Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1 The major objectives of the Project-to support the Strategic Plan for restructuring the
power sector and preparing it for privatization, undertake investments for eliminating the chronic
shortfall in electricity supply, and strengthen operational and financial performance and resource
mobilization capacity in WAPDA - have been largely achieved, though there have been delays of
about three years (relative to the dates envisaged during appraisal) in completing the process.
The objective of strengthening environmental management capacity in WAPDA was not achieved,
as the selection of consultants to assist WAPDA in carrying out this task was not completed by
-5 -



the Closing Date. This was partly due to the sanctions imposed after May 1998 which resulted in,
inter alia, the suspension of work on a proposed Energy Management and Environment Project.
Under that project, a comprehensive program for developing and strengthening WAPDA's
environmental management capacity was to be implemented with support from the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA). However, under the Ghazi Barotha Hydropower
Project (Loan 3965-PAK), WAPDA's environmental management practices improved
considerably.
4.1.2 A loan of US$230 million was provided to GOP, of which US$12 million was retained by
GOP for the components implemented by GOP (including NEPRA and the Privatization
Commission) directly, and US$218 million was on-lent to WAPDA for the investment and
technical assistance components, and for the portion of the restructuring and privatization
component implemented by WAPDA (including the corporatization program). The original
Closing Date of the Loan of June 30, 1999, was extended twice (for a total of 21 months) to
March 31, 2001. At the request of GOP US$20 million was cancelled from the Loan in June
2000, since this amount was not expected to be utilized by WAPDA before the Closing Date.
4.1.3 The first extension was largely a reflection of the time required by the new management
team for re-launching the reform program -- including management changes in the entities,
addressing the governance and corruption issues, and establishing a clear vision and set of
priorities for the unbundling of WAPDA. It also confirmed that the Bank wanted to remain
involved with the reform process. A "hands-off' approach -- by not extending the Closing Date at
that time -- would have been very counter-productive, since it would not only have risked
alienating the main counterparts, but could also have been taken as an indication of inflexibility in
the Bank's approach to the reform process. The second extension was largely to allow additional
time for completing some of the contracts (including a number of consulting assignments by
WAPDA/PEPCO) which had been awarded prior to the Closing Date. In essence, both the
extensions were a confirmation of the strategic nature of the relationship and dialogue between
GOP and the Bank, and that the Bank was interested in supporting the reform process to its
conclusion.
4.1.4 As discussed in the following paragraphs, the main elements of the Strategic Plan,
including the corporatization of WAPDA, establishment of the regulatory framework, eliminating
shortages in electricity generating capacity, improving operational/fmancial performance and
enhancing resource generation capacity, are targeted to be completed by end-December 2002.
Under the Strategic Plan the corporatization and unbundling of WAPDA was to be completed as
a preparation for the privatization of those assets. However, in line with its objectives of
privatizing selected assets on a fast-track basis, GOP privatized the Kot Addu Power Station in
1996, and preparatory work for the privatization of the Faisalabad Area Board/Disco was
initiated. GOP is currently working on privatizing the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation
(KESC), through a program supported by the Asian Development Bank (ADB). The original
target date for completing the corporatization of WAPDA agreed under this Loan of December
31, 1997 was formally amended to December 31, 1998 under the Ghazi Barotha Hydropower
Project (Loan 3965-PAK, approved by the Board in December 1995). The process of
corporatization proved to be more complex than originally envisaged, and it is now expected that
- 6 -



the corporatization of the Discos would be completed by about end-April 2002, and of the
Gencos and NTDC by end-December 2002.
4.1.5 Section 10 below and Annex 1 provide a more detailed discussion (along with some
specific examples) of specific outputs and outcomes which were supported by the Project, and the
extent to which these outputs and outcomes were achieved by the Closing Date.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Restructuring and Privatizaticin Component:
4.2.1 Corporatization of WAPDA: WAPDA's thermal generation, transmission, and distribution
functions have been reorganized into 12 companies (3 generation companies (GENCOs), 8
distribution companies (DISCOs), and one transmission and dispatch entity-the National
Transmission and Dispatch Company (NTDC)). The Certificates for Incorporation and for
Commencement of Business by ihe DISCOs were issued by the Registrar of Companies (under
the 1984 Companies' Ordinance) in June 1998, and for NTDC and the GENCOs in March 1999.
WAPDA's assets and liabilities would be transferred to the respective companies, and the
companies' operations are governed by commercial (long term) energy supply agreements
between the GENCOs and NTDC, and NTDC and the DISCOs, for the generation and bulk
supply of electricity. All DISCOs and GENCOs have submitted applications to the regulatory
agency for the issuance of licenses. A number of legal formalities are still being completed,
including the formal issuance of licenses. These relate to, inter alia, the finalization and approval
of transfer prices, formal transfer of assets and liabilities (for which some lenders, including the
Bank, have not yet provided their consent) from WAPDA to the entities, and the redeployment of
WAPDA staff as staff of the respective entities. The final step under the corporatization program,
the effectiveness of the Operations and Development Agreements, is now expected to be
completed by April 2002 for the DISCOs and by end-December 2002 for the GENCOs, NTDC
and WAPDA.
4.2.2 Meanwhile, the corporate entities have been operating as independent companies each
with their own Board of Directors (including representatives from the private sector) and
management. A recent step to enhance the operational autonomy of the entities is the election of
new chairmen of the boards of directors for the entities from the private sector, following the
resignation of the Chairnan, WA-PDA, from the position of Chairman of the Board for all entities
except NTDC and PEPCO. The companies' income statements are based on the respective
electricity supply agreements, and reflect actual electricity sales/purchases during the year.
Independent financial statements and accounts are prepared for each company (on the basis of
assets and liabilities which-pending their formal transfer to the entities, (see para 4.2. l)-are
assigned by WAPDA to each entity), and for FY99 and FY00 were audited by independent
ptivate auditors, in accordance with the requirements of the Companies' Ordinance. WAPDA's
shares in the entities have been transferred in the name of the President of Pakistan, in line with
the Government's policy decision to not create a new holding company. The transfer of WAPDA
staff (except for some staff in coimmon services and headquarters functions, which are provided
by WAPDA to the companies on a charge-back basis) to the entities has been completed and a
new contract form has been developed for the formal redeployment of the employees as the
entities' own staff. Studies to assess pension liabilities and other benefits of staff were completed
- 7-



during FY00 as inputs for the preparation of the financial statements and projections for each
entity. It is, however, recognized that full autonomy and the adoption of a truly commercial
culture in the entities would require the induction of management teams in the entities which are
committed to the reform process (including the adoption of competitive organizational structure
and management styles), and recognize and are willing to adapt the fundamental changes required
for maldng the entities responsive to the needs of the consumers.
4.2.3 Regulatory Framework: The National Electric Power Regulatory Authority (NEPRA)
was established under the Regulation of Generation, Transmission and Distribution of Electric
Power Act (the NEPRA Act) which was approved by Parliament in December 1997, and NEPRA
has been operational since that time. The Authority (comprising a chairman and four members) is
fully constituted, with the chairman and members appointed for a fixed term. NEPRA has, with
GOP's approval, notified some of its regulatory Rules and Standards (e.g. for tariff setting, licence
applications by the DISCOs), and conducted a number of reviews of tariff petitions filed by the
utilities. NEPRA was provided an endowment by GOP for covering its initial establishment and
staff costs. Future funding for NEPRA's operations is expected to be derived largely from license
and other fees/charges on the regulated entities, which would further promote its operational
autonomy and independence. The regulatory regime has therefore started to function with
considerable interest and involvement of the general public and consumers. Nevertheless, it also
needs to be recognized that regulatory risk remains relatively high, and investor perceptions of the
Pakistan power sector remain fairly cautious, in part because of the apparent lack of predictability
and stability in the regulatory regime. The planned move towards formula based tariff
approaches, as well as multi-year tariff determinations, which the Government has enunciated as
policy objectives to NEPRA, would help to partly alleviate these perceptions.
4.2.4 Pricing Reforms: Under the Act, NEPRA is responsible for setting tariffs for all regulated
activities (including consumer level tariffs for electricity supply), taking into account GOP's
economic and social policy objectives. The principles and objectives governing NEPRA's review
of tariff petitions filed by the utilities are set out in the Act and in the Tariff Rules. Recent
developments related to pricing policy include the issuance of guidelines by GOP to NEPRA on
the social and economic policy objectives which have to be pursued, and the adoption by NEPRA
of a formula based approach for passing the impact of variations in fuel prices to consumers
through quarterly adjustments in consumer tariffs. The tariff setting process is conducted in an
open and transparent manner, with hearings on each petition and options for interventions by
individuals, consumer groups, or other interested parties. NEPRA's determinations on all tariff
petitions are public documents and can be accessed by all interested parties. However, it is
recognized that the Government has at times intervened in the tariff setting process -- e.g. by
delaying the formal Notification of some of NEPRA's determinations under the Fuel Cost
Adjustment Formula.
4.2.5 Privatization: While the corporatization process is an essential preparatory step for the
privatization of individual assets or entities in accordance with its policy objectives, GOP had
initiated work on privatizing one thermal generating station and one area electricity board
(DISCO) during FY95. The Kot Addu Power Station, a 1,600 MW generating facility, was
privatized in June 1996 through the sale of 36 percent of its shares to an international power
-8 -



utility, and management of the plant has been transferred to the private owners. The International
Finance Corporation (IFC) was hired as financial advisors for the privatization of the Faisalabad
Area Electricity Board (which is now incorporated as the Faisalabad Electric Supply Company --
FESCO); however, that transaction has not progressed beyond initial due diligence by the
financial advisors, since a number of policy and institutional/regulatory issues were not adequately
addressed. These include manpower issues, transfer pricing, and various other issues identified
during the licensing process. More recently GOP has embarked on the privatization of KESC,
through a program supported by the Asian Development Bank (ADB). The privatization program
for FESCO has been re-initiatec[, and the contract with IFC has been re-activated.
4.2.6 Annex 1 provides further details regarding the completion of specific activities and
outputs/outcomes under the Restructuring and Privatization components of the Project.
Nevertheless, it needs to be higedighted that the achievements of the reform program will not be
sustainable without continued and strong commitment to the next stages of reforms by the
Government as well as management of the entities and WAPDA. Specifically, it will require a
fundamental change in the management structure for the power sector -- from a high degree of
centralization and vertical management structures towards one where commercial relationships,
customer orientation and satisfaction, and decentralization, will be the primary objectives of the
managers of the enterprises.
Investment ComDonent:
4.2.7 This component financed a time-slice (FY95-98) of WAPDA's investment program, which
included:
*   The completion of a number of thermal schemes already under construction, and the
start of work on the Ghazi Barotha Hydropower Project (a 1,450MW run of the river
hyhydel generation ficility) on the Indus River.
*   Construction of a number of 500 kV transmisison lines (about 1,960 kms) under the
Extra High Voltage IEHV) program, including the interconnection for the 1,292 MW
Hub Power plant to 'WAPDA's network.
* Upgrading of 220 kV Grid Stations at Rewat and Gakhar to 500 kV.
*   The Secondary Transmission and Grid (STG) stations program covering FY93-98,
involving the construction of about 5,500 kms of transmission lines at 220, 132 and 66
kV, and installation of 10, 156 MVA of transformer capacity.
*   A distribution development program, involving the extension of electricity supply to
new areas as well as rehabilitation and upgrading of the existing distribution network,
which would supporl inter alia, the provision of 1.9 million new consumer
connections.
4.2.8  US$218 million from the Bank's Loan was allocated to WAPDA to finance the 500 kV
Rewat Grid Station (US$41 million), construction costs for the third 500 kV Jamshoro-Guddu
-9-



line (US$13 million), part of the cost of the STG (US$120 million) and distribution development
programs (US$30 million), and technical assistance (US$14 million). These amounts were
adjusted over time (e.g. the third Jamshoro-Guddu line was dropped, as new generation capacity
was installed mid-country which reduced the need for power transmission from the south), in line
with the pace of implementation of the respective programs. The final allocation of the Loan
(including cancellation of US$20 million) is as follows: STG program - US$133.2 million; EHV
program (including Rewat Grid station) - US$33.7 million; distribution - US$24.5 million; and
technical assistance (mainly corporatization of WAPDA) - US$6.6 million. The bulk of the Loan
was therefore expected to be used for the STG and distribution programs. The specific activities
under these programs which were to be financed from the Loan included 83 grid stations (for
about 4,000 MVA of additional transformer capacity), 1,006 kms of transmission lines at 220,
132, and 66 kV under the STG program, extension and rehabilitation of about 1,000 kms of HT
lines, and about 2,500 proposals/work orders on LT lines under the distribution program.
4.2.9 The main investments which were completed during the implementation period of the
Loan are listed in Annex 1. (Following extension of the Closing Date, the period of the
investment program which was to be financed through the Loan was also extended to FY95-99.)
These included:
*   Completion of all the ongoing thermal generation schemes: Work on the Ghazi
Barotha Hydropower Project is well advanced, and the generation facilities are
expected to be commissioned between August 2002 and March 2003.
*   Extension of the Rewat Grid Station to 500 kV was completed by mid- 1997.
*   Under the STG program about 5,200 kms of transmission lines and about 4,250 MVA
of transformer capacity were added. While this is short of the targets that were
expected to be achieved by FY99, the main factor accounting for this shortfall has
been the delay in arranging full funding for the program, particularly foreign currency
support from donors/lenders. The time-frame for implementation of the full STG
progam has therefore been extended to FY02.
* The distribution program which was completed under the Project included 1, 108 kms
of HT lines and about 2,700 proposals/work orders on LT lines.
4.2.10 While all the investments which WAPDA was expected to complete during the period
were not implemented (extension of Gakhar Grid Station to 500 kV and the STG program are the
main shortfalls), in terms of outcomes, a significant objective of the program-the provision of
electricity to new consumers-was more than fully achieved. Specifically, as compared to the
target of 1.9 million new connections to be provided during FY95-99, WAPDA was able to
extend electricity supply to about 2.2 million new consumers (see Annex 1). This is particularly
notable in view of the financial crisis during FY97 and FY98, which led to a major curtailment of
WAPDA's investments during those years. Some qualitative indicators of the outcomes of the
project, e.g. power losses, system stability, and quality of supply, are presented in Section 10
(Table 5).
-10-



4.2.11 The long-term sustainability of the investments and assets financed under this Project
requires the adoption of up-to-date operations and maintenance procedures, as well as adequate
funding of O&M costs. The former is dependent upon the entities' managements being committed
to continually upgrading staff skills as well as O&M practices, while the recent improvement in
WAPDA's financial situation is &ikely to improve the prospects for adequate O&M funding.
WAPDA's and the entities' need for technical assistance to enhance staff skills on a regular basis
is, however, recognized.
Technical Assistance Component:
4.2.12 This component was utilized by both GOP and WAPDA. By GOP for financial advisory
services for privatization of the iKot Addu Power Station, studies on Tariff Policy and
Administration and preparation of the Manpower Transition Program, and for consultants,
experts, and some equipment and library material for NEPRA. WAPDA utilized this component
mainly for consultant services fcr preparing and implementing the corporatization program
(including follow up assignments for estimating pension liabilities, etc.), and for carrying out
studies on a number of technical and operational issues, e.g. preparation of Grid and Distribution
Codes, operating principles for the transmission system, the designs for upgrading power control
and dispatch facilities, and strengthening the planning capabilities of the DISCOs.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate' of return:
4.3.1 The computation of the ]_conomic Rate of Return (ERR) for the Project is presented in
Annex 3. These computations are based on the assumptions which were used for estimating the
ERR at appraisal. The ex-post E RR for the investment program is only 1.7 percent based on the
valuation of benefits through the average electricity tariff, and 6.6 percent when additional
benefits (in the form of consumers' surplus) are included in valuing the additional electricity sales
-the appraisal estimates were 11.6 percent and 32.4 percent, respectively. This ex-post ERR is
substantially lower than the appraisal estimate, as well as the likely opportunity cost of capital in
Pakistan.
4.3.2 The main reason for this sharp reduction in the returns from these investments is the
decline (and slower growth during the years when sales did not decline) in actual electricity sales
as compared to the appraisal estimate. Thus for example, at appraisal it was projected that
additional sales of electricity would reach about 24,200 GWh by FY00; by contrast, actual
additional sales of electricity (over the level achieved in FY94) were only 8,779 GWh -- a
reduction of close to 60 percent. The ERR computations also depend upon the time period which
is chosen for the analysis. The terminal year for computing the ERRs for this Project (FY00) was
a time when fuel prices were at their highest for the past 15 years, while the impact of more recent
increases in electricity sales (e.g. the levels achieved during FY00 and FY01) is not fully
accounted. Both of these tend to reduce the ERR. Thus for example, if fuel prices are adjusted
to be consistent with World Bank forecasts for oil prices during the FYOO-05 period, and a 6.5
percent increase in electricity sales is assumed for FY01, the ERR rises to 4.6 percent and 8.9
percent before and after allowing for the consumers' surplus.
4.3.3 A number of steps were taken by the Government and WAPDA, in response to the
shortfall in sales and revenues - including curtailment of the investment program during FYs97-99
- 1 1 -



to below one-half of the planned levels (see Table 1). Similarly, after 1998 the Government and
WAPDA took strong measures to improve operational and financial performance, control losses,
and increase revenues.
4.3.4 However, it is clear that the consumer tariff does not reflect the full cost of supply - and
tariff increases approved by the Government (prior to 1998, when NEPRA was not fully
operational) or NEPRA (in subsequent years) have not been adequate for ensuring full cost
recovery. More rigorous efforts to raise tariffs to the cost of supply would have helped to
mitigate partly the impact of lower sales growth, but were not considered. Also, most of the
efficiency improvements which were expected from the corporatization program were not
achieved until after 1998. The Government, WAPDA and the entities' managements should also
have focused at an earlier stage on locking in some of the efficiency gains which were to be
achieved - by accelerating the loss reduction campaigns, and by enhancing cost discipline,
commercial orientation, and managerial autonomy (and accountability for results) in the entities.
Finally, a number of scenarios of ERRs (including one or more scenarios that reflect all the
potential downside risks) should have been prepared by the Government/WAPDA and the Bank,
at the preparation/appraisal stage.
4.3.5 The above discussion highlights a number of factors which were not entirely within the
Government or executing agency's control, and which account for the low ERR (including the
choice of the base years). However, the inevitable conclusion is that the investments do not
appear to be justified on the basis of the actual returns achieved over the past 5-6 years.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
--- See Section 4.3 above ---
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1 Under the Project, WAPDA was transformed from a vertically integrated utility to a
number of independent companies engaged in power generation, transmission, and distribution or
sale of electricity, and operating under long term contracts for the generation and bulk
sale/purchase of electricity. Apart from the decentralization and delegation of operational
responsibilities, the unbundling would support functional specialization and enhance the
commercial orientation of the companies-with the ultimate objective of improving their
operational, technical and financial efficiency. In addition, a number of new institutions were set
up under this Project, the most notable being NEPRA. Support was provided for building
capacity in the Privatization Commission for undertaking selected transactions. The Project also
contributed towards strengthening GOP's role in policy formulation and implementation. In
addition, significant technical, legal, financial, and managerial expertise was provided to WAPDA
through PEPCO for addressing the complex issues involved in restructuring the utility.
4.5.2 The regulatory framework is by now largely functional, the chairman and members of
NEPRA have been appointed, and the key professional staff have been inducted. A number of
regulatory rules have been notified and the remaining rules and standards are being prepared. A
number of hearings on tariff and license applications have been held, determinations on the tariff
petitions have been issued, distribution licenses have been issued to 2 entities (the Islamabad and
Faisalabad Electricity Supply Companies) and the licensing process for the remaining entities is
- 12 -



now scheduled to be completed by end-2002. The adoption of a formal regulatory regime has
resulted in significant changes in the operating environment for the sector, e.g. through greater
transparency and public participation in the tariff setting process.
4.5.3 Nevertheless, it is recognized that the regulatory framework is not yet fully functional.
For example, the average (consumer level) tariff does not cover all of the entities' costs (i.e.
operational expenses - including power purchase and fuel costs, debt service, and funding for a
reasonable proportion of their investments), and recent tariff determinations by NEPRA do not
appear to have fully catered for these requirements. For the future, therefore, NEPRA will need
to focus more intensively on ascertaining the utilities' total resource requirements, and ensuring
that these are adequately covered through tariffs, as well as other sources (e.g. resources
generated through efficiency improvements, further reduction in losses, etc). There may also be a
need to amend the Tariff Rules and Standards, to provide greater predictability and stability in the
tariff setting process.
4.5.4 The restructuring of WA]PDA has been described in other sections of this report. While
the corporate entities are in principle autonomous, WAPDA's management still exercises
considerable oversight and control over their operations, and not all financial and operational
functions have been fully delegaled to the boards of directors and managements of these entities.
This is expected to be accomplished when the corporatization process is complete, and the
companies formally take over the generation, transmission or distribution businesses of WAPDA,
in line with the licenses issued by NEPRA.
4.5.5  The ICR mission therefore rates the achievement of institutional development objectives
as "Modest".
5. Major Factors Affecting Imlplementation and Outcome
S. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1 A number of factors that affected the timely implementation of some components, and
achievement of the objectives of the reform program, were not entirely within the Government's
or the implementing agency's control. The main constraint on the restructuring and privatization
component was the lack of familiarity and prior experience within GOP and WAPDA in
restructuring and unbundling a najor utility. Consequently, while many project preparation
activities were initiated in advance of the Bank's approval of the Loan (e.g. a number of bidding
documents were issued prior to negotiations, the Requests for Proposals (RFPs) for some key
studies-on Tariff Policy and Aclministration, and the Manpower Transition Program-were
prepared and issued by Board presentation), this momentum was not matched by parallel actions
on the corporatization of WAPDA, or in finalizing the legal basis and functions of the regulatory
agency. A fairly extensive dialog-ue between GOP and the Bank was required for agreeing on an
acceptable set of functions, responsibilities, and operations of the regulatory agency. In fact, the
Bank had to extend the target date for effectiveness of the Loan while this dialogue was being
completed. Similarly, the RFPs f or the assignment to design and implement the corporatization of
WAPDA was not finalized and issued until about 18 months after Board approval. The delay in
launching and completing this critical component of the restructuring program can also be
attributed to the resistance to change from within WAPDA, which was not entirely unexpected;
- 13 -



early anticipation of this problem, and focussed efforts to identify and address the concerns of
WAPDA staff and management could have achieved an earlier consensus and support for the
restructuring program.
5.1.2 A number of significant changes in the framework for the restructuring of WAPDA were
introduced by the November 1998 Power Policy, e.g. the establishment of independent companies
for generation, transmission and distribution (as opposed to subsidiaries operating as discrete
profit/cost centers), induction of new management in the entity, and provision of specialized skills
and expertise through PEPCO. These mid-course corrections could not be foreseen at the time
the project was launched, and these have had a favorable impact in terms of introducing a more
commercial orientation for the power sector, the pace of reforms in the initial years was
considerably slower than warranted by the target dates which had been agreed under this project.
5.1.3 The downturn in electricity sales (which had a major impact - i.e. a significant reduction -
on the returns from the investment component) was also not within the Government's or
implementing agency's control, since it reflected the slowdown in the economy (which was
observed in almost all the productive sectors) and reduction in overall economic growth in the
mid- to late-1990s.
5.1.4 It is, however, recognized that some of these constraints could have been anticipated, and
remedial measures could have been taken early on. For example, the lack of prior experience in
unbundling a large utility could have been partly overcome by acquiring the necessary expertize
through consultants, or by developing and upgrading in-house skills through training programs --
for which funding was available under the technical assistance component of the Loan. In that
context, the actions taken by the Government under the November 1998 Power Policy did
represent an effort to reinvigorate the reform progam, and to overcome some of the constraints in
institutional capacity.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1 Delays in the achievement of the main outcomes and objectives of the reform program can
also be attributed to the actions taken (or not taken) by GOP. The most important was the need
to maintain the financial viability and address managerial and governance issues in the power
sector entities. Specifically, GOP had in early 1994 announced a policy to attract private
investments for thermal power generation (the Policy Framework and Package of Incentives for
Private Sector Power Generation Projects in Pakistan, which was issued in March 1994). While
that Policy generated a strong response in terms of project proposals and investments in new
power generation capacity, its impact on WAPDA's finances was very adverse. Starting from
FY97, WAPDA had to make large payments on account of capacity and energy purchases from
the IPPs; this coincided with a downturn in the economy and a slowdown in the growth of
electricity demand; also the anticipated efficiency improvements in WAPDA (in terms of
reductions in losses, improved billing and collections, etc) were not achieved. These
developments had a doubly damaging impact on WAPDA's finances-its operating costs rose
substantially, while its revenues failed to keep pace with the cost pressures. Since NEPRA was
not yet operational, power tariffs were determined by GOP; therefore GOP was in a position to
cushion at least part of the impact by allowing some increases in power tariffs. However, no tariff
increase was allowed by GOP between end-1996 and March 1998. The resulting financial crisis in
- 14 -



WAPDA had impacts on not only other sectors (e.g. fuel suppliers, contractors, IPPs), as
WAPDA had to delay payments and start building up substantial arrears to those customers, it
also had the potential to undennine the Government's macroeconomic reform and stabilization
program, since WAPDA was also not able to meet its debt servicing liabilities to GOP. The IPP
program was also the subject cf allegations (by GOP) of corruption and other disputes between
WAPDA and several IPPs (details of these disputes and allegations are available in the ICRs for
the Private Sector Energy Devzlopment Projects -- Reports No: 22157 and 22160). While those
disputes did not have a direct bearing on the restructuring and reform program, they had an
adverse impact on the country's and WAPDA's credibility and standing. The resulting slow down
in foreign currency inflows not only strained the country's balance of payments position, but also
made it more difficult for WAPDA to mobilize foreign funding for some of its priority
investments.
5.2.2 GOP also did not act proactively to address governance issues in WAPDA until end-1998.
A new management team was ithen appointed and charged with the responsibility to improve and
restore WAPDA's performance, and implement the restructuring program. This delay meant that
WAPDA's managerial and ope:rational efficiency continued to deteriorate, while public perception
of the utility remained very adverse. In retrospect, early actions by GOP to provide WAPDA a
clear mandate to improve its performance, along with managerial autonomy and authority to
implement the program, could have promoted a faster turnaround in the utility's performance.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1 As stated earlier, WAPDA had limited or no prior experience in dealing with the issues
involved in restructuring an integrated utility into a number of independent operations, nor was
there a clear commitment (prior to 1998) from within WAPDA to restructure the utility. Thus,
for example, the legal and technical complexities entailed in the identification, classification, and
allocation of assets and liabilities from one entity to 12-13 new entities were perhaps not fully
appreciated. Some of these weaknesses in institutional capacity could have been overcome by
seeking expert advice and availing of training opportunities through the technical assistance
portion of the Loan. However, no funding was availed from the Loan for developing such skills
within the organization, nor were these shortfalls in institutional capacity addressed by recruiting
experts or consultants under the technical assistance component of the Loan. As explained in
Sections 3.3 and 3.4 above, about half of the savings under the Loan (US$20 million was
cancelled in June 2000) is in the restructuring and technical assistance.
5.3.2  The investment component of the Loan could also have been better managed by WAPDA,
particularly in the initial years. A review of the time taken in completing the procurement process
shows that for some contracts awarded during 1996-98, the average time between the issue of
bidding documents and signature of the contract was around 12 months; for most of the
procurement initiated in 1998-99, by contrast, this period had been reduced to around 6 months.
While generalization on the basis of a few contract awards is risky, it is difficult to escape the
conclusion that there was substantial scope for improvement in the timeliness of procurement
actions by WAPDA.
5.3.3 Reference has been macde above to WAPDA's inability to improve its operational and
financial performance in the inilial years of the Project. The delay in achieving those efficiency
- 15 -



gains can be partly attributed to the financial difficulties faced by WAPDA, which were addressed
in part by scaling back the investment program--including funding for rehabilitation and upgrading
of transmission and distribution systems. While curtailing new investments is to be expected
during a resource crunch (in fact it can be classified as the correct management response to
funding constraints), it is also recognized that investments in rehabilitation and upgrading of
systems generally yield higher returns and entail shorter "pay-back periods" than the construction
of new facilities or expansion of,the system. A more rigorous prioritization of the investments
would thus have focussed WAPDA's management attention on the efficiency improvements that
could have been attained in the earlier years.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1 The total cost of the Project (as reflected by WAPDA's investment program for FY95-99)
was substantially lower than the appraisal estimate. The reasons for this shortfall have been
discussed above. Table 1 presents the projected investment program (from the Staff Appraisal
Report), and actual level of investments undertaken by WAPDA during this period, while Table 2
provides details of the categories of equipment and services which were financed by the Bank
Loan.
Table I
WAPDA's FY95-99 Investment Program
(in US$ million)
|    1995       1996       1997       1998      1999      Total
Planned:              _
Local                      386.1      437.2      433.1      440.4     507.7     2204.5
Foreign                    486.2      503.7       573.2     626.7      665      2854.8
Total                       872.3     940.9    1,006.30   1,067.10  1,172.70    5059.3
Actual:
Local                      361.1        513       202.6       231     232.5     1540.3
Foreign                    319.1      317.6       290.6     202.8     190.5     1320.6
Total                       680.2     830.6       493.2     433.9      423      2860.9
Actual as % of Planned
Local                       93.5      117.3        46.8      52.5      45.8       69.9
Foreign                     65.6       63.0        50.7      32.4      28.6       46.3
Total                       78.0       88.3       49.0       40.7      36.1       56.5
Exchange Rate (Rs/$)        30.85      33.57       38.99     43.20     46.23
- 16 -



Table 2
Components Financed by Bank Loan (FY95-01)
Procurement Arrangements
(million US$)
|___ __ _ __Apprasal    |         Actual
_______IC_ ICB     Otherl/     ICB        Other"
Equipment and materials     _       137.80       10.00     187.38
Civil Works               __ 60.80                           3.00
Consulting Services & Training  _                21.40      10.22       9.40
Total                        I      198.60       31.40     200.60       9.40
I/ Includes limited international bidding, international and local shopping, single source procurements, etc.
The revised project costs, by component are therefore:
Restructuring and Privatization. Component:  US$15 million
Investment Component:                        US$2,861 million
Technical Assistance Component:              US$5 million
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rati,ag:
6.1.1 The sustainability of the reform program and investments financed under this Project is
rated as "Likely". The main factors accounting for this rating are:
*     The Government has consistently accorded a high priority to the power sector reform
program, and took most: of the decisions and actions for which it was responsible. These
actions included developing a consensus on the restructuring and reform program,
enacting the amendment of the WAPDA Act, and promulgating the NEPRA Act; approval
of the financial restructtuing program for WAPDA, which entailed the difficult decision to
transfer some of the burden of the increase in WAPDA's operating costs to the federal
budget; and the actions taken in late 1998 to address managerial weaknesses in WAPDA
and to improve its oper-ational and financial performance. Since implementing the reform
program requires strong GOP backing and support, the Government's continued
comrmitment to the program and the actions it has taken since 1998 to re-launch and
accelerate the program indicate that the momentum is likely to be maintained over the
medium-term.
*     The Government issued in March 2001 a set of guidelines to NEPRA on the economic and
social policy objectives for the power sector. These guidelines are expected to further
enhance the financial viability of power sector operations--specifically, the guidelines
require NEPRA to apply a "cost of service" approach in setting tariffs for all consumer
classes (with the exception of lifeline consumers), and would promote further
predictability and stability in tariff setting. Full implementation of these policy directives
- 17 -



would thus enhance the sustainability (in financial terms) of power sector investments and
operations.
While in the initial years there was a lack of commitment and a resistance to the
restructuring program on the part of WAPDA, that resistance is being gradually
overcome, and there now appears to be more support for the reform program within
WAPDA's management and staff. Thus, for example, despite a fairly common perception
that electricity tariffs are already too high, the management has approached the regulatory
for periodic tariff adjustments in line with changes in its major cost elements (e.g. fuel
costs). Similarly, in keeping with the spirit of decentralized operations in the power
sector, all of the operational functions have been delegated to the managements, who
report to independent Boards of Directors. The utilities' operations are also gradually
coming under public scrutiny, through the regulatory framework, increased oversight by
the Public Accounts Committee, and the audits of the corporate entities being carried out
by private commercial auditors. This additional accountability would also enhance the
prospects for sustainability of the utilities' operations.
Actions taken by WAPDA (to complement and reinforce the objectives of the financial
restructuring plan) also helped to improve the financial situation of WAPDA. Thus, there
was a turnaround from the situation where WAPDA had to significantly scale back its
investments (during FY97 and FY98), was unable to service its debt to the Government,
and was also building up substantial arrears to fuel suppliers, contractors, etc. During
FYOO and FYO1, WAPDA's financial situation improved considerably and it was able to
settle most of its arrears and to provide adequate funds to implement its priority
investments, including the Ghazi Barotha Hydropower Project (supported by the Bank,
through Loan 3965-PAK). More recently, however, WAPDA's financial position has
deteriorated again, mainly due to large increases in IPP and fuel costs, for which it has not
been compensated through adjustments in electricity tariffs. As a result, it is not fulfilling
its Debt Servicing Liabilities to the Government during FY02. The Government and
WAPDA are preparing a Financial Improvement Plan for WAPDA (covering the FY02-04
period) to address this deterioration in WAPDA's finances; the Bank has been closely
invovled in the preparation of this Plan.
The financial management systems and procedures developed under this Project are also
likely to be sustained, particularly since modem and automated accounting and financial
information systems have been developed under the assignment for Corporatization and
Commercialization of WAPDA, extensive training has been provided by consultants to
staff of WAPDA and the entities for the implementation of these systems, and the entities
would ensure continuity of the staff and management in these functions.
It is, however, recognized that one of the most critical risks for the sustainability of the
program is the assumption that electricity sales will continue to grow, and that the
financial situation of the entities will not deteriorate substantially in the future. This
highlights the need for greater realism in the assumptions that are used for appraisal,
particularly to accommodate all downside risks while estimating the returns from the
investments. The prospect for sustainability of the investments could be significantly
- 18 -



reduced if the appraisal assumptions are not achieved. Under this Project, the assumption
regarding growth in electricity sales was not bome out, and the average tariff level (still)
does not appear to be sufficient to cover the entities' full cost of operations - which entails
considerable downside risks for the finances of the entities.
The final, and perhaps most important, point to note is that long term sustainability cannot
be ensured without restoring, and maintaining, the financial viability of the power sector
entities. Consequently, on the one hand, the onus is on NEPRA to ensure that tariff
increases are adequate to cover the cost of supply, and that tariffs are adjusted periodically
in line with changes in the cost of supply. At the same time, the entities must enhance
their efficiency, and institute strict commercial discipline in their operations, so as to
constrain the need for further tariff increases to the absolute minimum.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1 The assets and investments financed under this Project have been transferred to the
corporate entities and are being operated and maintained by the entities in accordance with
applicable standards and procedures.
7. Bank and Borrower Perforrnance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1 The Bank initiated the pieparation of the Project in 1991, following the announcement of
the Government's intent to privatize the power sector, and the establishment of the Privatization
Commission (Power Sector). This announcement was a major addition to the power sector
reform program, which until thai: time had focussed on implementing policies to:
*   Rationalize investments (with a view to achieving least cost delivery of commercial energy
to consumers).
* Rationalizing prices, to promote demand management and mobilize private investments
for new energy supplies.
*   Strengthen the conmmercial orientation and financial/operational performance of the energy
sector entities.
In support of that program, the Bank provided two sector adjustment loans to Pakistan--the
Energy Sector Loan (Loan 2552-PAK, approved in 1985), and a Second Energy Sector Loan
(Loan 3107-PAK, approved in 1989).
7.1.2 The inclusion of the power sector in the overall privatization program necessitated a
fundamental restructuring of WAPDA, from a vertically integrated utility responsible for the
generation, transmission and distribution of electricity (in addition to its role as the developer of
the country's hydropower resources) to a number of autonomous entities, operating on
commercial principles, and undertaking the functionally distinct tasks of generation, transmission
or distribution/sale of electricity. It was also recognized that efforts to promote private sector
interest in the power sector were not likely to succeed in the absence an independent regulatory
framework to set standards, establish the "rules" for management and operation of the sector, and
promote transparency in the incentive framework (notably the tariff setting process) for the
- 19-



sector.
7.1.3 During preparation and appraisal of the Project, the Bank focused largely on reaching
agreement with the Government on the essential prerequisites for the reform program, including
amendment of the WAPDA Act (to enable the unbundling and corporatization of WAPDA) and
establishing an autonomous and transparent regulatory framework. Thus, the Bank maintained,
despite strong pressures from the Government to proceed with the implementation of the
program, that further processing of the Project and the associated Loan required the amendment
of the WAPDA Act to be formally promulgated, and the design of the regulatory framework to be
announced by GOP. While this insistence by the Bank delayed the negotiation and Board
approval of the Project by about 24 months (after appraisal), in retrospect the Bank's stance was
justified because the reform program could not have been implemented without meeting these
prior conditions. It also focused the Government's attention on the key task of developing a
consensus at the political level on the reform and privatization program. However, the Bank was
cognizant of the fact that the Government needed support, e.g. for the design of the regulatory
framework and the corporatization process, and therefore maintained an active dialogue with the
Government on these issues, provided expert assistance and advice as requested, and maintained
full coordination with other donors that were supporting the preparation of key elements of the
reform and privatization program. The Bank also adequately highlighted the need for the
Government and WAPDA to proceed in parallel with the preparation of the physical components
of the Project, including preparation and approval of the PC-Is and of bidding documents for the
first phase of activities to be financed from the Loan.
7.1.4  Financial management: A comprehensive review of WAPDA's financial management
functions was carried out during preparation and appraisal of the Project. This review covered
the organization structure and staffing of the Finance Wing, the existing accounting systems and
procedures, and the need for upgrading those systems, staff training etc. The Bank's
preparation/pre-appraisal and appraisal missions included two financial specialists; in addition,
local consultants were retained by the Bank for follow up work on financial management issues.
Under the Project, WAPDA agreed to employ consultants to develop modem, automated
accounting and financial systems, and (overall) management information systems for WAPDA and
the corporate entities.
7.1.5 The ICR mission therefore rates the Bank's performance during preparation and appraisal
as "Satisfactory".
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1 Implementation of this Project can be split into two almost distinct phases--up to about
1997-98, and subsequently. During the earlier period, the Bank's policy dialogue with GOP, as
well as much of the supervision activity, was focussed on starting work on the restructuring and
reform elements. Thus the Bank provided support to WAPDA for the selection of consultants to
design and implement the corporatization program, and to GOP on legal, administrative and
institutional issues involved in establishing the regulatory framework. The frequency of
supervision missions (about 2.5 missions per year) during this period was appropriate.
7.2.2 Starting from mid-1997, there was a marked change in the operating environment and
- 20 -



financial situation of the sector. Particularly, WAPDA experienced a serious financial crisis as its
revenues and resources did not keep pace with the growth in its expenses and liabilities. Power
demand growth had also slowed by this'time (in fact there was almost no increase, in physical
terms, in power sales during FY95-99), and expected increases in revenues from the sale of power
were not materializing. More importantly, GOP and the Bank recognized that WAPDA's financial
crisis could seriously undermine the Government's macro-economic reform and stabilization
objectives, since WAPDA was not in a position to pay (and did not fulfill) its debt servicing
liabilities to GOP during FY97 and FY98. The Govermment's fiscal position was thus being
jeopardized.
7.2.3 The deterioration in WAPDA's performance, and the resulting non-compliance with some
of the financial covenants agreed under this Loan, could have been grounds for the Bank to
discontinue further support for the Project. However, the Bank also recognized the necessity for
GOP to continue with the reform process, and the assistance it could provide to GOP and
WAPDA for addressing the financial constraints. Therefore, in parallel with redesigning the
implementation arrangements fior putting the reform program back on track, the Bank, GOP and
WAPDA focussed their attention on developing a financial restructuring program for WAPDA,
with a view to limiting the impact of WADPA's financial difficulties on the macro-economic
situation of the country. This shift in emphasis was not only appropriate but also essential, since
any further deterioration in WAPDA's finances could have made it impossible for GOP or
WAPDA to proceed with the reforms. Furthermore, a set of strong and credible actions were
taken by GOP and WAPDA at that time, which provided the Bank the required comfort and
assurance regarding the Government's and WAPDA's commitment to the reforms. These actions
included:
*   Fonmal reaffirmation by GOP (through the Policy Statement) of its strong commitment to
reform the power sector, including WAPDA, accelerate its privatization, and to address
managerial weaknesses in WAPDA.
* Conversion of about RsL 36 billion of WAPDA's outstanding debt servicing liabilities to
GOP into Government equity in WAPDA (which afforded some breathing space in
WAPDA's finances).
*   Induction of a new management team in WAPDA, with full authority and responsibility to
restore WAPDA's performance, address governance issues in the organization, and
implement the restructLuring program.
*   Approval by NEPRA o f tariff increases which were essential for restoring financial
viability.
*   An aggressive campaign by WAPDA to increase revenues, pursue defaulting consumers
and recover arrears, reduce losses (including theft of electricity), and put WAPDA's
finances back on track.
*   Provision to WAPDA cf a professional team of experts to advise and assist in managing
the restructuring program.
7.2.4  These actions not only demonstrated GOP's and WAPDA's resolve to carry out the
reforms, but also provided assurances to the Bank about the Government's commitment to the
original objectives of the program. Consequently, the Bank's decision to remain engaged in the
- 21 -



reform program, and to continue to support GOP's efforts, was justified. The support provided
by the Bank to GOP and WAPDA in developing the program to overcome the financial crisis has
been recognized and appreciated by GOP. On this basis, the ICR mission rates Bank performance
during supervision as "Satisfactory".
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
7.3.1 The Bank's approach during preparation and implementation of the Project was to
maintain a continuity of dialogue with GOP and WAPDA, while highlighting the key issues that
needed to be addressed. This approach enabled the Bank to "work with the key counterparts" in
developing and executing the key stages of the reform program, rather than in an adverserial
position which could have arisen if the Bank had insisted on retaining the original benchmarks and
target dates, or if it had disengaged from the reform program when implementation delays started
becoming significant. On this basis, the ICR mission rates Overall Bank performance as
"Satisfactory".
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1 As highlighted above, preparation of this Project was initiated by the Bank after GOP
announced its plans to privatize the power sector. This was an addition to the scope of the
reform program, since until that time the focus had been on mobilizing private investments for
new energy supplies, and private sector ownership and management of any existing assets had not
been under discussion. More importantly, the announcement was accompanied by concrete steps
to move forward with privatization. Thus, the Privatization Commission (Power Sector) was set
up--thereby including the power sector as one of the key elements of the GOP's privatization
agenda--and work on the appointment of financial advisors for the first transaction was initiated
by GOP even prior to the Bank's formal expression of interest or indication of support for the
program.
7.4.2 Other actions taken by the Government and WAPDA, for the preparation of the
restructuring/privatization and investment components of the Project included:
*   Amendment of the WAPDA Act in mid-1994, to allow for the corporatization and
privatization of the power sector in general, and WAPDA in particular;
*   Approval of the design of the regulatory framework, and promulgation of the NEPRA
Ordinance in 1995;
*   Setting up a specific unit in WAPDA (the WAPDA Power Privatization Organization --
WPPO) to handle all matters relating to the corporatization program; and
*   For the investment component, the preparation and issuance of bidding documents for
contracts amounting to US$ 40 million (about 20% of the Loan amount) prior to the
Bank's approval of the Project.
In hindsight one can say that the time required for unbundling WAPDA was underestimated, or
that the practical difficulties involved in the corporatization or adopting the regulatory framework
were not fully appreciated, and thus the project was not really ready for implementation when it
was actually initiated. However, the Government's performance during the preparation of the
Project needs to be judged solely on the basis of information available at that time, and the actions
- 22 -



it took for addressing some or all of the identified bottlenecks or issues. It should also be
recognized that Pakistan was one of the first developing countries which initiated power sector
reforms. Lessons learned from the experience in other countries, to overcome practical
difficulties, could therefore only be incorporated during imnplementation and supervision. The
ICR mission therefore rates the Borrower's role and performance during preparation of this
Project as "Satisfactory".
7.5 Government implementationperformance:
7.5.1 GOP's role during much of the implementation period has been one of facilitation and
support for the reform program--with the exception of the regulatory framework, where the
responsibility for establishing NEPRA including the preparation and approval of the legislation,
providing an initial endowment of funds from the budget, etc., were directly GOP's responsibility.
On all of these aspects, GOP's role has been proactive, and the dialogue with the Bank and other
donors on the design of the regulatory framework has been fairly rigorous.
7.5.2 GOP is also cognizarnt of its role in facilitating and expediting the restructuring program.
Thus, for example, a high level Policy Committee was constituted in 1998, to serve as a forum for
discussion and decision making on issues that cut across a number of ministries or departments.
Symbolic steps, such as placing the regulatory agencies outside of the parent ministry for the
sector (e.g., for administrative purposes NEPRA is placed under the Cabinet Division) have
helped to promote the perception of separation between administrative policy making and
regulatory functions.
7.5.3 GOP also played an important and positive role during 1998-99 in preparing and
approving the financial restnrcturing plan for WAPDA. While GOP has to share some of the
responsibility for the financia!l crisis in the first place, since the crisis in part was the result of
GOP's reluctance to increase electricity tariffs in earlier years, the decision to take some of the
burden onto the budget (by converting overdue debt servicing liabilities into equity) needs to be
acknowledged. Also, while bill collection from the public sector remains problematic at times, a
major portion of public sector arrears, with the exception of KESC, were settled or written off
during FYsOO and 01. On this basis, the ICR mission rates the Borrower's performance during
implementation as "Satisfactory".
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1 WAPDA's primary interest in implementing this project was to utilize the Loan funds for
financing some of its priority investments; the managerial and efficiency gains that were expected
to be achieved through the restructuring and reform program would have provided additional
incentives for WAPDA to complete the Project expeditiously. In this context, WAPDA carried
out the physical activities with due diligence and efficiency. Preparatory and design activities
were completed on time; the tendering process was also reasonably well managed. However,
finalization of some bidding documents for the distribution component did take considerable time
during 1997-98, principally due to delays caused by WAPDA's inability to prepare the documents
strictly in accordance with the Bank's standards. This in turn delayed the Bank's clearance of
those documents. In addition, a number of procedural and contract management issues--e.g.
delays in establishing letters of credit (L/Cs), or in the clearances for WAPDA inspectors to travel
overseas to witness prototype/performance tests, etc--were encountered under some contracts,
- 23 -



which delayed the completion of deliveries under those contracts. However, by and large,
WAPDA adopted the Bank's standard bidding documents and completed most of the stages in the
procurement process within reasonable time.
7.6.2 On the restructuring and reform program, the evidence regarding WAPDA's proactive
involvement is a bit mixed. It is natural to expect some resistance to change from the staff of a
utility which has been in operation for a long time. The benefits from enhanced managerial
autonomy and decentralized operations would take time to become visible, while established
modes of operation, including security of service, promotions and seniority, etc, are expected to
be replaced by as yet untested mechanisms and procedures. The uncertainty created through such
reorganizations is therefore a real and considerable barrier, which may hinder the full ownership
and commitment towards the reform program. Some of the delays encountered in the selection of
consultants for the corporatization program could be attributed to such resistance; however, there
is no formal evidence to support such conclusions. Similarly, while WAPDA's operations have
been split into "independent" generation, transmission and distribution companies, factual
autonomy of the corporatized entities will take longer to achieve, and there is still considerable
management oversight and control of the treasury function by WAPDA, despite the reconstitution
of the Boards of Directors. This has, however, facilitated the management of the financial crisis,
and once the corporatization is complete, this will change.
7.6.3 Financial management: Under the assignment for corporatization and commercialization
of WAPDA, a number of management information systems were developed by consultants [for a
detailed description of these systems see WAPDA Corporatization and Commercialization Project
- Final Report (10 volumes) dated October 1998, and WAPDA Corporatization and
Commercialization Project, Extension Program - Final Report (4 volumes) dated May 20, 1999].
Training was provided by the consultants to staff and managers of all entities for implementing
those systems in their respective companies. These systems included, inter alia, systems for fixed
assets, payroll, purchasing, accounts payable and budgets, and project and general ledger
accounting. Extensive discussions on these reports and accounting/financial/management
information systems were held during 1998-99 between the Bank, WAPDA, and the consultants,
prior to their approval and adoption by WAPDA and the entities. The entities, with assistance
provided by PEPCO, are currently in the process of adopting these accounting, financial, and
management information systems.
7.6.4 Audit Reports: Audit reports covering project accounts, statements of expenditure
(SOEs), the Special Account, and the entity (WAPDA, for the initial years, and since FY99, the
corporate entities as well as WAPDA) were provided to the Bank. In compliance with
agreements reached under the Project, the accounts of the corporate entities were audited by
independent private auditors. Audit reports covering project accounts, the Special Account and
SOEs were generally received by the agreed dates (i.e. within six months after the close of each
fiscal year); however, delays were encountered in the finalization of the entity accounts and
audits, and the audit reports were submitted to the Bank 3-6 months after the agreed dates. Also,
while the audit reports for project, SOE and Special Accounts were unqualified, the audit reports
for the entity often included some qualifications or observations by the auditors. The Bank
reviewed with WAPDA the substance of these qualifications/observations at regular intervals, and
- 24 -



agreed with WAPDA on timneframes for addressing them.
7.6.5 On this basis, the ICR mission rates WAPDA's performance during implementation as
"Marginally Satisfactory".
7.6.6 WAPDA/PEPCO have commented upon this rating, and have highlighted a number of
achievements under this Pro ject which would support a higher rating for performance during
implementation of the Project. While the mission acknowledges that the Development Objectives
of the Project have been substantially met, and the remaining targets are expected to be achieved
over the next few months, the mission maintains that the Project was at best a "qualified success"
in terms of implementation performance, since:
*   The corporatization of WAPDA was not completed by the time the Loan was closed, even
after two extensions (for a total of 21 months) in the Closing Date.
*   For a number of years during the implementation of the Project (FYs97-99), WAPDA was
not in compliance with the financial covenants agreed under the Project; and it is (again)
not in compliance with the agreed covenants for FY01 and 02.
*   A key objective of the Project, i.e. the strengthening of environmental management
capacity in WAPDA and the corporate entities, was not achieved by the Closing Date.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
7.7.1 Overall Borrower peirformance under this Project is rated as "Satisfactory". GOP has
remained committed to the reforms, and has taken a number of difficult decisions that were
essential for maintaining the continuity of the reform program. WAPDA has also implemented
the program for the obvious gains which it offered. Since it is acknowledged that ultimate
completion of the program was significantly delayed, this assessment is in part a recognition of the
complexities involved in restructuring large public sector organizations, which cannot be fully
anticipated or acknowledged at the preparation or appraisal stage.
7.7.2 Even though the reform components which were undertaken in the first phase have not
been fully completed as yet, the process is now very close to completion. Moreover, there has
been some improvement in t:he performance of the power sector over the past 2-3 years (both in
terms of availability of electricity as well as the quality of supply) and the key outcomes that were
supported under this Project have largely been achieved. Details on a few of these indicators and
outcomes is presented in the second half of Annex 1, and some statistics on qualitative
improvements in power supply are presented in Table 5, Section 10 below.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1.1 The preparation and implementation of this Project provides a number of important
lessons, both on the restructuring and privatization program, and on the investment component.
*     The restructuring and reform program could not be implemented without the full
commitment of the Government, staff and management of the utilities. In the absence of a
strong push from the Government, and the mandate to WAPDA management to
implement the reforms, the pace of the restructuring program suffered in the initial years.
- 25 -



Undertaking an ambitious restructuring, reform and privatization program requires a range
of specialized skills and expertise which are not normally available within the utilities, and
have to be acquired specifically for this purpose. On both these counts--full commitment
of WAPDA staff and management towards the reform program, and willingness to acquire
the required skills through the technical assistance component--there was substantial scope
for improvement under this Project. The decision to establish PEPCO was also driven in
part by the recognition that the required expertise was not available in WAPDA, but was
essential for implementing the program.
Programs to unbundle and restructure large organizations are normally not successful if
implemented from within the organization, and can only be undertaken through a
management team and "change agents" who are committed to the reforms, and also have
the full mandate and authority to caarry out the restructuring and unbundling program..
However, the restructuring of WAPDA was initially to be implemented by a special unit to
be established under WAPDA's Power Privatization Organization (WPPO). In view of the
limited experience of WAPDA, the resistance to change, and the reluctance to hire
expertise through consultants, this implementation arrangement was, in hind-sight, not the
most appropriate.
Even when all the required expertise is available, it is not possible to anticipate in advance
all of the complexities that are entailed in restructuring large enterprises; therefore delays
in the execution of such programs are not entirely unexpected.
The reform program for the sector needs to be viewed and implemented as an integrated
set of policies and actions. However, in Pakistan the program was implemented as a set of
independent activities. Thus, for example, the full implications of the IPP program on the
financial viability of the existing utilities, and the preparation of measures to mitigate
and/or avoid some of those adverse impacts, was not accorded adequate priority. This
not only had serious financial repercussions on the utilities, but also placed the
Government's macro-economic stabilization program at risk.
The privatization program for the power sector was focused initially on the sale of
generation assets to the private sector; however, it is widely accepted that the major
inefficiencies and the potential gains from private sector management and operations, are
in the distribution segment of the business. Therefore, early privatization of some
distribution assets should also have been considered by GOP and WAPDA.
WAPDA and the entities need to ensure that the financial, management information and
other systems which have been developed under this Project are fully implemented. The
financial and other resources (including funds for staff traiiing) required for full
operationalization of these systems should be reviewed by each entity in consultation with
PEPCO, and the required funds need to be allocated for these tasks by each entity and
WAPDA.
The entity audit reports (both for WAPDA and for the corporate entities) have generally
- 26 -



been finalized and submitted to the Bank with delays (on average 5-6 months) relative to
the agreed dates. Tfhere is thus a need for improving the timeliness of financial reporting
in each entity, so that the accounts can be finalized, and the audits completed, in a timely
manner.
8.1.2 Privatization of utilities affects a number of interest groups -- the Government (owner of
the assets) would like to maxirmize the up-front sale proceeds; the utilities' would perhaps like to
have the sale proceeds ploughed back into the sector; potential investors are likely to seek
comforts and guarantees to safeguard the resources they are expected to invest; and consumers,
who are interested solely in better service and lower prices for electricity. All of these objectives
and interests obviously can not be achieved at the same time; in fact some of these objectives are
conflicting. Thus for example, while GOP opted to maximize up front sale proceeds in privatizing
the Kot Addu plant, this had adverse implications for the utilities (in the form of higher power
purchase costs) and consurmers (since the increase in power purchase costs were passed on to
consumers). The Government, in its role as policy maker, has to take the ultimate responsibility
for setting the objectives and priorities of the privatization program. While establishing these
priorities, which would entail some trade-offs between these (at times) conflicting interests, the
Government should accord a high priority to carrying out public relations and information
dissemination campaigns, to explain the priorities it has established, and thereby try to build a
more widespread acceptance of the program. The absence of a media and information
dissemination campaign is felt to be one of the reasons why public perception of WAPDA's
reform program, and the potential benefits that could be derived from it, remains fairly adverse.
8.1.3 Regarding the investment component, the main lesson from this Project is the need to
ensure that all investments comply with acceptable efficiency and least cost criteria. This is
particularly important in periods of resource scarcity. The investment program in Pakistan over
the past decade has included large investments in power generation (in both public and private
sectors) while complementary investments in transmission (notably secondary transmission) and
expansion and upgrading of the distribution networks have not been made. Similarly, in valuing
the benefits of the proposed operation, it was assumed that power sales would continue to grow;
this assumption was not bomne out, and power sales actually declined in some years, and grew at a
much slower rate in others. This outcome highlights the importance of basing the appraisal
estimates on realistic assumptions, and also the need to anchor the appraisal estimates in a range
of scenarios, including scenarios that accommodate all potential downside risks. As a result of the
high investments in generation and slow growth in power sales, the country is faced with a
situation of excess generating capacity, while consumers are not deriving the full benefits of those
investments, due to transmission and distribution constraints. A more rigorous prioritization of
investments (which a management regime entrusted with full commercial authority and
accountability would have insisted on) would have focussed management attention on activities
with "higher returns" or "shorter pay-back periods". A key lesson from this project is that such
mid-course corrections in the investment program are essential, but such opportunities may not be
easy to identify in the absence of a management that is fully attuned to the market place, and held
accountable for any mis-allocations of public resources (see also para 5.3.3 above).
- 27 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments by WAPDA/PEPCO:
The draft Implementation Completion Report received from World Bank was forwarded to the concerned
offices for preparation of comments on it with reference to the portions pertaining to their offices.
Initially IBRD Loan No.3764-PAK was allocated to WAPDA for US$ 218.00 Million which was later on
reduced to US$ 198.000 Million and was further allocated to various offices. The detail of allocation of IBRD Loan
and its provisional utilization made by each office is as under:
US$ in Million
Sr.             Name of Project            Allocation     Utilization     Unutilized
No.                                                          Upto           Balance
31-07-2001
Provisional
I .   Secondary Transmission Lines and          133.13        129.04              4.09
Grid Station Project.
2.   Up-gradation of 220 KV Substation to       33.65          32.93              0.72
500 KV at Rewat.
3.   ELR Programme for Extension &              24.54          23.18              1.36
Rehabilitation of Distribution. Network.
4.   Consultancy Service.                        6.54           5.33              1.21
5.   Upgrading NPCC                              0.14           0.14              0.00
F_____  TOTAL US$ (MILLION)                       198.00         190.62              7.38
It is clarified that above utilization i.e US$ 190.62 million is provisional and roughly withdrawal
applications equivalent to US$ 2.00 million are still pending with World Bank for release of payment. Therefore,
on receipt of final disbursement the figures of utilization would be changed accordingly.
The purpose of allocation of loan to above offices is briefly enumerated as under:-
Sr.      Project Executor                          Purpose of Loan
No.
a)    C.E.(STG)            Construction of 1006 KM T/Lines, and 83 Nos. Grid Stations
(220/132/66/33 KV)
b)   CE.(EHV) North        Upgradation of 220KV Rewat Grid Station to 500 KV.
c)   C.E. (Operations)    Extension and Rehabilitation of Distribution Network.
d)   G.M. (WPPO)/          Restructuring and Privatization of WAPDA, and other Consulting
PEPCO                Services, Equipment and Training (TA).
e)    C.E. (NPCC)          Upgrading of NPCC (Load Despatch Center)
We have received comments / review on the subject noted draft Implementation Completion Report of
World Bank, from all the concerned offices and the same are as under:-
PEPCO:
I.     Para 4.2.2 does not include the significant progress made on account of the financial modeling exercise to
assess the financial viability of the corporate entities and carry out financial restructuring to form the basis
of transfer pricing and seek lenders consent for transfer of assets and liabilities to the corporate entities.
To-date progress on this account is as follows:
- 28 -



"The financial models of DISCOs have been developed and reviewed with World Bank Missions whereas
Financial models for GENCOs, NTDC and Residual Wapda are nearing completion. Upon completion of
this exercise, the financial structures of the corporatized entities will be finalized as agreed with the World
Bank".
2.     Para 5.1.2 acknowledges the complexity of the corporatization process more than originally envisioned
resulting in slower pace of the reform programme in the initial years and mid course corrective actions
taken but does not acknowledge the significant progress made in 1999-20001 under the leadership of the
new management which was acknowledged by the visiting World Bank Missions during this period.
Therefore, we suggest that last part of para 5.1.2 may be changed as follows:
"These mid course corrections could not be foreseen at the time the project was launched, and these have
had a favorable impact in terms of introducing a more commercial orientation for the power sector, the
pace of reforms in the initial years was considerable slower than warranted by the target dates which had
been agreed under this project but the pace of reform programme improved considerably in the 1999-2001
period and expected for completion by 31-12-2001 ".
3.     The ICR Missions rating of Wapda as an implementation agency as "Marginally Satisfactory" in para
7.6.4 is not appropriate slince the rating criteria given in Annex-6 of the report does not have this
category. Secondly, "Mairginally Satisfactory" is a vague term and could be interpreted as more than
satisfactory or less than satisfactory. Therefore, we suggest that this rating should be more specific.
In our opinion the words "Marginally Satisfactory" should be replaced with either "More than
Satisfactory" or "Satisfactory" whatever the Bank feels appropriate to be more specific.
4.     The para 6.2 titled "Transition Arrangements to Regular Operations" does not have any supporting text
for comments.
Section 3.2 (i)
This Section states that all of WAPDA assets, except NTDC, will be privatized as soon as feasible.
Whereas in fact GOP decision to-date is to privatize one DISCO and one GENCO.
Section 3.2. (11)
Constitution of the Policy Committee mentioned in the ICR does not include the following:
-      Secretary Petroleum & Natural Resources
-      Chief Executive Officer PEPCO as Member/Secretary
Also Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission has been shown as Member, whereas Secretary Planning
Commission is the Memler.
Section 3.3 (i)
This Section states "Restructuring and Corporatization of WAPDA Into a holding Company....."
Whereas under the program implementation no holding company was formed and PEPCO was set-up as a
Government owned Management Company.
Section 4.2.5 - Privatization
It is stated that privatization of FESCO is expected to be taken up as soon as the Corporatization process
- 29 -



is completed. It may be noted that work plan of privatization of FESCO has been agreed with target date
of 31 December 2002 and WAPDA's full commitment to proceed further for privatization of FESCO has
been provided to the Privatization Commission and the World Bank and other Donors. Furthermore,
WAPDA has provided full commitment to the Privatization Commission of GENCO-1, which includes
Jamshoro Power Plant, Kotri Power Plant and Lakhra Power Plant. In a separate decision, the
Government has also decided that privatization of Lakhra Power Plant issue will be undertaken directly by
the Sindh Govermnent. The Privatization Commission has already advertised for the EOI for financial
Advisor for GENCO- 1, whereas they are negotiating financial advisor contract with IFC.
Section 4.5.4
The ICR Mission's rating the achievement of institutional development objectives as "Modest" is
inappropriate and in contradiction to the positive comments provided in para 4.5.1 and in para 4.5.2.
Also the World Bank Missions on numerous occasions acknowledged and appreciated the efforts of
PEPCO. PEPCO has in fact played a very proactive role in managing change in operational/ technical
environment of the unbundled entities by enhancing their capabilities through well-completed,
three-pronged effort in the areas of Planning Capabilities (DISCOs), Technical Codification (DISCOs,
NTDC) and Upgrading NPCC functions. As such, it would be appropriate that the subject rating be
changed to "Satisfactory".
Section 8 - Lessons Learned
It is suggested that the Bank consider that in view of projects involving multi-donor support such as in
this case both World Bank and ADB etc., there is a need for a lead donor to act as an overall coordinator
to avoid duplicity of assignments so that there is optimal usage of resources and common agenda and
common targets and schedules are set. Under the current program, specifically for privatization, dates
were set and agreed with the World Bank being a lead donor for the privatization of FESCO, GENCO etc.
whereas ADB has been following a separate set of work plans and schedules etc.
Section 8.1.2
There is a mention of media and information dissemination campaign . Whereas the actual situation
has been that WAPDA has actively carried out public awareness and dissemination campaign through
monthly press conferences and continuous press releases on specific matters, reforms etc. Numerous
articles and papers on restructuring were also sponsored to generate a wide dissemination of information
about the program. Furthermore, three TV and two Radio documentaries have been developed under the
program, which has now been released to media and will be shown to employees, customers and other
stake-holders. Furthermore, several papers on Reform & Restructuring Program have also been presented
on various seminars, workshops organized by IEEEP, Institution of Engineers, National Energy
Conference etc., Engineering Review Magazine, Economic Digest etc.
- 30 -



Public Relations/lnformgition Dissemination Activities reeardinu Power Sector Reform Programme.
In order to make the public aware of WAPDA Power Wing Restructuring/ Corporatization and potential
benefits of the Governmernt of Pakistan Power Sector Reform Programme, the public relations and
information dissemination activities have been given due importance. These activities included well
attended press conference,,briefings by Chairman WAPDA and Member (Finance) on a number of
occasions following their ,overage in the national media besides the Chairman's briefings to the editors
and columnists of the major daily newspapers. Briefings to the newsmen by the Chief Executive and
Secretary (PEPCO) besides managed write ups and special articles on the subject also appeared in the
national print media.
Consultancy of a PR firm, specialized in the field, was also hired through open competition. The firm, M/s
CRS has rendered the sernices, under an elaborate phased programme during the present WAPDA
management period. Three comprehensive audio - visual documentaries have also been produced by this
consultancy firm which are in the process of going on air to further the information dissemination
campaign vis-a-vis perception and potential benefits of the Government of Pakistan - WAPDA reform
programme and thus build a more widespread acceptance of the programme among the general public.
The emphasis in the press conferences/briefings which followed appreciable coverage in the national press
has been unprecedented achievements made by the DISCOs in their areas of operation, particularly
various facets of customer service with special reference to grant of a large number of new connections,
prompt redressal of thousands of consumers' complaints with the introduction of "One Window"
operation and customer service centers down to sub division level, having no precedence prior to
implementation of the reform programme. The same methodology has been the focal point of the special
articles contributed by the people from the folds of the ultimate beneficiaries.
NPCC:
No portion of the subject report is related to this office and as such we have no comments to offer on the
subject report. However, following works were carried out at NPCC from the Power Sector Development Project
Loan No.3764-PAK
I1.    Procurement of Consultatnt Services for Enhancement of operational planning software's
(SYRAP/LIHTO) at NPCC
The project was successfully concluded in January 2001 and both the enhanced software are being utilized
for power system operatioiial planning at National Power Control Center, Islamabad and office of G.M.
(Planning) Power, Lahore.
2.     Conversion of PSS/E (Lead Flow Software) from older VAX-based version to an updated PC-based
version.
The project was successfully completed in June 1999.
The PC based PSS/E software is being successfully utilized in NPCC since June 1999.
EHV (NTDC):
1.     Up2radation of 220 KV tewat Substation to 500 KV.
The 220 KV Rewat Substation was upgraded to 500 KV Substation and was commissioned in three phases
on following dates:-
- 31 -



i)     Phase-I                19-02-1997
ii)    Phase-II               09-05-1997
iii)    Phase-IIl             11-07-1997
2.     Uperadatlon of 220 KV Ghakhar Substation to 500 KV.
The upgradation work of 220 KV Ghakhar Substation could not be carried out as the financing was not
available. Now the site has been selected and when financing is available the upgradation work for
Ghakhar will be started.
E.L. R:
Contents of ICR relating to ELR portion have been studied in detail. Selected detail related to qualitative
and quantitative improvement in operating performance of the distribution feeders which were
rehabilitated under the loan are listed in table-5 of ICR. However, overall impact of ELR works will be
enhanced due to rehabilitation of additional H.T/L.T feeders as some more material is available in field
stores under ELR Project.
STG:
It is intimated that under Power Sector Development Project - IBRD Loan No.3764, 75 No. grid stations
out of 83 No. grid stations (including 220KV, 132KV, 66KV & 33KV) has been completed. In addition to
above 922 Km. Transmission Line (including 220KV, 132KV, 66KV & 33KV) has been completed
against the target of 1006 Km Transmission Line. The work on the remaining 8 No. grid stations as well
as 84 Km Transmission Line is in progress and is expected to be completed by 30-06-2002 as material has
already been earmarked. The delay in completion of the above works is due to lack of funds i.e. local
components/cash flow during the project period.
Comments by NEPRA:
Comments on the Draft Implementation Completion Report (Portions relevant to NEPRA)
Reference para 4.2.4(pp. 6): As per the NEPRA Act, NEPRA shall "keep in view the economic and social policy
objectives" of the Govemment.
Reference para 4.5.2(pp. 8): The paragraph is correct in its content. However the Government has not notified the
Fee and Fines Rules which may result in lack of funds for NEPRA. This is mentioned in the ICR para 4.2.3. also.
Reference para 5.2.1 (pp.9): NEPRA's tariff evaluation account for increases in IPP payments by WAPDA and
KESC. Further NEPRA has also put in place an Automatic Fuel Adjustment clause to allow utilities variation in
tariff for compensation of changes in the cost of fuel due to fuel price variations.
Reference 6.1.1 (pp.12): Issuance of Policy Directives in March 2001. Our letters of April 11, 2001 and July 28,
2001, (attached herewith) clarify our position on the matter.
Reference para 7.5.2 (pp. 15) NEPRA is independent in administration. The Cabinet Division is the intermediary
between NEPRA and the various departments of the Government and to the Cabinet.
IBRD Power Sector Development Project (Loan 3764-PAK)
Draft Implementation Completion Report
The IBRD Loan started disbursing amounts to NEPRA in May 1998. The main effort was to assist NEPRA in
achieving a sustainable capacity to frame and implement rules and regulations for power regulation. A team of
professionals including a lawyer was selected by the World Bank after a competitive selection process and put at
NEPRA's disposal as core staff for initiation of capacity building. These professionals participated in drafting of
- 32 -



Application rules, Tariff Application rules and developed the guidelines for effective implementation of
performance and grid codes. Some of these professionals are continuing in NEPRA after the expiry of the WB
funding. The knowledge base at N4EPRA expanded due to the efforts of the World Bank professionals. The funding
was specially welcome since the GOP grant of Rs.77 million to NEPRA was disbursed in an unpredictable manner
and WB funding was the only predictable income source for the professionals at NEPRA. With lapse of this
funding NEPRA is again faced with an uncertain future since their license fee schedule has not been approved and
notified by the GOP.
The loan also assisted NEPRA in acquiring office equipment, comprising mainly of computers and audio visual
equipment. This equipment is-very useful to the staff at NEPRA. Another major achievement is the creation of a
small but technically well-stocked library at NEPRA. Funding from the World Bank has helped to procure books
related to economic regulation and technical aspects of power mainly. This funding has resulted in a sustainable
achievement at NEPRA.
NEPRA utilized US$ 601,715.00 out of the total amount of $2.07 million allocated to it i.e. only 29.01 per cent of
the total allocation. This low util ization was primarily due to non completion of the bidding process for acquiring
the services of an international consulting firm to assist NEPRA in preparation of the Uniform System of Accounts,
Performance Standard and Distritbution and Grid Codes. The Uniform System of Accounts preparation contract
was awarded to a consulting company, International resources Group (IRG), Washington. D.C., UJSA, after
completion of World Bank Procurement formalities. Unfortunately the completion occurred very close to the
closing date and as such the contract awarded to IRG was never completed and the TA did not materialize.
Comments by Private Power and Infrastructure Board (PPIB):
2.     Draft Implementation Cc,mpletion Report (ICR) of the World Bank dated August 24, 2001 on Power
Sector Development Projects has been reviewed and we have following comments to offer.
3.     WAPDA was and still is in support of single buyer model for restructuring of power system while the
proposed restructuring is based on multiple buyers' model, the prolonged discussion on this has caused delays.
4.     The Task Force constitute-d by the GOP for 1994 Power Policy estimated a need of 1, 500 MW capacity
from Independent Power Producers (IPPs), While, Letter of Supports were issued for about 9,000 MW as against
the requirement. It was expected that many IPPs would not achieve Financial Closing by the target time and thus
would be screened out automatically. However, due to repeated extension in financial closing date and capacity of
more than 3,000 MW achieved Financial Closing. This surplus power unnecessarily increased WAPDA's fixed
capacity payments obligation as well as burden on country's balance of payments and proved more disastrous than
the load shedding and has resulted a recession in the economy.
5.     The 1994 Power Policy was result oriented because it was backed by financial support provided through
PSEDF. Legal support provided to PPIB through PSEDF helped in concluding the various agreements with IPPs in
a timely manner. Thus, PSEDF played a key role in establishing an institutional framework in the form of PPIB,
WPPO and PED (NDFC). Without PSEDF support such institutions could not have been created, however, the
experience gained by these institution through the project was wasted due to downsizing and salary cuts in PPIB
resultantly, PPIB could not get the benefits of 25 basis points under PSEDF hence had also faced funding
problems.
6.     The international downward trend in the pricing of thermal plant and equipment was not accommodated
due to absence of International Competitive Bidding, GOP and Lenders (World Bank, NDFC) did not carry out
proper due diligence of Pakistan's power supply and demand position, which resulted in financing of over capacity
at relatively higher cost in power sector.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
- 33 -



10. Additional Information
10.1.1 This section provides information on selected aspects of WAPDA's operational/financial
performance, project implementation experience, and on the physical achievements under this
project.
10.1.2 As stated above, WAPDA's financial performance deteriorated substantially, particularly in
FY97 and FY98. A number of key statistics and indicators of financial performance are discussed
below, which serve to highlight the financial difficulties and the actions taken by WAPDA in
response to these developments.
10.1.3 Table 3 provides a comparison of SAR projections and actual data for FY95-FY99 on
WAPDA's generation/sales, operating income and the investment program. While the decline in
electricity sales was also substantial, the most striking shortfall was in the utility's operating
income. Operating income was forecast to increase throughout the period, whereas it actually fell
to about Rs 8.5 billion and Rs 7.2 billion during FY97 and FY98 (compared to forecast levels of
Rs 30.6 billion and Rs 38.7 billion respectively). The measures taken by the Government and
WAPDA during FY99, which helped to reverse this trend, have been discussed above. Partly as a
result of these measures, operating income grew substantially -- to Rs. 38.2 billion in FY99.
However, this was still about 13 percent lower than the forecast level (Rs 44 billion). The
cumulative reduction in operating income over these 5 years was almost Rs 65 billion -- a
reduction of close to 40 percent. Due to this shortfall, WAPDA had to significantly reduce its
investment prograrn, from Rs 29 billion in FY96 to an average of Rs 17.5 billion during FY97-99.
The cumulative reduction in investments over the 5 years was Rs 71.5 billion (again, around 40
percent of the projected level of investments).
10. 1.4 While the reduction in investments enabled WAPDA to largely comply with the
agreements regarding internal cash generation (ICG) under this Project, it was unable to maintain
the agreed level of the Debt Service Coverage Ratio (DSCR).
- 34-



Table 3
WAPDA: Projected and Actual Financial
Performance
(FY95-FY9)
Total
FY95            FY96           FY97            FY98           FY99      (FY95-FY99)
SAR    Actual   SAR   Actual   SAR    Actual   SAR    Actual  SAR    Actual   SAR    Actual
Generation (Mk Wh)  48,661  46,126  53,098  48,859  60,871  50,782  63,787  53,261  68,063  53,485
Sales (Mk Wh)       38,201  3:5,032  42,521  36,925  49,184  38,529  51,986  39,422  55,471  38,906 _
Average Revenue
(Rs/kWh)              1.68    1.63   1.84    2.08    2.03   2.33    2.22    2.72    2.35    3.15
Operating Income
(Rs M)              28,914  19,971  27,527  31,392  30,618  8,543  38,670  7,232  43,953  38,236 169,628  105,374
Internal Generation/
Funds from
Operations (Rs M)   36,757  23,962  36,721  40,246  41,346  22,370  51,108  24,850  58,276  54,262 224,208  170,690
Construction/
Investment program
(Rs M)              29,303  21,563  32,535  28,898  34,807  19,383  36,908  17,713  41,420  15,891 174,973  103,448
Net Fixed Assets
(Rs M)             139,147 142,378 160,89  135,625 184,891 138,240 210,739 161,170 238,230 189,034
ICG - 3 year average
(%)                     40    47.3   49.7    49.2    47.7    28.5    50.6   43.4    56.3    79.3
DSCR (times)           1.7     1.5     1.5    1.7     1.5     0.9     1.5     0.9     1.5   1.6
10.1.5     Table 4 below highlights the shortfall in the level of investments relative to appraisal estimates.
Table 4
WVAPDA's FY95-FY99 Investment Program
___________ __  l 1995  1996         1997        1998        1999        Total
Planned:                               _      _ __r_X
Local                          386.1         437.2        433.1       440.4       507.7     2,204.50
Foreign                        486.2         503.7        573.2       626.7         665     2,854.80
Total                          872.3         940.9     1,006.30    1,067.10      1172.7     5,059.30
Actual:                                                       _
Local                          361.1         513.0        202.6       231.0       232.5       1,540.3
Foreign                        319.1         317.6        290.6       202.8       190.5       1,320.6
Total                          680.2         830.6        493.2       433.8       423.0       2,860.9
Actual as % of Planned  _
Local                           93.5         117.3         46.8        52.5        45.8         69.9
Foreign                         65.6          63.0         50.7        32.4        28.6         46.3
Total                _          78.0          88.3         49.0        40.7        36.1         56.5
Exchange Rate (Rs/$)            30.85         33.57        38.99       43.20       46.23
10.1.6    WAPDA compiled for the ICR mission some information on the impact of the physical
activities which were financed from the Loan. Selected details related to the qualitative and
quantitative improvement in operating performance of the distribution feeders which were
- 35 -



rehabilitated under the Project are listed in Table 5 below.
Table 5
Selected Performance Indicators - Impact of
ELR works
Voltage rops             Losses %                   Tripping (No.)
Pre-Works Post-Works Reduction Pre-Works Post-Works Reduction Pre-Works Post-Works Reduction
LESCO          15.7     12.9    2.80      30.1    23.4      6.6      315      223      29
GEPCO          18.2      5.6   12.60      12.2     9.7      2.5      180      113      40
IESCO          27.1     16.3   10.70      41.1    28.4     12.7     299        70      77
FESCO          25.5      8.5   17.00      10.6     8.3      2.3      170       90      47
MEPCO          18.6      9.1    9.50      6.9      2.3      4.6     159       129      19
HESCO          16.4       8     8.40      14.1     2.6     11.5      16         5      68
PESCO          22.2       3     19.20      13      5.1        8       7         2      71
QESCO          26.8     14.3   12.50      36.7    28.4      8.3      103       53      48
Overall  _                      11.59        1 _            6.31                       44
10.1.7 The environmental and social aspects of the Project were prepared through a pre-appraisal
mission in September 1991 and a specific environmental review mission in January 1992, and
confinned by the pre-appraisal mission of February-March 1992. The Project was rated a
Category B operation, as the Project was expected to finance mainly the expansion and
rehabilitation of WAPDA's transmission and distribution networks, and such investments do not
have any significant adverse impacts on the environment. The ICR mission concurs with this
rating, since only a limited amount of land needs to be acquired for such facilities, and the cost of
land and compensation for income or other losses during construction for such
components/sub-projects is a very small percentage of the total cost of those components (para
10.1.11).
10.1.8 The environmental component which was agreed under this Project involved strengthening
of WAPDA's environmental management capacity (including training of staff, acquiring
equipment and facilities for analysis, monitoring and modelling, preparation/updating of manuals
and procedures for monitoring, evaluations, etc.) and carrying out a comprehensive Sectoral
Environmental Assessment Review (SEAR) of WAPDA's existing facilities and operations.
However, this component was not implemented since the process of selecting consultants to assist
WAPDA in carrying out these tasks was not completed. This assignment was initially expected to
be funded through a grant from CIDA, and the processing of that grant was discontinued
following the sanctions imposed by a number of donors after May 1998. Therefore, the
environmental component of the Project has been rated as Unsatisfactory, both during
implementation and for this ICR.
10.1.9 Partly to motivate WAPDA to carry out the assignment using funds available under the
Loan, the Bank requested WAPDA to document the legal framework and rules/standards relating
to the management of environmental and social issues, and WAPDA's own procedures, rules and
operational policies/practices for complying with the applicable laws and standards. This exercise
could have served as a basis for evaluating the existing framework and practices adopted by
WAPDA, identifying the main shortcomings and weaknesses, and developing a program for
- 36 -



addressing those weaknesses. Unfortunately, while a set of reports was prepared by WAPDA and
provided to the Bank in late 1999, neither the Bank nor WAPDA devoted any significant efforts
to follow up on these reports.
10.1.10 A brief review of thos,e reports has, however, been
undertaken as part of the preparation of this ICR. This review
indicates that:
(a)   The reports do not cover one key area which was expected to be reported in
detail -- i.e. the procedures, operating practices or protocols which WAPDA
is currently following, in order to comply with existing laws and standards
relating to environmental and social issues have not been documented.
Consequently, those reports cannot help in identifying the main weaknesses in
environmental management capacity, or developing program to address such
shortfalls.
(b)   However, the ieports provide a comprehensive description of the legislative
framework governing environmental management activities in Pakistan,
particularly for the power sector. The legislation in force in Pakistan was
found to be comnprehensive, and on par with or better than enviromnental
legislation in most South Asian countries. It aims to address environmental
issues in a manner that is consistent with applicable Bank Guidelines, including
the Pollution Prevention and Abatement Handbook.
(c)   Some of the entities do have formal environmental management units (a report
covering the activities of the GENCOs was provided to the Bank),
environmental monitoring procedures and equipment are in place, and monthly
reports on emissions are prepared. However, it is unclear whether these
reports are reviewed periodically by management, what processes exist for
seeking management decisions on key issues -- e.g. for the replacement of
equipment that may be out of order or needing replacement, and whether
WAPDA's operations are complying with the standards notified by the
respective (federal of provincial) Environmental Protection Agencies.
In summary, the ICR mission is of the view that the legislative framework governing
environmental issues in Pakistan is comprehensive, and while WAPDA and the entities do expend
considerable resources towards monitoring and reporting on environmental issues, considerable
gaps and weaknesses remain. The more notable is the apparent lack of regular management
oversight of the entities' compliance with environmental standards and guidelines, and the absence
of a process to ensure that the entities' operations do in fact comply with the applicable laws and
regulations -- e.g. those applicable for liquid and gaseous emissions.
10.1.11  The ICR mission also received from WAPDA the procedures adopted for valuing and
determining the compensation for any assets (including land) that are acquired, or for losses of
income during the construction of transmission or distribution facilities. The land which is
- 37 -



required for any facilities, including tower foundations, grid stations, etc, is acquired in
accordance with the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, and the magnitude of compensation
for crops, trees or fruit bearing plants (inside a 25 meter corridor on each side of the line) is
determined by WAPDA revenue staff in coordination with the concerned provincial food and
forest departments. Compensation for houses, tubewells or other structures which need to be
removed for any transmission lines is based on the cost for dismantling and reconstruction of the
structures -- i.e. on a full replacement cost basis. WAPDA also provided to the mission the actual
costs for land and income losses for a few components/sub-project which were financed from the
Loan (determining the cost of land and income losses for all Bank financed components, involving
e.g. 1000 kms of STG lines covering 40-50 sub-projects -- or for the overall investment program
covering 5500 kms of lines and possibly hundreds of components/sub-projects -- is beyond the
scope of the ICR). Compensation amounting to Rs. 20.98 million was paid for the land (about
301 kanals) which was acquired for the Islamabad Peshawar Road 220 kV substation, while Rs
0.16 million was paid as compensation for losses of crops/trees, etc. For the Sialkot 220 kV
substation Rs 9.46 million was paid as compensation paid for land (about 375 kanals), while Rs
0.33 million was paid as compensation for income losses. The value of the contracts for these
substations was about US$ 20.5 million, therefore the cost of land and compensation for income
and other losses during construction was a very small fraction of the overall cost of the
sub-projects.
10.1.12  Table 6 below provides a summary of the procurement process for the investment
component. While it highlights the substantial reduction in time required for preparation of
bidding documents, tendering and award of contracts during FY98-99 compared to the earlier
years, the number of contracts which were tendered in the initial phase was substantially larger, so
a direct comparison between these two periods is not really appropriate. Nevertheless, it
recognized that there was significant scope for improvement in the procurement timetable during
the initial years of the Project.
- 38 -



rJ~~* 
1'             -   Pt     1W~~~~~~~~~a
.4          1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
.4,          1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  - ~ ~ ~ ~ C
.~~~                        4.'
*                                          0~~~~'"
~~~~  4  4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:8
tndlIcter/Matrix                   Projected It last PSR                 ActuaULatest Eotmate
Implementation of Strategic plan for  First phase lnvoMng corporatzation of  Corporatzation of WAPDA expected to be
restructuring and privatizatlon of power  WAPDA, development of regulatory  completed by end-December 2002
sector                                framework, and enhancdng commercal
orientation and skdils expected to be
conpleted by end-June 2001
Investments for eliminating chronic shortage  ElecricIty shortages largely eliminated, and  Same as in last PSR
of electricity at least cost          there Is no formal load-shedding sinee
1998-99, In part due to additions to
generatng capacty through IPPs, and lower
growth In elecrictty demand
Enhancing resource mobilIzation capacity  WAPDAs finandal position remains a cause While WAPDAs finances Improved during
and improving operational performance  for concem, though there has been    FY99-00, the financial situation has again
substantial Improvement in recent years  been strained in FYsOl and 02. GOP and
WAPDA are preparing (with Bank support) a
Financial Improvement Plan for WAPDA
Strengthen environmental management   Objedives envisaged under the projed were Same as In last PSR
capacity                              not achieved
-40 -



Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                Actua/Latest Estimate
CorporaUzation of WAPDA              Corporatizaton of Discos to be completed  Corporatizaton of Discos expected to be
(licenses issued) by end-June 2001 and  completed by end-April 2002, and of the
Gencos and NTDC by end-December 2001  Gencos and NTDC expected to be
completed (licenses issued) by
end-December 2002
Establishing regulatory authority and  Regulatory agency established (Act was  Same as in last PSR
framework                             approved by Parliament In 1997) and has
notfied RuleslStandards for tariffs and for
license applicatons; preparaUion of remaining
rules/standards is underway
Pricing Reforms                      Tariff adjustments being carried out in  Tariff adjustments are being carried out as
accordance with NEPRA Rules/standards  per NEPRA Rules; Govemment has issued
policy guidelines to NEPRA regarding the
principles for tariffs setting; subsidies to low
income consumers; and moving towards
multi-year and formula based tariffs.
Manpower Transiton Program (MTP)     Work on key aspects of MTP is well    Phase I (transfer of WAPDA staff to entties
advanced; WAPDA staff (except for some  on secondment basis) completed end-2000;
2300 staff in HQ funcUons and common  contract format for formal transfer to entities'
services) have been transferred to corporate payroll has been developed and offered to
entities; studies for assessment of pension  employees in Grades 1-16 starting from July
liabilities and other benefits for staff have  2001. For officers (Grades 17 and above)
been completed.                      principles for secondment from WAPDA will
be amended by end-April 2002, to provide full
autonomy to the entiUes for managing HR
issues for officers.
Initial privatizaton of WAPDA assets  Kot Addu power station privatized June 1996; Same as in last PSR
preparatory work for privatization of one
distribution entity and Lakhra power station is
under way.
Outcomes                             Appraisal Estimate                    Acutal Accomplishments
Investment Program                   About 1960 kms of transmission lines  About 1900 kms lines constructed
EHV: 500 kV trans. lines             Conversion of Rewat and Gakhar grid   Rewat 500 kV Grid station completed in
Grid stations/Transformer capacity   stations from 220 kV to 500 kV        1997; upgrading of Gakhar grid station from
220 kV to 500 kV not implemented as yet
STG: Transmission lines              About 5500 kms of transmission lines  5200 kms lines constructed
Grid stations/Trans. capacity        About 10, 156 MVA transformer capacity  4259 MVA transformer capacity added
Operatonal and Financial Performance
Sales (million kWh)                  38201                                 35032
FY95
FY99                                 55471                                 38906
New Consumer Connections             1.9 m. new connecUons to be provided during 2.2 m. new connections provided during
FY95-99                               FY95-99
T&D Losses                           To be reduced from 21.5% in FY95 to 18.5%  Losses were reduced to about 26% in FY01
by FY98-99                            from about 27% in FY99; adjustments made
in prior years' loss figures, to account for
receivables which WAPDA had to write-off
Thermal heat rate                    Projected to be maintained at about 11,000  Maintained at about 10,500 BTU/kWh
BTU/kWh
Financial Performance                (aggregates for FY95-99 period)       (aggregates for FY95-99 period)
Net Operating Income                 Rs 169 billion                        Rs 105.4 billion
Investment program                   Rs 173.97 billion                     Rs 103.45 billion
Employees on WAPDA Payroll           157,783 as of June 30, 1995           Reduced to 135,897 by June 30, 1999.
Projected staffing level on June 30, 2001 is
130,256
End of project
-41 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost b Com onent (in US$ million e livalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component           US$ million   US$ million
Restructuring and Privatzation                    20.20          15.00          74.2
Investment                                      3107.00        2861.00          92.7
Technical Assitance                                7.80           5.00           64
Total Baseline Cost                             3135.00        2881.00
Physical Contingencies                          274.00-
Price Contingencies                             497.90
Total Project Costs          3906.90       2881.00
Interest during construction  563.10
Total Financing Required          4470.00        2881.00
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category     ICB       Procurement Method          N.B.F.    Total Cost
NCB         Other2    _   ____
1. Works                   102.60        0.00         0.00         0.00        102.60
(60.80)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (60.80)
2. Goods                    137.80       0.00         10.00        9.60        157.40
(137.80)      (0.00)      (10.00)       (0.00)     (147.80)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         23.30        0.00        23.30
for Restructuring and       (0.00)       (0.00)      (19.40)       (0.00)     (19.40)
Privatization component
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         2.40         0.00        2.40
Training                    (0.00)       (0.00)       (2.00)      (0.00)       (2.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0,00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (V.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                    240.40        0.00        35.70         9.60       285.70
(198.60)      (0.00)      (31.40)       (0.00)     (230.00)
-42-



Project Costs by Procuremeni: Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement 'Method'-,
Expendityre Category        ICB                        Nt       ; ih     F.;    TOtal-Cost
1. Works                       3.00           0.00          0.00          0.00         3.00
(3.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (3.00)
2. Goods                       187.38         0.00          0.00          0.00        187.38
_  (187.38)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (187.38)
3. Services                    10.22          0.00          9.40          0.00         19.62
for Restructuring and         (10.22)        (0.00)        (9.40)        (0.00)       (19.62)
Privatization component
4. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
Training                       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
_   (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
_   (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       200.60         0.00          9.40          0.00        210.00
_  (200.60)        (0.00)       (9.40)        (0.00)       (210.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management officz, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Componenl (in USS million equivalent)
-   Percentage of Appraisal
Component            -Appraisal Estimate         lActul/Iatest Estimate
x____a, _g_' _A  __    Bank      Govt.  * <  9tz   '  B;nk  ~ ; I ............... i>*   L . CoF. 0   IBank  Govt.  CoF.
-43 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The ERR for the project has been computed using the assumptions which were used at appraisal. The actual levels
of WAPDA's investment program and the actual levels of electricity sales (including incremental sales -- the
benefit to be derived from this Project) are the only changes. The Table below provides the detailed (ex-post) rate
of return calculations.
Economic Evaluation of WAPDA's Development Plan FY 1995-2000
Costs in US$ m
Incremental values-
Energy                     Total
Fiscal  Capital  Production  Energy   Sales    Fuel Cost O&M Cost Incr. Costs Incremental  Cash Flow at  Additional  Aggregate
Year    Cost     GWh         Sales    GWh                                   Revenue at    Avenge       benefits      Benefits
GWH                                            Average Tariff Tariff      (consumer
surplus)
1994                42396    32131
1995   626.11       46126    35032     2901       61     15.65      76.64        181.57    -521.18           45.96    -475.22
1996   737.35       48859    36925     4794      191     33.00     223.84       256.24     -704.95           72.81    -632.13
1997   437.38       50782    38529     6398      139     38.04     177.50        278.12    -336.77           75.27    -261.50
1998   387.72       53259    39422     7291      105     45.24     150.29       318.14     -219.87           75.76    -144.10
1999   371.98       53683    38900     6769       44     51.05      95.24        297.84    -169.39           60.86    -108.53
2000    398.20      55873    40910     8779       135    56.13     190.78        329.51    -259.47           67.93    -191.54
2001      0.00      55873    40910     8779       135    56.13     190.78        329.51     138.73           67.93     206.66
2002      0.00      55873    40910     8779       135    56.13     190.78        329.51     138.73           67.93     206.66
2003      0.00      55873    40910     8779       135    56.13     190.78        329.51     138.73           67.93     206.66
2004      0.00      55873    40910     8779       135    56.13     190.78        329.51     138.73           67.93     206.66
2005      0.00      55873    40910     8779       135    56.13     190.78        329.51     138.73           67.93     206.66
2006      0.00      55873    40910     8779       135    56.13     190.78        329.51     138.73           67.93     206.66
2007      0.00      55873    40910     8779       135    56.13     190.78        329.51     138.73           67.93     206.66
2008      0.00      55873    40910     8779       135    56.13     190.78        329.51     138.73           67.93     206.66
2009      0.00      55873    40910     8779       135    56.13     190.78        329.51      138.73          67.93     206.66
2010      0.00      55873    40910     8779       135    56.13     190.78        329.51      138.73          67.93     206.66
2011      0.00      55873    40910     8779       135    56.13     190.78        329.51      138.73          67.93     206.66
2012      0.00      55873    40910     8779       135    56.13     190.78        329.51      138.73          67.93     206.66
2013      0.00      55873    40910     8779       135    56.13     190.78        329.51      138.73          67.93     206.66
2014      0.00      55873    40910     8779       135    56.13     190.78        329.51      138.73          67.93     206.66
2015      0.00      55873    40910     8779       135    56.13     190.78        329.51      138.73          67.93     206.66
2016      0.00      55873    40910     8779       135    56.13     190.78        329.51      138.73          67.93     206.66
2017      0.00      55873    40910     8779       135    56.13     190.78        329.51      138.73          67.93     206.66
2018      0.00      55873    40910     8779       135    56.13     190.78        329.51      138.73          67.93     206.66
2019      0.00      55873    40910     8779       135    56.13     190.78        329.51      138.73          67.93     206.66
2020      0.00      55873    40910     8779       135    56.13      190.78       329.51      138.73          67.93     206.66
Total benefits      562.91                    2320.13
NPV (at 5% discount rate)            -643.82                     323.44
Economic Rate of Retum                  1.70                      6.60
Source: WAPDA and mission estimates.
- 44 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage ofProject Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty         Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Mondh/Year    Count         Specialty                    Progress     Objective
Identlflcatlon/Preparatlon
04-05/1991                 4   PE(2), EC, FA
09-10/1991                 6   PE, FA(2), EC (2), Cons
02-03/1992                 5   PE, EC (2), FA (2)
Appraisal/Negotlatlon
06-7/1992                  5   PE (1), FA (2), EC (2)
06/1993                    6   PE (2), EC (2), FA, ES
11/1993                    4   PE (2), EC (2)
04/1994                    2   PE, EC
Supervision
07/12/1994                 2   PE, EC                           S            S
09/201994                                                       S            S
06/01/1995                 3   PE,FA, EC                        S            S
02V16/1996                 4   PE, FA, EC, Cons.                S            S
05/31/1996                 4   PE, FA, 2 EC                     S            S
06/11/1996                 4   PE, EC (2), Cons.                S            S
01/21/1997                 4   PE, EC(2), FA                    S            S
07/08/1997                 4   PE, EC(2), FA                    S            S
12/09/1997                 5   SM, PE, EC, PSDS, Cons.          U            S
06/24/1998                 3   PE,FA,EA                         U            S
01/11/1999                                                      S            S
02V05/1999                 4   PE, EC (2), Cons                 S            S
06/30/1999                 6   FA, EC, PE, Cons. (3)            S            S
11/23/1999                 6   FA, EC, PE, Cons. (3)            S            s
03/24/2000                 5   FA, PE, EC, Cons. (2)            S            S
06/16/2000                 6   FA, EC, PE, PSDS, Cons. (2)      S            S
12/15/2000                 3   EC, PE, PSDS, Cons.              S            S
ICR
06/14/2001                 4    EC, FA, PSDS, Cons.             S            S
PE: Power Engineer; FA: Financial Analyst; EC: Economist; ES: Environmental Specialist; PSDS: Private Sector
Development Specialist; SM: Sectcr Manager; EA: Energy Advisor
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staffweeks             US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation            143.7                     231.5
Appraisal/Negotiation                 107.8                     302.3
Supervision                          335.4                      825.2
ICR                                    16.4                       8.3
Total                                603.3                     1,367.3
-45 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                       O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
O Sector Policies                      O H  *SUOM      O N O NA
El Physical                            OH   *SUOM      ON   ONA
O Financial                            OH   OSU@M      ON   ONA
OI Institutional Development           O H  O SU * M   O N  0 NA
O Environmental                        O H  OSUOM      * N  O NA
Social
CJ Poverty Reduction             O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
L Gender                         O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
Fl Other (Please specify)        O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
LI Private sector development          0 H  O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
OI Public sector management            0 H  O SU* M    0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
-46 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
O Lending                                          OHS OS OU OHU
G Supervision                                      OHS OS       OU     OHU
O Overall                                          OHS OS       O U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
O Preparation                                      O HS * S     O U    O HU
L Government implementation performance-           0 HS 0 S     0 U    0 HU
O Implementation agency perfornance                O HS * S     O U    O HU
OI Overall                                         OHS OS       O U    O HU
Performance of the implementing agencies during the implementation stage of this Project is rated as
"Marginally Satisfactory". This rating reflects the fact that some of the key objectives of the Project were
not fully completed by the Closing Date. For details see paras 7.6.4 and 7.6.5.
- 47 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
WAPDA's Strategic Plan for the Privatisation of the Pakistan Power Sector, prepared by International
Resources Group, April 1992
Water and Power Development Authority -- CORPORATIZATION/COMMERCIALIZATION
PROJECT, Final Report, prepared by SyCip, Gorres, Velayo & Co. (SGV & Co.), October 1998
Water and Power Development Authority -- CORPORATIZATION/COMMERCIALIZATION
PROJECT, Extension Program, Final Report (Four Volumes), prepared by SyCip, Gorres, Velayo
& Co. (SGV & Co.), May 1999
Pakistan -- Reform of Tariff Policy and Tariff Administration, Final report (3 Volumes), prepared
by International Resources Group, October 1998
Manpower Transition Program for Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority, Final
report, prepared by Sidat Hyder Morshed Associates, 1997.
Domestic Resource Mobilization for the Energv Sector, prepared by ANZ Grindlays Bank, April
1996
WAPDA -- Modernization and Upgrading of NTDC Load Dispatch System, Final Report,
prepared by National Engineering Services Pakistan Ltd. (NESPAK), March 2001.
WAPDA -- Preparation of Grid Code. Distribution Code and Consumer Services Manual. Final
report, prepared by Associated Consulting Engineers (ACE), Harza Engineerging Company and
EMMAY Associates, March 2001.
WAPDA -- Upgrading of Plannin,e Capabilities of Discos. Preparation of medium-term
Distribution System Development Plans. etc, Final Report, prepared by Acres International and
IN Consult, March 2001
Regulation of Generation. Transmission and Distribution of Electric Power Act (XL of 1997),
Government of Pakistan, 1997.
Tariff Standards and Procedures Rules, NEPRA, December 1998.
Licensing Rules for Distribution Companies, NEPRA, April 1999.
License Application and Modification Procedure Regulations, NEPRA, MArch 1999
Licensing Rules and License Form for Generation Companies, NEPRA, April 2000
Fees. Fines and Penalties Rules. NEPRA, January 2002.
Annual Report 2000-2001, National Electric Power Regulatory Authority, September 30, 2001.
Quaterly Progress Reports (FY94-2001), WAPDA
- 48 -






IMAGING
Report No.:         22889
Type:     ICR



