Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11286-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JUNE 3, 1994
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents ma; not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



C RRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 1994)
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1 = 30.03
Rs 1 = 0.033
Rs 1 = 100 paisas
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilovolt (kV)                                  =   1,000 volts (V)
1 megavolt (MVA)                                  =   1,000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
1 megawatt (MW)                                  =   1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)                            =   1 million kilovatt hours (knh)
1 barrel (bbl)                                   =   0.1342 metr.c con
1 metric ton of oil (MTO)                        =   7.4 bbLs.
1 BOPD                                           =   1 barrel of oil per day
MCF                                               =   1 thousand cu. ft.
MMCF                                              =   1 million cu. ft.
BCFD                                              =   1 bilLion cu. ft. per day
TCF                                               =   1 trillion cu. ft.
MMCFD                                             =   1 million cu. ft. per day
BTU                                               =   1 British Thermal Unit
= 0.2520 Kilo Calories (KCal)
TOE                                              =   1 ton of oil equivalent = 1 thousand
kilograms of oil equivalent
KGOE                                              =   1 kilogram of oil equivalent
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB        -    Asian Development Bank
AEBs       -    Area Electricity Boards
CCE        -    Cabinet Committee on Energy
CCOP       -    Cabinet Committee on Privatization
CIDA       -    Canadian International Development Agency
EHV        -    Extra High Voltage
EMU        -    Environmental Management Unit
ESMAP      -    Energy Strategy Management Assistance Program
EUAD       -    Environment and Urban Affairs Division
FMIP       -    Financial Management Improvement Program
GOP        -    Government of Pakistan
ICB        -    International Competitive Bidding
ICG        -    Internal Cash Generation
IUCN       -    International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources
KESC       -    Karachi Electric Supply Corporation
LIB        -    Limited International Bidding
MIS        -    Management Information System
MOF        -    Ministry of Finance
MOP        -    Ministry of Production
MPNk       -    Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources
MwP        -    Ministry of Water and Power
NCS        -    National Conservation Strategy
NEPRA      -    National Electric Power Regulatory Authority
NRL        -    National Refinery Limited
ODA        -    UK Overseas Development Administration
OGDC       -    Oil and Gas Development Corporation
PC1        -    Project Concept
PC         -    Privatization Commission
PCR        -    Project Completion Report
pp         -    1994 Petroleum Policy
PPAR       -    Project Performance Audit Report
PPC        -    Private Power Cell
PRL        -    Pakistan Refineries Limited
PSO        -    Pakistan State Oil Limited
SNGPL      -    Sui Northern Gas Pipeline Limited
SSGC       -    Sui Southern Gas Corporation
STG        -    Secondary Transmission Grid
USAID      -    United States Agency for International Development
WAPDA      -    Water and Power Development Authority
WPPO        -    WAPDA Private Power Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
POWER SECTOR DEVELO)MENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summarv
Borrower:          Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries:    The Government of Pakistan (GOP) and the Water and Power
Development Authority (WAPDA)
Amount:            US$230 million
Terms:             Repayment over 20 years, including a five-year grace period,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Onlendinc  Terms:  Out of the total Loan proceeds, US$12.0 million will be
utilized by GOP and US$218 million will be onlent to WAPDA
at 11% per annum, with the same grace and repayment periods
as those of the proposed Bank Loan. GOP will bear the
interest and foreign exchange risks related to the Loan.
Proiect
Description:       The proposed project would consist of: (a) a restructgrinq
and privatization comPonent involving the implementation of
a Strategic Plan which would include inter alia: (i) the
reorganization and corporatization of WAPDA into a holding
company with decentralized power generation, transmission
and distribution subsidiaries operating as discrete
autonomous profit centers; (ii) the establishment of a
National Electric Power Regulatory Authority (NEPRA) to set
standards and regulate a largely privately operated power
sector; (iii) the adoption of a pricing policy which would
provide the incentives needed to support the project's
privatization objectives; (iv) the development of a labor
transition program that would allow the privatization of the
power sector to occur in a manner that provides adequate
management flexibility to the private sector while
addressing the concerns of labor; and (v) the initial
offering for sale to the private sector of parts of WAPDA's
assets; (b) an investment comoonent involving the
implementation of a four-year (1995-1998) time-slice of
WAPDA's investment program, while improving the reliability
of the system in order to make it more efficient and more
attractive to private investors; and (c) a technical
assistance com=onent involving consulting services and
training for (a) and (b) above, and for strengthening
WAPDA's environmental capability.
Benefits:          The main benefits of the project are: (a) improvement in the
operations and managerial efficiency of the power system;
(b) increase in power supply and improvement in the quality
of service of WAPDA's power system; (c) decrease in the
amount of unserved energy; and (d) strengthening of WAPDA's
environmental assessment and mitigation capabilities.
Tis document has a resrted distniWon and may be used by recipients only in the pefanceb oftbr
official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Risks:            The principal risks of the operation are: (i) the
possibility that the corporate restructuring and
privatization of WAPDA will not be implemented successfully;
and (ii) delays in the implementation of the investment
program and in the mobilization of the corresponding local
financing requirements, stemming from the macroeconomic
uncertainty. The Government's commitment to the proposed
program of actions and the preparatory work already
completed would suggest that these risks have been reduced
to an acceptable level. Furthermore, even if the
anticipated privatization through divestiture/sale of assets
is not accomplished, the benefits to be derived from the
restructuring and corporatization program, and the
establishment of NEPRA would offset part of the risks
associated with the Government's inability to privatize
parts of WAPDA's infrastructure.
Estimated Cost:
Local         ForeiQn          Total
------      (US$ million)---
A.  Restruc./Privatiz. Comp.         4.4              15.8          20.2
S. Investment Component
Generation                   486.5           1252.4         1738.9
Transmission                 324.7            387.3          712.0
Distribution                  91.6             94.6          186.2
Rural Electrification         65.3            125.5          19 .8
Consulting Services
and Equipment                1.3              6.5            7.8
Custom duties & Taxes        279.1              0.0          279.1
Base Costs (June 1992)   1248.5            1866.3         3114.8
Physical Contingencies      98.1            175.9          274.0
Price Contingencies        350.3            147.6          427.9
Total Cost B                1696.9           2189.8         3886.7
C.  Total Project Cost (A & B)   1701.3             2205.6        3906.9
IDC                            263.8            299.3          563.1
Total Financing Required
Financinq Plan:
Local         Foreign
Currency        Currency         'otal      e_
Proposed Bank Loan                                   230.0         230.0      5.1
Ongoing Bank loans                                   250.0         250.0      5.6
Other Existing Loans                                1293.9        1293.9    28.9
WAPDA's cash generation,          1790.2                          1790.2    40.0
Govt. Contribution and
Identified Loans not com-
mitted yet & other sources                         731.0         731.0    16.4
WAPDA's Local Borrowing            174.9                          _174.9      4.0
TOTAL                                     5             4470.0   10.0



- vi -
Estimated Disbursements (US$ million):
Bank Fiscal Year:              FY95       FY96      ELK'    FY98        F9
Annual                   37.55     66.65      63.43    40.05      22.32
Cumulative               37.55    104.20    167.63   207.68    230.00
Economic Rate of Return:       12t wased on tariffs)
Poverty Catecory:              Not applicable



PAKISTAN
POWER SECTOR DEVXLOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THH ENBRGY SECTOR
Overview
1.1       In the late 1980's, the Government of Pakistan (GOP) launched a
structural adjustment program to overcome macroeconomic imbalances that had
worsened during the decade, and to improve the country's growth prospects.
Key objectives of the program are to reduce the fiscal deficit to sustainable
levels, improve the allocation of public expenditures and the efficiency of
resource use in several sectors, and increase private sector participation in
the ezonomic activities in the country. The energy sector is critical to the
achievement of these objectives, as it accounts for about 33% of public
investments.
1.2       The development of the energy sector has been severely affected by
numerous constraints: (a) energy prices were maintained at levels well below
their equivalent border prices or costs of production; (b) the sector lacked a
regulatory framework which would provide the parameters for the operation and
management of all enterprises, public and private; and (c) implementation
capability and operational efficiency of the enterprises in the sector were
below acceptable levels.
1.3       In an effort to address these issues and set the sector on its
growth path, the GOP, with the assistance of the Bank, formulated in 1985 a
Long-Term Energy Strategy (LES). The LES provided the broad objectives for
the sector's development. Its objectives were to meet forecast demand for
energy at least cost, while reducing the extent of dependence on energy
imports. These were to be achieved by accelerating the development of energy
resources; improving the efficiency of energy consumption, through the
introduction of demand-side management measures, and providing full autonomy
to the energy enterprises to allow them flexibility in deploying the resources
and generation of surpluses needed for the future development of the sector;
and moving gradually towards greater reliance on the private sector for
mobilizing additional financial resources, and harnessing its technical and
managerial expertise. The Bank supported the implementation of the first
seven years of LES through two sector loans, i.e., ESL I (Ln. 2552-PAK) in
1985 and ESL II (Ln. 3107-PAK) in 1989, and several investment loans.
1.4       Under these operations, reforms have been implemented, and progress
has been made in each of the areas mentioned above. In particular, some of
the main institutions in the sector have been restructured, important energy
price reforms have been introduced, and the financial performance of the
sector has made considerable improvements. In addition, GOP has introduced,
with the assistance of the Bank, a program to increase the role of private
sector in new power generation projects. Implementation of this strategy was
initiated in FY89 through the establishment of the Private Sector Energy
Development Fund (PSEDF I, Ln.2982-PAR), to create a vehicle to provide long-
term debt financing and a limited-recourse project-finance facility, and to



- 2 -
form a new institutional framework to facilitate the dev3lopment of private
sector power projects. A Private Power Cell in the Ministry of Water and
Power was created to promote and evaluate proposals and negotiate agreements
on private sector generation projects; a Private Power Organization was
established in the Water and Development Authority to negotiate and administer
power purchase agreements with the private sector; and a Private Energy
Division was formed in the National Development Finance Corporation to
administer the PSEDF. Although the private sector has responded favorably to
the Government's initiatives, the first project (Hub Power Complex--1,292 MW)
has experienced substantial delays, being the first major power project in the
private sector and because, among others, of the large financing requirements
under limited recourse. Hub Power Project is now close to financial closure,
and some of its key agreements would set the tone for future privatization
projects.
1.5       In spite of these efforts, the development of the energy sector
continues to be constrained by a lack of financial resources and insufficient
implementation capability. As a result, energy supply constraints have
continued, as reflected by the load-shedding (reaching a level of about 25% of
power peak demand in FY93), and gas supply shortages. Recognizing the urgent
need for major changes and to ensure that the pace of privatization is
sustained, GOP has decided to complement and reinforce the above approach by
adopting a more comprehensive energy strategy which aims at enhancing the
private sector involvement in the energy sector; restructuring WAPDA, and
privatizing selected parts of its assets; and establishing a National
Regulatory Authority for the power sector. This strategy culminated with the
announcement in March 1994 of a comprehensive Policy Framework and Package of
Incentives for Private Sector Power Generation Projects and a Petroleum
Policy. The energy policy sets out a vision of greater dependence on market
forces and private sector involvement while streamlining the institutional and
regulatory framework in the sector. Particular emphasis is placed on
improving the efficiency of the sector through the implementation of more
aggressive demand-side management measures, loss reduction programs, and the
introduction of targets for increasing the operational efficiency of the main
enterprises. Overall, Pakistan's power sector reform program is consistent
with the Bank's new power sector lending policy.
1.6       The Bank's strategy is to support these actions through a series of
lending operations. The proposed Project which is fully consistent with the
Country Assistance Strategy discussed with the Executive Directors on March
31, 1994, would further accelerate the implementation of the restructuring and
privatization program in the sector, and induce the creation of a deregulated
market, whereby public and private sectors compete in the supply and
distribution of electricity. In addition, a proposed PSEDF II would continue
supporting private sector power generation projects under limited recourse
financing. This facility is also required to sustain the implementation of
the Hub Project, which is critical to the success of GOP strategy for private
sector involvement in the energy sector.
Inatitutional Settinc
1.7       The responsibility for the energy sector is shared by four
ministries: the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources (MPNR), the
Ministry of Planning and Development, the Ministry of Water and Power (MWP),
and the Ministry of Production (MOP). A high-level Cabinet Committee on



Energy (CCE), chaired by the Prime Minister, is responsible for the review and
approval of all plans, policies and projects in the energy sector, while the
implementation of the approved projects is under the control of the respective
ministries and entities. An Energy Review Group provides coordination among
the entities and ministries and monitors the progress of ongoing projects,
programs, policy actions and issues. In addition, the Environment and Tirban
Affairs Division (EUAD), Ministry of Housing and Works, is responsible for
formulating and monitoring the implementation of GOP's environmental policies,
including those for the energy sector.
1.8       The management of day-to-day operations in the energy sector is
vested in a number cf public ana private sector entities. The public sector
entities are: (a) the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA), which is
responsible for developing Pakistan's water resources and for the
construction, operation and maintenance of power generation, transmission and
distribution facilities throughout the country, except the Karachi area; (b)
the Oil and Gas Development Corporation (OGDC) for exploration and development
of oil and gas; (c) the Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation, for the
exploration and development of mineral resources; (d) the State Petroleum
Refining and Petrochemical Corporation which owns the National Refinery
Limited (NRL), for processing crude oil. Also involved in the energy sector
are a number of semi-autonomous entities in which GOP has a controlling
interest either directly or through public institutions. These are: (a)
Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC), which is responsible for the
construction, operation and maintenance of power generation, transmission and
distribution facilities in the Karachi area; (b) Sui Northern Gas Pipeline
Limited (SNGPL) and Sui Southern Gas Corporation (SSGC) which is responsible
for the transmission and distribution of natural gas; and (c) Pakistan State
oil Limited (PSO) responsible for marketing and distribution of petroleum
products. Private sector entities include a large number of Pakistani coal
mining companies; t--o refineries and five oil and gas development companies.
All operational entities (public and semi-autonomous) are under the
jurisdiction of MPNR, except for WAPDA, KESC, NRL and Pakistan Refineries
Limited (PRL). MWP has jurisdiction over WAPDA and KESC, and MOP over NRL and
PRL.
Enerav Resource Endowment
1.9       Pakistan's commercially exploitable energy resources consist of
hydropower, natural gas, oil and coal. In addition, the country has a large
base of traditional fuels in the form of fuelwood and agricultural and animal
waste, which provide a major share of rural consumers, energy needs. Given
its favorable geographical location, the country enjoys a high level of
insolation. Despite its endowment of energy resources, Pakistan's dependence
on energy imports has been higher than envisaged by GOP in the previous five-
year plans, principally due to financial and implementation constraints.
1.10      The hydropower potential in Pakistan is estimated at about 27,000
MW under average hydrological conditions. As of December 1993, only about
4,825 MW (18%) of this capacity was developed or committed. A large number of
medium and large sized hydroelectric projects have been proposed and studied
to varying levels of details. In particular, detailed engineering studies
have been completed for two major hydro projects, Kalabagh (3,600 Mw), and
Ghazi Barotha (1,400 Mw), while steps are being tak.en to initiate the
feasibility study for Basha hydro project (3,300 MW).



1.11      In the oil subsector, current estimates of remaining recoverable
reserves amount to about 27.3 million tons as against the original estimate of
recoverable reserves of 64.5 million tons. Pakistan's major oil fields
(Dhulian, Balkassar and Meyal) have largely been exploited, with domestic oil
production having increased from 39,300 BOPD in FY86 to about 60,000 BOPD in
FY93, resulting in a reserves to production ratio of only nine years. With a
view to improve the incentives for additional exploracion activity, and offset
the declining reserve/production ratio, GOP announced a package of reforms in
the Petroleum Policy (PP), which was approved in February 1994. These reforms
include more expeditious procedures for awarding exploration licenses, the
elimination of discount mechanism for producer price of oil, and the deferment
of duties on imported equipment for exploration activities to the production
phase.
1.12      Pakistan has substantial Las reserves, which have not been
adequately exploited. Proven recoverable reserves of gas are estimated to be
large at 22.8 TCF (including 1.8 TCF of associated gas reserves) of which 9.6
TCF were discovered during the last 5 years, mainly through the new fields at
Qadirpur (3.9 TCF) and Kadanwari (1 TCF). Over the same period, gas
production has also increased from about 1.0 BCFD in FY86 to about 1.6 BCFD in
FY93. Despite the recent discoveries, gas exploration has proceeded at a
slower -ate of development than the resources warrant, in part due to th.s
genera: 7 limited interest by the oil industry in gas exploration. To address
this iL ie, the PP, in addition to the above-mentioned reforms common for oil
and gas exploration, modified the gas producer formula in favor of the
producers, eliminated the discretionary discount mechanism on the gas producer
prices, decreased government participation during the exploration and
production phases, and decreased the income tax rate (see para 1.19).
1.13      Domestic proven reserves of coal and li-nite as of the end of FY93
are estimated at about 734 million tons, of which 432 million tons are
recoverable. In FY93, the production was only 3.3 million tons of which about
46,700 tons have been used for supplying about 44 GWh of power generation.
Given the poor quality of domestic coal, and in order to increase its
utilization in power generation, WAPDA has commissioned the development of the
Lakhra project, based on the fluidized-bed combustion technology comprising
three units of 50 MW each. Prospects for further development of domestic
resources are promising, given the preliminary results of ongoing exploratory
activity financed by USAID, in the lower part of the Thar desert in Sindh
Province.
1.14      Most of the renewable enerqv is obtained by direct burning of
biomass, while the use of solar energy and biogas remains insignificant.
Given that the household sector accounts for over 80% of the biomass
consumption, and in face of the rapid increase of the population, there is
expected to be greater pressure on the already dwindling stock of the
country's forest resources as well as other forms of biomass. Reliable
statistics on the use of renewable energy have been developed under the
recently completed Household Energy Strategy Study carried out by GOP in
collaboration with the Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP).
The study is expected to provide the necessary basis for an integrated program
of assistance.



-5-
Enera_ Demand and  Supel
1.15      Pakistan's consumption of commercial energy increased between FY83
and FY93 at An average annual rate of about 6.6%, from 11.1 million TOE to
21.1 million TOE. This was due mainly to: (a) the growth of the economy of
5.7% p.a.; (b) increasing access to commercial energy resources by the
population and inadequate pricing policy for the residential sector in the
first part of the decade; (c) the modernization of the agriculture activities
(the energy intensity of the agriculture sector increased from 44.4 KGOE/'000$
in FY83 to 74.8 KGOE/'000$ of sectoral GDP in FY93); and (d) the increasing
pace of industrialization (the production of the industrial sector ii,creased
during the period at 7.1* p.a., compared to 3.8% p.a. of the agriculture
sector). In FY93, the shares of commercial energy consumption in the
following sectors were: 38.9% industrial, 33.0% transport 18.5% residential,
3.9% agriculture, 3.8% other government entities, and 2.9% commercial.
1.16      In terms of the ratio of different energy resources over gross
primary energy during the same period, the share of gas dropped from 43.6% to
37.7%, principally due to supply constraints. In contrast, reflecting the
balancing role of oil and petroleum products in the mix of fuels consumed,
their share rose from 34.1% in FY83 to 40.2* in FY93. However, despite the
sharp increase in the domestic production of crude oil (17.7% p.a.), which
increased its share tc 8.5% of total energy supply, the imports of crude oil
and petroleum products in FY93 continued to account for over 30% of total
energy supply. Within this, the share of imported petroleum products
increased from 28.7% to 49%, due to the limited expansion of the refinery
capacity in the country. The share of hydroelectricity in total energy
production has remained constant during the period at about 15%, despite the
completion of Phase II of the Tarbela Hydro Project. In order to supplement
this increase to meet the sharp rise in electricity consumption, thermal power
generation has also increased at the average annual rate of 12.8%. This, in
t-.rn, has resulted in a larger utilizarion of gas and petroleum products. /
The share of coal, although showing a slight increase over the period, was
low.r than expected, given the fact that no new major users of coal have
emerged. Table 1.1 summarizes the commercial energy supplies of the country
and Annex 1.1 gives the FY93 energy balance.
1.17      Enercrv Demand Forecast.  The forecast of unconstrained commercial
energy demand (recently finalized by the Energy Wing in the Ministry of
Planning and Development), calls for an annual increase of about 6.7% up to
FY2008. The forecast, which was reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory,
is based on a regression analysis of past consumption trends and
relationships, and assumes the implementation of an aggressive program of
energy conservation and efficiency. The forecast is also in line with recent
trends towards decreasing overall elasticity of energy consumption to economic
growth from 1.10 in the period FY83-93 to 1.03 between FY93-2008.
1/    Thermal power generation has consumed about 7.1 million TOE of
commercial fuels (mainly gas, fuel oil and High Speed Diesel in FY93
compared to about 2.5 million TOE in PY83.



Table 1. 1: COMMERCIAL BNBRGY SUPPLIEs
FY83 - FY93 (st3Uuand TON)
FY83  (%)        FY88  (%)         FY93  (%)
Gross Primary
Enerav SUMD1Y          17,170 (100)      24,627 (100)     32,916 (100)
Oil & Petroleum       5.855 (34.1)      9.560 (38.9)    13.211 L40.2)
Domestic Oil          550  (3.2)     2,094  (8.5)      2,800  (8.5)
Imported Oil        3,625 (21.1)     3,757 (15.3)      3,937 (12.0)
Imported Petr.      1,680  (9.8)     3,709 (15.1)      6,474 (19.7)
Natural Gas           7.486 (4326       9.231 (37.5)    12.411 (37.7)
Coal                  1.062  (6.2)     1,791  (7.2)      2.116  (6.4)
Domestic Coal         720  (4.2)     1,230  (5.0)      1,4S2  (4.4)
Imported Coal         342  (2.0)       561  (2.2)        654  (2.0)
Primary Electricity  2.767 (16.i)      4,045 (16.4)      5.178 (15.7)
Hydro               2,713 (15.8)     3,984 (16.2)      5,039 (15.3)
Nuclear                54  (0.3)        61  (0.2)        139  (0.4)
Source: Hydrocarbon Development Institute of Pakistan.
1.18      Enerczv SuDDpy Forecast.  In order to meet the projected demand at
least cost, the supply of domestic energy resources is forecast to increase in
absolute terms (although their share in total energy supply is expected to
decrease from 68% in FY93 to about 62% in FY2003). Within this,
hydroelectricity supply could increase only when a consensus on the
implementation of major hydro projects is reached and the required resources
mobilized. However, despite the assumption that Ghazi Barotha Hydro Project
would be implemented during the period, the share of hydroelectricity in total
energy supply would decline from the present level of 15.3% to 12.2% in
FY2003. The share of the largely imported oil and petroleum products is
expected to rise from the present level of 31.7% to 44.1t of total energy
supply in FY2003. This share could be reduced by substantially expanding the
supply of gas either through development of new gas fields, and matching
investments in the pipeline infrastructure, or gas imports by pipeline. A
study to determine the most economical options for increasing the supply of
gas has been recently completed by ESMAP. The study concluded that the likely
gas supply shortfall in the country could be sufficient to absorb economic
supplies of natural gas which may be made available from increased level of
domestic production in the short to medium term, and from a major gas
importation project in the longer term. In the absence of such an increase in
supply, the share of gas may decline from 37.7% to as little as 24.2%. Under
this assumption, the share of imported petroleum products in total energy
supply would increase from its current level of 31.7% in FY93 to 53.3% in
FY2003, to substitute for the use of natural gas in thermal power generation,
and in the industrial sector.



-7-
Zr.erav Prices
1.19      Agreements under ongoing operations regarding energy prices require
price adjustments of petroleum products in line with movements in world market
prices to mobilize resources for the budget and to finance the investment
programs of the energy sector enterprises. Producer prices for domestically
produced crude continue to be pegged to international prices of crude;
however, under the PP, the discretionary discount applied by GOP on the full
parity price has been eliminated. In order to attract risk capital for
exploration, the producer price for natural gas is now indexed to the
international price of a basket of crude oil at a range of 67.5-77.5S,
depending on the geological zone in which the country has been subdivided.
This important reform introduced by the PP, has rectified the anomaly caused
by the recent downward trend in fuel oil prices to which the gas producer
price was pegged.  Consumer nrices of petroleum products are above the
corresponding import prices, adjusted for inland transportation and
distribution margins. Consumer prices of natural gas were increased in August
1993, as a result of which gas prices for the general industry, cement, power
and commercial sectors are close to parity with the domestic price of fuel
oil. An exception is the fertilizer sector which, given the GOP policy of
self-sufficiency in the production of fertilizers, obtains supplies of gas for
use as feedstock at low rates, i.e., between 20-35% of the domestic price of
fuel nil. However, gas tariffs to fertilizer plants for energy use are almost
at parity with the domestic price of fuel oil. GOP has recently completed
under the ESL II (Loan 3107-PAK) a comprehensive study to determine the impact
of higher gas tariffs on the ex-factory prices of fertilizer, and its
recommendations are presently under review. GOP has also agreed, under ESL II
and subsequently under the Public Sector Adjustment Loan (Ln. 3645-PAK/Cr.
2542-PAK), to raise gas tariffs for residential consumers to 80% by April
1994, 90% by September 1994, and 100% by April 1995 of border price of fuel
oil.   As these prices are now set at over 80% of the equivalent border price
of fuel oil, further small increases would be required to comply with the
above covenant. For the power sector, tariffs for raw gas (low BTU content)
are between 60-85% of the domestic fuel oil price, en route to achieving full
parity by FY95, another covenant under ESL II. Annexes 1.2 and 1.3 give a
detailed breakdown of domestic petroleum product prices compared to
international/border prices, and of gas tariffs respectively.
Bnvironment and oeray Conservation
1.20      Responsibility for environmental protection in Pakistan is vested
in the Environment and Urban Affairs Division (NUAD) established in 1975.
However, the framework for the country's environmental protection was not
established until 1983 with the passage of the Pakistan Environmental
Protection Ordinance. EUAD has prepared standards for protection against air
and water pollution, and guidelines for environmental impact statements for
energy-producing activities and has submitted these to the Pakistan
Environment Protection Council for approval. The Ministry of Labor is
developing improved health, safety and emergency management standards for
surface and underground coal mining activities.



1.21      The Government has recently approved a comprehensive National
Conservation Strategy (NCS)II, prepared with the assistance of the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA), UNDP and the International Union for
Conservation of Nature and Natural Rosources (IUCN). The NCS sets out the
Government's priority objectives and plans for promoting effective
environmental and natural resource management. The NCS proposes to achieve
these objectives through a broad-based program which is directed towards
encouraging greater public participation in development and environmental
management; merging environment and economic decision making; and promoting
durable improvements in the quality of life.
1.22      As regards energy conservation, the National Energy Conservation
Center (ENERCON) has, in accordance with its mandate, initiated information
and outreach programs for enhancing awareness about energy conservation
prospects; assisted in policy formulation and planning; developed investment
projects and proposals for the promotion of energy conservation activities;
and implemented pilot programs aimed at demonstrating the viability and
benefits of such activities. The major activities completed to date include:
(a) a draft National Energy Conservation Law and a National Building Energy
Code; (b) detailed energy audits for 59 large industrial plants which have
identified possible savings of 22% on average; (c) pilot cine-up programs for
industrial boilers and automobiles, and retrofitting of tubewells; and (d)
training programs for private and public sector managers, engineers and
technicians.
Enerav Strateov
1.23      In October 1993, the Prime Minister constituted a high-level Task
Force on the Energy Sector, including representatives from all main private
and public sector companies operating in the energy, industrial, and financial
sectors. Its main objectives were to outline a new Energy Policy, formulating
strategies for elimination of load shedding, recommending proposals for
mobilizing resources for the sector and the promotion of private sector
investment, and making recommendations for enhancing indigenous gas and oil
production. The recommendations of the Task Force were submitted to the
Government in February 1994, and culminated with the announcement of a
comprehensive Policy Framework and Package of Incentives for Private Sector
Power Generation Projects in Pakistan and a Petroleum Policy. The Task Force
has devised a multi-pronged strategy for the sector for the Eighth Five-Year
Plan, which consists of: (a) restraining energy demand growth by introducing
an aggressive demand-side management program to control and regulate the
growth of the unproductive component of demand, and discourage wasteful and
expensive patterns of consumption; (b) reducing losses in the production,
transportation and distribution of energy; (c) improving the operational
2/    Apart from CIDA and UNDP, a number of donors, including the Bank, have
supported GOP's efforts to prepare and implement the NCS: the Bank
through the proposed Environmental Protection and Resource Conservation
Project; ADB through a technical assistance grant for strengthening the
primary environmental institutions at the federal and provincial levels;
and a number of bilateral donors through specific projects for improving
watershed management, forestry development, and the introduction of
professional training in environmental management at the university
level.



efficiency of the main public sector enterprises; (d) increasing private
sector participation in power generation, oil and gas exploration and
production activities, by introducing an international-competitive policy
package for attracting overseas and local private investments; (e)
accelerating the efficient development of domestic energy resources, and the
infrastructure required for the transportation and distribution of energy; (f)
accelerating the process of restructuring and privatizing the main public
sector enterprises, in particular, PSO, NRL, and OGDC, in conjunction with the
ongoing privatization programs for SNGPL, SSGC and WAPDA; and (g) establishing
a transparent regulatory framework to set standards, regulate a largely
privately-operated energy sector, and provide the necessary comfort to private
investors. In order to encourage the implementation of co-generation
projects, the policy advocates the introduction of an appropriate legislation,
along the lines of PURPA, i.e., U.S. Public Utility Regulatory Policy Act of
1978.
1.24      In order to ensure adherence with implementation targets, the
energy policy provides for the formulation of a monitoring program. Each
ministry would be responsible for evaluating periodically the performance of
the public sector enterprises against the announced targets. In particular,
the monitoring function would emphasize reduction of losses, operational
improvements, demand side management, and adherence to the scheduled
implementation of energy projects. In addition, a high level committee would
be appointed to monitor progress in private sector participation, and propose
modification to the package of incentives if necessary.
1.25      Within this strategy, the level of investments in the power sector
for the period FY94-98 is expected to be consistent with the targets and
financial requirements for the public sector investment program. The GOP's
medium-term macroeconomic adjustment and structural reform program, which has
been supported by the IMF and the Bank, envisages a level of public sector
investment of around 7.5% of GDP and consistent with the achievement of the
fiscal deficit targets. In particular, it can be expected that the level of
public investments in the power sector would not grow at a rate faster than
the projected real GDP growth (i.e., 6.5%). However, high levels of
investment in the energy sector will still be required. As the privatization
program of the energy sector as a whole announced by GOP will take time to
fully materialize, the public sector will still play a significant role in the
next few years. It is, therefore, critical that the monitoring activity of
GOP on the performance of the public sector enterprises be implemented. The
proposed Project would assist the GOP in the monitoring activity by annually
reviewing WAPDA's investment program over a five-year period (para 3.11).
1.26      The Bank's Assistance Strateon is geared to support the
Government's strategy outlined above and is fully consistent with the CAS as
discussed with the Executive Directors on March 31, 1994 (para 1.6). Past
lending has aimed at improving economic efficiency and financial
sustainability in the sector by encouraging least-cost planning and tariff
setting to provide reasonable levels of self-financing, ensuring compliance
with international environment standards and strengthening implementation
capability. It has put demand side management measures (see para 2.4) at the
forefront of the Government's policy in the power sector. Key investments to
increase domestic energy resources, and implementation of structural reforms
in the institutions have been supported by Bank lending. In line with the
Government's strategy to open up the sector to private investments, more



- 10 -
recent lending has focussed on supporting the Government's privatization
program. The Bank's future lending program will further develop and enhance
the participation of private investors. Accordingly, in the petroleum sector,
a future operation is geared to support the privatization of the country's
national oil and gas company. A proposed Hydrocracker project to increase
production of high-value petroleum products is being developed with
substantial level of private sector part.cipation.  In the p-wer sector, a
proposed Private Sector Energy Developmenr Project II to replenish the fund
established under PSEDF I, to extend loans to the private sector energy
projects, is envisaged. Finally, the proposed Project is expected to provide
the framework for accelerating the privatization program of the Government in
the power sector.
Ix. THR POWER SUBSNCTOR
2.1       As stated earlier in para 1.8, the responsibility of power supply
in Pakistan is shared between WAPDA and KESC. WAPDA supplies power to the
whole country except Karachi area which is fed by KESC system. WAPDA and KESC
systems are integrated through a 220-kV double circuit transmission line. As
of December 1993, WAPDA accounted for over 90% of the total installed capacity
of about 11,000 MW of hydro and thermal plants, while supplying approximately
88 of the country's electricity consumption.
The Powaer Market
2.2         The electricity market has grown at a very rapid pace over the
past two decades. Consumption of electricity increased from 6,097 GWh in FY73
to about 36,635 GWh in FY93, at an annual average rate of growth of over 9.4%,
while real GDP growth rate averaged 5.7% p.a., showing an elasticity ratio of
1.6. Over the years, the domestic sector has emerged as a major electricity
consumer, accounting for 36* of total consumption in FY93, compared to 11.7%
in FY93, together with the industrial sector whose share has declined from
50.1% in FY73 to 35.6% in FY93. During the same period, the agricultural and
commercial sectors have decreased their share in the overall consumption. The
impressive growth of the domestic consumption has been caused by a five-fold
increase in the number of connected households, equivalent to an average of
over 380,000 new customers per year. Despite this progress, only about half
of Pakistan's population of about 121 million, have access to electricity
service, and the per capita electricity consumption (about 300 kWh/capita)
remains low both in absolute terms and in comparison with countries at a
similar level of developmentY
2.3       The pattern of electricity supply, however, is not encouraging and
since the early 1980s the country has been experiencing wide-spread power
shortages, principally due to insufficient power facilities (generation,
secondary transmission and distribution systems), coupled with variations in
hydro flows and irrigation constraints. In FY93, power shortages reached a
level of about 25* of peak demand (Annex 2.1) and the overall impact of load
shedding on the economy amounted to about US$950 million. The proposed
project would assist in gradually reducing the power supply/demand gap.
lJ    In 1990, the average electricity consumption per capita for the Asia
region as a whole, was about 1,235 kWh.



- 11 -
Demand-Side Manaaement
2.4       WAPDA, through its Energy and Load Management Cell, and in
collaboration with ENERCON (Annex 1.4), is actively pursuing load management
measures. They include: non-operation of Salinity Control and Reclamation
Project (SCARP) tubewells during peak hours, staggering of weekly holidays,
voluntary 25% reduction of the load by continuous process industries and
textile mills and stoppage of steel melting furnaces during peak hours. Under
the ongoing Private Tubewell Development and the Rural Electrification (RE)
Projects, WAPDA is implementing a program among 27,000 tubewells to control
and restrict tubewell operations through ripple control, time switches and
splitting and controlling residential and tubewell load in phases. Also under
the RE project, WAPDA has initiated the installation of time-of-day meters for
300 (plus a plan for additional 100 time-switches) of the largest industrial
consumers to introduce peak/off peak pricing. With the assistance of ADB, a
power factor improvement program has been initiated by ENERCON in
collaboration with WAPDA. It has been estimated that these measures will lead
to 81 MW of demand savings at customer level, and 50 MW at generation level.
In addition, WAPDA conducts energy audit reviews in all sectors of the
economy, with particular emphasis on the industrial sector.
2.5       The new energy policy calls for a more aggressive approach to
demand-side management programs. In particular, the following measures would
be undertaken: (a) extension of the introduction of peak/off-peak pricing to
the remaining industrial consumers, and to large commercial and residential
customers, and seasonal shift incentive for industrial consumers; (b)
restriction of off-peak supply for agricultural tubewells (no supply during
evening peak hours); (c) introduction of policy package and fiscal incentives
to modify price structure of lamps, in order to promote customer preference
for energy-efficient fluorescent lamps vis-a-vis incandescent lamps; and (d)
promulgation of a pollcy package to promote manufacture and use of energy
efficient motors for tubewells, pumps and compressors. These measures,
depending on the speed at which they would be introduced, could reduce peak
demand by some 1,000 MW by FY2002.
Electricity Demand Forecast
2.6       The electricity demand forecast through FY2018 has recently been
finalized by WAPDA and reviewed by the Bank. The model is based on regression
analysis of past consumption trends and relationships. A detailed regression
analysis was undertaken to review the fundamental relationships in the demand
of electricity in Pakistan. Because the historic load-shedding estimates were
included in the data base, the resulting forecast provides a reasonable
approximation of unconstrained electricity demand. The introduction of load
management (para 2.4) and conservation measures (Annex 1.4), including a
gradual increase in the tariffs to move closer to the economic cost of supply,
was then included in the model. The resulting electricity demand is projected
to increase at an average annual rate of 8.2% over the Eighth Plan period,
implying a decline in the level of losses from about 23.3% in FY93 to 18.5% by
FY98. Given that the supply constraint situation experienced by the system in
recent years is expected to continue, although at a gradually reduced level,
load shedding is expected to continue to be enforced. Annexes 2.2 and 2.3
summarize historical statistics of WAPDA system, and the results of the demand
projections respectively.



- 12 -
Electricity Tariffs
2.7       Electricity tariffs generally are proposed by WAPDA and approved by
the Government. The current tariff structure distinguishes between consumers
under the following categories: domestic, commercial, industrial,
agriculture, bulk consumers and others. Furthermore, tariffs within each
category are subdivided according to the level of consumption. Tariffs levied
on industrial, some bulk and a small number of agricultural consumers are
composed of two parts, i.e., the demand charge and the energy charge, while
the other consumers pay only an energy charge.  The exceptions to the
structure are flat rates paid by: (a) the majority of the agricultural
consumers (based on the water pump horsepower level); and (b) domestic
consumers in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA consumers).  All
consumers pay a Fuel Adjustment Surcharge (FAS), except those who are charged
flat rate tariffs, varying from Ps. 7/kWh for the lower two levels of the
domestic consumers to Ps. 75/kWh for other domestic, industrial, commercial,
bulk supplies and other consumers. FAS is calculated on the basis of the
average fuel cost incurred in the twelve-month period ending two months prior
to the month of billing, and allows WAPDA to recover at least 95% of its fuel
cost.
2.8       Since 1985, the level of electricity tariffs has been increased
annually to enable WAPDA to finance 40% of its investment from internal
sources. As a result, the average revenue has increased in nominal terms from
63.8 paisa/kwh in FY85 to about 144.7 paisa/kWh'/ in FY94, representing an
average annual increase of almost 2% in real terms.   Following these
increases, the average revenue is now at about 74% of the long-run marginal
cost (LRMC). Furthermore, and on the occasion of these tariff increases, the
Government has taken steps to gradually eliminate cross-subsidies in its
tariff structure. During the last tariff increase in August 1993, tariffs
were raised across all consumer categories by 25 paisas per kilowatt hour,
effectively increasing by a higher rate the tariffs of domestic and
agricultural consumers who pay less than the average overall rate. Thus,
domestic tariffs were raised by 25% compared to the average increase of 20%,
while overall agricultural tariffs were raised by 21%. Furthermore, subsidies
for consumer connection for agriculture have been eliminated. However,
domestic and agricultural tariffs continue to be below their cost of supply.
Table 2.1 below gives a summary of the current level of tariffs compared to
their estimated economic level, and Annex 2.4 gives the details on the levels
and structure of current tariffs.
2.9       As also indicated by a Tariff Study completed by WAPDA with the
assistance of consultants financed by ADB in 1991, there is still a need for
further overall rationalization of the tariff structure. Therefore,
additional measures are expected to be introduced under ongoing agreements
between GOP and ADB including: (a) a time-of-use tariff for WAPDA's industrial
consumers with maximum demand in excess of 40 kW; and (b) a gradual increase
in the FAS on domestic consumption between 150 and 300 kWh per month.
Furthermore. GOP and WAPDA have agreed durina neaotiations that, with effect
4/    In addition, consumers paid a surcharge of 10.4% collected by WAPDA on
behalf of the Government for payment of hydro-electric profits (para
5.7).



- 13 -
from September 30. 1995. a metered enercv charQe comnonent will be included in
all flat tariffs charaed for tubewells (para 7.2).
Table 2.1:  SUDMIARY OF WAPDA'S CURRENT TARIFFS AND LRMC ESTIMATES
Percentage        Average                   Tariff as
of total          Rate           LRMC      Percentage
Categorv       consum=tion        Rs./kWh        Rs./kWh      of LRMC
Residential              34.9%             0.9221                      47%
Commercial                4.3%             3.3301                     168%
Tubewells                19.3%             0.598 >average: 1.977       30%
Industrial LV            16.6%             2.3701                     120%
Bulk Supply LV            1.3%             1.9251                      97%
Others                    0.9%             2.3661                     120%
Industrial MV            18.6%             1.948 >average: 1.892      103%
Bulk Supply MV            4.1%             1.7881                      95*
Weighted Average        100.0%             1.447            1.958      74%
Source: WAPDA and mission estimate.
2.10      Finally, in line with its objective to privatize the power sector
(para 4.3), GOP has recognized the need to revise the pricing regime to make
the power sector more efficient and attractive to private investors. As a
first step, GOP introduced recently a bulk electricity tariff of US 6.5/kWh
for new private power generators. In addition, under the proposed Project, a
study will be carried out to develop proposals and an action plan for
reforming the retail pricing regime,-/ to be implemented by September 1996
(para 4.4(b)). In particular, the study will develop pricing principles
linking the final tariff for each consumer category to the cost of supply.
Meanwhile, the Government indicated its commitment to continue its effort to
gradually reduce the cross-subsidies, on the occasion of tariff increases to
meet the internal cash generation (ICG) covenant, while moving closer to the
economic cost of supply.
Bank Groul' a Role in the nerqy Sector and Exoerience with Past Lendina
2.11      The Bank Group's involvement in Pakistan's energy sector started in
1955, with a loan to KESC for the construction of a thermal power station.
Since then, it has assisted in the implementation of projects in all energy
subsectors. Prior to 1985, the Bank Group had made 16 loans/credits to
Pakistan for energy projects. In the power subsector, the Bank had
participated in the Indus Basin Development Projects, and provided a series of
four credits/loans to KESC and three to WAPDA. In the petroleum subsector,
the Bank's involvement included five loans to SNGPL for the expansion of the
5/    Given the decentralization of the power sector envisaged by the
Strategic Plan, the study will also develop transfer pricing principles
for exchange of electricity at the wholesale level between generation
and transmission, and transmission and distribution, which can be
effectively regulated.



- 14 -
infrastructure for the transmission and distribution of gas, three to OGDC for
exploration and development of oil and gas and the Refinery Engineering and
Energy Efficiency Project (Loan 2218-PAK) for restructuring product output and
streamlining existing system. These projects have been completed, and the
respective Project Completion Reports (PCRs) issued.
2.12      In 1985, the Bank's strategy for supporting the sector was
broadened to address sectoral policies in addition to investments. The new
emphasis on sectoral policies was intended to address the issues that cut
across the subsectors of the energy sector, i.e., power, coal, oil and gas,
etc. to ensure that consistency in policies is maintained throughout the
sector. In addition, the sectoral policies were intended to launch a broad
program for structural reform in the sector whose principal objectives are to
identify key investments needed to meet the energy requirements Df the
economy; remove the distortions in energy prices and promote efficient use of
energy; strengthen the institutions in the sector to move them towards
financial and administrative autonomy; deregulate the sector and create an
enabling environment for private sector to assume a greater role in the.
production and delivery of energy. Two Energy Sector Loans were then made
(ESL I and ESL II) that provided an overall policy framework for Bank's
lending in the energy sector.
2.13      Since 1985, and in addition to the above mentioned Energy Sector
Loans, the Bank has made eleven loans in the energy sector. These include,
WAPDA IV and V (Loans 2499-PAK and 2556-PAK) for the least-cost expansion and
reinforcement of the secondary and high voltage transmission grid; the
Petroleum Resource Joint Venture Project (Loan 2553-PAK) to assist GOP in
mobilizing private sector involvement in exploration and development of oil
and gas; the Kot-Addu Combined-Cycle Power Project (Loan 2698-PAK) to add
another 250 MW of generating capacity through the conversion of combustion
turbines to combined-cycle operation; the Power Plant Efficiency Improvement
Project (Loan 2792-PAK) for the rehabilitation of existing power plants and
conversion of combustion turbines to combined-cycle operation at Kotri and
Faisalabad; the Refinery Energy Conservation and Modernization Project (Loan
2842-PAR) for improving energy efficiency at the National Refinery Ltd.; the
Private Sector Energy Development Project (Loan 2982-PAR), the first of its
kind to be approved by the Bank, and which provides for a fund to assist
financing energy projects in the private sector; the Transmission Extension
and Reinforcement Project (Loan 3147-PAR) to extend WAPDA's transmission grid;
the Rural Electrification Project (Loan 3148-PAR/Credit 2078-PAK) which is the
first Bank's operation to support the extension of the distribution network in
rural areas; and the Corporate Restructuring and System Expansion Project
(Loan 3252-PAR) which provides for the privatization of SNGPL as well as
expansion of gas infrastructure. The most recent Bank operation in the sector
is the Domestic Energy Resources Development Project (Loan 3500-PAR), signed
on October 1, 1992, which provides for the development of the country's oil
and gas resources.
2.14      Overall, the Bank has provided nine credits/loans to WAPDA.  The
first six have been completed and the remz.ining three are being implem.ented
satisfactorily. The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) and the Project
Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Power Project (Credit 968-PAK and SAC
39-PAR) were distributed to the Executive Directors in April 1989. The PPAR
concluded that the project not only improved the supply of electricity, but
also all aspects of WAPDA's operations including administration, technical and



- 15 -
financial.  ho.ever, despite these achievements, the project was completed
three years behind schedule because of delays in the appointment of
consultants, the award of contracts and clearance of Project Concept (PCI)
documents, as well as the periodic scarcity of local funds. Similar delays
were also experienced in the two previous projects. In order to minimize
delays in start-up, the Bank, under subsequent operations, has assisted WAPDA
in preparing standard bidding documents and has provided training to its staff
in the Bank's procurement procedures. Moreover, through the sectoral approach
to lending, which was initiated under ESL I, and continued under ESL II, the
Bank has also been able to assist in mobilizing resources and reducing
slippage in project implementation.
2.15      The proposed Project would be the Bank's tenth operation with WAPDA
and the first to support the implementation of a comprehensive strategy for
the privatization of the power subsector in Pakistan and the restructuring and
privatization of WAPDA. Due to the medium and long-term nature of the
proposed privatization program for WAPDA, and the chronic shortages of
electricity supply, the Bank, through the proposed project, would also assist
WAPDA in financing a time-slice of its interim least-cost investment program.
Lessons learned from previous operations, related mostly to the risk of delays
in Government's approval of PCls, slow procurement process and the need for
upfront actions to ensure the Government's commitment to the restructuring and
privatization strategy of the power sector, were taken into consideration in
the design and preparation of the proposed Project.
III.  TER WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Oraanization and Manaaement
3.1       WAPDA, the main beneficiary of the proposed Loan, was established
in 1958 as a semi-autonomous agency to coordinate the development of
Pakistan's water and power resources. It is divided into two largely
independent "wings", one for Power and the other for Water. The Power Wing is
responsible for the planning, construction and operation of power generation,
transmission and distribution facilities throughout the country, except the
Karachi area which is served by KESC. The Water Wing is responsible for the
overall planning and investigation of water resources, and the design and
construction of surface and groundwater development projects for the federal
and provincial governments. WAPDA's governing body, referred to as the
"Authority" comprises a Chairman and three Members who are in charge of power,
water, and finance, and are designated Member Power, Member Water, and Member
Finance. The members are appointed by GOP and function as chief executives of
their respective groups.
3.2       The organization of the Power Wing is shown in Annex 3-1.  Member
(Power) is assisted by two Managing Directors, in charge of Distribution and
Transmission and Grid Stations respectively, and by General Managers
responsible for thermal generation, hydro generation, planning, finance,
coordination, and system control and load dispatch. The distribution
department is further divided into sections, each headed by a General Manager,
dealing with administration, customer services, management services,
operations, planning and engineering, and purchasing and inventory control.
Although WAPDA is highly centralized with respect to decision making, its
Distribution Department is divided into eight Area Electricity Boards (ABB),



- 16 -
which were established in 1981. Each ABB has a chairman, who is the Chief
Engineer for the area, appointed by WAPDA for a five-year term; three full-
time members, who are also directors in charge of departments, and three part-
time members representing local interests, one of whom is normally a
representative of the Provincial Government. The AREB members are appointed
for a period of three years. In addition, and in order to coordinate
activities related to the privatization in the sector, WAPDA created in mid-
1991 a separate department headed by a Managing Director, the WAPDA Power
Privatization Organization (WPPO).
Staffina and Trainina
3.3         WAPDA's management staff is competent and well qualified.  In
1993, WAPDA, including its Water, Power and Finance activity, had about
158,G,0 employees: 4,980 engineers, 1080 other professionals, 12,250 technical
and other supporting staff, 27,310 administrative and accounts staff, 70,340
skilled workers and about 39,100 other employees including unskilled workers.
Most of these employees (85%), are employed in the Power Wing. The number of
consumers served by WAPDA was about 8.4 million consumers, which corresponds
to a consumer/employee ratio of about 53. This ratio is relatively low when
compared to other developing countries (181 in Indonesia and 99 in Thailand),
and it reflects the overstaffing mainly in the distribution department. The
restructuring and privatization component of the proposed project, which
provides for a manpower transition study (para 4.4(c)), would in time be
expected to lead to optimization of staffing levels. In the meantime, and
during negotiations, GOP and WAPDA confirmed their understanding to initiate
specific measures such as freeze on hiring of new staff and retraining of
staff to enable their redeployment, before the privatization process begins.
This will reduce the number of staff that would likely become redundant as a
result of privatization prior to implementation of actions to be agreed under
the manpower transition program study.
3.4       Training in WAPDA is a separate activity and is well-supported.
Each of the main functions, i.e., generation, transmission and distribution,
operate technical training schools in a number of locations, which are
efficiently run. There is a management training center at Tarbela which
provides a comprehensive program to WAPDA's training staff. For training in
specialized areas, support has been provided to WAPDA by bilateral and
multilateral agencies. CIDA has provided extensive training to WAPDA's staff
in the planning, design, construction and operation and maintenance of the
500-kV network; USAID in the area of distribution; and the Bank in the areas
of generation planning, maintenance and spare-parts management, and in
financial and commercial areas. In addition, CIDA, as part of its ongoing
National Power Plan Project, is providing training to WAPDA's Planning
Department staff in the areas of load forecasting, and generation,
transmission and distribution planning. Under the proposed Project, WAPDA's
expertise will be further strengthened through the provision of special
expertise, equipment and materials for: (a) the engineering and generation
training academies, and switch-gear workshop; and (b) hot-line maintenance
especially for the 220 and 132 kV lines.



- 17 -
WAPDA's zxistina Facilities
3.5       In December 1993,  WAPDA's total installed generating capacity was
9326 MW. About one-third of this capacity (2,917 MW) was commissioned during
the last three years. The existing generating system consists of 4,725 MW
(51%) of hydro capacity and 4,601 MW (49%) of thermal capacity based mainly on
dual-fired power plants, using fuel oil and gas. WAPDA's primary extra-high
voltage (EHV) transmission system consists of 2,361 km of 500-kV lines and
seven grid stations whose aggregate capacity is about 6,774 MVA. The
secondary transmission grid (STG) consists of 22,286 km of 220-kV, 132-kV and
66-kV lines and 586 grid stations, with a total capacity of about 21,401 MVA.
The distribution system comprises 245,168 km of 33-kV, 11-kV and 0.4-kV lines.
As of December 1993, the WAPDA system served about 8.4 million consumers, of
which 81* were residential, 14.9% commercial, 2.1% industrial and the
remaining 2% comprised primarily agricultural consumers.
WAPDA's  Power Develomuent Prooram
3.6       WAPDA's Planning Department is using several computerized planning
models, in particular the Wien Automatic System Planning Package III (WASP
III), to prepare long-term development studies and medium-term development
programs which are revised once a year, using sound methods and procedures for
determining the programs to meet electricity demand at least-cost. In
coordination with the Energy and Load Management Cell (para 2.4) and the
Distribution Planning, the Planning Department carries out feasibility studies
on load management measures.
3.7       Generation ExDansion Procram.  On the basis of the revised load
forecast, WAPDA has prepared a least-cost generation plan covering the period
FY93 through FY2008. For the period up to FY2001, it calls for 72% increase
in WAPDA's installed generating capacity from 7,882 MW to 13,516 MW. Details
relating to the proposed program are presented in Annex 3.2. Of the new
capacity to be brought on stream by FY2001, 1,292 MW would be implemented by
the private sector (namely the Hub Power Complex), 630 MW by KESC, 325 MW
would be nuclear and about 5,634 MW by WAPDA. Of the latter, 2,669 MW would
be hydro, and 2,965 MW would be thermal. The proposed program is consistent
with GOP's latest policy in the power sector whereby all new thermal power
generation projects would be undertaken by the private sector.
3.8       The implementation of the generation expansion program for the
period FY94-2001 is expected to reduce load shedding provided that no
implementation delays occur. In particular, as shown in Annex 3.3, which
presents the details of the power balances for the national power system, the
supply deficit is expected to be reduced by almost 80% by FY96 reaching the
level of less than 5  of peak demand.-  However, in FY98 the deficit could
increase again, as the additional capacity in the system would not be
sufficient to meet the increased demand. This is a reflection of the
assumption used in the formulation of the program that no further thermal
power plants, except the Hub Project, would be commissioned during the period.
As additional private power generation projects, which are currently under
preparation, would be commissioned by FY2000 as presently expected, load
6/    It was assumed a reserve margin of about 15t over total installed
capacity to account for lower than average hydrological conditions.



- 18 -
shedding would remain at about 5 of peak demand. Given the positive reaction
of private sector to the package of incentives for new private generation
projects, other thermal power plants are expected to be forthcoming, thereby
further reducing the demand/supply gap. To minimize the risks associated with
termination or delays in implementation of such private projects, the proposed
Project, through the provision of an annual review of WAPDA's investment
program (para 3.11), would ensure a periodic monitoring of the status of the
expansion program, and consequently the introduction of corrective measures
for the reduction/elimination of the supply deficit.
3.9       WAPDA's future transmission and distribution nro2ram calls for the
expansion and rehabilitation of the network to connect future load centers at
least cost and enhance WAPDA's efforts in improving the operating efficiency
of the power subsector. These programs, details of which are presented in
Annex 4.2, would allow for increased investments in loss reduction, load
management, expansion and reinforcement of the network.
3.10      WAPDA's development program for the period FY94-99, together with
the annual phasing of expenditures for ongoing and new projects is presented
in Annexes 4.5 and 4.6. The program which involves expansion in generating
capacity, along with parallel expansion of the transmission and distribution
network, is estimated to cost about Rs. 199.7 billion (US$6.6 billion). This
program assumes that implementation of the Ghazi-Barotha hydro project would
be initiated in FY95, while the implementation of the Kalabagh Hydro Project
would be deferred beyond the Eighth Plan.
3.11      The Bank has reviewed WAPDA's investment program to ascertain its
consistency with the macroeconomic and public investment targets agreed with
the Government, the IMF and the Bank (para 1.25). Annex 3.4 presents the
details of the assumptions. WAPDA's investment program could be accommodated
since over the period 1994-2000, it would be in line with the existing
macroeconomic framework. In order to ensure that WAPDA's investment nrocrram
will remain consistent with the agreed macroeconomic taraets. GOP and WAPDA
aareed during negotiations to review with the Bank before March 31 of each
year, WAPDA's rolling investment nrocfram over a five-year neriod. covering the
current year. the last nrecedinct year and the next three followina years, with
a view to enablina the Bank to satisfy itself that the nrogram remains
consistent with the Borrower's macroeconomic tarqets (nara 7.2).
Operational Performance
3.12      WAPDA operates and maintains its plants and equipment
satisfactorily. The level of performance in generation operation remains
satisfactory, particularly when considered in relation to the constraints
arising from fuel availability and quality, spare parts procurement
procedures, aging plants requiring major overhaul, and financial and
implementation constraints for generation development programs. This
performance will be further improved after completion of the actions being
undertaken under the ongoing Power Plant Efficiency Improvement Project (Ln.
2792-PAK) cofinanced by ODA, and which involves station refurbishing, supply
of spare parts, introduction of a computerized maintenance system, and a
technology transfer component. In addition, arrangements are being undertaken
to ensure additional supply of gas for power generation, and for additional
combined-cycle units, thus improving the efficiency and availability of the
generation system in general.



- 19 -
3.13      Improvement in WAPDA's opierational efficiency is also illustrated
by the efforts made in reducing the level of its power system losses from
37.6% in 1977, to 23.3% in 1993, with transmission and distribution losses
amounting to 9% and 12.1% respectively. This has been achieved through a
continued program of power system reinforcement and rehabilitation. However,
these losses remain higher than the economically achievable levels of about 3%
and 8% for transmission and distribution system respectively. The proposed
project would assist WAPDA in enhancing its efforts for further loss
reduction.
3.14      The transmission system is designed and constructed to high
standards but maintenance is made more difficult due to the multiplicity of
plants and difficulty of planning the extension of the transmission system,
due to the location of the generating plants vis-a-vis the load centers.
Despite the efforts already undertaken, the 132-kV system in particular will
require additional measures to improve its operational efficiency. The
proposed project will assist WAPDA in achieving this objective.
3.15      Until recently, WAPDA's investment programs were geared towards
developing the generation and the transmission systems, thus limiting the
resources for distribution development. Moreover, due to pressures to provide
new connections, most resources were directed towards extending the network
and very little attention was given to the maintenance and operation of the
existing distribution system.   Recognizing the need to overcome the
inefficiencies stemming from this situation, and as a follow up to an
agreement with the Bank, WAPDA created an independent distribution wing under
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank. Actions required to enhance the
operational performance of this department are being continued by WAPDA on the
basis of the recommendations of a study funded by USAID, and strengthened
under the ongoing Rural Electrification Project (Ln. 3148-PAK/Cr. 2078-PAK).
In order to assist WAPDA in evaluating the progress made, a distribution
diagnostic study of one AEB would be undertaken under the proposed project.
Duringr negrotiations. WAPDA agreed to: (a) aDnpoint consultants by September 30.
1995 to carry out a diaanostic study of one AEB: (b) implement the aareed
recommendations: and (c) extend the implementation of these recommendations to
the other AEBs. to the extent relevant and in accordance with an action Plan
satisfactory to the Bank (nara 7.3).
Financial Manaaameant
3.16        WAPDA's financial function is headed by a Member Finance, while
the day-to-day management of the financial function for the power sector is
the responsibility of the General Manager Finance (Power), assisted by four
senior deputy general managers for treasury, accounting and control,
coordination, and field offices, a director for administration, and four
senior managers for thermal operations, hydro, transmission, and the resident
representative in Karachi. The financial organization was recently
reorganized to: (a) accommodate the separation of the Distribution function;
(b) address the problem of an excessive number of senior managers reporting to
the General Manager Finance (Power); and (c) segregate the complex treasury
tasks from those of financial management, (short-term and long-term debt
management and financial planning). The reorganized financial function is
expected to result in a more streamlined operation.



- 20 -
3.17      Financial Imorovement Program.  Under the Rural Electrification
Project (Ln. 3148/Cr. 2078-PAK), WAPDA adopted a Financial Management
Improvement Program aimed at enhancing resource mobilization and achieving
financial efficiency objectives. Implementation of the program is progressing
satisfactorily. Measures to increase resources availability included: (a)
recovery of consumer connection costs from agricultural consumers through a
loan program with the Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP); (b)
enhancement of security deposits to reflect current average billings; (c)
implementation of a cost recovery program for rural electrification
operations; and (d) regular aging of accounts receivables to improve
collections. Progress on implementation of these measures has been
satisfactory. The consumer connection loan program with the ADBP is now
operational, and the security deposit rates have been enhanced. The subsidies
for consumer connections including those in the rural areas, have been
eliminated, and the separation of the accounts for rural electrification to
identify the financial costs to WAPDA is underway. The regular aging of
accounts receivable has resulted in an increase in provision for uncollectible
receivables from WAPDA's accounts. In addition, WAPDA is reviewing its
accounts receivable overdue for more than three years to determine the
uncollectible receivables to be adjusted on its balance sheet. Institutional
measures to improve financial management efficiency have been carried out,
including the reorganization of the financial function of WAPDA,
implementation of the recommendation of an actuarial study for its self-
insurance scheme, and strengthening of WAPDA's internal audit functions. To
further enhance efficiency, the accounting and financial information system of
WAPDA is being automated with assistance of international consultants.
3.18      Accounting System.  WAPDA has about 400 accounting units
distributed over a wide geographical area. To cater to this large number of
accounting units, WAPDA has adopted a decentralized, accrual-based accounting
system. While the accounting system is sound in structure, the utility is not
deriving full benefits from the system primarily due to: (a) non-availability
of trained accountinq personnel, particularly in the distribution areas; and
(b) the manual system of maintaining the accounts which causes significant
delays in the flow of accounting information through WAPDA's hierarchy. To
address these concerns, WAPDA is implementing a comprehensive training program
for the accounting staff of the AEBs, with the assistance of the Electricity
Supply Board of Ireland. Furthermore, under thi RE Project, the design of the
automation of the accounting and financial management information system at
headquarters is being carried out. In view of the corporate restructuring and
privatization initiatives that GOP and WAPDA are pursuing (para 4.4), the
design of the automated accounting system has been reoriented to accommodate
truly decentralized accounting based on profit centers (generation plants,
transmission, and AEBs), including the preparation of financial statements for
each profit center.  Accordingly. WAPDA aareed during neaotiations to employ
consultants by Sentember 30. 1995. recuired for the imolementation of a
modern. automated accounting and financial system in each of WAPDA's
aeneration nlants and AEBs and for its transmission system (Para 7.3).
3.19      Management Information System (MIS).  The manually-generated
information system of WAPDA has led to delays in decision-making and
cumbersome preparation and storage of data.   The successful implementation of
WAPDA's current corporate restructuring program would have to rely on a timely
and reliable information flow. Thus, the development of a comprehensive and
automated MIS covering WAPDA's technical and financial operations is urgently
needed. With assistance from consultants, an MIS covering, among other,
WAPDA's technical and operational information requirements is being
implemented under a pilot program. Such MIS would be integrated with the



- 21 -
ongoing work being done on the design of the automated accounting system by
cost/profit centers.  WAPDA agreed during negotiations that. upon completion
of the MIS study currently being implemented under a Pilot program, it will
agre with the Bank on the findings and recommendations of the Study. and
imnlement the agreed recommendations according to an action nlan satisfactorv
to the Bank (Para 7.3).
3.20      Internal Audit.  Although WAPDA has a large Internal Audit
Department, its systems and procedures are outdated and its responsibilities
have not been adapted to accommodate the utility's growth in size and
complexity. In recognition of this, WAPDA, under financing from USAID, has
engaged consultants to develop a modern internal auditing system. The
consultants have completed their work and the agreed recommendations of the
study are being implemented.
3.21      External Audit.  The responsibility for auditing WAPDA's accounts
rests with the Auditor General of Pakistan who discharges this responsibility
through a Director General assigned to the WAPDA Audit on a permanent basis
with a staff of about 400. WAPDA is required by the WAPDA Act to finalize the
annual accounts and have them audited within six months of the end of the
financial year.  However, because of delays in the flow of financial
information and the absence of an effective internal audit system ihich is
needed to support the external audit, Audit Observations are issued some eight
to ten months after the end of the financial year. With the improvement
envisaged in the flow of financial information as a result of the
strengthening of the internal audit function, the reorganization of WAPDA's
finance function, and the automation of its accounting and financial
information system, it is expected that WAPDA would be able to have its
finalized annual accounts audited within six months of the end of the
financial year.  Accordingly. .he Bank Grouj's standard audit covenant which
is included under all ongoing WAPDA Power Prolects would be maintained under
the nronosed Protect (Para 7.4).
3.22      Within the context of the restructuring and privatization of WAPDA,
specifically the corporatization of existing units to be constituted as
separate subsidiaries, WAPDA may need to raise funds in the form of debt and
equity from both the domestic and international markets. An important pre-
requisite for raising funds from these markets is that the accounts of the
corporatized units be certified by internationally experienced audit firms.
Accordingly. WAPDA agreed during negotiations that the accounts of the parts
of WAPDA which will be corporatized be audited by independent private auditors
accevtable to the Bank (Para 7.3).
3.23      Insurance.   WAPDA insures its assets under a self-insurance scheme
established in 1981. The scheme covers substations, power houses, machinery
and workshops against loss from fire. Since that time, WAPDA's assets have
increased fourfold, and an actuarial study was completed in March 1991 to
determine rates of annual contributions to the self-insurance scheme in order
to set aside sufficient funds for covering losses. The recommendations of the
actuarial study have been implemented. They include revision of premium rates
based on the most recent twenty year experience in claims, adoption of
insurance coverage based on replacement value basis, update of loss registers
and strengthening of WAPDA's Department of Insurance.



- 22 -
IV. THB PROJECT
Proaect Obiectives
4.1       The objectives of the proposed project would be to: (a) set the
stage for a gradual and orderly privatization of the power sector in general
and WAPDA in particular through the implementation of a comprehensive
Strategic Plan; (b) support WAPDA's investment program in a manner which would
minimize the country's chronic shortage of electricity at least cost while
further enhancing demand-side management measures, and facilitate the
privatization process; (c) enhance resource mobilization and the operational
efficiency, autonomy and ac-nuntability of the power sector entities; and (d)
strengthen the environmental assessment and mitigation capabilities within the
sector.
Suarv Proiect Description
4.2       The proposed Project would consist of:
(a) a restructurinca and privatization comnonent involving the
implementation of a Strategic Plan which would include inter alia:
(i) the reorganization and corporatization of WAPDA into a holding
company with decentralized power generation, transmission and
distribution subsidiaries operating as discrete autonomous profit
centers; (ii) the establishment of a national regulatory authority
to set standards and regulate a gradually privately-operated power
sector; (iii) the adoption of a pricing policy which would provide
the incentives needed to support the project's restructuring and
privatization objectives; (iv) the development of a manpower
transition program that would allow the privatization of the power
sector to occur in a manner that provides adequate management
flexibility to the private sector while addressing the concerns of
labor; and (v) the initial offering for sale to the private sector
of parts of WAPDA's assets;
(b) an investment comnonent involving the implementation of a four-year
(1995-1998) time-slice of WAPDA's 1994-1999 investment program,
while improving the reliability of the system in order to make it
more efficient and more attractive to private investors; and
(c) a technical assistance component involving consultancy services and
training for (a) and (b) above, and strengthening WAPDA's
environmental capability.
The following paragraphs give a brief description of each component while
Annexes 4.1 and 4.2 give a detailed description of (a) and (b) above
respectively. IBRD Map 24399 gives the broad location of the investment
component.
Restructurina/Privatization COm2Onent
4.3       In order t.. achieve the objective of restructuring WAPDA and
privatizing selected parts of its existing assets, GOP and WAPDA finalized
with the assistance of a group of consulting firms under USAID financing, an



- 23 -
overall study defining a Strategic Plan7 for restructuring and privatizing
the power subsector. The Strategic Plan, which was approved by the Cabinet
Committee on Privatization on July 18, 1992, outlines the future structure of
the power sector in Pakistan in general, and of WAPDA in particular, and the
principal phases for its implementation. As first critical steps, an
Amendment to WAPDA Act, which would enable WAPDA to be corporatized and
privatized, was approved by Parliament on April 27, 1994, and the design of
the future Regulatory Authority for the power sec'tor was approved by the
Cabinet on May 16, 1994. These important measures illustrate GOP's commitment
to the restructuring and privatization process. The broad outline of the
future structure of the power sector calls for:
(a) a number of private generation companies operating under free
market competition;
(b) private regulated distribution companies responsible for providing
reliable and reasonably priced electric source to ultimate
customers, including socially desirable subsidized services such as
rural development;
(c) a reorganized WAPDA as a government-owned corporatized entity
responsible for large multipurpose hydroelectric facilities, and
the transmission and despatch systems;
(d) market arrangements allowing consumers, at least industrial users,
to purchase power directly from power producers; and
(e) an autonomous National Electric Power Regulatory Authority (NEPRA)
which will oversee a reorganized WAPDA, the transmission/central
despatch functions, the distribution and the generation companies.
4.4       The Bank has been involved during the preparation of the Strategic
Plan. It supports the recommendations and the ultimate structure for the
privatized power sector in Pakistan. The restructuring/privatization
component of the proposed project would assist GOP and WAPDA in implementing
the recommended set of actions.  This would mainly involve technical
assistance to carry out studies, and develop and implement action plans in the
following areas:
(a)  Commercialization/corporatization of WAPDA.  This would involve
about 200 man-months of consultancy services for the restructuring
of WAPDA into a holding company with decentralized power
generation, transmission and distribution subsidiaries. These
consultancy services would be a follow-up to the assistance
provided under the RE project and USAID financing for the
commercialization and corporatization of Jamshoro and Kot-Addu
thermal power stations and Faisalabad AEB. In order to ensure
timely implementation of WAPDA's privatization program, GOP and
WAPDA aareed durinc negotiations. to comolete the commercialization
and corcoratization of one thermal nower station and one
distribution AEB by June 30, 1995: and the cornoratization of WAPDA
as a whole by December 31. 1997 (Para 7.2).
7/    Copy of the Strategic Plan is in the Project documents file.



- 24 -
(b) Study for the revision of Tariff Policy and Tariff Administration.
This would involve about 60 man-months of consultancy services for
the design of new electricity pricing regimes to make the power
sector more efficient and attractive to private investors. In
order to ensure timely impleiantation of the privatization program,
GOP agreed during neaotiations to comnlete the recuired tariff
volicv and tariff administration study and review with the Bank the
recommendations of such study by March 31, 1996; and initiate
imnlementation of the acreed recommendations becinning Sentember
30, 1996 (uara 7.1).
(c)  Mannower Transition Program.  This would involve about 100 man-
months of consultancy services for design and implementation of a
program to address the concerns of staff and labor of WAPDA
inherent to the transition to a privately owned and operated
utility. In order to ease the burden that this transition may
impose on the staff, GOP and WAPDA agreed during negotiations to
complete the reauired Manpower Transition Proaram study by December
31, 1995: review and_ agree with the Bank on the recommendations by
March 31. 1996; and imlement the Program so aareed with effect
from June 30. 1996 (nara 7.2).
(d)  Establishment of NEPRA.  This would involve about 80 man-months of
consultancy services and special expertise for establishment of an
independent regulatory authority for the power sector; these
services would follow-up on the study financed by USAID and which
defined the function and structure of NEPRA, including the drafting
of the required legislation for the establishment of NEPRA. Given
the importance of NEPRA in the privatization process, during
negotiations. GOP agreed to make NEPRA fully onerational by June
30. 1995 (nara 7.1). Furthermore. introduction in the Parliament
of the reauired legislation satisfactory to the Bank. for the
establishment of NEPRA would be a condition of effectiveness of the
orolosed Loan (para 7.5).
(e) Divestiture/Privatization. This would involve about 200 man months
of financial advisory, investment banking and auditing services to
be provided under the proposed project, to assist WAPDA and GOP in
the offering to the private sector of selected assets of WAPDA.
Although actual privatization cannot be guaranteed, GOP and WAPDA
acrreed durina negotiations that they will take all necessarv
actions to offer for acauisition by the Private sector of one WAPDA
thermal nower station and one AEB by December 31, 1995 (nara 7.2).
4.5       Imnlementation.  GOP will be responsible for the implementation of
the Restructuring/Privatization Component, with the exception of the
commercialization/corporatization part and the manpower transition program
study t4.4 (a) and 4.4 (c)] which will be the responsibility of WAPDA. In
order to assist GOP in fulfilling its responsibilities, the proposed Project
would provide for about 100 man-months of technical, legal and financial
advisory services. MWP and WAPDA will be actively involved in the design and
implementation stages of all the above components. All of the previously
detailed services are crucial for an orderly privatization process, and the
related Terms of References (TORs) have been already agreed with GOP and are



- 25 -
attached to Annex 4.1. Detailed implementation schedule of this component is
given in Annex 4.3.
4.6       Cost Estimates and Financing.  The total base cost of the
restructuring/privatization component over the period 1995-1999 is estimated
at about US$17.26 million, of which US$13.86 million would be in foreign
currency. Given the scarcity of expertise required, these estimates are based
on a monthly rate varying from about US$14,000 to US$25,000 per man-month,
according to recent assignments of similar nature in Pakistan. Details of
these estimates are provided in Table 4.1 below.
Table 4.1:  RESTRUCTURING/PRIVATIZATION COMPONENT
(1995-1999)
--In million Rs.--       --In million US$--
L/C    F/C     SUM       L/C    F/C    SUM
Comm./Corp. of WAPDA /a      40.54   105.0  145.54      1.35   3.50   4.85
Management Services and      15.01   57.61   72.62      0.50   1.92   2.42
Establishment of NEPRA       15.02   47.11   62.13      0.50   1.57   2.07
Tariff Policy                 5.40   37.51   42.91      0.18   1.25   1.43
Labor Transition Program    17.12   31.80   48.92       0.57   1.06   1.63
Advisors and Auditors         9.01  136.85  142.86      0.30   4.56   4.86
Base Cost (Jan. 1994)   102.01  415.88  517.89       3.40  13.86  17.26
Physical Contingency       5.00   19.60   24.60      0.16   0.68   0.84
Price Contingency         24.86   35.10   59.96      0.80   1.26   2.06
TOTAL COST               131.87 470.58 602.45        4.36  15.80  20.16
IA To be implemented by WAPDA.
Investment ComDonent
4.7       The investment component which is a four-year (1995-1998) time-
slice of WAPDA's 1994-1999 investment program, would include facilities under
construction in June 1994 or to be started before July 1998, and would involve
the expansion of generation facilities, extension, reinforcement and
rehabilitation of both transmission and distribution networks. This Project
component constitutes an integral part of WAPDA's development program for the
period 1994-1999 which was reviewed by the Bank and found to represent the
least-cost alternative for meeting the power sector's needs. Proceeds from
the proposed Bank loan would be used to finance subprojects of WAPDA's 1995-
1998 program for expanding and rehabilitating its transmission and
distribution systems.
4.8       Generation.  The expansion of the generating facilities would
mainly involve the addition to the system of about 4,209 MW of which 2,695 MW
would be thermal and 1,244 MW hydro. The total base cost of the generation
program excluding custom duties and taxes, and which would be implemented
between July 1994 and June 1998, is estimated at about US$1,738.9 million, of
which about US$1,101.9 million would be in foreign exchange.



- 26 -
4.9       Transmission.  Expansion and reinforcement of the transmission
system would involve the completion of ongoing projects and the construction
of new projects totalling about 1,640 km of EHV lines and 1,900 km of STG
lines, and the installation of about 4,000 MVA transformers capacity. The
total base cost of the transmission component excluding custom duties and
taxes, is estimated at about US$768.9 million of which US$424.9 million would
be in foreign exchange. The proposed program is the least cost solution for
the transmission of the additional power to be generated by the new generating
plants which would come on stream by 1996, while reducing the level of
transmission losses from 9% in FY93 to about 6% in FY98.
4.10      Distribution.  The program for the distribution system (expansion,
reinforcement and rehabilitation) would involve the construction of 44,100 km
of MV and LV lines, the installation of about 60,000 new transformers and the
provision of 1,900,000 new service drops for LV customers. The proposed
distribution program would also help reduce the level of distribution losses
from the current rate of 12% to 9.5% in FY98. The total base cost of the
distribution program excluding custom duties and taxes, would amount to about
US$205.0 million, of which US$106.5 million would be in foreign exchange.
4.11      The program for rural electrification (expansion and reinforcement)
would involve the construction of 31,000 km of MV and LV lines. The proposed
program would provide electricity supply to about 500,000 new domestic
customers, 16,000 tubewells and 9,000 industrial consumers. The total base
cost of the rural component excluding custom duties and taxes, would amount to
about US$190.8 million of which US$125.0 million would be in foreign exchange
and the selection criteria for the villages to be electrified would be in
accordance with the guidelines set by the lending agencies.
4.12      Technical Assistance.  In addition to the consulting services
required for the restructuring/privatization component (para 4.4), the project
would include consultancy services and training in some specific areas (para
3.4) and studies for: (a) improving the environmental managerial capability of
WAPDA, and preparing an overall sector environmental assessment review (para
4.28); and (b) analysis and diagnostic of the existing distribution management
system in the AEB of Peshawar (para 3.15). In addition to these studies, the
proposed project would also provide for special expertise and technical
assistance in specific operating areas such as hot-line works. The above
studies would be implemented over the period of the proposed project, and
would involve consultancy services for about 200 man-months. The total base
cost would be about US$6.8 million, of which US$6.5 million would be in
foreign exchange.
4.13      Status of Preparation.  WAPDA's arrangements for planning,
engineering and supervision of works have been reviewed by the Bank and found
satisfactory. WAPDA's engineering staff are involved in projects from
preliminary design up to the commissioning of the facilities. Technical and
economic justification, load flow and stability studies, design criteria,
environmental considerations, cost estimates and implementation schedules for
the project facilities are nearly completed for some subcomponent and still
ongoing for others. In order to ensure timely implementation of the proposed
Project, the PCls associated with the project components to be financed by the
proposed Bank Loan (para 4.18), were reviewed by the Bank and approved by the
Technical Committee of CCE prior to loan negotiations.



- 27 -
4.14      Detailed engineering design of the project facilities are being
carried out jointly by WAPDA's own staff, assisted by NESPAX, a local
consulting firm, for the EMm, STG and the distribution facilities, and by
other consulting firms and contractors for the main power plants. The Bank
has reviewed NESPAK's past experience and performance and is satisfied that it
has the capability to assist WAPDA in carrying out the engineering design of
the EMM and STG sub-components. Detailed engineering designs associated with
the project facilities are ready, with the exception of the share of the STG
and distribution works to be constructed from 1996 through 1998.   In order to
ensure timely comDletion of the design and implementation of the Droject.
WAPDA agreed during negotiations to: (a) comDlete the detailed desicn of the
STG components to be financed by the Pronosed loan not later than December 31.
1995; (b) and the detailed desiqn of the distribution component not later than
December 31. 1996 (nara 7.3).
4.15      Imnlementation.  WAPDA will be fully responsible for the
implementation of its investment program. Its track record in timely
implementation of a large power system expansion program has improved in the
last three years, despite the financial constraints and the burden of
cumbersome administrative procedures. Standardized bidding documents for
goods and works have been finalized, detailed specifications and procurement
documents are being prepared, and first set of bidding documents for a total
estimated contracts amount of about 25% of the proposed Bank loan have been
released and the contract for the construction of the Rewat substations (about
US$31.0 million) awarded. The proposed project is expected to be completed by
June 30, 1998. Annex 4.4 gives the detailed implementation schedule for the
investment component.
Proiect Cost Estimates
4.16      The estimated costs of the proposed Project are set out in Annexes
4.5 and 4.6 and summarized in Table 4.2 below. The total financing required,
inclusive of interest during construction (US$563.1 million), is about Rs.
134,156.2 million (US$4,470.0 million), of which Rs. 75,218.2 million
(US$2,504.9 million) would be in foreign exchange. The cost estimates include
custom duties and taxes estimated at about Rs. 10,450.0 million (US$348.0
million)Y.  The estimated costs for equipment and works are based on January
1994 prices derived from contracts for similar goods and works that are under
construction in Pakistan. Physical contingencies of 15% were applied to the
hydro plants, 7.5% to the thermal plants and extra-high voltage (EHV) system,
and 5 to the remaining of the program due to the repetitive and routine
nature of these works. Price contingencies were computed using specific
annual increases for domestic and international prices as follows:
1994    1995     1996     1997    1998
Local (%)            8.00   6.5        6.0     6.0      6.0
International (      1) 1.29   1.84    2.8     3.3      3.3
8/    including related physical and price contingencies.



- 28 -
Table 4.2:  TOTAL PROJECT COST
In Rs. Million----              ---In USS Million-----
Local   Fore;aan    Total             Local  Foreign  Total
A. RESTRUC./PRIVATIZ. CORP.
Base Cost (January 1994)          102.0   415.9      517.9             3.4    13.9    17.3
Physical contingencies              5.0    19.6       24.6             0.2      0.7      0.9
Price contingencies                24.9    35.1       60.0             0.8      1.2      2.0
Total Cost Ala                    131.9   470.6      602.5             4.4    15.8    20.2
B. INVESTMENT COMPONENT
CWAPDA's 1995-98 program)
Generation
Thermal pLants                   6190.0  14570.0   20760.0            206.4   485.2   691.6
Hydro plants                     8420.0 23040.0   31460.0            280.1   767.2  1047.3
Transmission
Extra- high vottage              4410.0  7030.0   11440.0             146.9   234.1   381.0
Secondary trans. grid (STG)      5340.0  4600.0    9940.0             177.8   153.2   331.0
Distribution                         2750.0  2840.0    5590.0             91.6    94.6   186.2
Rural Electrification                1960.0  3770.0    5730.0             65.3   125.5   190.8
Technical Assistance
Consulting services                25.8    85.0      110.8              0.9     2.8      3.7
Comp. soft./hard. & trg.           11.4   112.3      123.7              0.4     3.7      4.1
Custom duties & taxes                8380.0      0.0    8380.0           279.1      0.0   279.1
Base Cost (January 1994)         37487.2 56047.3   93534.5            1248.5  1866.3  3114.8
Physical contin9gencies           2949.7  5279.3    8229.0             98.1   175.9   274.0
Price contingencies              10448.2  4332.2   14880.3            350.3   147.6   497.9
Total Cost B                   50885.1  65758.8  116643.9           1696.9  2189.8  3886.7
Interest during construction    7921.0  8988.8   16909.8            263.8   299.3   563.1
Grand Total 8                  58806.1  74747.6  133553.7           1960.7  2489.1  4449.8
Total Financing Required (A & B)    58938.4 75218.2  134156.2            1965.1  2504.9  4470.0
/a  inclusive of expenditures for 1999 (about Rs. 65.0 million equivalent to US$1.7 million).
4.17         The proposed Bank loan would finance an agreed list of
subcomponents of WAPDA's 1995-1998 program for expanding and rehabilitating
its transmission and distribution systems, which are not funded by any
existing Loan. The detailed list of these subcomponents and their related
costs are set out in Annex 4.7 and summarized in Table 4.3 below.   Given
WAPDA's divestiture program,  the facilities being funded under the proposed
Loan could be sold to the private sector.   In this event, proceeds of the
proposed Bank loan would either continue to be utilized by the purchaser under
the same terms and conditions (see para 5.12), or reallocated to finance other
needed transmission and distribution facilities.
Linancina Plan and Lendina Arranaements
4.18         Bank financ iag, including expected disbursements under ongoing Bank
loans, would cover about 10.7* of the total financing required for the
proposed project and about 20.0* of the foreign exchange component. The
proposed Bank Loan would cover about 5.1% of the total financing required for



- 29 -
the proposed project and about 9.2% of the foreign exchange component. The
remaining (US$3,989.0 million) would be covered by: (a) WAPDA's internal cash
generation for an estimated amount of US$1,790.2 million; (b) GOP's
contribution for about US$2.4 million; (c) existing foreign borrowing from
ADB, USAID, OECF, other bilateral agencies, and export credits, for an amount
of about US$1,293.9 million equivalent; other sources of cofinancing being
currently explored by the Bank and the Borrower for an amount of US$731.0
million and local borrowing for an amount of US$174.9 million. Financing of
this program is not completely finalized, and it is clearly not feasible to
have at this stage a financing plan with firm commitments for an investment of
this magnitude and over this period. However, about 75% of the financing
requirements of the investment program have been committed (including WAPDA's
internal cash generation). A tentative financing plan is given in Table 4.4
and more detailed in para 5.8 which summarizes WAPDA's sources and application
of funds for the proposed Project period (1995-1998).
Table 4.3:  PROJECT CONPONENTS COSTS FOR BANK FINANCING
-Miliion Rs.-----       - ---NMEn US$-
Cateaorv                  Local Foreian Total    Local Forelan Total
A. Extra - high voltage EHV
(5001220 kv) transmission
svstem
Equipment               270.3  976.0 1246.3       9.0  32.5  41.5
Works                    195.2  345.3  540.5      6.3  11.5  17.8
B. Secondary transmission grid
(STG 132166111kV)
Equipment                 0.0 2336.3 2336.3       0.0  77.8  77.8
Works                   465.5  690.7 1156.2      15.5  23.0  38.6
C. Disrbion system
(Extension & Rehabitation)
Equipment                 0.0  444.4  444.4       0.0  14.8  14.8
Works                    300.3  453.5  750.8      9.6  16.1  24.7
D. Technical Assistance
Restructuring & Privatization  102.1  417.4  519.5  3.4  13.9  24.7
of WAPDA
Other Consuling Servies  31.2  102.1  133.3       1.0   3.4   4.4
Equipment and training    12.0  90.0  102.0       0.4   3.0   3.4
Baseiine Cost           1376.6 6855.7 7232.3     45.2  195.0  240.2
Physical Contingencies   90.0  360.4  450.4       2.9  12.5  15.4
Price Contingencies      207.0  615.0  822.0      7.6  22.5  30.1
Total Cost              1673.6 6831.1 8504.7     55.7  230.0  285.7
4.19      Lendina Arranaements.  The proposed Bank loan of US$230.0 million
would be made to, the Government at the Bank's standard variable interest rate,
five years of grace period and a final maturity of 20 years. GOP would bear
the foreign exchange and interest rate risks. Out of the total Loan amount,
US$12.0 million related to the restructuring and privatization component to be



- 30 -
implemented by GOPV1, will be used by GOP and US$218.0'/ million would be
onlent to WAPDA at an onlending rate of  lt and with the same grace and
repayment periods as those of the proposed Bank Loan. During negotiations.
GOP and WAPDA agreed to execute a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to
the Bank as a condition of effectiveness of the oroposed Loan (para 7.5).
Table 4.4: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Million)
Local Currency    Foreign Currency        Total    %
Proposed Bank Loan                              230.0            230.0    5.1
Ongoing Bank loans                              250.0            250.0    5.6
Other Existing Loans                          1,293.9          1,293.9   28.9
WAPDA's cash generation,    1,790.2                            1,790.2   40.0
Govt. Contribution,'A
and customers, contrib.
Identified Loans not com-
mitted yet                                    731.0           731.0    16.4
WAPDA's Local Borrowing        174.9                            174.9     4.0
TOTAL             1,965.1           2,504.9        4,470.0   100.0
ia For the privatization component (about US$2.4 million).
ProcureMent and Disbursements
4.20      Procurement of goods, works and services to be financed by the
proposed Bank loan would be in accordance with Bank Guidelines. With the
exception of the items listed in para 4.21 below, all contracts financed under
this operation for the supply of equipment and materials would be awarded
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Contracts for the
construction and erection would also be awarded through ICB, with the
additional condition that, such contracts would be grouped into bid packages
estimated to cost each the equivalent of US$1.5 million or more in order to
attract foreign bidders. For purposes of bid comparison, a preference limited
to 15* of the CIF cost of imported goods, or the custom duty applicable to a
non-exempt importer, whichever is less, would be extended to eligible locally
manufactured goods. In the procurement of works, WAPDA may grant a 7.5S
margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance with the provisions
of the Bank's procurement guidelines.
4.21      Contracts expected to cost US$400,000 equivalent or less and not
exceeding US$8.0 million in aggregate, would be procured through Limited
International Bidding (LIB) by inviting quotations from a list of potential
bidders broad enough to assure competitive prices. Specialized environmental
monitoring instruments, and control equipment shall be procured through
international and local shopping, and items of proprietary nature may be
procured directly, all of which will not exceed US$2 million equivalent in the
2/    Excluding the commercialization/corporatization subcomponent which will
be implemented by WAPDA.
10/   Including the commercialization/corporatization subcomponent to be
implemented by WAPDA.



- 31 -
aggregate. WAPDA will furnish in advance lists of items proposed for
International and Local Shopping and a list of proprietary items to be
procured directly, for review and approval by the Bank. Consultants for
studies and technical assistance above US$100,000 equivalent would be selected
in accordance with Bank guidelines and employed under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
4.22      Table 4.5 below summarizes the procurement arrangements for the
components expected to be financed out of the proposed Bank loan. Procurement
following ICB procedures is expected to aggregate to about 85% of the loan
amount. Bidding documents and award recommendations for each contract,
exceeding the equivalent of US$1,000,000 to be financed under the proposed
Loan, would be subject to prior approval by the Bank. Other Bank-financed
contracts would be subject to post-award review. A list of contract packages
for goods, works and services, suitable for procurement under Bank guidelines
and eligible for Bank financing, and the proposed procurement schedule are
attached as Annex 4.8.
Table 4.5: SUMMARY OF PROCURUS aNG            S FOR THU CONPONKUS
TO BB FINNCUD BY THE PROPOSED LOAN
(usS Million)
Project                            Procurement Method            Total
Component               ICB     LCB    Others -   NBFp-          Cost
Equipment and          137.8            10.0         9.6           157.4
materials           (137.8)          (10.0)        (-)          (147.8)
Civil Works and       102.6                                        102.6
Install. & Erection   (60.8)                                       (60.8)
Consulting Services
-Policy support                        7.7                         7.7
(6.5)                       (6.5)
-Implem. support                      11.6                        11.6
(9.7)                       (9.7)
-Inst. develop.                        4.0                         4.0
(3.2)                       (3.2)
Training                                 2.4                         2.4
(2.0)                      t2.0)
Total              240.4             35.7         9.6           285.7
(198.6)          (31.4)        (-)          (230.0)
/a    Refers to procurement through limited international bidding, limited
international and local shopping, direct procurement and procurement of
consulting services.
/b    Not Bank-financed. Refers to taxes, engineering and administrative
overheads.
Note: Figures in parentheses refer to amounts to be financed from the Bank
loan



- 32 -
4.23      Disbursements.  The Bank loan would be disbursed against:  (a) 100W
of foreign expenditures for equipment and materials imported directly, 100% of
ex-factory cost of local expenditures for equipment and materials manufactured
locally and 80% of expenditures for other items procured locally; (b) 60% of
all expenditures for civil works and installation and erection; and (c) 100%
of all expenditures for consultants services and training. Full documentation
would be required by the Bank to support withdrawal applications for all
consultant services above US$100,000 and all other contracts above US$200,000
equivalent.  Disbursements for civil works, equipment and material contracts
less than US$200,000 equivalent and for training, would be made on the basis
of itemized Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). The documentation for the SOEs
would be retained by GOP and WAPDA respectively, and made available for review
by Bank supervision missions.
4.24      To facilitate disbursements, two Special Accounts shall be
established with a commercial Bank in Pakistan, one by GOP and one by WAPDA
for their respective shares of the Loan. These Special Accounts of US$1.0
million for GOP and US$12.0 million for WAPDA would be maintained in US
Dollars and used for all expenditures both local and foreign of less than
US$80,000 (GOP) and US$1,200,000 (WAPDA; under all categories. All other
expenditures above these amounts could be submitted to the Bank for payment.
Replenishment of these Accounts would be made on a monthly basis or whenever
the available balance in the account dropped below 50%, whichever occurred
first.
4.25      Annex 4.9 gives the disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank
loan. Given the advanced stage of preparation by WAPDA of its FY95-FY98
investments, particularly the sub-components to be financed by the proposed
loan, and given the time-slice funding approach of the proposed operation, the
proposed loan is expected to be disbursed faster than indicated by the
standard profile which is applicable to discrete projects. The proposed
Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998 and the closing date for
the loan would be June 30, 1999.
4.26      Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing.  Expenditures
amounting to a maximum of US$5.0 million (2% of the loan amount) which would
be incurred within the 12 months period prior to loan signature, i.e., after
October 1, 1993, to finance advance payments for the contract related to the
Rewat substation, would be eligible for retroactive financing.
Bnvironmental and Resettlement Aspects
4.27      In recognition of the environmental and resettlement effects of the
extensive and large scale construction projects required to carry out its
mission, WAPDA established an in-house Environmental and Resettlement
Management Unit (EMU) to: (a) review and formulate the company's environmental
and resettlement policies; (b) incorporate environmental and safety procedures
into the company's planning, construction and operations; (c) develop
environmental regulations, procedures and training; and (d) monitor compliance
with established requirements and standards. Although progress has been made
in achieving these objectives, further strengthening of WAPDA's EMU is
required. Accordingly, the proposed Project includes a component aimed at
achieving this objective. These institutional development efforts will be
further enhanced during the processing of the forthcoming Ghazi-Barotha
Hydropower Project, with particular attention to the resettlement aspect.



- 33 -
4.28      In addition to the institutional development of WAPDA stated above,
the environmental component of the proposed Project would also assist the
company in undertaking a sectoral environmental assessment of all its existing
facilities to identify environmental problems, recommend mitigation or
corrective measures, and establish schedules for their implementation. TORs
related to this component have been agreed on and are attached in Annex 4.10.
Accordinglv. during negotiations. WAPDA agreed to aDDoint consultants to carrv
out a sectoral environmental assessment study by June 30, 1995. review and
aaree with the Bank on the recommendations, and to implement such aCreed
recommendations with an action nlan satisfactory to the Bank (nara 7.3).
4.29      Environmental Imnact.  As stated earlier (para 4.17) proceeds from
the proposed Bank loan would finance only expansion and rehabilitation of
WAPDA's transmission and distribution investment program for the period 1995-
1998. These components would have no significant negative impact on the
environment, and no involuntary resettlement issues are expected.
Accordingly, the proposed Project has been rated "B". WAPDA would coordinate
the routing of the lines with local authorities to minimize their impact and
provide compensation when land is required for supporting facilities.
Equipment provided under the proposed project would have limited noise level,
adequate safety standards to minimize the risk of electrocution, and
transformers to be used would not contain PCB's (polychlorinated biphenyl).
Proper occupational health safety practices would be used in the installation
and maintenance of the project facilities.  The proposed Project would have
limited aesthetic impact on the landscape.
Proiect Moaitorina
4.30      GOP and WAPDA would submit to the Bank quarterly reports covering
the work of consultants, physical progress, project costs, financing,
disbursement and administrative aspects of their respective components. Annex
4.11 details the Bank's supervision plan for the Project. Furthermore, and in
order to establish a sound basis for assessing the adequacy of the preparatory
work for the privatization and divestiture of WAPDA, there is a need for a
mid-term review. During neaotiations, GOP and WAPDA agreed to carry out
iointlv with the Bank and in accordance with terms of reference accentable to
the Bank. not later than June 30, 1996, a mid-term review of their resrective
activities under the Prelect and make such adjustments in such activities and
the related organizational and olerational arrangements as may be warranted in
the light of such review and agreed with the Bank (iara 7.2).
V. FINANCES
Introduction
5.1       WAPDA's financial affairs are governed by the WAPDA Act of 1958
which requires the utility to operate along commercial principles and to
generate sufficient revenues from electricity sales to cover operating costs
and achieve a reasonable return on investment. To ensure that adequate funds
are available for the implementation of WAPDA's investment program, WAPDA has
agreed under ongoing operations with the Bank on an Internal Cash Generation
(ICG) covenant, which requires WAPDA to generate annually from internal
sources at least 40% of its capital expenditures, averaged over the previous,
current and ensuing year, taking into account changes in working capital.



- 34 -
WAPDA is also required to consult with the Bank before incurring new debt
should it be unable to maintain a debt service coverage of at least 1.5 times.
WAPDA's tariffs are set to ensure that these two financial objectives are met.
By and large, WAPDA has achieved these financial performance targets
satisfactorily since FY85.
Past and Present Financial Performance
5.2       Financial statements showing WAPDA's performance during the period
FY89-94 are presented in Annex 5.1 and summarized in Table 5.1 below:
Table 5.1: WAPDA'S FINANCIAL RESULTS, FY89-FY94
KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS    FY89    FY90 J  FY91   FY92 |  FY93    FY94
_________  _________   I_I    Projectd
kWh Generated (Miltions)         28898   31427   34345  380687   40791   43394
kWh Sold (Millions)              21982   24121   26584   29267   31272   33484
Average Revenue/kWh Sold (Rs.)   0.944   1.057   1.165   1.268   1.262   1.447
_ncrease in Average Revenue (%)   13.9    12.0    10.2    8.8      0.0    14.2
Operating Revenues (Rs.,kWh Sold)  .98    1.09    1.19    1.29    1.28    1.48
Operating Expenses (Rs./kUh Sold)  .59    .61    .70    .78        .80     .86
Net Operating Income (Rs./kWh Sold)  .39    .48    .49    .51      .47     .62
Investment Program (Rs. Mi(lion)  14815   16764   16030   24804   22310 _24730
Internat Cash Generation t%) -3Yr. Ave.    41.2    40.7    47.3    50.0    44.5    39.6
Current Ratio                      1.9    3.3    2.1       1.7    1.3      1.4
Rate of return on Ave. Net Fixed Assets %) a  18.7    20.8    19.0    19.2    18.6    23.2
IDebt Service Coverage Ratio       1.8    1.8    1.5       1.6     1.4     1.4
Debt:Eouity Ratio                57:43   58:42   57:43   56:44   57:43   55:45
nI On historical cost basis.
5.3       WAPDA's overall financial performance during the pexiod has been
satisfactory. Average revenue has steadily increased from Rs. 0.94 in FY89 to
Rs. 1.45 in FY94. WAPDA's self-financing performance has also been
satisfactory with the ICG averaging about 43.8%, above the covenanted 40%
level during the period. Operating revenues increased from Rs. 0.98/kWh in
FY89 to Rs. 1.48/kWh in FY94 representing an average annual increase of 8.6%,
while operating costs - -eased at an average annual rate of 7.8t during the
same period (from Rs. 0.b9/kwh to Rs. 0.86/kwh). The faster increase in
operating revenues than the operating costs is due to a higher recovery of
fuel costs through increases in the Fuel Adjustment Surcharge (FAS) rate
beginning in FY90, and increased efficiency through gradual reduction of
losses. Thus, net operating income as a percentage of operating revenues
increased from 39% in FY89 to 42% in FY94. As a result, WAPDA earned a
satisfactory rate of return on net fixed assets during the period (18% - 23%).
WAPDA's assets are valued at historical book values, which is the normal
practice of public corporations in Pakistan. With average inflation rates
running at about 8 - 11t during the period, WAPDA has been achieving rates of
return well above inflation.



- 35 -
5.4       Although WAPDA's current ratio was also satisfactory, exceeding 1.3
during the period, WAPDA's debt service coverage has been gradually declining
from 1.8 times in FY89 to 1.4 during FY93 and projected in FY94. The decline
is due to several factors, including increases in short-term borrowing to meet
cash flow requirements resulting from a build-up of accounts receivable,
inadequate sinking fund appropriations for WAPDA's first bond issue which was
retired in FY93, and WAPDA's increased cost of debt.   WAPDA's debt-equity
ratio, however, has remained at satisfactory levels at about 55:45. In
future, there is a need to monitor WAPDA's debt-servicing capacity, in order
to avoid expensive short-term borrowings, as well as its efforts towards
receivables collection, as overall receivables have increased from 22% of
total sales in FY92 to about 24% in FY93 (para 5.6). Finally, WAPDA continues
to pay hydroelectric profits to the Provinces. Although WAPDA currently makes
'he payments out of the surcharge it collects for the purpose, and the balance
of the payments is paid by the Federal Government, a more permanent
arrangement for payment of the full hydroelectric profits needs to be found
(para 5.8).
DoMestic Borrowina
5.5       WAPDA's local debt has comprised mainly of bonds issued in the
local financial markets. WAPDA raised Rs. 16.9 billion in four successive
bond issues between FY88 and FY92. The first three issues were in the form of
bearer certificates, which could be encashed before maturity. WAPDA,
therefore, has set up a sinking fund to make provision for payments for such
conversion of bonds and thus moderate the tariff increases required.
Furthermore, beginning in FY93, the Federal Government no longer guaranteed
the domestic borrowing of public corporations which could affect prospects for
refinancing the bonds as they become due. Although the long term objective of
WAPDA is to borrow its local financing requirements on the basis of its own
credit rating and trading profile, prudent financial management requires WAPDA
to continue to maintain a sinking fund.   Accordincrlv. the existing agreement
under the Rural Electrification Proiect. where WAPDA aqreed to review with the
Bank. not later than June 30 of each year. the arranqements for setting aside
amounts in a sinkinq fund to be used to ret-ire and/or to make Pavments on
Dremature encashments of bonds issued by WAPDA, will be maintained under the
proposed Prolect (nara 7.4).
Accounts Receivable
5.6       The level of WAPDA's overall accounts receivable has been
increasing over the past three years, from 22% of sales in FY92 to 24% in
FY93. As of June 30, 1993 total receivables amounted to Rs. 10.7 billion of
which Rs. 2.3 billion (22*) have been outstanding for more than three years
(see Table 5.2.) Under the Rural Electrification Project, WAPDA agreed to
carry out an aging analysis of its accounts receivable, and reflect on its
balance sheet only receivables outstanding for less than three years and
deemed collectible.   However, while WAPDA is reviewing its accounts
receivable of over three years to determine which ones are uncollectible, its
balance sheet has yet to be adjusted.  Therefore. the existinq agreement under
ongoing nroiects where WAPDA has to carrv out. by September 30 of each year.
an aaina analysis of its accounts receivables and thereafter. but not later
than December 31 in each year, adtust its accounts receivable on its balance
sheet of the Previous financial year to reflect only those receivables that



- 36 -
are outstandinc for less than three years and deemed collectible, will be
maintained une   the pronosed Proiect (oara 7.4);
Table 5.2: WAPDA'S AGING OF RBCZIVABLNS AS OF JUNE 30, 1993
Up to       1-3      over
1 year     years     3 years       Total
Rs. Million      6,084       2,294    2,360      10,738
% of total         57          21       22         100
5.7       At the end of December 1993, overall receivables had increased to
29% of total sales, and excluding electricity duty, hydroelectric surcharge
and income *ax, which are items that WAPDA collects on behalf of the
Provincial and Federal Governments, the overall receivables amount to Rs. 12.7
billion sales. The overall accounts receivable of WAPDA (excluding the
duties) and surcharges represent about 3.5 months average sales. While
receivables from private sector consumers, amounting to about Rs. 8.6 billion,
represent 2.7 months average sales, those from Government departments and
agencies, amounting to Rs. 3.8 billion were equivalent of 5.1 months sales.
Under the ongoing Bank loans, GOP agreed to ensure that all federal and
provincial government departments and agencies would settle all bills for the
supply of electricity within three months. WAPDA presented its case with
respect to Government receivables and arrears to the Cabinet in November 1993,
which took several important decisions providing for: (a) recovery of arrears
from Provincial Governments through budgetary releases; (b) deductions at
source for all arrears for SCARP, Irrigation, Tubewells of Punjab and Sindh;
(c) withholding of payments due by WAPDA to the Federal Government, Provincial
Departments and Local Bodies for adjustment against arrears; (d) disconnection
of local bodies at the Provincial level with arrears; (e) deduction at source
by Provincial governments of electricity arrears of local bodies from
subsidies due to the local bodies, and (f) monthly reporting of status of
arrears to ECC through the MWP. These decisions are now being implemented by
WAPDA. As a result, the Government has agreed that about Rs. 2.5 billion of
receivables from Government departments and agencies would be adjusted against
amounts payable by WAPDA to the Government in FY94. Therefore, it is expected
that the receivables from Government will be within the covenanted level of
three months' sales at the end of FY94. In order to ensure that WAPDA's cash
flows are not adversely affected by hiah levels of Government receivables, the
existina agreement under ongoing vrolects. where GOP were to cause all federal
and Drovincial covernmental aaencies to settle all bills for the suDDlv of
electricity by WAPDA within three months of receint of the bills will be
retained under the DroDosed Proiect (Dara 7.4).
Hydroelectric Profits
5.8       Under Article 161 of the Pakistan Constitution, the net profits
earned by WAPDA on bulk generation of power at hydroelectric stations,
computed in accordance with a formula set by the Government, are to be paid to
the Province in which the hydro power station is situated. The provision was
not enforced until FY92, when WAPDA was instructed by GOP to pay hydro
profits, estimated at Rs. 6.0 billion, to the North West Frontier Province for



- 37-
Tarbela. In order for WAPDA to make the payment and, at the same time,
maintain the 40% ICG level covenanted under the Bank loans, the Government
introduced a surcharge of about 7.7% on electricity consumption in FY92, which
raised about Rs. 1.13 billion.Y1  The remainder was paid directly by GOP.
In FY93, the surcharge was increased to 10.4% which raised Rs. 3.4 billion,
and the balance of Rs. 2.6, billion was once again paid by GOP. Though this
arrangement was agreed for FY92 and FY93, GOP recognizes that a more permanent
arrangement needs to be found. Accordingly, it has appointed a committee,
comprising representatives of MWP, MOF, and WAPDA, to review the formula and
the modality of payments for the hydroelectric profits.
Financina Plan for WAPDA'a Investment Proaram
5.9       A summary of WAPDA's financing plan for its projected capital
expenditure program during the Project period (FY95-FY98) is shown in Table
5.3.
Table 5.3:  WAPDA' S CAPITAL INVESTINT REQUIREMENTS AND FIANCING SOURCES
(FY95 -FY98)
Rs. Million    USS Million          X
Requirements
Capital Investments     133554            4449.8            100.0
(?ntm . IOC)
Total Requirements      133554           4449.8           1T0.0O
Financina Sources
Gross Intermal Sources   165932            5528.7
Less: Debt Service      (107644)          (3586.6)
Working Capital Increase  ( 4567)    (154.3)
Net Intermal Cash Generation    53721      1787.8            40.0
Borrowing:
Local Loans             5249             174.9             3.9
Foreign Loans:
Proposed Bank Loan     6903            212.2\j            4.8
Ongoing Bank Loans     7503            250.0              5.6
other Exist. Fore. Loans   38807       1293.9            29.1
Unidentified Fore. Loans   21371       731.0             16.4
Subtotal Borrowing      79833            2662.0            60.0
Total Sources         133554            4449.8           100.0
\a Portion of Bank Loan to UAPDA disbursed during FY95-98
It assumes that required tariff increases would be made from July 1 of each
year- to comply with the ICG covenant under the Bank loan agreements (para
5.12). After taking into account the proposed loan and all committed loans,
the foreign exchange financing gap for implementing the FY9S-98 program is
estimated to be US$731.0 million, equivalent to 16.4% of the investment
program, which is expected to be covered by export credits, and loans and
credits from bilateral and multilateral sources. Based on WAPDA's past
11/   The amounts generated by this surcharge are collected by WAPDA on behalf
of the Government for payment of hydroelectric profits.
12/   The forecast tariff increases include the rate increase, and the fuel
adjustment surcharge.



- 38 -
experience in mobilizing these foreign resources, it should be able to secure
these funds on reasonable terms.
5.10      Given the large investment involved and the composition of this
program, it is not reasonable to expect at this stage a financing plan with
firm commitments over the entire project period. However, the Bank should be
satisfied that a suitable financing plan, satisfactory to the Bank, has been
arranged prior to the commencement of each year of the proposed Project. To
complement the agreement reached related to the annual review of WAPDA's
investment program (para 3.11), GOP and WAPDA agreed during negotiations:
(a) to review with the Bank, not later than April 15 in each year. the
financing nlan for said program. including borrowing proposals
aimed at firming uo by June 30 of the current year the financina
nlan for the next following Year (nara 7.2); and
(b)  to ensure that. if the financing nlan referred to in naraaranh (b)
above indicates a short-fall in the funds available for anMy iven
year of the Investment Program, the Borrower will Provide or cause
to be vrovided to WAPDA the additional funds reauired to make un
the short-fall (nara 7.2).
Future Finances
5.11        WAPDA's forecast balance sheet, income statement and sources and
applications of funds statement for the period FY95-99 is shown in Annex 5.1,
and the assumptions used for preparing these forecasts, are shown in Annex
5.2. The projected operating results for this period are summarized in
Table 5.4 below. In WAPDA's financial projections, foracast sales are based
on demand projections, WAPDA's generation expansion plan, and purchases from
private sector power plants beginning in FY96. Sales are expected to reach
55,471 GWh in FY99 from 38,201 GWh in FY95. The increases in average revenue
are required to allow WAPDA to comply with both the ICG covenant of generating
40% of its 3-year average investment program, and debt service coverage of 1.5
times. Under these ass -ptions, WAPDA's financial performance is expected to
be fully satisfactory. WAPDA's overall profitability measured by the rate of
return on net fixed assets, its forecast ICG, and debt service coverage are
expected to be satisfactory. The average revenue increases assumed to enable
WAPDA to achieve these financial performance targets, i.e., 16.6% in FY95,
8.9% in FY96, 10.6% in FY97, 9.2% in FY98, and 6.0% in FY99, are reasonable.
The projections assume that WAPDA would continue to operate in its present
structure, with accounts to be consolidated with subsidiary units established
under its commercialization and corporatization program. In order to ensure
that adeauate internal resources are available to implement WAPDA's canital
investment vroaram. GOP and WAPDA have acreed under onaoina Bank oierations to
take all necessarv measures (includina without limitation adiustments of the
structure and levels of tariffs), to enable WAPDA to generate for each year
from internal sources 40% of its capital expenditures averaged over the
orevious. onaoina and one ensuing year (para 7.4).  Furthermore, in order to
ensure that WAPDA's debt service coverage continues to be satisfactory, the
debt limitation covenant under ongoing Bank Group operations which provides
that WAPDA would consult with the Bank. should it seek to incur new debt that
would result in its debt service coveraae falling below 1.5. would be reneated
under the vroposed Prolect (para 7.4).



- 39 -
Table 5.4: WAPDA's FORECAST FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE (FY95-FY99)
KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS  FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98 I FY99 
kWh Generated (Millions)       48661   53098   60871   63787  68063
kWh Sold (Millions)            38201   42521   49184   51986  55471
Average Revenue/kWh Sold (Rs.)  1.68   1.84   2.03   2.22   2.35
Increase in Average Revenue (%)  16.6   8.9    10.6    9.2   6.0
Operating Revenues (Rs./kWh Sold)  1.72   1.86   2.05   2.24   2.37
Operating Expenses (Rs./kWh Sold)  .96   1.22   1.43   1.50   1.58
Net Operating Income (Rs./kW h Sold)  .,i    .65    .62    .74   .79
Investment F.-ogram (Rs. Mitlion)  29303   32535   34807   36908  41420
Internal Cash Generation (X) -3Yr. Ave.   40.0   49.7   47.7   50.6   56.3
Current Ratio                    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.2   2.4
Rawof retumonAve.NotFixed Assets()La  27.1   22.6   21.9   24.1   24.2
Debt Service Coverage Ratio      1.7    1.5    1.5    1.5   1.5
Debt:Equity Ratio              53:47   52:48   51:49   50:50  49:51 l
.' On historical cost basis.
5.12      WAPDA's future financial performance would be affected by the
implementation of the privatization plan, specifically the divestiture of part
of its assets. Evaluation of the impact of the proposed privatization of one
generation plant (Jamshoro power station) and one AEB (Faisalabad) will be
made upon completion of the asset and liability valuation cuxrrently ongoing
with the assistance of an international accounting firm financed by USAID, and
market valuation by an international investment banking firm being recruited
under Bank financing. However, it is expected that over the medium term, the
Government's privatization program would improve the performance of the power
sector in general, and WAPDA's resource position, in particular. The tariff
administration study under the Project will assess the principles of tariff
setting, to ensure, inter alia, WAPDA's future overall profitability and
financial viability. Furthermore, the legal agreements for ongoing Bank
projects in Pakistan provide for the Bank's concurrence to be obtained when
WAPDA and/or GOP take any actions that would affect WAPDA's ability to fulfill
its obligations.  Therefore GOP and WAPDA agreed during negotiations to obtain
(i) the Bank's concurrence Prior to the sale of each of WAPDA's assets: and
(ii) necessary undertakinas in terms and condition satisfactory to the Bank
from the ourchaser that any ongoing Droiects relating to the assets being
offered shall continue to be imnlemented under the same arrangements and in
accordance with the original Plans. and that the proceeds of any Bank loan or
Association Credit Provided for the purPose of such oroiects shall continue to
be utilized on the orivinallv agreed terms and conditions (Para 7.2).
VI.  PROJCZ JUSTXFICATION
6.1       The proposed development program would help meet the increase in
power demand over the next few years, reduce load shedding, and provide
reliable power supply to support the country's rapid growth. The program has
been formulated using a least-cost analysis. It optimizes the efficient use



- 40 -
of domestic resources, natural gas and renewable hydro energy, and would save
foreign exchange by reducing oil imports.
Demand Analvsis and Least Cost Develonment Proaram
6.2       WAPDA's electricity sales increased over the past decade at an
average annual rate of about 10.9%, although the rate of growth declined from
a high of 12.3% between FY80-88 to 8.6% between FY88-93. This decline is
attributable to the downturn in the growth of the economy, which was
exacerbated by the Gulf crisis, and to the adjustments in the level and
structure of electricity tariffs. The forecast of electricity sales is based
on the introduction of a comprehensive demand-side management program,
including tariff increases towards economic cost of supply and on the recovery
of the economy, with GDP resuming its historical trend of about 6.5% starting
1995. As a result, the estimated average annual growth rate of electricity
sales for the period FY93-2003 is about 8*, which appears reasonable in
comparison to the average annual growth rate over 1988-1993 of 8.6%. Tha
projections are also consistent with Pakistan's historical trend towards
decreasing elasticity of electricity consumption to economic growth, from 1.7
in the period FY81-93 to 1.2 between FY93-2003. More generally, as generating
capacity constraints are likely to persist during the four-year time slice of
the proposed Project, there is little risk that the additional generation from
WAPDA will not be utilized.
6.3       The investment component of the proposed Project involves the
implementation of a four-year, time-slice (FY95-98) of WAPDA'g least-cost
expansion plan for the period FY94-99. This is based on the optimum
utilization of natural gas, hydro, coal, and oil. The assumptions used in
WAPDA's capacity optimization and system planning studies, have been reviewed
by the Bank and found satisfactory.
economic Rate of Return
6.4       In order to confirm the economic viability of the proposed project,
an ERR has been calculated on the basis of the incremental cost and benefit
streams associated with WAPDA's overall ieast-cost investment program for the
period FY94-99 of which the proposed project is an integral part. Details of
the economic analysis are presented in Annex 6.1. All costs are expressed in
economic values, and include the costs of generation, transmission and
distribution facilities related to the period, as well as the operating and
maintenance costs associated with the expected life of the facilities.
Incremental fuel costs are based on the results of an operation simulation
model and Bank's projection for petroleum prices.
6.5       Measurable benefits of the program have been derived from
incremental sales revenues, resulting from the expansion program, and which
either substitute for other less efficient fuels or satisfy unmet energy
needs. When the projected levels of WAPDA's tariffs producing the minimum
covenanted 40% ICG ratio are used as a conservative proxy for benefits, the
calculated economic rate of return is estimated to be 11.6%. This understates
the true economic merit of the program as the value of electricity service in
Pakistan is deemed to be corsiderably higher than the rates at which it is
sold. Given the shortage of power supply, consumers have taken steps to
compensate the effects of load shedding by installing their own generating



- 41 -
facilities. Based on current evidence of consumers' willingness to pay, the
economic rate of return would increase to about 32% (Annex 6.1).
6.6       In order to test the sensitivity of ERR to less favorable scenarios
regarding increase in project cost or delay in implementation, the ERR was
also calculated on the following assumptions: (a) a 10% increase in capital
costs; (b) a 10% decline in sales revenues; and (c) delay of two years in the
realization of program benefits. Because financial covenants are agreed to
ensure tariff adjustments in response to variations in fuel prices, the ERR is
insensitive to changes in fuel cost. The sensitivity analysis, the results of
which are presented in Table 6.1 below, indicates that the ERR is sensitive to
delays in project completion, which have been minimized, while cost overrun of
the project would not significantly affect the ERR.
Table 6. 1: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS - ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
lERR             m
BASED ON         BASED ON
AVERAGE TARIFF   CONSUMER SURPLUS
BASE CASR                                  11.6%             32.4%
CAPITAL COSTS INCREASE +10%                10.2%            31.0%
REVENUES DECLINE -10%                      8.5%              29.3%
PROJECTS DELAY 2 YEARS                     7.3%             28.1%
6.7       Non-quantifiable benefits of this project consist of benefits from
the increased reliability of supply which is essential for the industrial
sector, the reduced cost of unserved energy and improved operational and
managerial efficiency translating into more efficient consumer service.
Project Risks
6.8       The principal risks of the proposed project are delays in the
implementation of the restructuring and privatization program, which could
arise on two accounts: (a) political risks whereby the Government may be
unwilling to proceed with the privatization program; and (b) market risks
wherein the divestiture/sale of parts of WAPDA's infrastructure may not be
accomplished successfully because of inadequate response from the markets to
the offer for sale of assets. The Government's commitment to the proposed
reform program and the preparatory work already completed suggest that the
former risk has been reduced to an acceptable level. The latter is a standard
commercial risk associated with all privatization programs, which would be
minimized by the provision in the proposed Project for international financial
advisory and underwriting services. Nevertheless, even if the anticipated
privatization through divestiture/sale of assets is not accomplished, the
benefits to be derived from the restructuring and corporatization program, and
the establishment of NEPRA would offset part of the risks associated with tne
Government's inability to privatize parts of WAPDA's infrastructure. Another
major risk of the operation would be delays in the implementation of the
investment program and in the mobilization of the corresponding local



- 42 -
financing requirements, stemming from the macroeconomic uncertainty. The high
priority given by GOP to the development of the power sector, the advanced
stage of procurement process and the agreement on annual reviews of the
investment program and related financing plan, within the context of the
overall macroeconomic framework, are designed to minimize such risk.
VIZ. *CRXEMN   REACHED AND R$COMMBDATION
Lareementa reached durina Neaotiations
7.1       With GOP:
(a) to complete the required tariff policy and tariff administration
study and review with the Bank the recommendations of such study by
March 31, 1996 and initiate implementation of the agreed
reconmiendations beginning September 30, 1996 (para 4.4); and
(b) to make NEPRA fully operational by June 30, 199!g (para 4.4).
7.2       With GOP and WAPDA:
(a) to include a metered energy charge component in all flat tariffs
charged for tubewells with effect from September 30, 1995 (para
2.9);
(b) to review with the Bank, before March 31 of each year, WAPDA's
updated five-year rolling investment program covering the current
year, the last preceding year and the next three following years,
with a view to enabling the Bank to satisfy itself that the program
remains consistent with the Borrower's macroeconomic targets (para
3.11);
(c) to complete the commercialization/corporatization of one thermal
power station and one distribution AEB by June 30, 1995; and
coaplete the corporatization of WAPDA as a whole by December 31,
1997 (para 4.4);
(d) to complete the required Manpower Transition Program study by
December 31, 1995; review and agree with the Bank on the
recommendations by March 31, 1996; and implement the program so
agreed with effect from June 30, 1996 (para 4.4);
(e) to take all necessary actions to offer for acquisition by the
private sector of one thermal power station and one WAPDA ABB by
December 31, 1995 (para 4.4);
(f) to carry out jointly with the Bank and in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, not later than June 30, 1996, a
mid-term review of their respective activities under the Project
and make such adjustments in such activities and the related
organizational and operational arrangements as may be warranted in
the light of such review and agreed with the Bank (para 4.30);



- 43 -
(g)  to review with the Bank not later than April 15 of each year, the
financing plan of WAPDA's updated five-year rolling investment
program, including borrowing proposals aimed at firming up by June
33 of the current year the financing plan for the next following
year (para 5.10);
(h)  to ensure that, if the financing plan referred to in paragraph (g)
above indicates a short-fall in the funds available for any given
year of the Investment Program, the Borrower will provide or cause
to be provided to WAPDA the additional funds required to make up
the short-fall; (para 5.10); and
(i) to obtain (i) the Bank's concurrence prior to the sale of each of
WAPDA's assets; and (ii) necessary undertakings in terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank from the purchaser that any
ongoing projects relating to the assets being offered shall
continue to be implemented under the original project under the
same arrangements and in accordance with the original plans, and
that the proceeds of any Bank loan or Association Credit provided
for the purpose of such projects shall continue to be utilized on
the originally agreed terms and conditions (para 5.12).
7.3       With WAPDA:
(a) (i) to appoint consultan', by September 30, 1995 to carry out a
distribution diagnostic btudy; (ii) implement the agreed
recommendations; and (iii) extend the implementation of these
recommendations to the other AEBs to the extent relevant and in
accordance with an action plan satisfactory to the Bank (para
3.15);
(b)  to employ consultants satisfactory to the Bank by September 30,
1995 to implement a modern, automated accounting and financial
management information system designed under the RE project for
each of WAPDA's generation plants, transmission system and AREBs
(para 3.18);
(c)  to agree with the Bank on the findings and recommendations of a MIS
currently being implemented under a pilot program and implement the
agreed recommendations according to an action plan satisfactory to
the Bank (para 3.19);
(d)  to appoint independent audit firm(s) acceptable to the Bank to
audit the accounts of WAPDA's corporatized subsidiaries (para
3.22);
(e)  to complete the detailed design of the STG components to be
financed by the proposed loan not later than December 31, 1995 and
the detailed design of the distribution component not later than
December 31, 1996 (para 4.14); and
(f)  to employ consultants satisfactory to the Bank by June 30, 1995 to
carry out a sectoral environmental assessment study, review and
agree with the Bank on the recommendations, and implement such
agreed recommendations in accordance with an action plan
satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.28).



- 44 -
7.4       The followinc covenants which are included in other onaoincj Power
proiects will be repeated under the Proposed Proiect:
(a) WAPDA to have its records, accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses) and the records
and accounts for the WAPDA special account for each fiscal year
audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
and furnish the audit reports to the Bank within six months of the
end of each fiscal year (para 3.21);
(b) WAPDA to review with the Bank, not later than June 30 of each year,
the arrangements for setting aside amounts in a sinking fund to be
used to retire and/or to make payments on premature encashment of
any bonds issued by WAPDA (para 5.5);
(c) GOP to cause all federal and provincial governmental agencies to
settle all bills for the supply of electricity by WAPDA within
three months of receipt of the bills (para 5.7);
(d) WAPDA to carry out, by Sercember 30 of each year an aging analysis
of its accounts receivables and thereafter, but not later than
December 31 in each year, adjust its accounts receivable on its
Balance Sheet of the previous financial year to reflect only those
receivables that are outstanding for less than three years and
deemed collectible (para 5.6);
(e) GOP and WAPDA to take all necessary actions (including without
limitation adjustment of the level and structure of tariffs) to
enable WAPDA to generate each year from internal sources 40% of its
capital expenditures averaged over the previous, ongoing and one
ensuing year (para 5.11); and
(f) WAPDA to consult the Bank should it seek to incur new debt that
would result in WAPDA's debt service coverage falling below 1.5
times (para 5.11).
7.5       The followina are conditions of effectiveness
(a) introduction to the Parliament of the required legislation
satisfactory to the Bank for the establishment of NEPRA (para 4.4);
and
(b) execution by GOP and WAPDA of a subsidiary Loan Agreement
satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.19).
Recommendation
7.6       On the basis of the Project justification and the agIeements
reached at loan negotiations with GOP and WAPDA, the proposed Project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$230 million to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan
for a term of 20 years at the standard variable interest rate, including a
five-year grace period.



PAKISTAN
POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMrlT PROJECT
ENERGY BALANCE FY 1993
UNIT: TOE
mNobura Ca %l                               PetraIlm  ProdIt    Lqueied  |
mmn       peteu"nm                                                           TOTAL
Row       Processed Cos      Total      Cfude Ott      Enerny       '                    |    Coal         ydo        NuClIet      Eetrity
\b             k                                                                                            \ Xd         \d -d
_  NYSUPPLU
.    agenou Production                      tl411t t442                   12937,402                                                         1.461.456    5.039.265      13S.919                21.968.4
2.  bimo                                                                                433.264    6,799.610                      24.287      653.137                                           1 1,61  048
3.   Expat     & lunrs                                                                   -445123      -245344       -69297                            j7597t4
4.  Staok Ch0m                                                                             31t.32       46.250                                                                                     J657 S
S.   Net Primay Energy Supps                t2.411,442                    t2.41t.442    6.6SS,866    6,6tO.516      -69297        24287    2.115.343    5.039.265       138.9t9                32.916.34t
1RM6Sr0RMATI0S                                                                                             
6.   Cos Proin Plts                         -9304315         8.139.498    -1164817                     1                         82,059       1                   1            |                -108275S
7.   Pavrlem  Rdh .i                                                                    -6557132 |5S,tO6976 |       485,996       39,09||                                                        -2255tS
.   Electrk Power Stons                      -1709147         -2313059    -4022206                   -30395           -845  _        _        -20i89    -5039265       -13891t    3.970.364    -8351155
9.   tnwrgy Tronormed                                                      -5167023    -6557132    2.707.581        485.151      1211168|    -20889    -5039265        -t36919    3970.364    -9659064
DIIERSICI4S
to.  trenrt end                                                             -130961|   -126409                       -40205                                                          -882148    -1172743
i itribution LOss"
II.   amory Consumption
Of &Wergy SKtOr                                                                                                                                                                -121039      -121039
12.  Ca _e,wnplan for tbn-
| IWg | E 5                              -838786          -58429|  -1377217                                   -375649                   -653887                                            -2406753
1t3.1  Spoore by - product 
ElectrIcty by PASUI                                                                                                                                                               4.887         4887
  X  . r  t  PWO       'Z|                                                                                  |}|  1                                                                  4273 I87 1  -274ilS
j4.  Stotletid Differnce                 |___ I___                                                                                                                                             ..9S3 ||       _ |      | -97
15.   Ia Energy o                                                           5.716.22t                 9.11,6SS                   145.355    1.440.567                              2.972.064   t9.455.M
SECIORA USES OF FN. ENERGY                                        r-------- I               I_--- --I_
116-.  OOietk                             |1.773.331                                                   641.734                    109.016        1.446                              I.072.627    3.59S.154
17.  Comroercia                                                              335.228                                               36.339                                              t9.973      561,540
It.     utrIl                                                               3.606,926                 t.450.322                          |    .439J22                               1,062242    7.558,612
19.|     Srick K8n                                                                                                                           1.439.122
ko.l     Caemnt                                                               278786
k.l    fIl3r                              1    559,192          358.952     f9f8.144
2.       Generat Industry                                                    2409994
23.  AgrIcuture                                                                                         29.243                                                                        450.944      7ss.1t7
24.  Transpert                                                                   726                  6.416,863                                                                         2.233    6,419,032
25.  Oter Govment                                                                                       373.527                                                                       166,04i      S59.572                P
Source HDIP - Ener  YeOrbook 1S93                                                                                                                                                                               ,,MX
\(o) Row ge includes 90 osupGpd by producn com_pnies to go 6ditrllan companIe And dlect1 tv major conn    Whe power and fertlber plntso                                                                         0.
\(b) Proc4 weG 0   incfluda   eupple  eftsr procesn  by ge  drbia  componies to vaiu caneumeri
\(c) tydra and Nucler aenrgy npt for slectrIcty genteroUs. oe expresd In tems of equIaet pomr eV    a t 10.0000t/kl  tlI. Wheres
lctrCity geneated in powr pbntb ond epd to eoanW r is epUes d in tms Of actd energy cntint ViL 3,412 8bih



PAKISTAN
POWER SECTOR DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
DOMESTIC PRICES OF PETROLEUM PRODUCTS COMPARED TO THEIR ECONOMIC COST
AVERAGE LAST OUARTER 1993 AND FIRST OUARTER 1994
Petroleum Product       Ex-Refinery    Distribution     Sale      Economic        Price/
Price        Cost &         Price       Cost           Cost
Margin                                   Ratio
Rs/litre      Rs/litre      Rs/litre    Rs/litre       Rs/litre
(a)           (b)           (c)         (d)
Motor Gosoline                  4.18         0.44         13.13        5.40           2.43
Kerosene                        3.28         0.36          6.00        4.71           1.27
HSD                             3.56         0.42          6.12        4.91           1.25
Fuel Oil \e                 1746.55        208.31      2843.50      2335.71           1.22
Source: Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources, and Platt's Oilgrom Price Report
(a) Ex-refinery prices for NRL and PRL
(b) Excludes Custom/Excise Duty and Development Surcharge
(c) Retail prices
(d) FOB Gulf Product Prices converted into parity prices at Karachi
plus (b) above, distribution cost and margin and inland freight margin
\e  Rs./ton
Exchange rote: 4th Quorter 1993 Rs.30.12=1 USS$ 1st Quarter 1994 Rs.30.47=1 US$
o 0
x
0I



PAKISTAN
POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NATURAL GAS PRICES AND FUEL OIL PARITY COMPARISON - LAST QUARTER 1993 AND FIRST OUARTER 1994
Gas Consumer Category               Annuol                 Retil Prkes as Z                      Polity Price
Consumption    Retoil    of Border/Domestic                   with Border/       UNDER ESL N
FY93        price     Prke of FuelOil                      Domestic Prie     TO REACH THE
MMCF      Rs./UCF                                             Rs./MCF         F.O. PARIY
(1)         (2)         (3)                                     (4)
Domestk \a                           75,783       42.56        83.3%   of Border Prce \b                51.11    80% by March 1994
90% by September 1994
OOX by April 1995
Commercial                           14,326       70.62       103.4%   of Domestik Prke                 68.31
General hndustty                    102.991        62.75       91.9%   of Domestk Price                 68.31
Cement                                11,914      62.75        91.9%   of Domestic Prke                 68.31
Fertitzer
on SGNPL system                     65.795
as feedstock                       39,477       22.50        32.9%   of Domestic Price               68.31
energy use                         26.318       66.22        96.9%   ot Domestk- Price               68.31
on Mari Gas Co. system               53,833
os teedstock                       32.300        9.75        18.6%   of Domestic Price               52.6
energy use                         21.533       52.56       100.0%   of Domestic Prie                52.56
Power \d
on SNGPt ond SSGC's system          110.696       62.75        91.9%   of Domestik Prke                68.31
Raw go:
Maeo Field (754 BTU)               16,374       43.73        84.8%   of Domestk Price                51.54   100% by  mne 1995
Sui Field (917 MU)                 16,374       41.24        65.6%   of Domestic Prke                62.90   100% by June 1995
Kandhkot Fied (866 B1U)            43.409       35.78        60.3%   of Domestk Price                59.35   100% by June 1995
WEIWUW AYERA(E                     511.495        43.62        760X                                    5736
Sources: PloWs Olgrom Price Report. various issues; PSO; Energy Yerbook; and Conk's estimates
\o Weighted average of lour consuwmer categories occording to the level df monthly demond
\b  CJ.S. Karochi - Averoge monret prices Lost Quorter 1993 and First Quarter 1994
Exchange Rate Lost Quarter 1993 Rs.30.12.USS. and First Quarter 1994 Rs.30.47-US$
\d For the Power Sector, pority prke with Domestic Price of ruFl Oil is discounted for pipeline depreciation (Rs. 1.02)                                        :s
(1) Source: Energy Yearbook. HDIP and Missins esdmctes                                                                                                        1DX
(2) Toail as of August 19,1993                                                                                                                               _,
(4) Higt Sulphur Fuel Ol 40,792=000 WU/ton. Pipellne-quolity gas 980 BN1/CF                                                                                      .
0W



- 48 -
Annex 1.4
Page 1 of 1
PAKISTAN
POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Enerla Conservation Activities
1.        The government's energy strategy for the next five-year plan places
special emphasis on the introduction of deixand management measures aimed at
restraining the growth of energy demand. As part of these measures, GOP intends
to improve energy efficiency in the economy, particularly in the industrial
sector, by strengthening pricing and non-pticing policies, adopting demand
management policies such as load shedding/management at peak periods, and
promoting interfuel substitution towards the use of indigenous resources such as
coal and gas.
2.        As regards non-pricing measures to improve energy efficiency and
conservation, GOP intends to support the ongoing activities which are being
implemented by the National Energy Conservation Center (ENERCON). For the Eighth
five-year plan, GOP has endorsed the following EVIERCON-sponsored investments: (a)
Power Factor Improvement Program, aimed at saving 1,343 GWh/year or over TOE
115,000 (equivalent to a net saving of 76 MW/year of installed generation
capacity) through the installation of bank capacitors at 2,400 industrial plants,
financed by ADB, (b) Commercial Building Lighting Efficiency Improvement Program,
aimed at saving about 110 GWh/year (equivalent to TOE 9,500/year) by replacing
lighting fixtures in the commercial buildings of the main cities; (b) Industrial
Boiler and Steam Systems Efficiency Improvement Program, which would save 0.23
million TOE/year of natural gas by replacing and retrofitting low-efficient
boilers among 500-750 industrial consumers; (c) Municipal ?umpsets Efficiency
Improvement Program, aimed at saving 60-70 GWh/year (equialent to TOE 6,000
thousand/year) by retrofitting 500 large capacity pumpsets used in conjunction
with water supply and sewerage operation (d) Agricultural Tubewells Efficiency
Improvement Program, consisting of implementing retrofit measures for 26,000
pumpsets for tubewell irrigation operation, saving about 180-200 GWh/year
(equivalent to over TOE 17,000/year), and (e) Road Transport Fuel Efficiency
Improvement Program, for the tune-up of gasoline and diesel-driven vehicles aimed
at fuel savings of 11S. In addition, GOP intends to promulgate regulations aimed
at promoting energy conservation among energy producers/consumers, and to concede
preferential duties/taxes for energy efficient equipment.
3.        GOP is initiating action to enact an Energy Conservation and Management
Bill that would establish a firm legal and organizational framework for the
National Energy Conservation Program in the country. When enacted (GOP plans to
submit the bill on the proposed law to the Parliament for ratification in the near
future), the proposed law would provide the legal basis for the establishment of
the Pakistan Energy Conservation Council (PECC), which would have the authority to
enforce regulations on energy conservation. Under the provisions of the proposed
law, ENERCON would be transformed into an executing agency for the PECC, and
accordingly charged with responsibilities previously outside its mandate,
includings (a) developing schemes to mobilize and channel financing for enrergy
conservation investments, including the creation of a National Energy Conservation
Fund; (b) implementing technology transfer schemes in the field of energy
conservation; and (c) developing or revising equipment performance specifications
to incorporate minimum energy efficiency standards for procurement by public
sector organizations. Accordingly, ENERCON with the Technical Assistance of
ESMAP, is in the process of preparing a Long-Term Strategy and an Action Plan for
the period 1993-98 which would transform the center into a sustainable
organization.



PONER SECTOR DIVELO}PNT PROJECT
LoaD SHEDNqG AND MAZU  DEMA   IN VAPDA SYSTEM (ON)
Load  Shed                                                Maximum
FY      Jul     Aug      Sep     Oct     Nov      Dec     Jon      Feb     Mar     Apr      May    Jun   Demond
86     1,164     541      132       0     238   1,307   1,746       965     679     329      175     660      3.933
87       110       0       0      166     242      644     680      307     516     651      882   1.126      4,325
88      283      611     513        0     182      840     714      770   1,074     973      910     938      5.031
89      400      646   1,009      333     300      700     616      820   1,154   1,405   2,151   1,853       5,440
90     1,394   1,041     904      886     755   1.594   1,715   1,448   1,089       537      318     496      5,680
91      511      778     921      702     263      706     837   1.038      336     623   1,116      773      6,090
92     1,393   1,041     933      256     348      208   1,129   1,108      869     753   1,048      921      6,532
93      604      857     820      557     242      837   1,713      241     244     748   1,245   2,198       7.522
94     1.133   1,732   1,344      178     335   1,154   2,418   2,319   2,229   2,086   2,492              8166 ()
Source: WAPDA, Power Data Reference Book, December 1991; ond WAPDA's estimote
(*) As of December 1993
k 3i



PAKIST
POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HISTORICAL GROWT! IN DEMAND (NW). ENERGY GENERATION AND SALES (GWh) AND LOSSES (X)
fhtd van                               1t97       t979       t910       196t        1982      1963        1964       I968       9l68       1987        96i       1909 1t90             1m         19t2        t995
_ulde Cuc iy        1     35          2638       2886       2685       3254         54       394         34         4           949       539        85         594        640        73         70t18      762
Psi* Osmsid                w           I8J6       t972       207W       2473       2684       3163       3296        39         3933       4328       8031       S440       5668       6090       632        7822
Goveath                    X                        7.4        5.3       19.1       I.t        11.1        4.2       t.          3.7       tQ0         16.3        I1         4          7.2        73        15.2
Ct  cOmemw                0co         1006      t1o00       12124      13206      14M 76      649.2     1082        16M7I7     21055      2360       2t431      28116      3142       3435       3906       40791
in 
AuNsy                      3           2.20        1.90       2.20       2.0        2.0        2.40       2.20       2t.o        1."       t170        1.         1.70       1.96       2.49       2.43       226
t_,rnuubn                  3          12.20       12tO       t.C100     10.70       9.0        9.J0        90        9.40       9.10        W7O       650         6.0         .9         .9        9.16       8.99
Ohb1ubm                    2          21-0       20.1       19.0          .O       18.80      17.70      17.20      1.20        S40        4.0        14.0       13         12.5       11.62      11.50      1207
loW                        S          3870       34.10      32.70      3t.40       303        29.70      29.30      2670       2640       24.90      24.60      2S0        25 3.       22.80      2.11       23.34
ECp Si.
DOeM*                      0m          1004       1240       1564       lo5e       2406       266        3470 3S8               4514       $537       62S9       6          7647       6616       *91       1t22D
Co tkd                     0cm          3065       336        389        445         574        634        739        796        67S        991       1054       1066       1106        1182       1192       1303
_c419                      0so         259S    . 2770        3154       3482       360          17        47         5061       54                    7236       7579       8360       9114       10213      10912
Aqltctt                    C08         1717        66s       2056       2125        2357       2846       2663       2782       26         3432       434        4357       SW4        59          5823       5
P*6ic Ugkq                 0am           42         70         50         59          75         7t 78                 77         90        110        I?         IV          468        176        226        1
l                          08u*  cm     74         656        901       1056         672       1002         6        115        1218   tn36           1571       I67        Is1s        lo6        2091       202
Imtitm                    c0u            42         43         46         44          42         44         39         37         36         36         40         33        3S           33         29         27
TdC5 C p Si4        1      08a         6490         6        60         9080       1028  ttSS6           12762      13756   ts o4         17745      2070 2  21962         24t2t      26565      29          31272
Grove Itat                 S                       7          t16.9      11.        135        12.6        Mt         7.6        127        u 14       16.7                   9.7       10.2         .         6S9 o9
_    d Cof    ewe 0                    2260       2529       2795       3270 3D               3901       423t        4475       46"        5279       S76        619        6671       7261       "773      S676
CPs, nl    per CO"$~    k86            2846       2761       2919       2773       2667       29         36          34         3179       3361  S      6        34         3511       3661       3M78        3925
5owe  to PM" Si5I
x
IQ
ti
I-Nti



- 51 -                           Annex 2.3
Page 1 of 1
Pam q81R DREM = 
ELYIL POWE  mYS
PEAK DMWW ANm ELEC C!?  MM FOREST
Fiscol     Peak      Energy     Load       T & D    Electricity
Year    Demand   Generation   Factor      Losses     Sales
(MW)      (GWh)                           (GWh)
\a
1992      7,694    46,159       68.5%      22.1%    35,976
1993      8,063    48,029       68.0%      20.0%    38,413
1994      8.727    51.984       68.0%      19.2%    41,994
1995      9,426    56,154       68.0%      18.5%    45,749
1996     10,223    60,380       67.4%      17.9%    49.597
1997     11,121    64,953       66.7%      17.4%    53,674
1998     11,965    69,513       66.3%      16.8%    57,829
1999     12,856    74.148       65.8%      16.7%    61,802
2000     13,750     78,775      65.4%      16.5%    65,770
2001     14,614    84,527       66.0%      16.5%    70,599
2002     15,300     89,716      66.9%      16.0%    75,362
2003     15,808    94,683       68.42      15.5%    79,972
Source: National Power Plan and Bank's estimates
\a Includes estimated savings due to the introduction of demand-
side management measures and energy conservation activities



s*s   SW   060L   cmI  Ign                            so3     s*s                               mm        st   avmu                 wni noaq
S^$t Zt     9        a    i         a               es      wo       t                         on        59  *                  a;3
rIcm   to    St       St   at        I               L       0101    got                        t0        St      Lit 
VBW    LUg   12             MD                       "9it    au                                 35L       (0,    "WM           grOmlAl ,T0
VIl0(    511            i     0        10              10       I'W      t       m                01'       (1       1I(         15 *a'P tU _e
s i2t  Oa    0        a    It        5/    u          ot     a"       W        e                0L I      AS&     stt          1W05 C" (I
Wu0   1*    0         0     11         mm0*/ ea   q 1006      Swu            'mw/dzgs,I 'U      Ti        1161    tWOl             5510 Wus (I
Crm   t*    *a         t    o 1        l  10         111         tU   U                         3         O 9w                  San P-  (v
l TlF  USK   651        Y      3                       1911 U1 St'                                          P61 01( er               m
=                                                                                                        _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vm
6TSIMl so             u IA  o0       a               0t               tt       t01              *t        &       5 2          M        go P 
fli 2        et       i     1t       St              C.       Wm      Ss       tl10                      L          S  t49  O
V9W1  fil tt as       IL  0g      t                  tt 63   wee      U                         011        L      5           -am PUP 6KS6K
AU U/Il to Aid10
MtS SEA  tZt  a    CB                St       n       K       wEig  ee         Otet             gte       SI   _"  _
gut  09U    St        Y   t          t 2t                     va      ssN to                    n-'       Se      "t          -ot V*     -_
1101   kPt  nol       Ilust          St              am1    1(         I       01               01.1     15et    (LvI           A111P040-
91C9    St    "i      u     Mt   * 9"                          =       2       atoze                      Gu       tn     z _      _mtp l
ro    g 6 1tD 9       id St                          am 1v o s 1go8            051              0(0       "Li    ti            NEl/U 2tna*J
meg2 2ti Ytt   YZ                    aS                       lt    In                         on        gn   e >ut             wtS MO AtiC P 
(i   Ills  915       IL   (01    ez                  566      10      LI  ct1                   01sn   6 1         l10         MU/Il p 555
0151   Gm(   am5    is      6        10              (63      (WIt    U         II01                      0(0       001       T3mvm Tam
lilt   9      M Y           o0n       a StIt It*    ill                                         W1    2     't    5tt9       -         aOct
m      om    OgmUb   m                                                                          gm        Otst   Ltsvt          ousmT
I'm   tu    Oct       U    n         tt              SIU      Witt    lK                        on'       tf       MUl            "Alat 
mt0  itZ  goo         U    tt        It              tz      tv   OIttST                                  e se      t% xm OB'[WL-tat
CM          Ut n58          6        St5011                          4U                         on        0011     VW         750UUIU 9681we
1s11   *w l              tsz  S1                      Kit n" ewL va                                               omva 4S  8   2      as 1su
9*lS9ilt  3m    OIt    IL   (1       1w0             OIl      0(1     LZlB    nsW                                  15(06
IV     OSt Om  t      a    St         '      S 01o1           01      U                         0,1       W        6                  gmWu
5-i
Wk/u vim    mmr  'usAs  warn              101/d         ar    MRd   '6K/d    %au/A3/Ju             "aoh     ,
gm   ofwf  s                                   an      AM     1WM-wm                                NM      mm         /       m
-            J      S _kloow         PROW=          o _      ao       -      q                         -
EN=- an nos sziua Zsia-UooZ.vo OULRILS t,661 U VUWVA
loarou ixo' aa -aoaozs muioa
T 10 T XaUUed                                                                    -I 
V *z xauuy                                                                   - ZS 



- 53            Annex 3.1
Page 1 of I
ILc   WAcc
I-It             I   I
-8
I~~~~~~~~~~I
#<a 
W~~~~ 



M4*  VMS&1  tint   0931   UVtI  is,1   OIstt  asru   AU$   Sn   MWVAdY'C37TWJ3 Wv4
Ut U12         Ut                               -               - 
us      WV    we   u.n      st   gl    ow&    out    owl   11t                                   1J_0
t      on        n     an      Ot :             -       -       _       _
uCt   *L       SW     OWlt   OWl   0(t t9n 1    O              Wt OWt tl t 0            qae
art   an x wt   anr "  e"
utw    .ini   ee       em      em      ,g      ON       -       -       -                    (u-I) _   _
an2    1pt    an  o1     t     an      0011   t              -       -       -a     PYMGI
101     101    oN      10      10      0##    oNl       -       -       -               WC-tX w)Pi00-
a"      @91t   101t    opt    an1    09        01       -       -       -(e (-0 z 
= -            -       -       -       -             M      O1      a0o0       td D             PM -
-  *     -       -       -       -    U t      0v     O       0                 t0   J NM  _
93              V     te       9                              93      93         (1-0 (s-i) l         -
*9*   3        0       00      3       0       00      0      00      00                         a   -
=9      am                     an              am  et         an   ct         e      t  l-4   on,  -
t9 n                           n       a       a w  a   t s   t                                  OVA"  _
cc      or t           cc      or      ccX        orI   w     cc     aZ                  (2-0 Jo PM _
a"      at    00t    am  CL                       oa t        got0    00(                            -
900     MT0   900    .0?    911    902T   912?T  V0           91901    90                  W"s Neam"
Os      uw     uw        -       -       -      -       -       -       -                  (0a o  w-
m       O      au      Oa       1      U        -       -       -       -                 (#) welm.4_ -
011    011     o1      Ott    011    CS&    Ott        e        -       -          (2-9)e " "Raft _mu-
0con    EI    Owl   oU1        owl   con    om         Ut       -       -          (I) (2-i10M -
AL     AL      LI      Li      AL      1      1    4LI      Li      SIfud 
at     at              at s     t      at      at     at      4m      at                          _0 _M
as             u       u        s              au     as      00       a                         am ()
09      00     am      a"      0        0      O       "       an      g                       -
us  us     ass   es        us      us      us     us      a       u                      ('-1) _  -
at      Mt    Stt    act    wt    Zn           2rt     at     wu    t ZU                        _ _ODN
du             Os               w uan                  es    cae      me                              -
*100d AUSd OMS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w*   CZ                        a" *1Lez an                    lack  * **   *e
59    t.0    0056    cS   c'          13     13      63      *?      01Ot WSV
UbI   013s       -       -       -       -      -               -       -        ( t -') _ss ^s 
0t W01w        0                                                -                                 x--) eml m
an      us             us              us      Ut                                   ( -          - an    _
5(     on25    an(    921    0         0251   01(    onL                                  (91-21  "uuin -
A't    Ut ut   U  *t    Lt   SUt   WA           WtU Ot   "a                  -             {-tt) _pa 
un?  31  an  an   m  aan   n  an  an    n                                               *01
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C(lu JIV115O  lX   ZIDU!                         VLVD  T[WSE a
=N3TISU3   'IVOuY                         a
5. 3rud                Mm -oaM
Z* x- uuy 



POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NONAL POM   SYSTE
Powvr Balances (NV)
FY92      FY93      FY94       FY95      FY96      FY97       FY98      FY99     FY2000    FY2001
Instolled Capocity                 8,876      8,893     9.757    11.561    13.016    14.082    14.938    15.538    16,213    16.783
Addition of the yeor                  17       864      1,804     1,455      1,066      856        600       675       570       855
Totol Installed Capacity           8.893      9.757    11.561    13.016    14,082    14.938    15.538    16.213    16,783    17.638
Totol Generoting Capability        7.114      7.806     9.249    11,064    11.970    12,697    13,207    13.781    14.266    14.992
Reserves                           1.334      1.464     1.734     1.952      2.112     2.241     2.331     2.432      2.517     2.646
Firm Generating
Copability                         5,780      6,342     7.515     9.111      9.857    10.457    10.877    11.349    11,748    12,347
Peok Demand                        7,694      8.063     8,727     9.426    10.223    11,121     11.965    12.856    13.750    14.614
U'
Net Surplus/E)efikt               (1,9141   (1,721 f   (1,2121    (316)    4366)    (664)   (1.088)   (1,571   42.02)   42.2671
Souree: WAPDA. and Bank's estimet
0.
O 'w



PAEXZSTAu
POWR SECTOR DEVELOPUT PROMMCr
ADI' s FY1994-2000 INVESTMINT PROOWt  AND   ACROBCOMONC TARGa S
(Billion Re.)
FY93          tY94       FY95       FY96      FY97       FY98       FY99   FY2000    FY2001
actual     pr.est.
GOP at mauket prices (Bin. Rs) \a                                1359.3         1543.7    1742.7    1948.9    2169.1    2414.2    2687.0    2990.7
Inrease over the previous year                                                  13.6X      12.9%      11.8%      11.3X     11.3%      11.3%      11.3%
Public Sector Deveopment
Expenditures (PSDE) (Bill. Rs)
Target (7.5% of GDP) \b                                           116.5          115.8     130.7      146.2      162.7      181.1     201.5      224.3
WAPDA  vestmen Ptogm
with Ghozi Barotha and
wfthout Kcdbogh (Bill. Re)                                         24.7          24.8       29.3       32.5       34.8       36.9      41.4       29.5
as percentage of PSDE target                                       21.2%         21.4%      224%       22.2%      21.4%     20.4%      20.5%      13.2%
as percentoge of PSDE target
aser the perio 1994-2000                                                         1V.7X
Ghazi Barotho (Total Cost Ru. 72.5 billion)                                                  0.7        2.8        7.0       18.0      25.0       16.1        2.9
\a  Based on preliminury Bons forecast as of May 1994
\b  Target wuder the COPs Medhmn-terrn Mcroeconaik Adutment ond Structurd Reforms Progrm
I-'



- 57 -
Annex 4.1
Page 1 of 17
PAKISTAN
POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Restructuring/Privatization Program for the Power Sector
1.        In May 1991, the Government of Pakistan instructed WAPDA to
privatize parts of its infrastructure to achieve the following objectives: (a)
mobilize additional financial resources for the power sector outside the
Government's budget and without sovereign guarantees; (b) share the risk of
development and operation of the power infrastructure, while enhancing
operational autonomy and accountability; and (d) enhance the technical and
managerial capabilities in the sector. In compliance with this directive, MWP
and WAPDA prepared, in early 1992 with the assistance of consultants financed
by USAID, a Strategic Plan for privatizing the power sector. The Strategic
Plan has since been approved for implementation by the Cabinet Committee on
Privatization.
2.        The Strategic Plan as approved envisages a gradual transition of
the power sector, from a vertically integrated, state owned utility to a
decentralized system with significant private ownership and competition. The
long term structure of the power sector, includes:
(a) a number of private generation companies operating under free
market competition;
(b) private regulated distribution companies responsible for providing
reliable and reasonably priced electric source to ultimate
customers, including socially desirable subsidized services such as
rural development;
(c) a reorganized WAPDA as a government-owned corporatized entity
responsible for large multipurpose hydroelectric facilities, and
the national transmission and despatch system;
(d) market arrangements allowing consumers, at least industrial users,
the ability to purchase power directly from power producers; and
(e) an autonomous National Electric Power Regulatory Authority (NEPRA)
which will oversee a reorganized WAPDA, the transmission/central
despatch functions, the distribution and the generation companies.
3.        The transition to the recommended long term structure for the power
sector would be accomplished in three phases, each of which would accomplish a
specific set of objectives. These include:
Phase I - Decentralization and Corporatization: During the initial
stages the major objective is the restructuring of WAPDA into a
holding company with subsidiaries (one for each generating plant,
the transmission system and load despatch center, and each Area
Electricity Board (AEB)); each subsidiary would be corporatized,
with its own Board of Directors, management and staff, capital and
management systems. Simultaneously, the regulatory framework will
be designed and the National Electric Power Regulatory Authority



- 58 -                        Annex 4.1
Page 2 of 17
(NEPRA) created, reform of retail tariffs will be initiated, and a
competitive bidding process will be developed for soliciting new
thermal generating capacity from the private sector. A simple
wholesale market will emerge, allowing for power purchases and
sales by the independent AEB and the generating companies. One
generating plant and one AEB would be offered for sale to the
private sector.
Phase II - Testina and Refinement: During this phase the reforms
of retail tariffs would be completed, the NEPRA will be made fully
operational, and a more sophisticated power market, allowing for
the determination of contract and spot rates for power, would be
established. The sale/divestiture of selected generating plants
and AEBs would be continued.
Phase III - Full ImDlementation Qf Comnetitive, Privatized Power
Sector: The process of sale/divestiture of the corporatized
subsidiaries to the private sector would be completed, and the
power sector will begin to operate as a competitive, largely
privately owned industry. A fully competitive market for power
would evolve; the regulatory function, which in the absence of
adequate competition during the earlier phases would also cover the
wholesale exchange of electricity, would be restricted to the
retail level, and towards ensuring that socially desirable services
are provided, with the cost of such services covered by direct
Government subsidies.
4.        The Strategic Plan has taken into account the special
considerations of Pakistan, and recommends that studies be carried out, and
action plans developed, in the following areas:
(a) Revision of Tariff Policy and Tariff Administration: This study
would focus on the institution of new electricity pricing regimes
for a decentralized power sector and measures to make the power
sector more attractive to the private investors. Transfer pricing
principles, which can be effectively regulated, will be developed
for exchange of electricity at the wholesale level between
generation and transmission, and transmission and distribution. At
the retail level, the new pricing regimes will focus on the
elimination of the existing cross-subsidies (e.g. between
industrial and agricultural consumers) and the subsidies in
electricity pricing (such as for lifeline levels of electricity
consumption) will be made transparent, with GOP bearing the subsidy
burden.
(b)  Labour Transition Program:  This will involve the design and
implementation of a program to address the concerns of staff and
labor of WAPDA inherent in the transition to a privately owned and
operated utility, including measures that could be implemented by
GOP/WAPDA to ease the burden that this transition may impose on the
staff and labor.



- 59 -
Annex 4.1
Page 3 of 17
(c)  National Electric Power Reaulatory Authority:  The NEPRA is
designed to be an independent body established by GOP under a new
legislation, the draft of which is currently being prepared with
the assistance of consultants finenced by USAID. The consultants
are also preparing the overall design of the regulatory framework
for the power sector. This work would be supplemented throagh the
development of regulatory standards, procedures and systems, the
staffing and structure of NEPRA, and the format for its operation.
(d)  Cornoratization/commercialization of existing facilities:  This
task has been initiated for two generating plant (Jamshoro and Rot-
Addu) one AEB (Faisalabad), which would be essentially replicated
for the remaining asset blocks, and involves preparation of: the
organizational structure for the corporate entity; the required
legal agreements (e.g. for the sale/purchase of power, operations
and maintenance, fuel supply, sale of the facilities); and the
required management systems (financial, human resources, materials
etc.). These management systems would be automated/computerized
for each corporate entity, and made compatible with the systems
being developed for WAPDA's Headquarters under ongoing projects.
In addition, this task requires a compilation of the assets and
liabilities, existing loans and other financial obligations for
each entity, the financial and engineering valuation of the
facilities, and assistance for complying with legal and regulatory
requirements.
(e) Divestiture/Privatization: This will involve offering the selected
assets of WAPDA for sale to the private sector through: private
placements; outright sale of assets; divestiture through the
markets; or a combination of the above. All of the previously
detailed components are crucial for initiating this component.
GOP/WAPDA are in the process of recruiting financial
advisors/investment bankers under Bank financing who will advise on
the method, timing and level of market approach, including
selection of underwriters in the case of privatization through
divestiture via stock exchanges. Needless to say, the success of
the privatization effort cannot be guaranteed and would depend on
many factors including, inter alia, global economic conditions, and
the prevailing political and economic situation within Pakistan.
Imvlementation Reunonsibili_tv
5.        The various activities would be carried out by GOP, MOWP, the
Privatization Commission and WAPDA. MOWP's mandate includes, in particular,
the establishment of NEPRA and the tariff policy and administration study.
All parties are also authorized to contract any required technical assistance
to achieve their mandate.
Technical Assistance
6.        Significant amounts of Technical Assistance would be required to
implement the WAPDA restructuring/privatization program. The required TA
components, their objectives, and the detailed scope of work for the
consultants are provided in Attachment 1.



- 60 -
Annex 4.1
Attachment I
Page 4 of 17
PAKISTAN
POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REFORN OF TARIFF POLICY AND TARIFF ADMINISTRATION
Terms of Reference for Consultants
1.        Background.  The Government of Pakistan (GOP) in conjunction with
the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) is implementing a program
for the restructuring and privatization of the Pakistan Power Sector (PPS).
As part of the preparation of this program, a Strategic Plan for Privatization
of the Power Sector, outlining the key features of the PPS after privatization
and the steps that need to be taken as part of the overall program for
privatization, has been developed by WAPDA with the assistance of consultants
financed by USAID.1' The Strategic Plan was approved for implementation by
the Cabinet Committee on Privatization on July 18, 1992. In addition, a
National Electric Power Regulatory Authority (NEPRA) would be set up, to
regulate the activities of the various entities in the power sector. It is
presently envisaged that the NEPRA would have the responsibility for setting
electricity tariffs. In addition, a manpower transition program is being
developed, which is designed to ease the burden of the
restructuring/privatization program on WAPDA's staff.
2.        The Strategic Plan recommends, among others, that the existing
tariff policies and administration practices in Pakistan should be revamped in
order to improve the attractiveness of the power sector to private investors.
Consultants are to be recruited to assist GOP and the Privatization Commission
in developing proposals to reform and rationalize the tariff regime in
Pakistan. The consultants to be selected for this assignment would be from a
reputable power utility or a firm of management consultants with experience in
similar assignments in a variety of country settings.
3.        Objectives.  The overall objective of this assignment is to develop
pricing regimes for the wholesale exchange of electricity (from the generation
system to the transmission network and between the transmission and
distribution netwiorks), and for the retail level (i.e. between distribution
companies and the final consumers).
4.        In the development of these proposals special consideration needs
to be given to the following:
-    The proposed tariff regime should promote the efficient operation
of the power sector, and towards that objective, should include the
provision for incentives for efficiency improvements and measures
for promoting energy conservation.
-    The recommended system should be easy to administer, and enable
effective regulation by an independent regulatory body.
l/   International Resources Group (IRG); Putnam Hayes and Bartlett; and
Hunton apd Williams.



- 61 -
Annex 4.1
Attachment 1
Page 5 of 17
In addition to the program for the privatization of the existing
power system, GOP has solicited proposals for new thermal
generating capacity from the private sector, for which a pricing
policy and an administration regime has been %eveloped.
The manpower transition program that will be developed in parallel
would include a 1-prmination package, which would be voluntary for
WAPDA staff. However, in case the staff (to whom it is offered) do
not accept this package, and the entities are required to carry the
"excess" staff, the tariff regime would contain a provision to
compensate for the cost of the "excess" staff.
5.        Scole of Work  The consultants would be required to:
(a) Review the results of existing studies, including the Integrated
Onerations and Tariffs Study for WAPDA and KESC&, and on the basis
of the results of those studies:
ti) Develop pricing principles (which would delineate the elements
of costs that would be automatically passed through to the
customer, indexation procedures, linking the final tariff for
each consumer category to the cost of supply etc) for
electricity pricing for hydro and thermal generation,
transmission, distribution and the retail sale of electricity;
in case the recommended pricing principles for thermal
generation projects are different from existing pricing
principles for similar projects, adequate justification for
such deviations should be provided; and
(ii) Prepare recommendations for eliminating the cross-subsidies in
the existing tariff structure, identify the subsidies that may
need to be retained (e.g. lifeline tariffs for poorer sections
of the population, supply of electricity to rural areas),
estimate the cost of subsidies which GOP would need to bear,
and develop procedures for reimbursing the corporate entities
in the sector for the costs of any subsidies that they would
have to bear.
(b) Carry out a cost of service analysis (on a pilot basis) for thermal
and hydro based generation, as a basis for determinii. the price of
electricity for the transmission stage. The consultants would, for
the purpose of preparing these cost of service analyses, make full
use of existing data regarding the power sector.
't)  Review the existing electricity pricing regime(s) in Pakistan and
in selected countries that have recently corporatized or privatized
the power sector.
(d) In close coordination with the consultants assisting in the
commercialization/corporatization of WAPDA, prepare specific
proposals regarding tariff administration - i.e., billings,
2/   This study, which was carried out by consultants (Coopers and Lybrand)
funded by the Asian Development Bank, was completed in early 1991.



- 62 -
&Annx 4, 1
Attchment I
Page 6 of 17
collections, receivables management etc. These proposals should
include incentives for on time payment, as well as penalties for
late payment. Special consideration would be given to the issue of
billing and colection from the Government and its agencies, and
proposals should be developed to ensure that the arrears on account
of electricity supplied to the Government and its agencies are
restricted to acceptable levels.
(e) In close coordination with the consultants assisting in the
establishment of the NEPRA, prepare recommendations regarding the
tariff setting process for each stage - generation, transmission
and distribution. This would include the details to be provided by
the corporate entities in support of any request for adjustment in
rates, the review process (e.g., hearings, public vs closed-door,
etc) and the time frame for approval.
6.        The Strategic Plan also recommends that the existing national
tariff system (under which tariff rates for various consumer categories are
uniform across the nation) be replaced by regionally differentiated tariffs,
which are more closely aligned to the cost of supplying electricity to various
regions. The consultants would be required to review the feasibility of
introducing such a system as long as electricity supplies are insufficient to
meet the demand, and submit recommendations regarding the most feasible
option.
7.        Dmolementation Plan.  The consultants would also prepare a
timetable and implementation plan for the transition to the new tarff regime.
This plan should specify the interim steps required for the approval of the
proposed tariff regime, the agencies responsible for implementing these steps,
and the target date for the implementation of the recommended tariff regime.
8.        The consultants would also assist GOP/WAPDA/constituent electricity
companies in the implementation of the new tariff regime, once it has been
approved by GOP.
GOP Responsibilities
9.        The Minintry of Water and Power (MOWP) through its Private Power
Cell (PPC) will supervise the consulting assignment. The Privatization
Commission's responsibilities will include, but not be limited to:
-    arranging access to relevant people, entities and information
needed by the consultants to carry out the assignment;
-    arranging for timely reviews of any progress/interim reports
submitted by the consultants;
-    arranging for approval of the Revision to Tariff Policy and Tariff
Administration by the Government, which is required before moving
to the implementation stage; and
-    supervise the implementation of the Program to Revise Tariff Policy
and Tariff Administration, in accordance with the approval given by
the Government.



- 63 -
Asmex 4, 
Attacent-1
Page 7 of 17
RAPDA Responsibilities
10.       WAPDA through its WAPDA Power Privatization Organization (WPPO)
will provide all assistance to the consultants and to the MOWP in the design
and implementation of the program to revise tariff policy and tariff
administration.
Assi&nment Time Frame and Reporting
11.       The consultants are expected to complete the assignment within a
period of twenty seven (27) months, in three distinct phases as follows:
-    a preparation and design phase within a period of nine (9) months
from the start of the assignment;
-    a review and approval phase which will cover a period of six (6)
months and include preparatory activities for implementationz, and
-    an implementation phase which will cover a period of twelve (12)
months.
12.       The consultants would prepare the following reports:
(a) A;. initial report, four weeks after the start date, summarizing the
consultants' findings regarding the availability of data, relevance
of available studies, and the organization and schedule of the
consultants' future work;
(b) Brief Monthly Reports on each phase of the consultants' work
showing important milestones and seeking any interim d^cisions;
(c) A draft final report covering the design phase of the revision
Tariff Policy and Tariff Administration program, eight (8) months
after the initiation of the assignment (i.e., one month before the
expected date of completion of the design phase); and
(d)  The final report should be submitted no later than thirty days
after the consultants have received comments on the draft report.
13.       The consultants should submit two copies of each of the above
reports, except the final report, to the MOWP, and one copy each to the
Privatization Commission, WAPDA, the World Bank. The consultants should
submit ten (10) copies of the final report to the MOWP, and two copies to
Privatization Commission, World Bank and WAPDA.



- 64 -
Annex 4. 1
Attscbment 1
Page 8 of 17
PAKIS!
POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION OF A MANPOWER TRANSITION PROGRAM
Terms of Reference for Consultants
1.        Backftround.  The Government of Pakistan (GOP) in conjunction with
the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) is implementing a program
for the restructuring and privatization of the Pakistan Power Sector (PPS).
As part of the preparation of this program, a Strategic Plan for Privatization
of the Power Sector, outlining the key features of the PPS after privatization
and the steps that need to be taken as part of the overall program for
privatization, has been developed by WAPDA with the assistance of consultants
financed by USAID.   The Strategic Plan was approved for implementation by
the Cabinet Committee on Privatization on July 18, 1992. In addition, a
National Electric Power Regulatory Authority (NEPRA) would be set up, to
regulate the activities of the various entities in the power sector.
2.        The Strategic Plan recommends, among others, that a manpower
transition program be developed to cater for the WAPDA staff that are expected
to be affected in the transition to a privatized power system.  Consultants
are to be hired to assist GOP and WAPDA in preparing a detailed plan for
minimizing the social and other disruptions that could arise.  The consultants
to be selected for this assignment would be from a firm of reputable
management consultants with experience in similar assignments in a variety of
country settings.
3.        Objectives.  The overall objective of this assignment is to develop
a program for addressing the concerns of WAPDA staff during the period of
transition to a privately owned and operated utility, including measures that
could be implemented by GOP/WAPDA to ease the burden that this transition may
impose on the staff.
4.        Scope of Work.  The consultants would be required to:
(a)  Prepare a comprehensive data base on the existing human resources
of WAPDA, including details of the personnel employed, lengths of
service, skills, location in WAPDA etc;
(b)  Review existing labour laws, employment terms and conditions,
benefits presently applicable to WAPDA employees, and assess the
monetary impact on WAPDA and on the employees;
(c)  Interview a large cross section of the staff, ascertain their
awareness about the restructuring and privatization program, and
document their major concerns, including how strongly they feel
about various elements of the existing benefits package;
3/   International Resources Group (IRG); Putnam Rayes and Bartlett, and
Runton and Williams.



- 65 -
Annex 4.1
Attachment I
Page 9 of 17
.1)  Prepare a benefits package to be administered at the entity level,
including identifying the existing benefits that should be retained
(e.g., pensions, medical benefits etc);
(e) Prepare a program to address the staffing issues through adequate
reassignments in staff at various levels;
(f) Develop various options that could be offered to staff that are
likely to be displaced e.g. golden handshakes, Employee Share
Ownership Plans, self employment schemes, retraining programs etc;
(g) Recommend elements of various options which should be voluntary
(e.g., termination packages) and those that should not be voluntary
(e.g., pension plans and other benefits that'are either equal to,
or better than, existing levels);
(h) Assist GOP/WAPDA in disseminating the various elements of the
Manpower Transition Program to all of WAPDA's staff, and in
obtaining their consensus;
(i) Prepare a detailed estimate of the cost of the Manpower Transition
Program, which would be submitted to GOP and WAPDA for approval,
and identify the sources of financing for such program. These
sources could include, but not limited to: GOP budget, proceeds of
asset sales, donor agencies, WAPDA's corporate funds etc.
(j) Prepare a detailed implementation plan for the administration,
execution and monitorirg of the Manpower Transition Program.  This
plan should include safeguards to ensure that the program (a) can
be monitored easily by an outside agency e.g., the Cabinet
Committee on Privatization; and (b) retains adequate transparency
in implementation e.g., in the selection of the staff to be offered
various termination packages etc. This implementation plan should
include provisions for review and approval by GOP, and procedures
for monitoring the disbursement of funds e.g. for the termination
package/golden handshakes etc.; and
(k) Assist GOP/WAPDA in the initial implementation of the Manpower
Transition Program.
GOP Responsibilities
5.        The Privatization Commission (Power Sector), which reports to the
Cabinet Committee on Privatization, will supervise the consulting assignment.
The Privatization Commission's responsibilities will include, but not be
limited to:
-    arranging access to relevant people, entities and information
needed by the consultants to carry out the assignment;
-    arranging for timely reviews of any progress/interim reports
submitted by the consultants;
-    arranging for approval of the t4anpower Transition Program by the
Government, which is required before moving to the implementation
stage; and



- 66 -                   &nex 4.1
ttachmont I
Page 10 of 17
-    supervise the implementation of the Manpower Transition Program in
accordance with the approval given by the Government.
VAPDA Responsibilities
6.        WAPDA through its WAPDA Power Privatization Organization (WPPO)
will provide all assistance to the consultants and to the Privatization
Commission (Power Sector) in the design and implementation of the Manpower
Transition Program.
Assignment Time Frame and Reporting
7.        The consultants are expected to complete the assignment within a
period of twelve (12) months in three distinct phases as follows:
-    a preparation and design phase within a period of six (6) months
from the start of the assignment;
-    a review and approval phase which will cover a period of three (3)
months and will include preparatory activities for implementation;
and
-    an initial implementation phase which will cover a period of three
(3) months.
8.        The consultants would prepare the following reports:
(a) An initial report, four weeks after the start date, summarizing the
consultants, findings regarding the availability of data, relevance
of available studies, and the organization and schedule of the
consultants' future work;
(b) brief Monthly Reports on each phase of the consultants' work
showing important milestones and showing the need for interim
decisions;
(c) a draft final report covering the design phase of the Manpower
Transition Program eight (8) months after the initiation of the
assignment (i.e., one month before the expected date of completion
of the assignment); and
(d) the final report should be submitted no later than thirty days
after the consultants have received comments on the draft report.
9.        The consultants should submit two copies of each of the above
reports, except the final report, to the Ministry of Water and Power (MOWP)
and the Privatization Commission, and one copy each to WAPDA, the World Bank,
and each of the other consultants. The consultants should submit ten (10)
copies of the final report to the MOWP and the Privatization Commission, and
two copies each to WAPDA, and each of the other consultants.



- 67 -
Annex 4.1
Attachment I
Page 11 of 17
PAKISTAN
POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONMERCIALIZATION/CORPORATIZATION OF EXISTING FACILITTFS
Terms of Reference for Consultantsi
1.        Backcround.  The Government of Pakistan (GOP) in conjunction with
the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) is implementing a program
for the restructuring and privatization of the Pakistan Power Sector (PPS).
As part of the preparation of this program, a Strategic Plan for Privatization
of the Power Sector, outlining the key features of the PPS after privatization
and the steps that need to be taken as part of the privatization program, has
been developed by WAPDA with the assistance of consultants financed by
USAIDY The Strategic Plan was approved for implementation by the Cabinet
Committee on Privatization on July 18, 1992. In addition, a National Electric
Power Regulatory Authority (NEPRA) would be set up, to regulate the activities
of the various entities in the power sector.
2.        As recommended in the Strategic Plan, the program involves two
distinct phases: Corporatization and commercialization of existing entities,
followed by the divestiture/privatization of the corporatized entities.
Consultants are to be hired to assist the Privatization Commission and WAPDA
in the corporatization and commercialization of WAPDA's existing facilities.
Scoge of Work
3.        The consultants would carry out all the required tasks for the
corporatization and commercialization of one generating station, the
transmission entity, and one Area Electricity Board, and supervise WAPDA staff
in carrying out similar tasks for the remaining facilities. In this regard,
the consultants should:
-    Prepare the drafts of Memorandum and Articles of Association of the
entities to be corporatized.
j/ These terms of reference would be applicable for the corporatization and
commercialization of all existing facilities, e.g. generating plant, the
transmission entity, and the area boards/distribution entities.
However, detailed terms of reference have already been drafted for the
corporatization and commercialization of the Jamshoro Thermal Power
Station, and can be adapted for the other generating facilities;
similarly, the report prepared by Price Waterhouse dated June 28, 1992
for the Privatization of the Faisalabad Area Electricity Board contains
the detailed terms of reference/scope of work required for the
corporatization and commercialization of the distribution entities.
Therefore the present TOR can be adapted to the specific requirements
for the corporatization and commercialization of the transmission
entity.
1/   International Resources Group (IRG); Putnam Hayes and Bartlett; and
Hunton and Williams.



68 -                       Asmn   4. 1
Attaebment I
Page 12 of 17
Prepare the organizational structure including the structure and
composition of the Board of Directors, management and staffing of
the entities to be corporatized.
Develop financial nerformance criteria which are market oriented
and promote the efficiency objective for corporate entities at each
stage (i.e. generation, transmission and distribution).
Assist the Privatization Commission/GOP/WAPDA in selecting the
Members of Board(s) of Directors of''the entities from the private
sector, with the necessary qualifications and experience, including
the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
Develop and implement the management systems, preferably
computerized (for accounting and finance, operations, materials,
personnel, management information systems etc.) for the corporate
entity.
in close coordination with the consultants assisting in the reform
of the tariff regime, prepare systems for tariff administration -
i.e., billings, collections, receivables management etc.
Prepare the engineering evaluation of the facilities to be owned
and operated by the corporate entity.
Prepare the financial valuation of the facilities to be owned and
operated by the corporate entity.
Identify the short and long-term liabilities associated with
facilities, and recommend optimal capital structure for the
corporate entity.
Prepare, based on the capital structure recommended above, the
balance sheet and other financial statements for the corporate
entity and obtain their certification by international auditors.
Assist the corporate entity in complying with the requirements of
the regulatory framework for the power sector being put in place by
GOP concurrently.
Assist the corporate entity in establishing the relevant legal
agreements e.g., for power purchase/sale, fuel supply.
Assist GOP, WAPDA and the corporate entity in obtaining a 'No
objection' from the respective lenders both domestic and
international for establishing the corporate entity and for its
eventual divestiture/privatization, including any revision of the
loan agreements, if desired by the lenders.
GOP Resxonsibilities
4.        The Privatization Commission (Power Sector), which reports to the
Cabinet Committee on Privatization, will supervise the consulting assignment.
The Privatization Commission's responsibilities will include, but not be
limited to:



- 69 -                     Annex 4.1
Attacbent 1
Page 13 of 17
arranging access to relevant people, entities and information
needed by the consuitants to carry out the assignment;
arranging for timely reviews of any progress/interim reports
submitted by the consultants;
supervise the implementation of the corporatization and
commercialization phase, in accordance with the approval given by
the Government.
WAPDA R800onsibilitie8
5.        WAPDA through its WAPDA Power Privatization Organization (WPPO)
will provide all assistance to the consultants and the Privatization
Commission in the design and implementation of the corporatization and
commercialization program.



-70-                     AAJinex 4.1
Attachment 1
Page 14 of 17
PAKISTAN
POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL ELECTRIC POWER REGULATORY AUTHORITY
Terms of Reference for Consultants
1.        Bachkogr d.  The Government of Pakistan (GOP) in conjunction with
the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) is implementing a program
for the restructuring and privatization of the Pakistan Power Sector (PPS).
As part of the preparation of this program, a Strategic Plan for Privatization
of the Power Sector, outlining the key features of the PPS after privatization
and the steps that need to be taken as part of the overall program for
privatization, has been developed by WAPDA with the assistance of consultants
financed by USAID.Y The Strategic Plan was approved for implementation by
the Cabinet Committee on Privatization on July 18, 1992. In addition, a
National Electric Power Regulatory Authority (NEPRA) would be set up, to
regulate the activities of the various entities in the power sector.
2.        Under USAID financing consultants led by IRG and comprising Hunton
and Williams, and Putnam Hayes and Bartlett, are designing the Regulatory
Framework, including the draft legislation, upon whose approval by GOP the
independent regulatory authority for the power sector can be established.
Consultants are to be hired to assist GOP and WAPDA in preparing the detailed
design and organization structure of the regulatory authority, setting up the
required regulatory systems and procedures, and establishing the NEPRA and
making it operational.
3.        Obiective.  The objective of the assignment is to assist the
Government in establishing the NEPRA and making it operational.
4.        Scole of Work. The consultants would be required to:
-    Review the work carried out by USAID financed consultants from the
point of view of preparing an implementation program, identifying
the staffing needs, computer systems and other facilities.
-    Assist the NEPRA in the recruitment of the recommended staff and
provide training.
-    Prepare operational guidelines for the NEPRA, which will delineate
the powers and responsibilities of the NEPRA and their interface
with the Ministry of Water and Power, other branches of the
Government, as well as with the corporate entities to be regulated.
-    Prepare clear guidelines on the process of regulation, i.e. when do
the regulated companies approach the NEPRA for various kinds of
approvals, the method of approach, the time frame that will be
required by the NEPRA to give out various kinds of decisions etc.
QJ   International Resources Group (IRG); Putnam Hayes and Bartlett; and
Hunton and Williams.



- 71 -
Annex 4.1
Attachment 1
Page 15 of 17
Prepare the list of information, including formats that will be
required to be submitted by the corporate entities to the NEPRA for
various kinds of decisions.
Prepare the administrative structure, budget, salary structure,
sources of funding etc for the NEPRA.



-72 -
Annex 4. 1
Attachment 1
Page 16 of 17
PARISTAN
POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION MANAGEMENT BY THE PRIVATIZATION COMMISSION (P0WER SECTOR)
Terms of Reference for Consultants
1.        Backstround. The Government of Pakibtan (GOP) in conjunction with
the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) is implementing a program
for the restructuring and privatization of the power sector. As part of the
preparation of this program, a Strategic Plan for Privatization of the Power
Sector, outlining the key features of the power sector after privatization and
the steps that need to be taken as part of the privatization program, has been
developed by WAPDA with the assistance of consultants financed by USAID.1-'
The Strategic Plan was approved for implementation by the cabinet Committee on
Privatization on July 18, 1992. The Privatization Commission (Power Sector)
is assigned the responsibility for implementing all phases of the
privatization program in the power sector.
2.        The Privatization Commission (PC) is authorized and required to:
(a) undertake privatization in the power sector in accordance with the
privatization policy of the Government; (b) determine suitable modalities for
carrying out privatization transactions keeping in view the Government's
objectives; (c) appoint consultants for privatization; (d) evaluate offers
from the private sector and make recommendations for the Government s
consideration and approval; (e) hold negotiations with the prospective buyers
and sign agreements after approval by the Government; (f) propose a regulatory
framework for Government approval for ensuring the smooth and efficient
operations of the privatized units and to protect the interests of the
consumers; (g) safeguard the genuine interests of the employees of the
entities proposed to be privatized and devise suitable packages for their
welfare including possible participation in ownership; and (h) suggest
measures that may be necessary to ensure the modernization and expansion of
the privatized units to meet the growing demand from consumers.
3.        The implementation of the Strategic Plan would include inter alia:
(a) corporatization of WAPDA as a holding company, with decentralized power
generation, transmission and distribution subsidiaries operating as discrete
autonomous profit centers; (b) the establishment of a National Electric Power
Regulatory Authority (NEPRA) to set standards and regulate a largely privately
operated power sector; (c) adoption of a pricing policy which would improve
the attractiveness of the power sector for private investors; (d) development
of a manpower transition program that would allow the privatization program to
proceed in a manner that provides adequate management flexibility while
addressing the concerns of labor; and (e) the initial privatization of parts
of WAPDA's assets.
1Q) International Resources Group (IRG); Putnam Hayes and Bartlett, and
bunton and Williams.



- 73 -
Annex 4.1 
AttaehIwnt I
Page 17 of 17
4.        Obiectives.  The objective of this assignment is to form a team of
highly qualified advisors, including a Legal expert, a Power Sector expert,
and a Financial expert to assist PC in carrying out its mandate. The
consultants to be selected for this assignment would be seasoned professionals
with good reputation and experience in the power sector, privatization and
financial markets, knowledge of regulatory issues and experience in developing
countries.
S.        Scoe of Work: the consultants will be required, as a team and
individually, to:
(a) advise the PC in their respective areas of expertise on the various
elements of the Strategic Plan;
(b) assist PC in the supervision and providing guidance to consultants
preparing and implementing various elements of the Strategic Plan;
(c)  interface with Government entities and International Agencies;
(d) prepare reports, and summaries to be presented to the Government;
(e) prepare promotional material and assist in organizing investment
promotion seminars in Pakistan and outside; and
(f) assist PCPS in the negotiations for the sale of assets and purcnase
transactions.
Assianment Time Frame and ReRortinst
6.        The consultants would be required to work with PC on a full time
basis for a period of 24 months. The assignment would be separated into the
following three distinct phases:
-    an initial phase covering a period of about six (6) months from the
start of the assignment, which will include the supervision of
consultants working on the corporatization and commercialization of
selected WAPDA assets, and the selection of consultants for studies
on the Reform of Tariff Policy and Tariff Administration, the
Manpower Transition Program, and the Establishment of NEPRA;
-    a second phase which will cover a period of twelve (12) months and
will include: the supervision of consultants; the initiation of
work for the establishment of the NEPRA, the review and submission
to the Government for approval of the Reform of Tariff Policy and
Tariff Administration, and the Manpower Transition Program; and
assisting PC in evaluating proposals and negotiating for the
initial divestiture/privatization of selected WAPDA assets; and
-    a final phase covering a period of six (6) months which will
include assisting GOP/PC in the initial implementation of the new
Tariff Policy and Tariff Administration, and the Manpower
Transition Program, continued divestiture/privatization of WAPDA's
assets, and making the NEPRA fully operational.
The consultants will report to the PC and will be selected individually.



- 74 -                          Annex 4.2
Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN
POmW SCTOR D3VBLOPMENT PROJRCT
Inveatment Comwonent - Descrlotion
1.        The investment component of the proposed Project would involve the
implementation of a time-slice of WAPDA's investment program for the period
1995-1998, which would include the completion of ongoing projects and the
construction of new facilities in: (a) the thermal and hydel generating
facilities; (b) the extra high voltage (EHV) transmission system at 500 kV;
(c) the secondary transmission grid (STG), at 220, 132, and 66 kV; and (d) the
distribution system in urban and rural areas.   The following paragraphs give
the main content of each of these subcomponents.
A. Generation Facilities
2.        The expansion of the generation system would mainly involve the
addition to the system of about 4,209 NW, in the following power stations:
(a) completion of oil-fired units under construction at Muzaffargarh
(Sx210 MW + 1x320 MW), Jamshoro (lx350), and 3x50 MW coal-fired
fluidised bed units in Lakhra;
(b) completion of combined-cycle powier plant of Guddu (415 MW) and
conversion to combined-cycle of Kotri and Faisalabad power plants
with the addition of 1x40 MW of steam units each in Kotri and
Faisalabad;
{c) completion of the conversion to combined-cycle operation of the
Rot-Addu site with the addition of 2xlO0 MW steam units (11 and 12)
to the existing combustion turbines ( 5 to 8), and the construction
of an additional 3x133 MW combined-cycle package units 13, 14 and
15);
(d)  completion of the additional 2x432 MW, 2xlO0 MW and 8x22.5 MW
hydro-generation units at Tarbela, Mangla and Chashma hydro plants;
and
(e)  construction of 5x285 MW hydro plant at Ghazi-Barotha which would
add 1,425 MW to the system in FY2000-FY2001.
S.  MHV Transemision 8ystem
3.        The expansion of the EHV system would involve namely the:
(a) completion of the following 500 kV lines and associated
substations: Mardan-Peshawar ( about 120 km of S/C line); the
second 500 kV Guddu-Jamshoro (about 400 km of S/C line); and the
third circuit Lahore-Gatti-Multan-Guddu ( about 600 km );



- 75 -
Annex 4.2
Page 2 of 3
(b) construction of the following new lines and associated substations:
Hub-jamshoro (two S/C of about 200 km each); and the third 500 kV
Jamshoro-Gv'ddu ( about 440 km);
(c} the upgrade to 500 kV of the 220 kV Rewat and Ghakkar substations.
C. STG Transmission System
4.        The expansion of the ST.I system aims mainly at improving the
operating efficiency of the system by reducing the level of losses and
increasing the capacity of the system. The program would involve mainly
construction of the following facilities:
(a) about 1,900 km of transmission lines ( 180 km at 220 kV level,
about 1,500 km at 132 kV level, and 220 km at 60 kV level); and
(b) 90 new gridstations ( 3 at 220 kV, 78 at 132 kV, and 9 at 66 kV
levels); the total installed capacity would be about 2200 MVA;
(c)  expansion and conversion of 80 substations at 132 and 66 kV levels,
and with a to'.al installed capacity of about 1800 MVA.
D. The Distribution Proaram
S.        The distribution component would mainly involve expansion to supply
electricity to new areas, and rehabilitation of existing system to improve the
quality of services and reduce the level of losses. According to a sample
survey undertaken by WAPDA, it is estimated that out of the existing 136,000
km of LV lines and 81,000 km of MV lines, about 70% of MV lines and 30 of LV
lines would need rehabilitation. The related PC-i of this component give the
quantitative and qualitative analysis of the required work. Rehabilitation of
about 1,500 MV feeders and 6,000 LV feeders have been initiated with
assistance from ADS and USAID. The proposed Bank Loan would assist in the
installation and erection of ADB's financed equipment, and would enhance
WAPDA's efforts in improving the reliability of its distribution system. In
quantitative terms, the program would include the construction of the
following facilities:
(a) expansion of the distribution system:
11 kV lines:     about 20,000 km
33 kV lines:     about    S00 km
LV (0.4 kV)lines: about 12,400 km
Transformers:    about 50,000
Consumer connections: about 1,900,000



- 76 -
Annex 4.2
Page 3 of 3
(b) rehabilitation program:
11 kV lines:    reconductoring of about 1,800 km, and construction
of about 500 km;
transformers:   replacement of about 3,000 overloaded transformers,
and installation of about 10,000 new transformers;
and
LV lines:       reconducturing of about 2,800 km, and construction
of about 3,500 km.
(c) demand-side management program:
capacitors:     about 700 units of 450 and 900 kVAr;
special meters (time of day) for industrial and large commercial
consumers; and
ripple control equipment: about 27,000 tubewells and expansion to
other users.
E. Rural Electrification
6.        The rural electrification program would involve the supply of
electricity to about 8,000 villages, and the connection to the grid of about
500,000 new domestic and commercial consumers, 16,000 tubewells, and about
9,000 industrial consumers. In quantitative terms the program would involve
the construction of the following facilities:
-33 kV and 11 kV lines: 23,000 km;
-transformer substations: 27,0000 33/.4 and 11/.4 kV.
-LV lines: 10,000 km.
F. Environmental Asoecte
7.        -Monitoring equipment and mitigation measures equipment:
specifications and quantities to be defined by the related study
provided for in the proposed Project.



_______                                -~~~77-                                                                        Ante    4. 3
CO
De



PARISTAN
POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Investment Component - Implementation Schedule
|~~~~~~~~~~9                  104 t99$                t996   Ir    ilo
_ _1   2   3 _  4 _1   2  3  4 1  1    2  1  2  >3    J4   I 23.4 1  1  3  4
A.                   I           t      :: i_=
4. a'                                  _ _   _.       _ of
BIB  1ad            1                 :_
IL_wfvf&DdhWcf                  ll                   
t. PmI md- eib
S. Nb                I ,D
& ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



PAKIST
POWR SECTOR DEPENT PROECT
g=STRUcTUCSpwaVIZhTION AND  MA'S 1994-1999 ISTMT  P
(in million USTS)
tal Oamomt                                        F-Oren Ce O.NW t                           1995-1998                 1994-1999
1994   1995   1996   199    1990   1999         1994    1995  * 196       1997   1990   1999        WC       7/C    mt       16/C      ncC     Om
Ba0 nb.t  ec. 1992)       0.4    0.       0.7    0.7    0.7    0.5         0.9 3     .7      2.2     2.20   2.2    1.7       12.      12.2    1.1        .       4.0      .6
hsic. cooting.           0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0o                   0.0      0.2      0.2     0.2    0.1    0.1        0.1      0.6     0.0      0.2      0.e     0.s
fric wing.          0.1    0.1    0.1    0.2    0.a   0.2           0.0      0.a      0.                       2       0.6      1.1      1.7     0.9      1.4      2.2
TW am                    0.5    1.0    0.9    0.9    0.9    0.7          1.0      4.1      2.7     3.9    2.6    2.0        2.6    13.9    17.6       4.0    16.9    21.7
a.    mu_        a
I%.   I plants           10S.2  100.6   47.6   27.6   12.6    0.0        207.5    22.0    92.6   100.2   59.6    0.0    206.4   405.2   691.6   211.6   692.6  1004.2
*Iro p34.1.              21.6   2S.2  *3.9   74.6   96.2  130.6           19.7    26.6   102.5   219.1  310.0  396.7    200.1   767.2  1047.3   432.4  1102.6  161S.9
ane-hs vol1t.(V)          41.2   40.0   45.3   36.3   25.3   20.0          71.6   102.9    67.6    40.0   23.6   26.6    146.9   214.1   201.0   210.1  3212.2   SS.4
DeCO.t .9rdE0sW           40.6   43.6   44.0   4S.0   45.3   49.3          30.6    26.0    37.2    29.0   41.0   40.6    177.0   15.2   231.0   275.7   222.4   500.2
Distributio                 29.2   22.2   23.0   22.0   22.3   23.3          26.0    23.3    23.6    23.6   24.0   25.3         91.6    94.6   106.2   144.2   1SS.0   200.0 
RUt" .1otrltic.gic          11.2   17.7   16.2   16.3   15.0   16.0          24.6    20.6    27.6    24.0   25.l   25.9         6S.2   125.5   190.0    92.6   106.1   278.7 W
Thi1  a.a.ic                                                                                                                                                             .
Coting Iewon"               0.1    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.3    0.1          o.s      0.9      0.9     0.6    o.S    0.3        0.9      2.0     3.7      1.0      3.6     4.7
c. solt ./butd.& t1.  ,0.0    0.           0.1    0.1    0.0    0.0         0.0      0.9      1.4     0.6    0.e    0.7        0.4      2.7     4.1      0.4      4.4     4.0
ato dties a tame            5S.6   67.6   64.9   71.3   7S.3   e0.0           0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    279.1        0.0   279.1   425.7      0.0   42S.7
3m cost few. 19921        316.1  226.4  325.2  304.2  292.2  337.3        390.4   452.0   424.6   477.0  502.8  S34.1   1248.4  1066.2  2114.7  1901.7  2790.9  4692.6
Pthlys  c     tinpm.clo    12.0   1S.6   29.6   27.4   2s.7   29.6         14.2    24.2    44.0    S1.2  S5.S   59.6          90.2   17S.8   274.1   139.8   249.6   399.5
wic comtl    sea          13.9   44.2   02.3  101.4  12.4  140.0            6.0    10.1    2S.2    44.9   67.S   71.2    250.3   147.6   497.9  s55.0   224.9   729.9
lotml emt 9             341.9  206.1  427.2  433.1  440.4  507.7        410.7   406.2   S03.7   S73.2  626.7  66S.0   1696.9  2109.0   2906.6  2S54.S  3265.4  S012.0
toe                     20.0   s4.7   69.6   69.2   70.2   01.0          44.3    50.9    12.9    02.6   91.9   97.7    263.0   299.2  56.1   274.0   441.3   016.1
trWn toal 8             371.?  440.   504.0  S02.4  510.7  SSS.7        455.0   537.1   s76.6   656.7  710.6  762.7   1960.7  2409.1  4449.   2921.2  3706.7  6620.0
Seu"I nfiog 20101rd        272.4  441.6  507.7  S03.2  S11.6  5s9.4         4ss.9   541.2  s50.2   660.2  721.2  764.7   1964.2  2S02.0  4467.3  2926.1  2722.6  6649.7
ls-y-"94
l i
lb 
sQ l
ii



PAKISTAN
POWER SECTOR DEVELOPENT PROJECT
RESTRlOCTURINI/PRIVATIZATION AND WAPDA'S 1994-1999 INVESTET PROGRAM
(in million Rs)
t~caI ~mm.t                                              V.641igm C a                                   19"5-1998                     1994-199
1994      m       199      17        9  1999       19     94      1995      1996     1997     1998     1999        i/C      r/C    610o          WC       rJ/C       SU
A' 635./962U125. OW.
kt   m Ueut 0. 1993)        13.0     38. 1     21.3     19.8     19.90      3.9       36.4    112.0     97.3     90.1      65.5     5 1.1     67.1    369.9      452.6     103.0     442.9     545.9
#"*A. mwtimgin.              0.6      2.3       1.1      1.0      1.0      0.3         1.3      5.6      4.9      4.5       3.3      3.0       4.4     16.3      321          .3      13.6      21.8
9r106 em1UfS6ae              0.1      3.4       4.3      5.1      6.8      0.6         0.9      6.0      7.0     10.4      10.0      6.0      19.5     34.2       53.1      31.0      41.1      62.1
lowa  Cbt a               13.3     30.6    24.6       25.9     21.6      4.9        38.6    123.6    110.0   105.6       76.8    60.1      111.0    416.0      539.0    13.9.2     506.7     635.9
?beul visa"               3160.0   3340.0   1430.8   1130.0    370.0       0.0      6230.0  6990.0   3740.0  3010.0   1190.0         0.0   4190.0  14510.   20760.0    9350.0   30800.0  3015.0
Upfto pimlt                650.0    710.0  2130.0   2340.0  3900.0   3921.8          590.    a00.0  5510 7  7160.0  9950.0  11913.1   6420.0  23040.0  31460.0  13991.8  35543.1  48534.9
.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ftov-b1g* "atn. in"        1340.0   1300.0  1360.0  1090.0   760.0    900.0          2150.0  3090.0   2030.0   1200.0    110.0   600.0   4410.0   1030.0  11440.0   6850.0    9980.0   16530.0
ftcod.tin.q9t44SW          1460.0   1310.0   1330,0   135O0.   1360.0  1490.0         920.0  1090.0   1130.0   1110.0  1230.0  1460.0   5340.0  4600.0   9940.0    6260.0    6960.0   15360.0
O68tzlutiom                   *80.0    100.0    690.0    690.0    670.0    T00.        1060.0    100.0    110.0    110.0    130.0    760,0    3750.0   3040.0   5590.        4330.0    4660.0    9010.0
co
kaul 130trUlicaUml            340.0    530.6   490.0    490.0    450.0    460.0         740.0    660.0    630.0   1030.0   1060.0  3040.0    1960.0  3170.0    5730.0   3100.0    3590.0    6370.0
T.d1ca1 AasltAzme
c n1tl   mm..                2.4       6.9      S.?      5.4      1.6       4.0       14.4     24.7     26.7      17.1    14.4      10.0      35.8      63.0     110.6      33.2     109.4      141.6
co. ltt./bd.6 trg.            0.0       3,9      3.9      3.0      0.6       0.2        0.0    26.4      43.3      18.4    24.0      23.0      11.4    112..      123.       11.6     134.3      145.9
cImt 11 6itf    taxes6        1760.0   2030.0  1950.0  2140.0  2260.0   2643.0            0.0      0,6       0.0      0.0      0.0      0,0    6360.0       C,0    6380.0  12783.0        0.0   12183.0
km" eot Ekte. 19931        9493.4   9600,8  9769.6  9136.4   8116.4  10129.0    11724.4  13113.2  12050.0  14325.7  15096.4  16046.1  37461.2  56047.3  93534.5  57106.6  63816.6  140925.5
kysleI eAOt       Ieo       359.9    468,2   6o1.    821.6    712.2    69.            402.0    725.6   1330.3   1537.6  169S.S  1974.4   2949.7   5279.3    833.0    419.9.   43651.4  4645.0
9r1   OMAMtNgmi             416.6   1243.6  2411.4   3045.2  3666.0   4331.0          161.0    301.4    154.5   1346.5  3025.7  2336.5  10446.2  4432.3   14690.3   15098.8   94084.0  109182.6
TOWa  est a             1026.9  11532.6  13138.7  13005.2  13210.6  15294.0    13307.4  14600.4  15136.7  17213.0  18019.?  20701.0   50665.1  61150.6  1146443.9  76404.0  98161.3  17-5171.2
WC                        900.0  1641.0  3090.0   3620.9  2110.0  2434.0           1253.?  1S26.6   2190.0   3510.0  2760.0   035.0    7921.0  6966.6   16909.6  1125s.0   13277.1  24533.5
a 7   t7  a             11166.9  13113.6  19210.7  15065.2  15326.6  11664.0   13561.1  161329.2 1e316.7  1972.0  215790.7 o3336.0  5S806.1  74147.6  13313.7  676o9.n0   113044.7  199703.
Foa   i--UVa  Rhyilrei   1112.3 :   13204.4  16245.3  1511.1  15356.2  17666.9   13569.1  16252.6  11426.7  19937.6  21636.4  23796.1  56911.1  75165.1  134063.4   67786.2  113511.3  300339.5
.;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C 
7l7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0
'-a



- 81 -
Annex 4.7
Page 1 of 1
PA!n ia
POWIMR 8ECOR DXTLOPSUT PROJECT
WATER iWD OE DELOM     ATOHXOITY
PROJXCT COMPON=  S FtOR IRRD FZnwCNG
(in million W$)
La" ouhboao  Coate                       Vmep Currency Coate               1994 - 1999
Category                      1994  1995  1996  1997  199S  l999    1994  199S  1994  1997  1998  1999   L/C   1/C   gm
A. :rtU - bigh volt6e (S0O/220 nn
tmaaomi"aion 8y0ta6
41: saSt Substation
5>u1emsnt                0.00   0.50  2.50   1.50  1.50  0.00    1.90   5.00  6.60  4.00   1.S0   0.00   6.00  19.00 25.00
woax                         0.50  0.7S  0.50  0.3s  0.00  0.00    0.40  1.50   1.60  0.50  0.00  0.00  2.00  4.00  6.00
a.3 SiRot and other
320 kV substations
______________________
EqUL30t                      0.00  0.50  1.00   0.50  1.00  0.00    0.00  2.00   3.00   1.SO   1.00   0.00   3.00  7.50  10.50
*Ofks                        0.00  0.80   1.SO  1.00  1.00  o.oo    0.00  1.50  4.00  1.50  0.So  0.00  4.30  7.so 11.80
1.3 Third S00 kV Xombozo
3quIlsut                     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00   3.60   3.00  0.40   0.00  0.00   0.00  6.00  4.00
Subtotal                      0.50  2.SS   5.S0   3.3s  3.S0  0.00    2.30  12.60  15.20  7.90  3.00   0.00  1S.30  44.00  59.30
S. secodary T7maOsaiu an*d
(STO 132/66/11kv)
_____________________
el. 55013063
Transformers              0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00  2.00  6.00  8.00  7.00  1.00   0.00 34.00 24.00
Aut. traltozmwe           0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   1.00  3.00   3.00  1.00   0.00   0.00  6.00  6.00
11 kV owLtcbgsor pals    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0,00  0.00    0.00   1.00  2.00  3.00  2.50   O.S0  0.00   9.00  9.00
COPtO                     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00   2.00  2.00  3.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  6.00   6.00
0/8 equl0out              0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00  1.00  3.00  1.00  1.SO  0.so  0.00  6.00  4.00
Conductors                0.00  0.00  0.00  0.s0  0.00  0.00    0.00  2.00  2.00  1.80   1.00   1.00   0.00  11.S0  11.50
TowerS                    0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00  2.00  3.00  3.00  3.50   0.50   0.00  11.00 11.00
Hardware & nsul.tors      0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00  0.00  1.50  1.00  1.00  0.SO  0.00  4.00  4.0
53. Wo.ko                     0.00  1.50  3.50  4.SO  4.50  1.S         0.00   0.00  5.00  7.00  9.00  2.00 15.50  33.00 38o.
Subtotal                      0.00  1.S   3.50  4.s5  4.50  1.s         0.00  11.00 25.s5  30.80 37.50  6.00  S5.5O 100.00 116,30
C. DIStiati     sste
(MosinaI 14 RobabilltatIou)
55u1pnt                      0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00  0.70  4.30  5.50  4.40   0.00   0.00  14.60  14.80
workS                        0.00  0.74   2.60   3.4o  2.50  1.00    0.00  0.78   4.35  S.3S  1.75  1.00   9.S  15.10 34.46
Sutota                        0.00  0.76   3.60  2.50  3.50  1.00    0.00  1.45  8.4S 10.85   6.1S  1.00   9.54  29.90 39.46
D. T    doctCol MAlotme
rt_otgtuzln   , MuvatisatLon   0.00  0.7  0.n1  O.6"   0.66  0.46    0.00  1.74  3.30  1.03  2.30  1.74   3.16 13.90 17.36
Other esu1t65  sozlo.s 0.00  0.23   0.18   0.10  0.10  0.36    0.00  0.49   0.49  0.95  0.71  0.63   1.04  .3.9  4.41
ceut0z seots    nd V ard_wre 0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00    0.00  0.19  0.41  0.39  0.21  04.0   0.00  1.43   1.42
traIing                       0.00   0.11  0.13   0.10  0.10  0.03    0.00  0.19  0.41  0.39  0.29  0.19   0.48  1.5S   2.05
subtetal                      0.00  1.21   1.03   0.94  0.94  0.74    0.00  4.01  4.73   4.75  1.92   3.66   4.08  20.35  26.16
tota  3.alle ot (3U..992  0.50  4.04 12.03  11.19 11.44  1.24    2.10 29.46  54.80  54.20 42.16  9.66 45.24 14 .9 go40.33.
Tot" 9koca  CUgoaoy           0.03  0.26   0.93   0.64   0.74   0.26    0.00  1.88   3.49  3.13   3.06   0.8   2.91 13.47  15.38
Sea 3:10e  cOetjngOny         0.07   0.05  2.11   1.68  1.54  0.9S    0.00  3.S1  6.38   6.01  4.51   3,4   1.64  22.55 10.11
lowal Cml                 *      0.6  7.1, 15.93  3.3.51  14.03  4.46    2.30 25.3S 66.45 63.41 50.05  1.3.33  S.7S 230.00 3S5.71
03-SUM-H4



- 82 -                         Annex 4 .8
Page 1 of 1
.    a0
t~ X I                 IeES
| | E  |  |:        E S WE E S     'S E           
pi  $s   ,$zmm E mm                        I' 
i~ ~      ~ ~~~ ~~ m ' '- V                              .1i



- 83 -
Annex 4.9
Page 1 of 1
PAXISTAN
PON8R SZCTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fstimnted schedule of Disbursements
(uS$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year         Disbursements             Cumulative
and Semester            in Semester             Disbursements      Cumulative v
1995
December 31, 1994             10.35a/                   10.35               4.50
June 30, 1995                 27.20                     37.55              16.30
1996
December 31, 1995             30.00                     67.55              29.30
June 30, 1996                 36.65                    104.20              45.30
1997
December 31, 1996             33.43                    137.63              59.80
June 30, 1997                 30.00                    167.63              72.90
1998
December 31, 1997             20.00                    187.63              81.60
June 30, 1998                 30.05                    217.68              94.60
1999
December 31, 1998              8.32                    226.0               98.20
June 30, 1999                  4.00                    230.0              100.00
a/ including US$S.0 million of retroactive financing.



- 84 -
Annex 4.10
Page 1 of 10
PAKISTAN
POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTNORITY (WAPDA)
ENVIRONMENTAL MAGMENT UNIT
AND
SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL WT.I!tIW
Terms of Reference (Technical Assistance)
I. INTRODUCTION
The Government of Pakistan (GOP) has requested financial assistance
from The World Bank in carrying out its Eighth Five Year Plan (EFYP) for the
domestic power sector, under the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA).
It has been determined that, to ensure compliance with environmental laws and
standards of the GOP and Bank environmental requirements, WAPDA should: (a)
establish an effective in-house environmental management unit (EMU); (b) carry
out an environmental review of its major facilities, including on-going
construction; (c) prepare a sectoral environmental assessment report (SEAR) to
evaluate environmental impacts of the EFYP programs and activities; (d) develop
the in-house capability to prepare site-specific environmental assessments and
resettlement plans for specific projects to satisfy GOP and Bank requirements;
and (e) develop the operational capabilities carry out a full range of
environmental analysis and monitoring activities.  This TOR is to provide WAPDA
with the technical assistance needed to achieve these requirements.
It. PACKGROUND
There is an increasing environmental awareness and concern by GOP and
officials of the four Provinces, reflected in the 1983 Pakistan Environmental
Protection Ordinance which provides for establishment of the Pakistan
Environmental Protection Council and the Pakistan Environmental Protection Agency
and requires detailed Environment and Social Soundness Assessments at the time
of project planning. Environmental Protection Agencies have been established in
each of the provinces although implementing regulat2 ons have not been promulgated
at the national level.
The electric power system operated by WAPDA includes 22 operating
power stations (12 hydel, 10 thermal), 9 stations under construction or in design
phase (6 hydel, 3 thermal), and a nationwide distribution system. Seven of the
stations are undergoing or proposed for major modification (2 hydel, 5 thermal).
WAPDA projects and activities in the EFYP, for FY 1994-98, consist of on-going
and proposed construction, including both expansion of existing facilities and
new sites, as well as normal maintenance and repair of the existing system
throughout Pakistan  (annex A).   In addition,  WAPDA has certain oversic-ht
responsibilities in regard to the autonomous Karachi Electric Supply Corp and the
small number of private facilities tied into the national power grid.



- 85 -
Annex 4.10
Page 2 of 10
WAPDA is the national public sector entity responsible for power
development (and irrigation) activitieE in Pakistan. Although WAPDA has emerged
as a successful and capable power development organization, it has not yet
develcoped the environmental and safety staffing, standards, or capabilities that
are coming to be expected as a matter of course in the more developed countries
and which will soon be required under Pakistan's emerging environmental
regulations and policies. Correction of this shortcoming is considered an urgent
priority by WAPDA management and an environmental cell has been established under
the General Manager Planning (Water).
The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) is supporting
a National Power Plan Project which includes a review of capacity and load
forecasts, identification of possible power station sites, WAPDA planning
capability; and a review of the capabilities, organization and role of the
existing WAPDA environmental cell. This review is being carried out by ACRES
International.
III. RELATBD RZFERBNCES
Pertinent background documents and references include:
(a)   [(need project summary reportll
(b)   Operational Directive 4.01, Annex A: Environmental Assessment; The
World Bank Operational Manual, October 8, 1991;
(c)   World Bank Guidance for Environmental Analysis of (i) Thermoelectric
Projects, (ii) Hydroelectric Projects, (iii) Dams and Reservoirs,
(iv) Electric Power Transmission Systems, (v) Cultural Resources,
(vi) Hazardous and Toxic Materials, (vii) Occupational Health and
Safety, (viii) Industrial Hazards, (ix) Natural Hazards, (x)
Watersheds, (xi) Wetlands, (xii) wildlands, (xiii) Land Settlement,
and (xiv) Involuntary Resettlement.
(d) Environmental reports prepared for specific power projects (annex
B).
IV. OBJECTIVES
The objectives of the assignment are to assist WAPDA in establishing
an effective in-house environmental management unit through which current
environmental and social and resettlement requirements and practices, including
public health and safety considerations, would be fully and efficiently
incorporated into WAPDA's planning, construction and ope-rations. This unit is
expected to be responsible to senior management for providing environmental
review (including monitoring for air, water and hazard risks), advice, guidance
and oversight during project conception, design, construction and operation to
ensure that WAPDA's projects and activities are carried out in an environmentally
responsible manner and in accordance with GOP and other applicable requirements
as well as generally accepted standards.



- 86 -
Anex 4.10
Page 3 of 10
The sectoral environmental review will provide institutional
strengthening of WAPDA' s environmental management and give the organization the
capability to: (a) identify and correct existing environmental problems in the
power sector; (b) prepare site-specific environmental review of selected
projects; (c) ev-auate alternative siting approaches, power sources, and energy
conservation measures; and (d) conduct power generation and transmission
activities in an environmentally responsible manner in accordance with GOP
requirements and generally accepted standards.
V. SCOPE OF WORK
The consultant shall provide the following services:
(a)   provide advice and technical support to WAPDA in the  organization,
functions, staffing and overall implementation of the EMU;
(b)   develop appropriate environmental guidance documents and manuals for
use by EMU and WAPDA field personnel;
(c)   develop and present appropriate environmental training courses and
programs to WAPDA staff;
(d)   advise and assist WAPDA in conducting environmental and safety
reviews of existing facilities;
(e)   advise and assist WAPDA in preparing the SEAR.
TASK 1 - ESTABLISHMENT OF ENVXROgEENTAL MANAGEMENT UNIT
WAPDA is establishing an EMU (termed Environmental Cell) to provide
an in-house environmental capability and institutionalize these concerns in day-
to-day operations. Initially, the EMU is in the Office of the General Manager
(water) and consists of a Director of Environmental Planning, two staff
engineers, two junior engineers (to be recruited) and administrative support.
There is provision for technical support from other offices of WAPDA as needed.
In addition, three staff (a doctor, chemical engineer and electrical engineer)
at the Guddu thermal power station have been designated to review air and water
emissions, controls, monitoring, and sampling, first at Guddu then at other
thermal power stations.
The functions of the EMU are expected to include development of
operational guidelines and procedures, monitoring WAPDA activities to assess
compliance with environmental and resettlement, social and safety requirements
and conformity with established industry practices, facilitate environmental and
safety planning and policy formulation and implementation, and ensure that
appropriate environmental reviews and resettlement action plans are conducted for
proposed siting, construction and operational activities.
The consultant will advise and assist WAPDA in: (a) defining the
mission, responsibilities, organizational structure, lines of communication, and
functions of EMU, and identifying staffing and training needs; (b) identifying
staffing needs at the facility level to ensure effective environmental/safety



- 87 -
Annex 4.10
Page 4 of 10
monitoring and complainace; (c) identifying needed equipment and facilities to
carry out required analyses, monitoring, and modeling; (d) identifying
objectives, qualifications, and responsibilities of technical personnel consonant
with the EMU functions and responsibilities; (e) preparing both annual and long-
range (5 year) work plans and budgets for EMU; (f) developing mechanisms, staff
and guidance necessary for effective interaction and coordination between the
EMU, other WAPDA departments and offices, and field facilities; and (g)
developing  the  necessary  guidance  manual(s)   detailing  EMU's  mission,
responsibilities, procedures, lines of communication, and coordination.
WAPDA will be responsible for providing the consultant with all
necessary consultation and discussions with executive officers and senior
managers to facilitate the above items.
TASK 2 - DEVELOPMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING PROGRAM
The consultant will prepare appropriate environmental and training
courses for presentation to EMU staff and appropriate field staff.  The courses
to be presented and selection criteria for EMU and WAPDA field trainees will be
determined in consultation with WAPDA management (General Manager-Training).
Existing WAPDA training facilities should be utilized where feasible. Suggested
course topics include regulatory programs and requirements, environmental
assessment of power projects, public health and safety requirements and
standards, environmental monitoring and audits, environmental standards for air,
water and oil pollution, and social considerations with regards to power plants.
The consultant shall be responsible for: (a) preparing training
recommendations and schedule for proposed training activities for the
participants; (b) preparation of training packages including course summaries,
outlines, and text materials necessary for presentation; (c) identifying criteria
for selection of proposed participants, including necessary qualifications; and
(d) conducting initial training courses.
WAPDA will be responsible for in-country training facilities and
trainee expenses.
TASK 3 - ESTABLISH ENVIRONMENTAL PROCEDURES
This will require: (a) preparing a manual detailing the environmental
impact assessment procedures for power sector design, construction and
operations; (b) identifying monitoring and evaluation requirements and i7*.- rms or
standards to be followed; and (c) preparing environmental and safety ope2.ational
guidelines and emergency action plans.
The consultant will provide advice and guidance, including source
materials, necessary in drafting these procedures.
WAPDA is responsible for the preparation cf these procedures.
TASK 4 - ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW OF EXISTING FACILITIES AND CONSTRUCTION
Assist WAPDA in carrying out field review of power stations and
ancillary facilities to evaluate compliance with GOP and Provincial environmental



- 88 -
Annex 4.10
Page 5 of 10
and safety laws and standards and with generally accepted practices. Factors to
be addressed include emissions (air and water), solid wastes, PCBs, occupational
health and safety, hizards, maintenance, siting, and reclamation.   Identify
needed corrective measures and estimate costs/schedules for correction.
The consultant will be responsible for identifying appropriate
environmental and safety parameters to be covered in the field reviews, providing
environmental specialists and engineers experienced in the types of facilities
being reviewed to participate with WAPDA staff in carrying out the reviews, and
preparing a concise report for each facility summarizing environmental and safety
violations and concerns identified and suggesting appropriate corrective actions.
WAPDA EMU and facility staffs shall actively participate in the
reviews. WAPDA will be responsible for logistics, including scheduling, in-
country transportation, field housing and meals where necessary, and background
briefings.
TASK 5 - PREPARATION OF THE SEAR
Assist WAPDA in preparation of the SEAR.  This document must review
the environmental effects of WAPDA's on-going operations including repair and
maintenance activities as well as the numerous major and minor construction
projects scheduled in the EFYP; specific guidance is provided to supplement Annex
Al of OD 4.01 (annex C).
This document should provide a concise but comprehensive review of
the power sector programs and activities, identifying environmental consequences,
viable alternatives, mitigation measures, monitoring capabilities, and any
management programs or organizational structure required to ensure that WAPDA
programs and activities are conducted in an environmentally and socially
acceptable manner. In particular, this document should incorporate the results
of the Environmental Reviews carried out in Task 4 and provide a generic review
of the construction projects and activities included in the EFYP, identify and
evaluate significance of the environmental consequences, identify mitigation
measures to reduce or eliminate adverse environmental effects, identify and
evaluate reasonable alternatives, and recommend environmental and safety
management and monitoring programs with an implementation schedule for WAPDA.
The consultant will be responsible for providing technical assistance
consisting of: (a) a team leader experienced in the preparation of complex
program environmental assessments involving an on-going resource management
program and a diversity of construction projects; (b) professional staff of
appropriate disciplines as necessary to guide and assist WAPDA staff in data
acquisition, evaluation and analysis for the SEAR to identify environmental
consequences, alternatives, mitigation, monitoring, and management programs; (c)
providing WAPDA environmental staff with the necessary training in environmental
review and analysis to facilitate preparation of the SEAR; and (d) providing
frequent review of draft materials to identify needs and ensure that the document
is complete, technically accurate, and objective so as to fulfill GOP and Bank
requirements.
WAPDA will designate a high level staff member as full time Project
Manager and assign appropriate staff and resources to complete the SEAR in a



- 89 -
Annex 4.10
Page 6 of 10
timely fashion. WAPDA is responsible for timely completion of a complete and
objective environmental review of the sectorial projects included in the Banks
support of the EFYP. Before the date scheduled for contract award, WAPDA will:
(a) assemble a reference file of all available pertinent project and
environmental reports, documents and materials necessary for the preparation of
the report; (b) have appropriate staff available to carry out the actual
preparation of the SEAR with guidance and assistance from the consultant as
needed; and (c) provide the SEAR team with suitable office and administrative
facilities. During the project tlAPDA will: (a) arrange for the acquisition of
any additional environmental or project data required to complete the SEAR; and
(b) provide the SEAR team with any transportation and other logistical support
required for field work.
TASK 6 - PROCUREMENT OF EOUIPMENT A_ND MATERIALS
The following equipment and materials will be provided to support the
institutional strengthening of the EMU: (a) reference documents such as technical
manuals, handbooks, textbooks and reports relevant to various aspects of
environmental management, (b) training manuals for the different courses to be
offered, (c) two computers with associated database and a laser printer, and (d)
two vehicles, one equipped as a mobile lab for air quality measurements and water
quality analyses. All equipment and materials will be retained by the EMU upon
completion of the project.
The consultant will prepare specifications for the above equipment
and materials in consultation with WAPDA, submit for Bank's approval, and procure
the equipment in accordance with Bank's guidelines.
VI.  DATA SOURCES AND PRI83KATION
A. Information concerning GOP environmental programs and power sector
operations, project design and development, cultural resources, socio-economics,
and existing land uses is believed to be available from GOP, WAPDA, and local
authorities. Extensive project description and site-specific environmental data
is available in existing documents. This material should be reviewed and used
where appropriate.
The Provincial Planning Cells in the Department of Planning and
Development can coordinate Provincial inputs and participate in the sector review
as necessary. These are multi-disciplinary cells with considerable capability.
GOP and WAPDA will promptly provide the consultant with access to all
available data relevant to the power sector review and will provide an inventory
of such data.   Reference data shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
past reports prepared by or for government agencies relating to
power development and transmission, power supply and demand,
environmental and health matters;
data relating to fossil and renewable fuel resources, hydropower
siteo, qeotherm4l resources, air ouality, solid waste m%naqPwent,



- 90 -
Annex 4.10
Page 7 of 10
surface and ground water, environment, health and safety; sensitive
areas and resources;
information relating to organization,  operation and funding of
agencies (Federal, Provincial, and local) with power, environmental,
and planning/approval responsibilities;
relevant   ordinances,   legislation,   regulations,   standards,
administrative orders, and policies relevant to power sector
projects and activities.
VIZ. *ORGAMZATION AND REPORTING
The consultant shall establish a local office in Lahore for the
duration of the contract. At the conclusion of the contract, all materials
acquired specifically for this project shall be left with WAPDA.   It is
anticipated that this will include reference materials, training aids, course
materials, and manuals.
VIII. CONTRACT TIRE
The period of services under this contract is for 24 months beginning
on or about June 1, 1995.
IX. TIMING AND RBPORTS
A. Schedule:
Environmental contract awarded                    : June 1995
Consultant in PakiLtan                            : July 15
EMU recommendations                               : Oct. 15
Completion of EMU guidance manual (ref. Task 1)  : Dec. 15
Completion of training course materials (Task 2) : July 1, 1996
Completion of environmental manual(s) (Task 3)   : July 1, 1996
Completion of facility reviews (Task 4)           : March 1997
Completion of SEAR (Task 5)                       : May 1, 1997
Completion of EC assistance                       : July 1, 1997
B. Required Reports:
The Consultant shall provide the following reports to the Bank and
WAPDA:
(a)   Work Plan - to be provided within 15 days after award of contract.
This will include a schedule for accomplishing the specified tasks
above;
(b)   Bimonthly Progress Reports - these shall briefly summarize progress
under the contract and identify any problems encountered;



- 91 -
Annex 4.10
Page 8 of 10
(c)   Interim Reports - recommendations regarding role,  organization
location, staffing, and budget of EMU; summary of facility reviews
and recommendations as to monitoring and sampling facilities; and
copies of manuals and training materials shall be submitted to the
Bank and WAPDA as completed. The training materials and manuals
shall be in camera-ready form so that additional copies may be made
as desired.
(d)   SEAR - there shall be at least two opportunities for  Bank staff to
review draft materials during preparation.
X. LNVBL 0?F FFORT
The consultant shall furnish the following personnel for services
under this contract:
-Senior Advisor (18 mos. 66% time)           12mm (man-months)
-Team Leader (15 mos.  80'V time)            12mm
-Training Specialists (2)                     8mm
-Environmental Specialists (6)               12mm
-Power facility engineers (4)                12mm
-Writer/Editor                                4mm
Actual preparation of the SEAR is to be accomplished by WAPDA with
guidance and assistance from the consultant as needed.   WAPDA shall make
available office space, office supplies, necessary professional staff, and
administrative support. WAPDA will provide necessary field visits and assist in
the logistics, including transport, lodging and meals (where camps are
available), and other support necessary to accomplish the missions.
WAPDA shall make available office space, office supplies, counterpart
staff, and administrative support. WAPDA will arrange necessary field visits and
assist in the logistics, including transport, lodging and meals (where camps are
available), and other support necessary to accomplish the missions.
xI.  CONSULTA   OUALIFICATIONS
The following qualifications/experience are required for this
contract:
(a)   Senior Advisor* - at least 20 years extensive experience in various
aspects of the electric power industry; experience with both hydel
and thermal would be highly desirable.   This should  include
gubstantial working experience on environmental, social and. health
and safety issues at a senior level, a demonstrated capability to
interface and communicate effectively with senior management on
environmental and safety issues, and experience in developing
countries.



- 92 -
Annex 4.10
Page 9 of 10
(b) SEAR Team Leader* - at least 10 years varied experience in the
environmental field, including the actual management of preparation
of environmental documents. In particular, actual experience in
preparation of complex program environmental assessments, including
social impact assessment, involving an on-going resource management
program and a diversity of construction projects is required.
(c) Power Facility Engineers - at least 10 years extensive experience in
various aspects of electric power industry; This should include
substantial experience on a wide variety of environmental and safety
issues at a senior level.
(d) Environmental Specialist - at least 10 years progressive and
responsible experience in required specialty (biology, soils,
hydrology, wildlife, vegetation, land-use, etc.); at least 5 years
of which involved assisting in environmental reviews of construction
and maintenance activities in a variety of regions.
(e) Training Specialist - at least 5 years demonstrated experience in
developing and presenting environmental and social impact training
courses.
(f) Writer/Editor - at least 5 years experience in preparing and editing
technical manuals, guidance, and training materials;
The Senior Advisor and SEAR Team Leader have been identified as key
staff and the specific individuals designated in the contract proposal are to be
committed for duration of the contract. Any substitution must be acceptable to
both the Bank and WAPDA.
The prime consultant must be able to demonstrate:
-     experience in evaluating and advising on the environmental programs
and capabilities of a major corporation or government agency;
-     experience in third-world or developing countries;
-     experience in power generation and transmission projects;
-     capability and willingness to commit a qualified staff and adequate
resources to the timely and satisfactory completion of this project;
-     maximum involvement of local consultants in carrying out this
project (a list of Pakistani firms will be provided as potential
sub-consultants).



- 93 -
Annex 4.10
Page 10 of 10
COST NSDTMhTB
Labor;
Senior Advisor - 12mm 0 $400/day                     $144,000
Team Leader - 12mm @ $400/day                          144,000
Environmental Specialists - 12mm @ $350/day            126,000
Power Facility Engineers - 12mm @ $400/day             144,000
Training Specialists - 8mm @ $320/day                   76,800
writer/Editor - 4mm 0 $320/day                          38,800
$673,600
Travel:
Air Fares                                              $60,000
(estimated 20 round trips, business class,
North America to Pakistan)
Per Diem - $3000/mm                                    180,000
$240,000
Subtotal                                 $913,600
Overhead - 40% payroll                    269,400
Equipment                                  lS,OOO
$1, 198, 000



- S4 -
Annex 4.11
Page 1 of 1
PAXZSTk
POWER SECTOR &'ELOPMI PRO
Bubervision PI
Tasks                                Date               IBRD
6/W
FY95        Project Launch
update Action PlanI                  9/94
Follow-up on TA
Follow-up on procurement             3/95
Review of Investment program
Total Staff Weeks                                        15
FY96        8emestrial Reviews                    7/95
Follow-up on TA
Update Action Plans                  3/96
Review of Investment program
Total Staff Weeks                                        15
FY97        Mid-term Review                       9/96
Follow-up on TA
Update Action Plans                  3/97
Review of Investment Program
Total Staff Weeks                                        20
FY98        Semestrial Reviews                    9/97
Follow-up on TA
Update Action Plans                  3/98
Review of Investment Program
Total Staff Weeks                                        10
FY99        semestrial Reviews                    9/98
Follow-up on TA
Update Action Plans                  3/99
Preparation of Implementation
Completion Report
Total Staff Weeks                                        15
Total Supervision staff weeks for project                             75



PAKiSTAN
POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
ACTUAL AND FORECAST INCOME STATEMENT
(RUPEES MILJON)
- ----------Actual------------   -P--    ------------Fbmsst----------
FYs8    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY90    FY97    FY9s    FY99
KWh GENERATED (MILUONS)                      28898   31427   34345   38067   40791    43394   4801    53098   ooa71    83787   68083
KWh SOLD (MILUONS)                           21982   24121   28584   29207   31272   33484   38201   42521   49184   51987   55471
KWh SOLD/KWh GENERATED(%)                      76.1    78.8    77.4    78.9    77.8    77.8    78.6    80.1    80.8    81.5    81.5
AVE. REVENUE/KWh SOLD(PAISA)                   M4.4   106.7   116.5   126.8   128.2   144.7   108.7   183.7   203.1    221.9   235.2
%INCREASEINAVE.REVENUE                         13.9    12.0    10.2       8.8    -O       14.7    18.0      8.9    10.6       9.2     6.0
AVE. TARIFFlKWh SOLD(PAISA)                    67.9    75.0    82.2    87.2    86.9   101 9    114.4   124.6   138.2   148.0   153.1
%INCREASEINTARIFF                              13.2    10.6      9.5      6.2    -0.3      17.2    12.3      8.9    10.9       7.0     3.5
OPERATING REVENUE (RS MIWON)
SALES OF ELECTRICITY                         14918   18097   21845   25534   27188   34125   43713   52987   67987   76921   84926
FUELADJJSTMENT SURCHARGE                      5843    7405    9130   11878   12262   14336   20734   25128   31923   3j429   45534
OTHER OPERATING REVENUES                       828      906      830      630     672    1075    1086    1097    1108    1119    1130
HYDRO SURCHARGE                                                          1067    3392    4508    4447    5051    6676    7561    7561
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES                      21t87   20408   31806   38809   43516   54044   69980   84873  107693  124030  139151
OPERATING EXPENSES (RS MALLION)
POWER PURCHASES                                 20      184       32      398     445        0        0    8628   18182   15885   15724
FUEL COST                                     6228    67e8    9150   11259   11771    14732   20734   25128   31923   38429   45534
MAINTENANCE                                   1282    1517    1675    2063    2556    2567    2594    2922    3384    3894    4450               |                     u
OPERATION & ADMINISTRATION                    3248    3640    4342    5467    5961        5967    0981      7679    847    9883   10872                                 n
DEPRECIATION                                  2255    2765    3385    3784    4194    5400    6309    7327    8463    9708   11057
HYDRO PAYMENTS                                                           1000    3800    4508    4447    5661    8676    7881    7501
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                      13033   14774   18584   23971   28728   33180   41066   57346   77075   85360   96197
OPERATING INCOME                              8554   11834   13021   14838   14789   20864   28914   27527   30618   38670   43953
ADD: MISC. NON-OPER. REVENUES                                    645    o69       1221    1233    1248    1258    1271    1283    1296
INTERESTON SINKING FUND                        0        0       0        0        0       94      287     609      994    1448    1970
INCOME AVAILABLE FOR FIXED                    8s54   11634   13666   15533   16010   22191   30447   29394   32883   41401   47219
CHARGES
FIXED CHARGES
INTEREST                                      4820    8271    8070    9752   11136   12875   14042   16001   18427   23692   27592
LE8S:INTEREST CHARGED CONSTN.                  1062    1445    1753    2186    3031    3499    3945    4418    48s0    5245    5764
INTERESTCHARGEDTOOPERATIONS                    3788    4826    6317    7588    8105    9176   10097   11583   13578   18447   21828                          
(D (D
NET INCOME AFTER FIXED CHARGES                4798    6808    7349    7947    7905   13015   20351   17811   19305   22954   25391                                     x X
=========                         = ===== ====== ===== ===-== ===== =====                            I 
RATE OF RETURN ON FIXED ASSETS                 18.7    20.8    19.0    19.2    18.8    23.1    27.1    22.           21.9    24.1    24.2                           O *
(on historical cost basis)                                                                                                                                         F 
F.brauy 1994



PAST^AN
------------            ------                                              -  c---------
ASSETS                     .fYOs  PM                             Q fm   t 9        2    :t9 'P"       PM      O FYO       FV?    F4t  FPM
FIXED ATSS
FXED ASSETS IN OPERATION                       67235   91731  108184  120700  130007   154458  180271   209348  241800   27731   315000
LESS:ACCUMMULATED DEPRECIATION                 15212   17978   21384    25188   20400   34815   41125   48452   56015    66622   77679
NETFIXEDASSETSINOPERATION                      52023   73703   86800    05512  101308  110s6     189147  160804  184801   210730  238230
WORK IN PROGRESS                               20064   1sm       25004   4066    63738    58316   867'o    73620   80820    87424   06060
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                             77087   92530  111804   136068  155136   1770S9  204807  234523  26S717   298183  334230
OTHERASSETS                                      563      163       20      974    1100      110o    1190    1190       11oo    1190    1100
SINKING FUND                                       0        0    1o06         0      370     116    38502    6553   10012    14113   18713
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH                                            1973    6179    6438    6042    5730    8035    12045    18716   26633   38362   48071
INVENTORIES                                     454      5194    6417    6551       6833    8558    10042   11680    18535      15875   17768
ACCOUNTS RECEVABLES                             3040    4208    6090       8253    0403   11160    130s0      16075   21530   24806    27830
WATER WING ACCOUNTS                              502      310      084      190      823      864      907      053    1000    1050    1103
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS                            3832     2108    1783    4002    8773    3062         4160    4366    456e    4815        5056
TOTALCURRENTASSETS                             13301    18087   21721    25044    26652   33470   42050   52700   67203    81600  o0085
TOTALASSETS                                    91041   110780  135510  162086   183357  213833  251738  204075  844221   3050o4   451060
CAPITAL AND LABILIES
EQUITY
GOVERNMENTINVESTMENTS                           2445    2452    2408       2501    2501      2501     2501     2501     2501     2501     2501
GOVERNMENT EQUITY CONTRIBUTION:                 3s8s     4420    489       5650     9410     9410    9410    9410    0410        9410    0410
CONSUMER CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS                  8257    7501      9325    11370   13412   156e3    18275    21203   24336    27658   31385
RETAINED EARNINGS                              22611    29375   36676    44210   43704    56710   77060    94380   114185  187139  162530
TOTAL EOUITY                                   35201    43757   53385   63740    90027   84207  107255   127991  150432   176708  205826
LONG TERM DEST                                 47017   89566   s6030    81009   01454   102825  110423  136130  156506   176718  198648
SECURITY DEPOSITS                                457       625     620      861     1150     1472    1800      2146    2508      2888    3287
INTERESTACCRUED                                 1368    1449      1532     1815    1698      1781     18s4     1947     2030     2113    2196
CURRENT UABILITIES                              7000    5483   10343   15700   20019   23486    21397   28750   32746    36058   41103
TOTALCAPtTALAND UABILmES                       91041   110780  135510  162085  183357   213833  251730  204975  344221   305084  451061                                   (D IT
DEBT AS % OF DEST+EOUITY                          57      5s        57       56       57       55       53       52       51       so       40                            O  .
EQUITYA%OFDET+EQUtTY                              43       42       43       44       43       45       47       48       40       50       61                             h
February 1994



PAlKSTAN
POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORItY
ACTUAL AND FORECAST SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS
(RUPEES MILUON)
SOURCES OF FUNDS                            --Atual-------------   -Po-    ---------                           Foreeast----------
----------------                             FYs8    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY9s    FY97    FY9s    FY99
FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS                       ----    ----    ----    ----    ----    ----    ----    -_    ----  _                   ----
NET INCOME FOR FIXED CHARGES                8554   11634   13668   15533   16010   22191   30447   29394   32883   41401   47219
DEPRECIATION                                 2247    2766    3385    3784    4194    5406    8309    7327    8463    9708   11057
SUBTOTAL FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS               10801   14400   17051   19317   20204   27597   38757   36721   41346   51108   58276
GOP GRANT81                                    83      548      503     778    -250        0        0        0       0        0       0
CONSUMER CONTRIBUTIONS                        13s0    1244    1824    2045    2042    2226    2837    2928    3133    3322    3728
SECURITY DEPOSITS                               62      e8       95     241      298      313     329      345     362      380      399
RET. EARN. ADJUST/DEF. UAB.                  -401      -10    -791   -2128   -3288         0        0        0       0        0        0
BORROU1NGS: RUPEE LOANS                      5302    6901      260    3068    2499    4291    5842    4903    6414    4994    4938
FOREIGN LOANS                          5187    7625    7590   13698   12348   13561   16002   15315   17817   20377   23066
PROPOSEDBANKLOAN                          0        0       0        0        0       0    1128    2001    1905    1203        670
_________________________________________________________________
SUBTOTAL BORROVMNGS                          10489   14526    7850   18786   14847   17852   21771   22310   26138   26574   28672
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                       22384   30776   26532   37017   33853   47988   81493   62304   70977   81384   91075
=====,==.1=    =    ===== = = == == = =_= == ==========5== = ===========
APPUCATIONS OF FUNDS
INVESTMENTS                                 14815   16764   16030   24804   22309   24730   29303   32535   34807   36908   41420                                    -
INCR. IN LONG-TERM INV.                                               s94       226        0
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ --- - - - - -_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-
TOTAL INVESTMENT PROGRAM                     14815   16764   16030   25758   22535   24730   29303   32535   34807   36908   41420
DEBT SERVICE
INTEREST                                     4840    6291    8070    9752   11138   12676   14042   16001   18427   23692   27592
LESS:INTEREST ACCRUED                         83      83       83      83       83      83       83       83      83       83       83
AMORTiZATION                                 1141    1591    1840    2893    2776    6482    5173    G803    5760    6382    6741
SINKING FUND PAYMENTS                                         1901      31    1100       826    2398    2980    3480    4101    4600
SUBTOTAL DEBT SERVICE                         5898    7799   11728   12393   14929   19900   21828   24481   27564   34072   38851
CHANGE IN WORKING CAPITAL
CASH                                         1198    4208      259    -398    -3        3205    4010    5771    7917    8729    9709
OTHER THAN CASH                               473    2007   -1485    -738   -3299        153    6852    -483      689    1675    1096
I~~~~~~~~~                                      ~ -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   -   -    -   -    -   -   -   -    -    -   -- __   -   -    -   -- __   -    -    -    -- __   -     -   -   -- __   -     -   -   -- __   -     -   -    -- __   -    -    -   -- __   -    -     -   -     -
NETCHANGEIN WORKING CAPITAL                   1871    6213   -1226   -1134   -3811    3368   1O883    5288    8808   10404   10304
TOTAL APPUCATIONS OF FUNDS                   22384   30776   26532   37017   33853   47988   61493   62304   70977   81384   91075
DEST SERVICE COVERAGE RAIIO                    1.8      1.8     1.8      1.6     1.4      1.4      1.7     1.5      1.8     1.5      1.5                           w
INTERNAL CASH GEN. RATIO-3 Yr. AVE.           41.2    40.7    47.3    50.0    44.5    39.8    40.0    49.7    47.7    50.6    56.3                                 O
February 1994



- 98 -                                 Annex 5.2
Page 1 of 4
PARISTAN
POWER SE -TOR DEVELOPMENT PROJFCT
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPNMNT AUTHORITY
NOTES AND ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL FORECASTS
Income Statement
Inflation Estimates
1.    Inflation projections, both domestic and international, are based on
estimates of the Bank's Country Operations Department and are as follows:
1994   1995    1996    1997      1998    1999
Local ()8.0   6.5S    6.0    6.0   |6.0                        6.0
International         1.3     1.8     2.8     3.3      3.3     3.3
Proiections for FY94
2. Projections for FY94 are based on estimates obtained from WAPDA in
February 1994, adjusted to reflect recovery of fuel costs as in past years, an
Government accounts receivable adjustment of Rs. 2.5 billion agreed by the
Government Adjuster, and projected level of current liabilities reflecting the
same percentage level as in FY93.
Sales of Electricity and Power Purchases
3.    The forecast generation, private sector purchases, sales and projected
losses -re shown in the table below. The forecast generation and sales of
electri:ity are based on WAPDA's plant by plant least-cost generation plan and
purchases from private sector beginning in FY96 from Hub Power Project.
Estimates of system losses are based on WAPDA's loss-reduction program.
Averaae Revenue per kWh Sold
4.    The average revenue per kWh sold are units sold including the base
tariff plus the fuel adjustment surcharge. Tariff increases are projected to
achieve the average revenue required to meet both the 40% Internal Cash
Generation covenant and the Debt Service Coverage covenant of 1.5 times.
WAPDA excludes revenues generated from the hydro-electric surcharge from its
average and operating revenue calculations as these are collected on behalf of
the Government and the payments are made on the basis of what is collected
from the surcharge.
Fuel Adiustment Surcharae (FAS)
5.    The full FAS as set by the Government is 75 paisas/kWh.  The first three
blocks of domestic consumers with consumption of up to 300 kWh/month pay lower
FAS rates, while agricultural consumers who are charged a flat rate tariff and
consumers from the Federally Administered Tribal Areas are exempt. For FY95
and beyond, the FAS recovery is assumed to represent 100% of fuel cost
incurred.



- 99 -                         Annex 5.2
Page 2 of 4
other Operatina Revenues
6.    Other operating revenues consist of income and fees for items such as
transfer/replacement of meters, application fees, reconnection of service,
etc. These revenues are shown to increase minimally based on prior years
revenues.
Hydro-electric Profit Surcharae and Payments to the Provinces
7.    A surcharge on all electricity sales is levied by WAPDA on behalf of the
Government to help pay for hydro-electric profit payments due to the Provinces
in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of Pakistan. The
surcharge amounted to Rs. 1.0 billion (7.7% of sales) in FY92, and Rs. 3.6
billion (10.4% of sales) in FY93, while payments made in each of those years
amounted to Rs. 6.08 billion. The Federal Government paid the difference
between the revenues from the surcharge and the actual payments during those
years. In FY94, about Rs. 4.5 billion are expected from the surcharge, and
the balance of about Rs. 1.5 billion is expected to be financed from
Government budget resources. From FY95, WAPDA's hydro-electric profit
payments are assumed to be at the same level as the amounts raised by the
surcharge.
Fuel Costs
S.    Fuel costs, fuel prices and projected consumption by type of fuel are
shown in Attachment 1. The assumptions made in projecting fuel costs are also
shown.
Maintenance ExDenses
9.    Maintenance expenses are related to plant in service and are forecast at
1.5% of average gross fixed assets in operation.
Operation and Administration licenses
10.   Operation and maintenance expenses are forecast to increase by 13t
annually, taking into account system expansion, inflation and past experience.
During FY95 and FY98, an additional increase of 7% is assumed to account for
general wage increases granted to Government employees.
DeDreciation
11.   WAPDA applies a composite rate of depreciation of 3.5% to its average
gross fixed assets in operation.
Balance Sheet
Cash
12.   Cash balances are projected at the level required to cover six weeks of
cash operating expenses.
Inventories
13.   Inventories are forecast at 6% of gross fixed assets in operation.
Accounte Receivables
14.  WAPDA's projected overall receivables level at the end of FY94 assume an
adjustment of Rs. 2.5 billion of Government departments and agmncies'
receivables deducted at source or adjusted against WAPDA's payables to the
Government. Thereafter, WAPDA's overall accounts receivables have been
projected at 20% of billings equivalent to 2.4 months' sales.



- 100 -                        Annex 5.2
Page 3 of 4
Other Current Assets
15.   Other current assets include miscellaneous receivables, advances and
clearing accounts. Forecasts assume a 5t annual increase.
Current Liabilities
16.   Current liabilities include accounts payable, deposits for works to be
carried out for other agencies, contractor deposits, duties payable and
accrued salaries. Current liabilities for FY94 are forecast at 32% of cash
operating cost, debt service and capital investments, the same percentage
level as in FY93. Thereafter, current liabilities are forecast at 25% of cash
operating costs, debt service and capital investments.
SecuritY DeDosits
17.   Security deposits are forecast to increase at 5t per annum.
Sources and Uses of Funds
Consumer contributions
18.   Consumer capital contributions consist of payments for connectio. costs,
i.e., cost of conductors, meters and transformers for large consumers. These
are assumed to be 9% of WAPDA's investments.
Investment Prooram
19.   WAPDA's investment program includes generation plants and transmission
and distribution expansion. The investment program is reviewed and adjusted
regularly to reflect revised commissioning dates of generation plants (both
expansion and new) and local and foreign cost variations.
Borrowina
20.   These are projected on the basis of WAPDA's capital investment program.
Forty percent of the capital investment program are assumed to be financed
from internal cash generation. Projzctions assume that local currency
borrowing are from WAPDA 10-Yr. bond flotations, and all foreign costs of the
investment program financed with foreign loans.
Debt Service
21. New debt is assumed to have the following terms: local borrowing through
bonds at 19% interest, repayable after 10 years. Regular sinking fund
appropriations are assumed to cover the repayment at maturity date. Foreign
borrowing are assumed at GOP onlending terms for Bank loans to WAPDA.



Annex 5.2
- 101 -                                Attachment
Page 4 of 4
PAKISTAN
POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
FUEL COST AND CONSUMPTION PROJECTIONS
FY95        FY96         FY97         FY98         FY99
TOTALTTHERMAL GENERATION (Gwh)                        26856        28477       33434        36350        39480
FUEL CONSUMPTION BY FUEL TYPE
Raw Gas (11MMF)                                    101008      104077       106299       111662       113232
PurNfied Gas (MMCF)                                 90147       67192        61766        80361        87068
Fuel OilC00O MT)                                    2532         3315         4766         4990         5627
HSD (MUt)                                             44           91           81          203          281
Coal ('000 MT)                                        868         867          862          899          919
FUEL COST (Rs Million):
RawGas                                              5617         7289         8001         9051         9970
Purified Gas                                        6528         5328         5264         7361         8574
Fuel Oi                                             7849        11250        17385        19563        23716
HSD                                                  289          658          631         1704         2533
Coal                                                 552          603          643          750          841
TOTAL                                                 20734       25128        31923        38429        45534
FUEL PRICES:
Raw Gas (Rs/MCF)
SuW                                                60.50        77.37        83.07        89.21        95.82
Marl                                               48.70        62.73        67.43        72.48        77.91
Khandkot                                           58.36        74.47        79.86        85.66        91.90
Puid Gas (Rs/MCF)                                   72.42        79.29        85.22        91.60        98.47
Fuel Oil (MT)                                       3100         3394         3648         3921         4215
HSD MAU)                                              6.6          7.S          7.8          8.4          9.0
Coal-Quett sRs./MT)                                  1249        1370         1474         1587         1708
Ooal - Lakhtra                                       620          680          732          787          847
ASSUMPTIONS:
1. Raw gas prices hawe been projected on a BTU parity basis wIfth domeic fuel oil pices
agreed under the Energy Sector Loan 11 as follows: 85% by June 1995 and 100% by June 1996.
2. Purified gas prioe projecions hae been calculted at full parity wih domestic price of fuel oil.
3. Fuel Oil and HSD Prices projcdtions are based on currert domestic prices and escalate
on fe basis of WB crude oU price projectons of February 1994.
4. Calorlfic Values
Fuei Ol                                42790 BTU/Kg.
Riw Sui                                  917 BTU/CfL
Raw Marl                                 754 BTUAL
Riaw Kndhkot                             866 BTUIf
Pipeline Gas                             953 BTUICIt
5. Gas price projections include an excse duty of Rs. 2.42/Mcf & pipeline invesrtent discoun
to WAPDA of Rs. 1.02/MCF.
6. HSD price projections Include Rs. 60/MT for transportation costs paid by WAPDA.



- 102 -
Annex 6.1
Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN
POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Analysis
1.    All costs were expressed in 1994 constant economic values.  The financial
flows were converted to economic costs by netting out taxes and duties, and
applying a standard conversion factor of 0.85 to local costs (mostly related to
non-tradeable goods) in order to express them In equivalent border prices.
Incremental fuel costs were based on Bank's projection as detailed in Attachment
1. Price of natural gas was based on fuel oil parity. Annual 0 & M costs were
estimated to be equivalent to 2.5% of the capital costs.
2.    The benefits from the proposed project have been also calculated on the
basis of the willingness to pay resulting from: (a) the substitution of
electricity for other fuels used in autogeneration (resource cost savings) in the
absence of the project for new residential and agricultural consumers, and (b)
the avoided incremental cost of self-generation of electriciti during load
hedding which would occur in the absence of the project for industrial and
ommercial consumers. Given that the power system is presently constrained, it
was assumed, for this analysis only, that load shedding will continue at the same
present level in the with project situation. In order not to overestimate the
willingness to pay, the analysis assumed that the consumers' surplus is
equivalent to a third of the difference between the cost of private generaticn
and consume.'s prevailing tariff.
3.    The benefit to new residential consumers are valued on the basis of the
cost of basic lighting using kerosene lamps in the absence of the project. Based
on the assumption that 0.7 liters of kerosene is required to produce an
equivalent kWh of electricity of basic lighting, the willingness to pay results
in Rs. 3.43/kWh, versus an average tariff of Rs. 0.922/kwh.   Under these
assumptions,  the consumer'  surplus works out to Rs.  0.76/kWh.    For new
agricultural consumers, the cost of providing irrigation from diesel pumps is
equivalent to Rs. 3.25/kWh, assuming a generating capacity of 2 KW and a load
factor of 50%.  Since the average tariff in the sector is Rs. 0.6/kWh, the
consumer' surplus works out to Rs. 0.89/kWh.
5.    Given WAPDA's policy of minimizing the incidence of load shedding to the
residential sector and the possibility for agricultural consumers to shift their
consumption to other times of the day, the industrial and commercial consumers
are the most affected by power shortages.  It has been assumed that without the
project, load shedding, estimated to be about 1,267 GWh in FY93, will grow at the
same pace of demand. It has been also assumed that 80% of the load shedding
would affect the industrial sector. The cost of diesel self-generation that the
industrial consumers bear during load shedding is about Rs. 3.42/kWh versus an
average tariff of Rs. 2.37/kWh, which implies a consumer' surplus of Rs.
0.35/kWh. Likewise, the commercial sector is expected to pay Rs. 4.0/kWh for
gasoline-based autogeneration compared to an average tariff of Rs. 3-33/kwh,
assuming a consumption of 0.6 liters of gasoline per kWh, an annual consumption
of 5,200 kWh, and capital cost of Rs. 6,670/KW, with 20% O&M costs. The relative
consumer' surplus works out to Rs. 0.67/kWh.  The resulting ERR is 32% (see
Attachment 2).



- 103 -                           Annex 6.1
Attachment 1
FAXTSTANPae2o3
POWER SECTOR I)EVKLOPMENT PROJECT             Page 2 of 3
ECONOMIC FUEL COSTS BASED ON WORLD RAMU PETROLEUM PRICES SCENARIO (*)
(1994 US$/Unit (a))
High Sulphur         Low Sulphur   Purified
Year        Fuel Oil    HSr)    Fuel Oil   Sui gas
US$/mmbtu    bbl   US$/mmbtu  US$/mmbtu
1994       2.343    4.477       2.834      2.834
1995       2.390    4.566       2.890      2.890
1996       2.466    4.712       2.982      2.982
1997       2.543    4.858       3.075      3.075
1998       2.624    5.013       3.173      3.173
1999       2.660    5.082       3.217      3.217
2000       2.794    5.338       3.378      3.378
2001       2.763    5.278       3.341      3.341
2002       2.729    5.214       3.300      3.300
2003       2.698    5.155       3.263      3.263
2004       2.670    5.100       3.228      3.228
2005       2.639    5.041       3.191      3.191
2006       2.639    5.041       3.191      3.191
Source: IECIT, Revision of Primary Commodity Price Forecasts and
Quarterly Review; of Commodity Markets - February 1994
(*)     FOB Gulf Product Price converted into parity prices at Karachi plus
distribution cost and margin and inland freight margin; the annual
price escalation has been assumed equal to the oil price escalation



PAKISTAN
POWER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF WAPDA'S DEVELOPMENT PLAN PY94-99
(All costs in 1994 million US$)
Incremental values
Fiscal   Capital Production    Energy ,                                          Incr.     Cash    Additional    NiT
Year      Cost       GWh        Sales                                          Revenue    Flow   Incremental  BENEFIT
GWh     Energy     Fuel      O&M      Total  at average            Benefit
Sales     Cost      Cost    Incr.    Tariff                (a)
GWh                          Cost
1993                  40,791    31,272
1994       1.069      43,394    33,484     2,212       25        27        52       107  (1014)       88        (926)
1995       1.130      48,661   38,201      6,929      154        55       209      365   (974)       262        (712)
1996       1,113      53.098   42,521    11,249       231        83       314      610   (817)        427       (391)          C>
1997       1,134      60.781    49.184    17.912      351       111       462     1.012   ('34)      694         110
1998       1,146      63,787    51,986    20.714      450       140       590     1,207   (529)       832        303
1999        501       68,063    55,471    24.199      547       152       699     1,410    209        948        1157
2000       -           68.063   55,471    24,199      547       152       699     1,410    710        948        1658
to 2020
(a) Resource savings and Consumer' surplus                             Base Case ERR          11.602               32.4%
Pa> 3>
iQ cF1
a x
O (D.
F-h: m-S
r2



- 105 -
fAgc 7.1.
Page 1 of 1
PAKISTAN
POWER SECTOR DEMELOPMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJiCT FILE
1.    Policy Framework and Package of Incentives for Private Sector Power
Generation Projects in Pakistan, (Government of Pakistan - March 1994)
2.    1994 Petroleum Policy, (Government of Pakistan March - 1994)
3.    WAPDA's Strategic Plan for the Privatization of the Pakistan Power
Sector, (International Resources Group - April 1992)
4.    Proposal for a Pakistan National Electric Power Electric Regulatory
Authority, Revised Final Draft Report, (International Resources Group -
December 1992)
5.    The Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority Act, (West Pakistan
Act XXXI of 1958)
6.    The Water and Power Development Authority (Amendment) Act of 1994
7.    Proposed Design for National Electric Power Regulatory Authority
(NEPRA), (No. PII-5(26)/94) (Government of Pakistan, 1994)
8.    WAPDA's Annual Report (1991/1992)
9.    Power System Statistics, Eighteen Issue (WAPDA - Novenber 1993)



Ao 8      LAHORE RING   TURKMENISIA.4                       CHINA                 '       ..            __\''
SHAH KAKU
%  Zj  f  qt, _ ,| ri S:Thrs,,,=,o,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J                                                              n d,   ,.d
a                                         PA NOAN  IA                                                     *
Zo~   70DR                                   >-                                 (oA .              (.
I)~~~~INI
NWKOT LAKIPAT   ~                                                                                                                4
FAISALABAD RING                                                                                                                                JAu
AND
KASHMIR
eMALM o\                  kYM4                                  *   C ._FW                   ECO  DVLOMNTPOJC
CH ,INIOT                                                                        ANPOE   TAIN  ADTANMSIO   IE
Ik
MA.
ROADO                                         .=                                                         20k
__                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~301
/    \...'POERSECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
/           ~~MAIN POWER STATIONS AND TRANSMISSION LINES
CONSTRUCTION
GRID STATION EXTENSIONS             26
\rabIan    I2   ..-                                                                                           500 kV
)   \)    WOt \&   79    '    3220 kV
FS O         .H INT.RNATIONAOGRIlD STATIONS
\  \ S  ]^  l \    r                       j                        *                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~500 kV
bk&me WlI IWHDEAEA \1<                                                                                 220kV
t~~~~\</  /   x  g   ;>,              .                       ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~132 kV
\      \                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POWER STATIONS
NUS- \! * t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _. ~~~~~~HYDROEIECTRIC
_>  Nfy |   \   /                (,                   '          J .    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THERMAL
. A r a ID i a n /<, ; f,.s _ _ _( , d ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NUCLEAR_
?E   S ec                 r                                                                                  __ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                      -
50    100    150    200    250    300                     @    NATIONAL CAPITAL
'.) hJ        I       I       I       I      I               I                                                                  W
66                                                   KILOMETERS                                                  74                                0
p                                                                                                                           0 I  )  I  ...  o



