Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3764 PAK
                             Project Agreement
                    (Power Sector Development Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
             WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF PAKISTAN
                         Dated September 14, 1994
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3764 PAK
                             PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY OF PAKISTAN (WAPDA).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to two hundred thirty million dollars ($230,000,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that WAPDA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set
forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and WAPDA, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for under
the Loan Agreement will be made available to WAPDA on the terms and
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
      WHEREAS WAPDA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set
forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) WAPDA declares its commitment to the objectives of
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this
end, shall carry out Parts A(1), A(4), A(5), B and C of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and power utility practices, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for Parts A(1), A(4), A(5), B and C of the
Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Bank and WAPDA shall otherwise agree, WAPDA shall
carry out Parts A(1), A(4), A(5), B and C of the Project in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
      (c)   WAPDA shall, for the purposes of Parts A(1), A(4), A(5), B and
C of the Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in
the National Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the WAPDA Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for Parts A(1), A(4),
A(5), B and C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. WAPDA shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisi- tion, respectively) in
respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A(1), A(4), A(5), B and C of the
Project.
      Section 2.04. WAPDA shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, WAPDA
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) WAPDA shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange
views with the Bank with regard to progress of Parts A(1), A(4), A(5), B and
C of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan.
      (b)   WAPDA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A(1), A(4),
A(5), B and C of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan,
or the performance by WAPDA of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                    Management and Operations of WAPDA
      Section 3.01. WAPDA shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and power utility
Page  3
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. WAPDA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance
with sound engineering, financial and power utility practices.
      Section 3.03. WAPDA shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
      Section 3.04. Except in the ordinary course of its business, WAPDA
shall not, without the prior consent of the Bank, sell, lease, transfer,
distribute or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets which shall
be required for the efficient operation of its Power Wing.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) WAPDA shall maintain records and accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
      (b)   WAPDA shall:
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial statements
                  (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                  related statements) and the records and accounts for the
                  WAPDA Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than six months after the end of each such
                  year: (A) certified copies of its financial statements
                  for such year as so audited; and (B) the report of such
                  audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records, accounts and financial statements as well
                  as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, WAPDA
shall:
                (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                      with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                      accounts reflecting such expenditures;
               (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                      received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                      which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
                      made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                      bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                      expenditures;
              (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                      records; and
               (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                      the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                      Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                      separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                      statements of expenditure submitted during such
                      fiscal year, together with the procedures and
Page  4
                      internal controls involved in their preparation, can
                      be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
    Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, WAPDA shall
produce, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on June
30, 1993, funds from internal sources related to electricity operations
equivalent to not less than 40% of the annual average of WAPDA's capital
expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that fiscal year, the
previous fiscal year and the next following fiscal year.
    (b)   Before April 15 in each of its fiscal years, WAPDA shall, on the
basis of forecasts prepared by WAPDA and satisfactory to the Bank, review
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) and shall
furnish to the Bank a copy of such review upon its completion.
    (c)   If any such review shows that WAPDA would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for WAPDA's fiscal years covered by
such review, WAPDA shall promptly take all necessary measures (including,
without limitation, adjustments of the structure and levels of its
electricity tariff) in order to meet such requirements.
    (d)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   The term "funds from internal sources related to
                electricity operations" means the difference between:
                (A)   the sum of gross revenues from all sources related to
                      electricity operations, consumer deposits, cash
                      contributions from consumers in aid of construction,
                      and net non-operating income and any reduction in
                      working capital other than cash; and
                (B)   the sum of all expenses related to electricity
                      operations of operation, maintenance and
                      administration (excluding depreciation and other non-
                      cash operating charges), interest and other charges
                      on debt (including interest and other charges on debt
                      charged to construction irrespective of whether they
                      constitute cash or non-cash expenses) repayment of
                      loans (including sinking fund payments, if any), all
                      taxes or payments in lieu of taxes, all cash
                      dividends and other cash distribution of surplus,
                      increase in working capital other than cash and any
                      other cash outflows other than capital expenditures
                      for electricity operations.
         (ii)   The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
                between:
                (A)   revenues from all sources other than those related to
                      operations; and
                (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
                      taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (A)
                      above.
        (iii)   The term "capital expenditures" shall include all
                investments related to WAPDA's electricity operations.
                Interest and other charges charged to construction shall be
                excluded.
         (iv)   The term "working capital other than cash" means the
                difference between current assets excluding cash and
                current liabilities at the end of each fiscal year.
          (v)   The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets
                other than cash which could in the ordinary course of
                business be converted into cash within twelve months,
                including accounts receivable, marketable securities,
                inventories and prepaid expenses properly chargeable to
                operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
Page  5
          (vi)  The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which
                will become due and payable or could under circumstances
                then existing be called for payment within twelve months,
                including accounts payable, customer advances, debt service
                requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and
                dividends.
    Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, WAPDA shall
not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and
expenditures of WAPDA shows that the estimated net revenues of WAPDA for
each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at
least 1.5 times the estimated debt service requirements of WAPDA in such
year on all debt of WAPDA, including the debt to be incurred.
    (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of WAPDA maturing by
                its terms more than one year after the date on which it is
                originally incurred.
         (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan
                contract or agreement or other instrument providing for
                such debt or for the modification of its terms of payment
                on the date of such contract, agreement or instrument; and
                (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                providing for such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)   The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
                (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                      operations and net non-operating income; and
                (B)   the sum of all expenses related to operations,
                      including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes
                      and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding
                      provision for depreciation, other non-cash operating
                      charges and interest and other charges on debt.
         (iv)   The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
                between:
                (A)   revenues from all sources other than those related to
                      operations; and
                (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
                      taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (A)
                      above.
          (v)   the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
                amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if
                any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
         (vi)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section, it shall be
                necessary to value, in terms of the currency of WAPDA, debt
                payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made
                on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at
                which such other currency is, at the time of such
                valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
                debt, or, in the absence of such rates on the basis of a
                rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
          (vii)       The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
                      prepared by WAPDA not earlier than twelve months
                      prior to the incurrence of the debt in question,
                      which the Bank and WAPDA accept as reasonable and as
                      to which the Bank has notified WAPDA of its
                      acceptability, provided that no event has occurred
                      since such notification which has, or may reasonably
                      be expected in the future to have, a material adverse
                      effect on the financial condition or future operating
                      results of WAPDA.
Page  6
    Section 4.04. WAPDA shall:
    (a)   not later than September 30 in each year, carry out a
comprehensive aging analysis of its accounts receivable; and
    (b)   thereafter but not later than December 31 in each year, adjust the
accounts receivable on its balance sheet to reflect only those receivables
which are overdue for less than three years and which are determined by such
analysis to be collectible.
    Section 4.05. WAPDA shall, not later than June 30 in each year, review
with the Bank WAPDA's arrangements for setting aside annually amounts in a
sinking fund to be used to retire and/or to make payments on premature
encashment of any bonds issued by WAPDA from time to time.
    Section 4.06. WAPDA shall ensure that the accounts of the parts of WAPDA
which shall have been corporatized under Part A(1) of the Project will be
audited by independent private auditors acceptable to the Bank.
    Section 4.07. WAPDA shall, with effect from September 30, 1995, include
a metered energy charge component in all flat tariffs charged for tubewells.
                                 ARTICLE V
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
    Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
    Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of
WAPDA thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly
notify WAPDA thereof.
    Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in
full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under
the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
    Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given
or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered
by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                            82987 (FTCC)
    For WAPDA:
          Water and Power Development
            Authority of Pakistan
Page  7
          WAPDA House
          Lahore, Pakistan
          Cable address:                Telex:
                WAPDA                     44869
                Lahore                    WAPDA PAK
    Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of WAPDA, or by WAPDA on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan
Agreement, may be taken or executed by the Chairman of WAPDA or such other
person or persons as the Chairman of WAPDA shall designate in writing, and
the Chairman of WAPDA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
    Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                Regional Vice President
                South Asia
                WATER AND POWER DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
                  OF PAKISTAN
                By /s/ Agha Ghazanfar
                Authorized Representative
                                 SCHEDULE
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:      Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price.  Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this part
A, the Borrower and WAPDA shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
Page  8
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have
agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower and
WAPDA shall use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for the construction and erection
of Project facilities shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,500,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Islamic Republic of Pakistan may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1
through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
    In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A hereof, WAPDA may grant a margin of preference to domestic
contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Except as provided in paragraph D.2 hereof, equipment and materials
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $400,000 per contract, up to
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $8,000,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded through limited international bidding
procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from
a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines
and in accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.  The following items, estimated to cost an aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of $2,000,000, may be procured as follows, subject to prior
review and approval by the Bank of lists of the specific items in each case:
    (a)   specialized environment monitoring instruments and control
equipment, under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank; and
    (b)   items of a proprietary nature, under contracts placed directly
with the suppliers.
Part E:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$1,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of a Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished
to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of a Special
Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the WAPDA Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph
3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
Page  9
withdrawals from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
Such contracts shall be retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii)
of this Agreement.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower and WAPDA in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower and WAPDA shall, respectively, employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and condi- tions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower and WAPDA shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower and
WAPDA shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to
contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each. However,
this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of
reference for such contracts or to the employment of individuals, to single
source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably
determined by the Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
