Report No. 544b-SP                                                             FILE  COPY
Appraisal of
Second Livestock Development Project
Spain
February 28, 1975
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
This report waS prepared tor official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US $1                       - Pesetas 58
Pesetas 1                  = US $ 0.017
Pesetas 1,000,000          = US $17,241
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 kilogram (kg)                    = 2.20 pounds
1,000 kg           = 1 metric ton = 0.98 long ton
1 meter (i)                        = 1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)             2    - 0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)     = 10,000 m'    = 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer = 100 ha        = 0.39 square mile
= 247.1 acres
1 liter                            = 0.26 gallon
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AC      =  Concerted Action
ASICA   =  Syndical Caution Association for
Farming Activities
BCA     = Agricultural Credit Bank
BE      = Bank of Spain
CAT     =  Procurement and Transportation
Commissariat
DGPA    =  Directorate General of Agricultural
Production
FORPPA  = Fund for the Regulation and Management
of Agricultural Prices and Production
ICO     =  Official Credit Institute
INIA    = National Institute for Agricultural Research
IRYDA   = Agricultural Reform and Development Institute
LDA     =  Livestock Development Agency
LPS     =  Livestock Procurement Service
SENPA   = National Agricultural Products Service
GOVERNMENT OF SPAIN
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .............           ................   i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION .......        ........................... ....         1
II.   COUNTRY BACKGROUND AND THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR    ......             2
A.   Country Background .....         ....................          2
B.   The Livestock Sub-Sector .......................               3
C.   Agricultural Policies .....          ....................      4
D.   Agricultural and Livestock Services ............               6
E.   Agricultural Credit Services ...................               6
F.   Government Livestock Program .................         ..      7
G.   Land Tenure and Farm Structure .................               9
III.    THE PROJECT .........................................    11
A.   General Features and Objectives ......  #   .........    11
B.   Detailed Features ..............................    12
C.   Cost Estimates .................................    15
D.    Financing and Lending ..........................    16
E.   Procurement ....................................              19
F.   Disbursement ...................................    19
G.   Accounts and Auditing ..........................    20
H.   Organization and Management ....................    20
IV.    PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND MARKETING, PRICES AND
PRODUCER BENEFITS ..............................    21
A.   Production .....................................    21
B.   Markets and Marketing ..........................    22
C.   Prices ....................          .....................    22
V.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION                 .      .        24
A.   Economic Benefits and Rates of Return ..........    24
B.   Social Benefits ................................    25
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....... ........    25



ANNEXES
1.   The Agricultural Economy
2.   Government Livestock Production, Pricing and Marketing Policies
3.   Agricultural Credit Institutions and Policies
4.   Development Projections
500 - ha Dryland Cattle Ranch, Southwest
Table  1 - On-Ranch Investment Projections
Table  2 - Cattle Herd Development Projections
Table  3 - Sales Projections
Table  4 - Projected Operating Expenses
Table  5 - Financial Projections
500 - ha Dryland Sheep Ranch, Southwest
Table  6 - On-Ranch Investment Projections
Table  7 - Sheep Flock Development Projections
Table  8 - Sales Projections
Table  9 - Projected Operating Expenses
Table 10 - Financial Projections
500 - ha Dryland Cattle Ranch With 20 ha Irrigated Pasture, Southwest
Table 11 - On-Ranch Investment Projections
Table 12 - Cattle Herd Development Projections
Table 13 - Sales Projections
Table 14 - Projected Operating Expenses
Table 15 - Financial Projections
20 - ha Irrigated Farm for Cattle Fattening, Southwest
Table 16 - On-Farm Investment Projections
Table 17 - Sales Projections
Table 18 - Projected Operating Expenses
Table 19 - Financial Projections
6 - ha Dairy Farm, North
Table 20 - On-Farm Investment Projections
Table 21 - Cattle Herd Development Projections
Table 22 - Sales Projections
Table 23 - Projected Operating Expenses
Table 24 - Financial Projections
50 - ha Cattle Farm, North
Table 25 - On-Farm Investment Projections
Table 26 - Cattle Herd Development Projections
Table 27 - Sales Projections
Table 28 - Projected Operating Expenses
Table 29 - Financial Projections



50 - ha Farm for Cattle Fattening, North
Table 30 - On-Farm Investment Projections
Table 31 - Sales Projections
Table 32 - Projected Operating Expenses
Table 33 - Financial Projections
100 - ha Dryland Milk Sheep Farm, Marginal Cereal Zones
Table 34 - On-Farm Investment Projections
Table 35 - Sheep Flock Development Projections
Table 36 - Sales Projections
Table 37 - Projected Operating Expenses
Table 38 - Financial Projections
5.   Cost Estimates
Table 1 - Project Cost Estimates
Table 2 - On-Farm Development Estimates
6.   Livestock Development Agency
Table 1 - Staff Projections
Table 2 - Cost Projections
Chart    - Organization Chart
Appendix 1 - Consultants - Draft Terms of Reference
7.   Number and Phasing of Loan Commitments
8.   Project Cash Flow
9.   Estimated Schedule of Quarterly Disbursements
10. Financial Rates of Return
11. Economic Rate of Return
MAP
IBRD 11129R - Project Areas



i



SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of Spain has requested a Bank loan to help finaroce
a Second Livestock Development Project. The First Bank-assisted Project
financed under Loan 633-SP introduced major changes in livestock productio.
techniques aimed at increasing the carrying capacity of the land, expanditng
beef production on the basis of pasture rather than feed grains and increfai
ing the productivity of the breeding herds to help meet Spain's increasing
demand for meat.  The Second Project would continue with these objectfvr.
and would aim also at resolving problems of farm structure and land tenure
presently limiting farm modernization and production in the north of Spain.
ii.       The proposed loan of US$33 million, equivalent to the total foreign
exchange requirements of 22%, would serve to mobilize an additional US$116
million within the country to meet the total cost of the Project   approx-
imating US$149 million. The contribution of producers, credit agencies.
Government and the Bank would be 19%, 16%, 43% and 22% respectively.  The
Project would finance the development of about:
(a) 400 cattle production farms in the Southwest;
(b) 200 cattle fattening farms in the Southwest;
(c) 150 sheep production farms in the Southwest;
(d) 450 dairy farms in the North;
(e) 350 cattle production farms in the North;
(f) 50 cattle fattening farms in the North;
(g) 100 milk sheep farms in marginal cereal zones (Southwest
and/or Central).
iii.      Project funds would be channeled to farmers by Treasury using the
Official Credit Institute (ICO) through the Agricultural Credit Bank (BCA)
and private lending institutions, utilizing a rediscount operation. On-farm
investment loans would be extended to farmers for a term of up to 12 years
including a 3-year grace period at a total per annum charge of 7% for lomns
up to Ptas 5 million and 7.5% for loans exceeding Ptas 5 million. Communal
organizations farming other than communal land pay 0.5% less, and communal
organizations farming communal land pay 6.5%. All of these charges inclulde
a 0.5% technical assistance fee. The goods and services required for farm
development, both locally manufactured and imported, would be procured
through existing commercial channels which would also provide the service
facilities. The Project would be administered by the Livestock Development
Agency which was established to implement the First Livestock Project.



- fi -
iv.       A larger proportion of the Bank's loan (60%) would be disbursed on
sub-projects in the North to lend special emphasis to the rural development,
small-farmer component of the Project. The smaller farms in the North would
also benefit from newly established variable interest rates based on loan
size.  The larger loans in the Southwest would have interest rates 0.5%
higher than the smaller loans in the North.
v.         It is estimated that at full development in year 13 (repayment of
all loans is to be completed in year 12) participating farmers' net cash
balances before income taxes, would increase in the dry Southwest from 2-
to 14-fold and, in the wetter Norti, from 9-to 85-fold compared with before
Project development.  Estimateel fi;ancial rates of return on new investments
range from 12-13% on the dryla..d beef producing farms and 24-27% on sheep
producing farms of the Southwest, to 39% and above for the smaller dairy and
beef cattle farms in the climaticaily more favorable region in the North. The
overall rate of return to the economy is estimated at about 16%.  The Prcject
would give rise to an annual iThcrease in output of 35,000 tons of beef, !0,000
tons of sheep meat, 800 tons of wool and 20,000 tons of milk. In addition, it
would directly benefit about 5.VJO1 _ farm famijlies including some of the poorest
in Spain and would provide the basis for bringing the large tracts of unused
and underutilized land in the NVirth into production.  Indirectly, the ?roject
would exert a major impact on a significant proportion of the 375,000 farmers
and their families in the norrhern region of Galicia.
vi.       The Project is           i for a Bank- loan of US$33 million for a term
of 15 years including a 5'-year Arace period.  The bcrrower would be the
Government of Spain.



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Spain has applied for a Bank loan to assist in
financing a Second Livestock Development Project. The First Project 1/ fi-
nanced under Loan 633-SP (US$25 million) became effective on January 31, 1970.
It introduced major changes in livestock production techniques aimed at in-
creasing the carrying capacity of the land and the productivity of the breeding
herds to help meet Spain's increasing demand for meat. An important feature
of the Project is the development of subterranean clover in dry regions and
improved pastures in other regions which will permit expanded livestock produc-
tion based on forages rather than grains. The Second Project would cont:Lnue
with these objectives, and in addition would aim to resolve problems of farm
structure and land tenure in the north of Spain presently liraiting farm
productivity. The proposal was prepared by the Livestock Development Agency
(LDA) of the Ministry of Agriculture, the entity established to implement the
First Project. The Borrower would be the Government of Spain. The total
Project cost is estimated to be US$149.3 million equivalent.
1.02      The Bank has made two loans in the agricultural sector:  Loan 633-SP,
the first loan for livestock development, and Loan 768-SP, for promotion of
agricultural research. The First Livestock Project is progressing well and
funds will be completely committed by December 1974. Preliminary results on
participating farms indicate that meat production will be substantially in-
creased. The Bank's other loan in the agricultural sector amounted to US$12.7
million and was made in FY 1971 to raise the standards of agricultural research
through the restructuring of the key official research organization, the National
Institute for Agricultural Research (INIA), and reorienting its research activ-
ity on a commodity-oriented basis. Progress on this project had been slow be-
cause of organizational, administrative and financial (local currency) problems
but these difficulties have been resolved and it is expected that progress
will become satisfactory.
1.03      This appraisal report is based on the proposal prepared by the LDA
and the findings of a Bank mission that visited Spain during February and
March 1974, composed of Messrs. J.C. Gerring, H. Walters, W.A. Hardison (Bank)
and L. de Telkes (Consultant). The mission discussed with the Spanish authori-
ties the key land tenure, farm structure, credit and institutional issues that
had arisen during appraisal. After further discussions in the Bank, these
issues were discussed with the Government by a mission which visited Spain
from May 27 to June 4, and by a subsequent mission which visited Spain from
November 10 to December 6, 1974.
1/   See Appraisal Report No. PA-13a of July 1, 1969.



-2-
II. COUNTRY BACKGROUND AND rHE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Country Background
2.01      Spain covers an area of 504,700 km2 and has a populat-on of around
35 million increasing at an arnnual rate of '.1%.  Between 1962 and 1974, total
GNP grew at a rate of 7*3% per annum, and per capita GNP reached US$1,350
equivalent in 1973. Cost oL living index rose from 8.2% in 1971 and 1972 to
11.5% in 1973. Under the impetus of price rises in oil and other raw mater-
ials, the increase in this index was further accelerated in 1974. Industrial
production increased at 8.6% per year compared with 2.3% for agriculturte.
Foreign exchange reserves amounted to about US$6.8 billion equivalent at the
end of 1973, equal to almost 9 i:onths  imports.  Tne energy crisis at the
end of 1973 drantatically altered the foreign exchange position.  The current
account deficit in 1974 is expected to reach US$3.3 billion. Furthermore,
Government's efforts to absorb a considerable part of the increase in petrol-
1eum prices has resulted in a buadgetary deficit, reducing Spain's capacity
for internal financing.
2.02      Spain's chief agricultural products are cereals, meat, fruits,
vegetables and beans, dairy products, wines, olives and olive oil. In 1961,
agriculture contributed 24% of GWPi but zhis dropped to 13% in 1973.  Over
this same period, the active p'siation engaged in agriculture fell from 37%
to 28%.  In the early 1960's, i5O  of the covimodities exported originated in
agriculture, but this had fallea to 30% in 1973.  Agricultural imports, in-
creasing at an annua'l rate of 14.4% per annum, have accounted for a fairly
constant 20-22% of total ifpor_.  Some 30% to 50% of these are made up of
meats and products largely destIned for livestock use.  Net agricultural
production has increased at a sut.stantial 6.7Z annually in the last 5 years,
with net output per active persen et.mployed in agriculture rising even faster
(Annex 1).
2.03      Despite this substant:..al progress in increasing productivity, diffi-
cult institutional and structural problems still beset Spanish agriculture.
In the Northwest, farms are szaaall and fragmented, yet extensive areas of com-
munal lands exist which, w3.th a i,r-gressive land reform program, could help
to provide a sounder farm struet'lr.  in contrast, in the drier, less produc-
tive South, farms are large and are often operated extensively. Despite a
reduction of 13% in the numbei o-; farms during the past 10 years, the overall
size distribution has not changed.  In the past decade over a million people
liave left agriculture as a result of better employment opportunities outslde
of the sector, reducing the agricultura'l  abor force from 4.5 to 3.5 million.
This movement has set the stage for restructuring and modernizing the fanaing
industry, making use of farms abandoned and land held and used on a communaL
basis.



-3-
B. The Livestock Sub-sector
2.04      In 1973, livestock accounted for about 38% of agricultural outpult,
the principal components being meat 1.49 million tons, and milk 5.29 millioon
liters. Pork provided the largest volume of meat (587,000 tons), followed
by beef and veal (373,000 tons), poultry (344,000 tons), and sheep (130,000
tons) (Annex 1, Table 7).
2.05      Since 1960, output from the livestock sector has increased at
almost three times the rate of crop production. Beef and veal production
has been increasing at just over 7% per annum. Since 1960, pork output has
risen about 6.5% per annum, poultry production after increasing rapidly from
1960-67, has risen more slowly in recent years. Sheep production has grown
less than 1% per year.
2.06      A characteristic feature of the Spanish cattle industry has been
the high proportion of cattle slaughtered as calves. This reached 59% in
1967, compared with 36% in the European Economic Community and less than 10%
in the UK and USA. This emphasis on veal production relative to beef serious-
ly curtailed beef production as well as herd expansion until the late 1960's.
Government policies and programs, of which the First Livestock Development
Project was a major component, encouraged the production of older and heavier
cattle after 1967. In consequence, the percentage of cattle slaughtered as
calves declined to 39% in 1970, and to 31% in 1972. At the same time, average
carcass dressed weight (cdw) increased from 167 kg in 1968 to 210 kg in 1972.
Despite a weaning rate of around 60-70%, the offtake of about 37% is relatively
high, reflecting the still relatively low age at slaughter. Average milk pro-
duction per lactation is about 2,300 liters per cow (Annex 1, Table 5).
2.07      Cattle population has increased from 3.72 million in 1965 to 4.25
million in 1972. Pig numbers have gone up from 5.7 million to 7.2 million
in the same period, while the population of sheep has declined from 20.8 to
17.8 million. Rising incomes in Spain, 5.8% per capita annually, coupled
with an increase in the tourist industry, increased the demand for meat,
particularly beef and veal, during the early 1960's. A large portion of
these increases was met by imports, but since 1967 these stabilized in vol-
utme at around 120,000 tons, most of which was beef (Annex 1, Table 12).
From 1967 on, further increases in demand have been met by rising levels of
domestic production. However, higher international prices for both meat and
feed grains have sharply lifted the value of imports and this coupled with
increased living costs have somewhat dampened the increasing demand for live-
stock products. Despite this situation, total meat consumption is expected
to increase from 1.6 million in 1973 to 1.8 million tons in 1975, and to more
than 2 million tons by 1980 (Annex 1, Table 11). Thus the gap between demand
and the 1974 production level of 1.5 million tons is expected to widen.
2.08      The direction of the projected changes in consumption indicates
that the strongest demand increase will be for beef (Annex 1, Table 11).
High world prices for meat and feed grains will militate against filling the



-4-
gap from increased imports, which exceeded Ptas 98 billion (US$1.6 billion
equivalent) in 1973 for agricultural products alone. The high cost of imports
both of beef and feed grains, limitations on expanding the area under cereals,
and the very sharp rise in fertilizer prices, all place particular emphasis on
the need to increase meat production domestically.
C. Agricultural Policies
2.09       Agricultural growth and development has lagged behind that of other
sectors of the economy. Government, therefore, has instituted a number of in-
centives to farmers, including incentive prices for cattle slaughtered at heav-
ier weiglhts, price supports and various programs designed to increase produc-
tion through the provision of low-cost institutional credit. Prohibitions
have also been placed on slaughtering calves below minimum weights. These
measures have encouraged farmers to invest in improving their operations.
Price policies have constituted one of the chief means of bringing farmers'
incomes more nearly into line with those of the labor force in other sectors.
Increases of 6% per annum in the per capita income of agricultural workers
have been achieved, compared with 7% for industrial workers, after discounting
for inflation. However, the absolute income per person employed in agriculture
is still less than 40% of the average income in other sectors.
2.10       Spain's price policy uses a system of guaranteed and intervention
prices. In the case of meat, the Procurement and Transportation Board (CAT)
is required to buy carcasses domestically, using monies provided by the Fund
for the Regulation and Management of Agricultural Prices and Production (FORPPA),
when prices fall below a minimum level. Similarly, should prices rise to a
maximum intervention level CAT is required to sell frozen meat in the market.
Annex 2, Table 7 gives the guarantee, minimum and maximum intervention prices
for beef, pork and sheep meats from 1970/71 through 1974/75. Domestic pur-
chases by CAT have been small because prices have usually been above support
levels (Annex 2, Table 8). In addition to these price supports, a policy of
incentive payments has been instituted to increase the weight of slaughter
animals. Government has prohibited the slaughter of young light-weight animals.
Tie minimum slaughter weight has been progressively raised reaching 125 kg cdw
in 1973/74. From 1968-1972, average carcass weight of all cattle slaughtered
increased from 167 kg to 210 kg cdw representing an increased annual output
approximating 70,000 tons of beef worth around US$100 million equivalent.
2.11       Government has used low-cost credit, and to a lesser extent direct
subsidies, to adjust the pattern of production to conform more closely to na-
tional requirements. Loans to farmers reached a level of Ptas 184 billion in
1971 (US$3.2 billion) and are still increasing. In 1971, 62% of the loans
were financed from government funds and the remainder from private sources.
Credit is available through a wide variety of programs and agencies: those
particularly applicable to livestock producers are shown in Annex 3, Table 18.
Direct grants are available for certain components of farm investment programs
(e.g. up to 20% of the cost of seed and fertilizer for pasture improvement).



- 5 -
However, the most important element in government's approach to agricultural
development is low-cost institutional credit. Over the sector as a whole,
interest rates traditionally have ranged from 2.75% to 6%. Rates for medium-
and long-term livestock production investments are in the higher part of this
range and were raised to 6.5% (plus a 0.5% technical assistance fee) under
the First Livestock Development Project. 1/ These rates, other than those
for the First Livestock Project loans, were raised in June-July 1974 to var-
iable levels depending on the size of loans: 6.5% for loans up to Ptas 2.5
million; 7.0% for loans from Ptas 2.5 to 5.0 million; and 7.5% for loans
above Ptas 5 million. Communal organizations receive a discount of 0.5%.
Even this level represents a heavy subsidy at current inflation rates (8.2%
in 1971 and in 1972 and 14% in 1973) although it is higher than the interest
rate obtainable on term deposits, typically 2.5-5% (Annex 3, Table 24). How-
ever, the agricultural development policy has major social objectives--such
as the correction of regional imbalances--as well as production targets.
2.12      Spain's development policies have led to a continued expansion in
annual investment in agriculture. Still greater inflows will be required to
sustain and improve rates of growth in farm production to encourage younger
members of the farming community to stay on the land, and to restructure agri-
culture to bring back into production land which is now unworked or abandoned.
In the livestock sub-sector, development policy aims at sustaining and improv-
ing the growth of the national herd and lifting its level of output. Increas-
ing demand in the face of rising costs of imported meat, feed grains and
fertilizer gives urgency to the need to boost meat production from improved
pastures and to encourage the trend towards the slaughter of more mature
animals. These new technologies, introduced by the First Livestock Project,
are not yet widely recognized by livestock producers. Government believes
that a further increase in interest rates for livestock development would be
a serious disincentive, especially to small farmers who are accustomed to the
traditional low-cost credit, and might threaten an important segment of agri-
cultural production, as well as the social objectives of the agricultural
development policy.
2.13      The Bank is encouraged by the recent increase in interest rates and
accepts that the time is not opportune for further increasing interest rates
in the agricultural sector as a whole. However, returns to livestock produc-
tion are attractive and Government has taken steps to assure that the interest
rates charged under all livestock programs are comparable to those under the
Project.
1/   The effective cost to many farmers is a little higher since the Agricul-
tural Credit Bank prefers bank guarantees, costing 1-2%, to real estate
mortgages as collateral.



- 6 -
D. Agricultural and Livestock Services
2.14      Agricultural research is being assisted by the Bank through Loan
768-SP under which two of the six national centers established within the
National Institute for Agricultural Research (INIA) of the Ministry of Agri--
culture are concerned with livestock production. One of these is located at
La Coruna in the region of Galicia where studies are underway on the develop-
ment of scrub-land into improved pastures for beef and milk producticn. At
the other center, located at Badajoz, research studies are being carried out
in close association with UNDP on the development of improved dryland pastures
as well as forages grown under irrigation for livestock production. The work
of both centers is providing and will continue to provide technical support
for the First and proposed Second Livestock Development Projects.
2.15      The Agricultural Extension Service is an autonomous organization
within the Ministry of Agriculture. It operates 755 district extension
agencies located in all parts of the country. The activities which cover a
wide variety of subjects are coordinated by a central organization in Madrid.
In those areas covered by the First Project technical personnel of the Exten-
sion Service have maintained close collaboration with their colleagues in, the
LDA.
2.16      Animal health services are satisfactory and medicaments are readily
available.  The Director General of Agricultural Production in the Ministry
of Agriculture is responsible for both the Veterinary Inspection Service and
the overall control of animal diseases, Some 14 Regional Animal Health Labo-
ratories have recently been constructed or modernized. These are used as
diagnostic units as well as in official campaigns against infectious diseases.
Foot-and-mouth disease vaccinations are compulsory throughout the country and
tuberculin testing for the control and eradication of tuberculosis is required
in some regions.
2.17      Graduate and post-graduate agricultural education are provided in
the 3 superior technical schools of Madrid, Valencia and Cordoba, and there
are 13 agricultural schools of intermediate level. There are four veterinary
schools in Madrid, Leon, Zaragoza and Cordoba. Experience gained in recruit-
ing staff for the First Livestock Development Project has indicated that ade-
quate numbers with professional skills in animal husbandry and farm manage-
ment are available.
E. Agricultural Credit Services
2.18      Government funds raised locally or through external borrowing are
channelled through the Official Credit Institute (ICO), a statutory board
responsible to the Ministry of Finance. ICO also grants special investment
credits in accordance with economic development plans formulated by Govern-
ment (Annex 3).



- 7 -
2.19      The Agricultural Credit Bank (BCA) is the agricultural lending arm
of ICO and the principal source of public credit to agriculture. BCA is
located in Madrid. It has no rural branches save for the one established in
Sevilla under the First Livestock Project. However, it maintains more than
100 correspondents in the provincial capitals to appraise loan applications
and to make recommendations to the head office concerning the granting of
credit.
2.20      BCA extends medium- and long-term credit to farmers both directly
and indirectly through institutions acting as credit agencies. Most loans
of less than Ptas 1 million ((US$17,000 equivalent) are made indirectly
through provincial Savings Banks (Cajas de Ahorro) and Rural Savings Banks
(Cajas Rurales). BCA also makes credit available for special agricultural
programs, channelling funds allocated by Government, to, for example, the
Agricultural Reform and Development Institute (IRYDA), and to Accion
Concertada (AC), special credit programs set up within the Ministry of Agri-
culture. Most of the short-term financing to commercial agriculture origin-
ates from the Commercial Banks.
2.21      Savings Banks and Rural Banks had portfolios of agricultural loans
approximating Ptas 59 billion and Ptas 34 billion respectively in 1973. Or-
ganized into national federations they have considerable financial resources
and, together with cooperatives, they have over 6,000 financing outlets. In
addition to lending their own funds, they also operate as agents for BCA for
which they carry the full credit risk.
F. Government Livestock Programs
2.22      A number of special programs have been created to implement live-
stock development and marketing policies. IRYDA was created in 1971 to grant
loans up to Ptas 2.5 million to individual sub-borrowers and up to Ptas 15
million for agricultural associations. It also provides subsidies to live-
stock and agricultural producing enterprises whose gross marketed output ex-
ceeds Ptas 400,000 per annum, and whose improvement programs are in accord
with the general policy and directives of the Ministry of Agriculture. Simi-
larly, AC, another program of the Ministry of Agriculture, was set up in 1964
to promote beef production. More recently, December 1972, its activities
were extended to embrace most types of cattle production systems. In prac-
tice, it has concentrated particularly on feed-lot type operations, under
which cattle must reach a minimum liveweight of 350 kg before 20 months of
age. The LDA, established to implement the First Livestock Development Proj-
ect, is also an agency of the Ministry of Agriculture. It is the only prog-
ram making sub-loans to farmers on the basis of technically feasible and
financially viable farm development plans, the execution of which are super-
vised. LDA has had to compete with the other programs (IRYDA and AC) at
somewhat less attractive terms to farmers, but as indicated (para 2.13)
Government has raised the interest rates charged in other programs to the
same level as LDA's.



- 8
2.23      The First Livestock Development Project under Loan 633-SP was de-
signed to initiate major changes in livestock production techniques to help
meet a rapidly increasing demand for meat, particularly beef, and to set the
stage for the further expansion of Spain's livestock sub-sector. For these
purposes improved technology was introduced to increase the carrying capacity
of the farms and the productivity of the herds, the main feature of which was
the establishment of legume-based pastures through the introduction of sub-
terranean clover in the dryland zone of the Southwest, centered on Sevilla.
2.24      Part of the northern more humid region was also included, but on a
pilot basis, to point the way to further large-scale development. Here che
Project concentrated on the smaller livestock farms, producing both milk and
weaner calves in Santander and adjoining provinces, where the mild climate and
well-distributed rainfall are admirably suited to modern high production grass-
land farming.
2.25      Livestock producers borrow on the basis of farm plans approved by
LDA, which was established to appraise and supervise sub-loans and to provide
technical services to the more than 1,000 farmers expected to participate in
the Project.  The interest rate for sub-loans was 6.5% plus 0.5% technical
assistance fee.  This will remain the case for Project loans up to Ptas 5.0
million (the majority of loans in the Northwest), but will be raised 0.5%
for those above this amotnt (the majority of loans in the Southwest).  Sub-
loans made under the Project by BCA and participating private credit institu--
tions to livestock producers are reimbursable, up to 100%, from the Fund
located in ICO.  ICC in turn can withdraw 56% of such expenditures from the
Bank loan.  These participating agencies pay 5.75%, the low rate being possi-
ble because Government's contribution to the Project Fund is made at 4.5%
which, with Bank funds under Loan 633-SP at 6.5%, gives a blended rate of
5.75%. The participating agencies thus receive an interest rate spread of
0.75% to cover administrative costs and the risk of delinquent repayments.
2.26      The first year of the Project coincided with a prolonged drought
described as the most severe of t.he century. This led to a temporary decline
in the number of loan applications received from farmers, but during subse-
quent years farmers' interest have continued to increase. Loan processing
through BCA has been slow, taking an average of five months. This is because
all loans have to be approved by the Board of Directors in Madrid. However,
private credit agencies have beeo participating to an increasing extent due
to a growing confidence in the LDA's loan appraisal and supervision procedures.
To-date 25 private banks have financed 44% of the farm plans and 48% of the
sub-loans.  Loan processing by private banks averages approximately two months
(Annex 3, Appendix 1). Five private banks have so far financed 37 sub-loans
totalling Ptas 103.5 million (US$1.8 million equivalent) from their own re-
sources.
2.27      By July 1974, 703 farm plans had beer prepared by LDA and presented
to the participating banks, for a total otn-farm investment of US$40 million
equivalent, averaging US$57,000 per farm to which the farmers have contributed
on average 15%.  577 of these farms are located in the Southwest where the in-
vestment per farm has averaged US$67,000 equivalent.  126 farms are located in



-9-
the North where investment per farm has averaged US$16,000. At appraisal,
provision was made for financing 780 dryland farms in the Southwest, averaging
an on-farm investment of US$50,000, plus 160 dairy farms in the North averaging
US$6,700 per farm. US$15 million have been withdrawn from the Bank loan, and
a further US$8.6 million of reimbursable funds have been committed, or a total
of US$23.6 million of the US$25 million loan. The funds allocated for the
Project are expected to be fully committed in calendar year 1974. However,
owing to the slow start, the time taken to establish the LDA and the pro-
tracted loan processing of the BCA, coupled with the fact that on-farm invest-
ments are phased over a period of two to three years, disbursements frorn the
Bank loan will not be completed by the Closing Date of December 1, 1974, but
should be completed by the end of 1975, one year behind schedule.
2.28      In the majority of cases the investments made on participating farms
extends over a period of three years. Even so, herd build-up continues after
this and does not normally reach equilibrium at the improved level of produc-
tion until the fifth or sixth year from the start of the farm program. As
yet, no farm has been in the Project for a full four years, consequently, it
is not yet possible to measure the impact of the First Livestock Project on
a large number of farms. However, production data from a sample of 54 farms
representing different types of operations which have completed their invest-
ment programs, show that the output of saleable livestock has increased 320%
from cattle breeding farms, 350% from sheep farms, and 550% from mixed cattle/
sheep operations over and above their levels of production before development.
2.29      Under the outstanding leadership of the late Spanish Director, Dr.
Manuel del Pozo, and the late expatriate Technical Director, Dr. Bryan Short,
the LDA has built up a staff of 24 fully qualified agronomists and veterinar-
ians, plus supporting technical and administrative staff totalling in all
around 100. Special attention has been given to personnel training by the
Agency, through both on-the-job training, including short courses and seminars,
and through the granting of overseas fellowships. To-date 12 of the more
senior staff have been granted fellowships for more advanced studies to such
countries as Australia, New Zealand, United Kingdom, France, Ireland and
Uruguay.
G. Land Tenure and Farm Structure
2.30      In the northern zones of Cantabrica and Galicia, farms are small
and fragmented. 90% of farms in Galicia are 10 ha or less. An individuial
farm of 5 ha may consist of 14 or more separate plots of land. A significant
exodus, amounting to 2.6% annual reduction of the labor force engaged in agri-
culture (averaged over 1962-1972), is taking place leading to a progressive
increase in the average age of those remaining (paras 2.03 and 3.03). iAs a
result of this exodus, a great number of farms has been abandoned and these
have suffered an invasion of underbrush, mostly gorse (Ulex europaeus), called
"Tojo" in the region, so that they are producing either nothing or much less
than their potential. The problem is accentuated by the appreciation taking



- 10 -
place in land values in the North reaching up to Ptas 300,000 (US$5,000 equiv-
alent) per ha. Land owners migrating from their farms prefer to retain owner-
ship hoping thereby to benefit from capital appreciation.
2.31      Of special significance to the Spanish economy is the existence
within the northern region of some 2 to 2.5 million ha of common grazing
lands, currently very ineffectively used, but capable of intensive develop-
ment. About half of the area of these lands is in the four provinces of
Galicia.  Tney are of two types:
(1)  Bienes Proprios - in which the owners are local municipal
governments, and
(2)  Bienes Communales - in which the owners are individual mem-
bers of the community who have lived in the locality for
three or more years.
The Government has issued a series of decrees regulating the use of these
lands, culminating in a new Land Reform Law which came into effect in 1973.
As a result of these decrees, the land cannot be sold nor can it be mortgaged,
but with the consent of a majority of the users it can be leased. The Minister
of Agriculture can require land to be leased to be submitted to public auction
or he can establish an entity to take it over. However, these powers have not
yet been fully implemented primarily because of the following constraints:
(a)  no mechanism has so far been established to obtain the consent
of the present users to the leasing of part of their lands;
(b)  no clear guidelines exist as to the type or types of entities
to which communal lands could be leased; and
(c)  so far leasehold titles have not been used as collateral for
credit.
2.32      Committees (Jurados) were established about four years ago for the
purpose of determining the legal status of communal and unused land. The
decision of the Jurado is final. Consulting firms have carried out the actual
land surveys and title searches. 2,369 blocks of land covering 575,000 ha,
about half the area to be surveyed in Galicia, is presently being surveyed.
In 2 provinces of Galicia, Orense and Lugo, 46 blocks of communally-owned
land have been defined and titled, totalling about 10,000 ha and another
30,000 ha are expected to be defined and titled within the coming year. Legal-
ly these could be leased to individuals, but in practice such lands will be
operated by communal organizations of the owners such as Grupos Sindicales
de Colonization or other types of livestock producer organizations. The
Director of LDA has agreed to provide the Bank a written statement of how
these lands would be used by these organizations under the Project and how
LDA would work with them. Receipt of this statement is a condition of Board
Presentation. A condition of effectiveness is that five blocks of communal
land in at least one of these provinces would be selected for development



- 11 -
under the Project. Discussions are presently underway with the communal
owners of 1 block of land containing 600 ha suitable for pasture development.
These five blocks of land would be developed as demonstration units and would
be financed in the first year under the Project. Provision has been made,
under the proposed Project, for financing the development of some 400 farms,
with an average size of 50 ha, in this region from communal lands.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Features and Objectives
3.01      The Second Livestock Development Project has three major objectives:
(a) to increase meat and milk production in the face of increasing
domestic demand and external price levels;
(b) to introduce institutional changes in land tenure arrangements
and thus assist in the exploitation of the agricultural resources
of the underdeveloped Galicia region; and
(c) to reinforce technological innovations begun under the First
Project and thereby to consolidate the position of LDA as a
technical development agency.
Increasing meat and milk production through pasture improvement in Spain needs
to be viewed both in the short and long term. The First Livestock Project
was designed to help Spain meet its increasing meat deficit through demonstra-
tion of improved technology and the setting up of a specific organization to
carry out the Project. Because of the long-term nature of this type of proj-
ect, the Bank's continued participation in the work of LDA is essential.
Moreover, the need to reduce the meat deficit is even more urgent now due to
increasing demand and the world shortages of feed grains. Consequently, a
Second Project to build on the foundations of the First Project is a logical
follow-up involving the development of further areas in the Southwest of the
country where extra meat can be produced quickly from pastures.
3.02      In the North, the focus of the Project is quite different.  While the
area to be developed by the Project would be relatively small compared with
the Southwest (22,700 ha to 289,000 ha), the Project would aim to solve im-
portant land tenure and farm structural problems which are presently holding
up the development of the potentially most productive region in Spain for
livestock (paras 2.30-2.31). Once these problems are resolved and the farming
community is able to observe the results of improved technology based omL es-
tablished pastures in a high rainfall area, it is expected that a signif'icant
proportion of the 1.2 million ha of presently unused or underutilized land in
Galicia would be developed for meat and milk production and the Second Project
should act as the catalyst for their development. Such a project in the



- 12 -
higher rainfall area of the North would go a long way to meet Spain's deficits
in meat and milk as well as improving farm incomes in one of the poorest re-
gions of the country. Finally, the Second Project is an essential and logi-
cal follow-up necessary to consolidate gains already made and to further build
up Spanish livestock institutions.
B. Detailed Features
3.03      The Project Area in the Southwest has been described in the First
Livestock Development Project appraisal report. The Project Area in the
Southwest has the hottest summer climate in Spain, winters are mild, and the
rainfall is markedly seasonal being virtually confined to September-March.
Contour ranges from flat agricultural and irrigated valley land to rolling
dryland hills. Soils are generally very poor or only of medium fertility.
Most of the grazing land is held in relatively large units of 200 ha and
upwards. The region of Galicia in the North, which consists of the provinces
of La Coruna, Lugo, Orense and Pontevedra, is characterized by small farm
holdings (90% 10 ha or less in area), excessive land fragmentation, and per
capita farm incomes the lowest of any region in Spain. Over 50% of the total
labor force in the region is engaged in farming, compared with 28% for the
country as a whole, and since the younger segment of the population is moving
out of agriculture, more than 60% of the farmers are 55 years old or older.
Few areas in the temperate world have such a favorable climate for the produc-
tion of livestock from pasture. Yet, over one million ha of potentially pro-
ductive land is unused or grossly underused, either abandoned or communally-
held land covered with scrub and trees (Annex 1 and paras 2.30-2.31). Further-
more about one-half of Spain's total cattle inventory is located in the north-
ern regions (Annex 2, Fig. 1).
3.04      About 550 dryland farms averaging about 500 ha, each with a minimum
of 100 animal units, and 200 irrigated farms averaging about 20 ha, each with
a minimum of 120 animal units, would be financed in the Southwest (Annex 4).
While cattle breeding with the sale of weaners for fattening would be carried
out on most of the dryland farms, 150 dryland farms would be developed as
extensive sheep production units, as sheep provide a major alternative to
beef cattle in the drier pasture regions of the Southwest. Their shorter
period of gestation and more rapid rate of maturity from birth to slaughter
confer distinct advantages in adaptability to more restricted seasons of
pasture growth. Specialized beef fattening would be undertaken on the
irrigated farms.
3.05      As in the First Project, the key element to increased productivity
on the dryland farms would be the establisnment of pastures based on free-
seeding, self-regenerating annual legumes (principally subterranean clover),
adequately supplemented with hay, silage and feed grains. Cattle fattening
on irrigated farms would be based on high quality temporary and permanent
pastures plus conserved forage crops and concentrates. One of the major
sources of animals for fattening would be the weaners from the dryland
farms financed under the Project.



- 13 -
3.06      In the North, the Project would concentrate on the development of
beef and dairy operations from both existing farms and from land which is
presently covered with scrub and trees. About 400 farms, averaging about 50
ha, each with a minimum of 50 animal units, would be developed from communal
scrub-lands for beef cattle and operated by communal organizations of the
owners (para 2.32 and Annex 4). Breeding herds for the production of weaners
would be maintained on the majority of these units while only a limited number
would be devoted to cattle fattening. About 450 dairy farms, averaging 6 ha
in area, each with a minimum of 12 animal units, which could be turned into
viable production units would be financed (Annex 4). A significant by-product
of the dairy units would be male calves for fattening on the beef farms to be
developed.
3.07      In addition to the 1,600 farms mentioned above, about 100 milk
sheep farms, averaging 100 ha in size, each with a minimum of 45 animal units,
would be financed in the marginal cereal zones in the central provinces of
Toledo and Ciudad Real (Annex 4). About 40% of the sheep in these provinces
are of the Manchega breed, the major milk producing breed of sheep in the
country. Almost 5% (200 million liters) of milk produced in Spain comes from
sheep and is used mainly for the manufacture of cheese for which there is a
lucrative market.
3.08      Under the Project, credit would be provided for the establishment
of improved pastures, fencing, farm buildings, farm machinery, watering fa-
cilities, on-farm roads, and the purchase of livestock. On-farm development
would generally be spread over a three-year period. The LDA would continue
to provide the technical services essential for farmers to successfully plan
and implement the desired forage and livestock production and management
practices (paras 3.27 and 3.28). Since the proposed operations involve the
introduction of new systems of farming, emphasis would be given to the provi-
sion of overseas fellowships for training technical personnel in modern
methods of production.
Pasture Improvement
3.09      During the First Project, valuable experience related to the estab-
lishment, maintenance and utilization of sub-clover pastures has been gained.
The Second Project would build on this experience and at the same time explore
the feasibility of more efficient techniques of pasture improvement. On both
the irrigated farms in the Southwest and the farms of the North, pasture im-
provement would be brought about primarily through the introduction of improv-
ed varieties of perennial ryegrass, white and red clover, cocksfoot and fescue.
To take advantage of the latest research findings in the field of pasture im-
provement the Project would maintain close liaison with the Center for Pas-
tures, Forages and Animal Production in the Semi-Arid Regions located at
Badajoz and the Regional Research Center at La Coruna in Galicia (para 2.14).
3.10      Spain produices sufficient alfalfa and vetch seeds to meet domestic
requirements. Practically all other pasture seeds are imported, though most,
if not all, of Spain's requirements could be produced within the country.
Production and marketing of seed in Spain is controlled by the National Seed
Selection Institute, an autonomous organization within the Directorate of



- 14 -
Agricultural Production. Any legal entity approved by the Institute can im-
port seed provided an importation license is granted by the Minister of Com-
merce and there is no restriction on imports. Under the First Project, the
Bank urged Government to organize and develop the local production of seed,
and this has become increasingly important with rising costs and reduced
availability. As a result of these representations, the Director General
of Agricultural Production has recently submitted to the Bank an outline of
the Government's program for the production and marketing of forage and pas-
ture seeds during the next five years. In the program, the objective is to
increase the local production of subterranean clover seed from 50 to 250 tons
by 1978. Allowing for a doubling in the area sown, 50% of Spain's require-
ments for this variety of seed would be met from domestic production by 1978.
The Bank has also provided for a seed production expert on a short-term con-
sultancy to assist the Ministry of Agriculture in implementing the above men-
tioned seed production program. Staff of the LDA could also be used to select
farmers who would multiply seed stocks under supervision. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that within one year of the date of effectiveness,
the Ministry of Agriculture would employ a seed production specialist with
qualifications and experience and under terms and conditions including terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank to assist in developing a seed production
program.
Farm Construction and Machinery
3.11      Boundary fencing and some internal fencing would be of 5 strand
12-gauge galvanized steel wire with steel or wood posts, depending on avail-
ability and relative costs. On some farms internal fencing consisting of two
or three strands of wire would be used while others would utilize electric
fences with only a single strand of wire. Water for livestock would be pro-
vided from natural springs, wells or surface ponds. The farm machinery to
be financed would comprise mainly fertilizer spreaders, mowers, forage har-
vesters, trailers or forage wagons, hay balers, and tractors. In addition,
some irrigation equipment and some milking equipment would be financed.
Silos, manure pits, hay sheds, feed bunks, feed-lots, working corrals, milking
parlors, and low cost livestock housing would also be financed under the
Project.
Cattle Procurement
3.12      Under the First Livestock Project, the Ministry of Agriculture was
required to organize and operate the Livestock Procurement Service (LPS) to
help supply breeding cattle to the Project. Subsequently the LDA assumed
responsibility for operation of the LPS with assistance from veterinarians of
the Ministry. Using the funds allocated by Government, LDA purchased surplus
female calves which passed veterinary inspection from selected cattle breeders
at the on-going beef price. The heifers were reared under contract, mated to
selected bulls and sold to participating farmers as in-calf heifers at Ptas
65 per kg liveweight. In addition, within 3 years of purchase each farmer
was required to return to the scheme free 1 female weaner weighing about 180
kg for each heifer purchased. Since difficulty was experienced in getting



- 15 -
farmers to return the free calf, the system was modified (by Order of the
Ministry of Agriculture, October 20, 1974) as follows: The LPS is operated
by the Ministry of Agriculture with the assistance of the LDA. Participating
farmers are provided a choice of (a) in-calf heifers which have been mated
to selected bulls or (b) female weaners less than one year of age which the
farmer mates to bulls of his own choosing. The former animals are obtained
from breeding farms established by agreement with provincial non-profit or-
ganizations or agencies. One-half of the total cost of the animal is payable
upon delivery and the balance in two equal installments paid at the end of
the first and second year after purchase respectively. The weaners are pur-
chased from groupings (concentraciones de compra) established under the
supervision of the Ministry. Total payment is due upon delivery and each
farmer is given a free heifer for every three that he purchases. It is ex-
pected that option (a) will be used more widely by participating farmers in
the North while (b) will be more popular with farmers in the Southwest.
3.13      While most of the livestock required by the Project would be of
national origin, some stock would be imported from time to time to upgrade
the indigenous animals for which provision has been made in the cost esti-
mates.
C. Cost Estimates
3.14      Total Project cost is estimated at US$149.3 million equivalent, a
breakdown of which, based on March 1974 prices, is shown in the following
table:
PROJECT COST
Ptas Million           US$ Million          Foreign
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Exchange
On-Farm Development
Pasture Improvement       1,218    786   2,004   21.0   13.6    34.6
Farm Buildings &
Facilities                705     74      779   12.1    1.3    13.4
Machinery & Equipment       619    319      938   10.7    5.5    16.2
Livestock                 2,324    258   2,582   40.1    4.4    44.5
Working Capital           1,020    364   1,384   17.6    6.3    23.9
Sub-total             5,886  1,801   7,687  101.5   31.1   132.6         23
Livestock Development
Agency                      543    101      644    9.4    1.8    11.2        16
Livestock Procurement
Service                     320     -       320    5.5      -       5.5       -
Total                 6,749  1,902   8,651  116.4   32.9   149.3         22



- 16 -
3.15      On-farm development costs, totalling US$108.7 million, were derived
from an aggregation of the investments projected for each type of farming op-
eration (Annex 5, Tables 1 and 2), and the numbers of each type expected to
participate in the Project (Annex 7). No provision has been made for on-farm
development contingencies since in a credit type project such as this, any
increase in these costs would reduce the number of farms developed under the
Project. However, in view of the emphasis on development in the North, an
unallocated amount of US$2.7 million in the Bank loan will be utilized to
meet uncertainties in investment costs in the development of communal land in
that area. Based on March 1974 prices, 1,700 farms involving a total area of
311,000 ha, averaging 183 ha per farm, are expected to be financed; this
number of farms would decrease if estimated costs of development should rise.
The capital investments per farm and per ha average US$64,000 and US$350
respectively. These compare favorably with those for the First Project after
allowing for inflation over the past four years, and for the higher costs
involved in bringing into production the scrub-lands of the North. Invest-
ment costs per ha vary considerably with the type of farm, costs for the
smaller farms in the poorer areas of the North being generally several times
greater than those in the Southwest as illustrated hereunder:
Investment Cost/ha      Total
Farm Type                                              US$             US$ million
Southwest
500 ha dryland cattle                                    187              18.7
500 ha dryland sheep                                     235              17.6
500 ha dryland cattle including 20 ha
irrigated                                              248              24.8
20 ha irrigated cattle                                1,780               7.1
100 ha milk sheep including 5 ha irrigated               540               5.4
73.6
North
6 ha dairy farm                                      1,900               5.2
50 ha rainfed cattle breeding                         1,550              27.1
50 ha rainfed cattle fattening                        1,102               2.8
35.1
108.7
3.16      Working capital, amounting to US$23.9 million, has been provided
to meet part of the incremental operating costs, including contingencies,
as shown in the financial projections (Annex 4). The cost of operating LDA
to provide the technical services for the Project is estimated at about
US$11.2 million, including price contingencies, and that of running the LPS
(para 3.12) US$5.5 million.
D. Financing and Lending
3.17      The total cost of about US$149 million would be financed as follows:



- 17 -
Livestock     Livestock
On-Farm       Development   Procurement
Development       Agency        Service        Total
Amount  %       Amount   %    Amount   %      Amount   %
--------------------US$ million-----------------------
Producers            26.5   20        1.7    15      -      -       28.2   19
Credit Agencies/1   23.9   18          -       -     -      -       23.9/1 16
Government           51.1   39        7.7    69      5.5   100      64.3   43
IBRD                 31.1   23        1.8    16      -      -       32.9   22
Total               132.6  100       11.2   100      5.5   100    149.3  100
/1   Short-term working capital (para 3.22).
3.18      Farmers would contribute, on average, about 20% of the investments
required for farm development. Where applicable they would also finance part
of the incremental working capital as well as retaining breeding stock needed
for herd and flock build-up, that in the absence of the Project would have
been sold. Fifteen percent of the cost of LDA would be financed by farmers
through the 0.5% charge on their sub-loans earmarked for technical services.
The Bank loan of US$33 million would be equivalent to the foreign exchange
component (22%). The balance of the investment financing, US$64.3 million
equivalent, would be provided by Government (43%). Participating credit
agencies would finance the incremental working capital where required (16%).
3.19      The Government would be the borrower and bear the foreign exchange
risk. The term would be 15 years with a grace period of 5 years, equal to
the disbursement period of the loan. This would allow the recovery of all
sub-loans which in turn would be phased over 3 years with terms of 12 years
(para 3.22), plus a 2-year allowance for possible slippage. The number and
phasing of loan commitments is in Annex 7.
3.20      Project funds for relending and for the LDA would be placed in a
separate Special Project Fund (the Fund) in ICO. Upon the effective date of
the Loan, Government would credit the Fund with sufficient resources to enable
it to initiate operations. The Fund would refinance at a rate of 5.75% per
annum, an agreed proportion up to 100% of eligible medium-term sub-loans made
by participating lending institutions. 1/ The Fund would replenish its re-
sources from the proposed Bank Loan, Government contributions and repayments
of sub-loans. Capital repayments received by the Fund, but not needed for
Bank debt servicing, would be used for additional relending for farm develop-
ment under the Project. Advances for the LDA would be disbursed by the Fund
1/   A rate of 5.75% is approximately the blend rate between the Government's
contribution of US$51.1 million equivalent to on-farm development at
4.08%, and the assumed Bank rate of 8.5%.



- 18 -
through a separate account. The Project cash flow is in Annex 8. The
Ministry of Finance would take the necessary steps to ensure that funds are
available to LPS promptly as required. During loan negotiations assurances
were obtained that:
(i) Government would credit the Fund in ICO with sufficient
resources to enable the Project to begin operations;
(ii)  ICO would reimburse up to 100% of eligible medium-term sub-
loans made under the Project to participating lending institu-
tions at 5.75%, plus 0.5% for technical services. Advances
for LDA would be disbursed by the Fund through a separate
account;
(iii) Resources of the Fund would be replenished as required from Gov-
ernment contributions, the proposed Bank loan, and repayment of
sub-loans' interest and principal, not needed for servicing
the Bank loan; and
(iv) Ministry of Finance would provide promptly as needed the
funds required by the LPS.
3.21      ICO would extend refinancing privileges under the Project to any
eligible bank; assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
Eligibility would be the responsibility of ICO and would be based on (a) past
experience and performance in agricultural lending, (b) financial conditions,
(c) managerial capacity and capability, (d) location of branches in the Proj-
ect areas, and (e) an undertaking to extend short-term loans to sub-borrowers.
3.22      Credit to farmers under the scheme would only be extended on the
basis of farm investment plans approved by the LDA; an assurance to this
effect was obtained during negotiations. Sub-loans would be made to farmers
amounting to an average 80% of the farm investment plans for up to 12 years,
including a grace period of up to 3 years. Cost projections for each farm
development plan would include estimates of working capital requirements.
The participating banks would undertake to extend short-term loans in accord-
ance with these estimates from their own resources. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that ICO would ensure that agreements made between it and
the participating banks would include a commitment to provide this working
capital. In the event that participating banks fall short in their contribu-
tion to Project financing, an assurance was obtained during negotiations that
Government would provide any such shortfall. The inspection of collateral
would be the responsibility of the lending institutions which could accept or
reject the sub-borrower on the ground of creditworthiness, but which could
not modify the investment plan.
3.23      The interest rate on medium-term loans to participating farmers
would be 6.5% plus a technical service fee of 0.5% for loans up to Ptas 5.0
million and 7.0% plus a technical service fee of 0.5% for loans above Ptas
5.0 million on outstanding principal. Communal organizations farming other



- 19 -
than communal land pay 0.5% less and communal organizations farming communal
land pay 6.5%. The 0.5% technical assistance fee would help defray part of
the costs of the LDA.
E. Procurement
3.24      International competitive bidding is not appropriate for this Proj-
ect because the individual contracts are small and numerous; purchases would
be made over a five-year period, and could not be bulked. The size and mix
of farm investments vary substantially between sub-projects and cannot be
predetermined. The goods and services required for farm development, both
locally manufactured and imported, would be procured through existing commer-
cial channels which would also provide the service facilities. Most machinery,
wire for fencing, and building materials are manufactured locally and are com-
petitive with international prices. An adequate number of international firms
is represented to ensure effective competition in the procurement of the re-
quired imported goods such as seeds and selected types of machinery and equip-
ment. Applicable import duties on farm machinery are generally 25% or less
while the import duties on most pasture seeds are below 10%. Under Spain's
trade agreement of 1970 with the European Economic Community, certain items
to be procured under the Project (agricultural machinery, fertilizers, etc.)
would benefit from a reduction in import duty of 5% beginning in 1970 and
progressively increasing to 25% by 1977 if procured from EEC countries.
F. Disbursement
3.25      The Bank would reimburse 38% of the expenditures incurred by the
Fund (US$51.1 million from Government and US$31.1 million from the Bank loan,
para 3.17) in refinancing sub-loans and 16% of the costs of the LDA, against
certified statements of disbursements. To ensure that Bank funds are chan-
neled primarily into the rural development component of the Project in the
North, agreement has been reached with the Government that 60% of disburse-
ments (excluding working capital which would be provided by participating
banks, para 3.22) on individual farm loana in the North and 20% in the South-
west will be Bank funds. Total disbursements in the North would be US$35.1
million which would absorb 60% of the Bank loan of US$33 million, or US$16.8
million together with US$2.7 million, the latter being the unallocated portion
of the Bank loan which is reserved for the North because of investment cost
uncertainties in the development of communal land. In the Southwest, total
disbursements would be US$73.6 million and the proportion of Bank funds would
be US$11.7 million, 35% of the Bank loan. The estimated schedule of disburse-
ments on a quarterly basis is in Annex 9. Full disbursement would be achieved
over five years as summarized in the following schedule:



- 20 -
Year                      Total
1      2      3       4      5
------US$ Million-------------------
On-Farm Development              6.8   13.3   8.8    2.0    0.3            31.2
Livestock Development Agency   0.3    0.3   0.4    0.4    0.4               1.8
Total                      7.1   13.6   9.2    2.4    0.7             33.0
G. Accounts and Auditing
3.26      ICO would continue to maintain the following separate project ac-
counts: (a) On-Farm Investment; and (b) Livestock Development Agency, credit-
ing the technical service fees to the latter account. These accounts would be
audited annually by the Government Auditor and submitted within five months
of the close of the financial year to the Bank. Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations.
H. Organization and Management
3.27      The LDA, established specifically for implementing the First Live-
stock Project, is the only institution in Spain which provides a sound tech-
nical and financial approach to livestock production and the only one present-
ly providing producers with the means for profitable meat and milk production
from pasture, including technical assistance in the preparation of farm plans
for loan applications. It also provides technical assistance to the farmer
once the loan has been made. This integrated livestock extension assistance
from a single agency did not exist in Spain prior to the advent of the First
Livestock Project. LDA was established in 1970. In four years, it has built
up a skilled extension staff assisted by training fellowships and has obtained
the confidence of the livestock community in which it operates. The majority
of the staff of LDA (save for the Director and one or two senior staff), are
presently employed under an annual contract basis which is not conducive to
retaining experienced personnel and prevents LDA offering permanent career
prospects to its staff. A Second Livestock Project would therefore ensure
consolidation of the position of LDA as a development agency, the integrated
extension approach to livestock development utilizing pastures, and the reten-
tion of trained and experienced livestock specialists by increasing the number
of staff with permanent civil service status to about two-thirds. The Minis-
ter of Agriculture has accepted the Bank's recommendations that the LDA be
given a more permanent status and that at least two-thirds of the personnel
be employed as members of the Civil Service (functionarios del Instituto).
Appropriate representations to the Ministry of Finance have been made and
these changes in employee status are being put into effect.



- 21 -
3.28      If the LDA is to provide the technical services envisaged under
the Second Proje;L, as well as Lontiuui,ig iLs prese-ait funcxion, its staff must
be considerably enlarged. The proposed staffing over the next five years is
shown in Annex 6, Table 1. In order to provide for adequate technical assis-
tance, the LDA would obtain the services of a full-time consultant, whose
qualifications and experience and terms of employment would be satisfactory
to the Bank. Such a consultant would need to be experienced in land develop-
ment as well as in modern techniques of dairy and beef production from pasture.
Short-term consultants would also be employed for specific assignments, e.g.
organizing the local production of pasture seed (Annex 6 contains draft Terms
of Reference for consultants). Overseas training fellowships would be provid-
ed under the Project for Spanish technicians. Anticipated costs of operating
the expanded LDA are shown in Annex 6, Table 2. During negotiations assurances
were obtained that (i) the LDA would be adequately staffed with competent
technical personnel, including a consultant whose qualifications, experience
and terms of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank, (2) farm records
adequate to evaluate and monitor the Project would be established and main-
tained by LDA, (3) short-term consultants, as required, would be employed in
consultation with the Bank, and (4) arrangements would be made for the provi-
sion of overseas training fellowships for LDA's technical staff.
IV.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND MARKETING, PRICES AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
A. Production
4.01      Growth in per capita income, rapid urbanization and continued ex-
pansion of tourism exert a continuing pressure on the demand for meat and
livestock products in Spain. Rapid production growth in the livestock sec-
tor since 1967 due to enhanced government programs, of wlhich a major element
was the Bank's First Livestock Development Project, helped to ameliorate
these pressures. Meat and livestock feed imports, which had risen sharply
during the first half of the decade, were reduced somewhat in terms of quan-
tity, and domestic meat production was able to provide for increases in per
capita consumption. But rapid growth in the past two years and steep in-
creases in meat and grain prices brought about sizeable increases in the
value of imports of meat and cereals and some increases in the volume of im-
ports as well (Annex 1, Table 12). The additional output resulting from this
Second Project amounting to some 45,000 tons of meat, 800 tons of wool and
20,000 tons of milk annually is expected to reduce the pressure on imports of
meat and feed grains. Market infrastructure is adequate. Sufficient slaughter-
houses, storage and other marketing facilities and services exist on a competi-
tive basis. The factors which previously served to discourage expansion of
beef production have been significantly reduced by government policies to
foster production, rising prices for beef and a gradual decline in the ab-
solute level of beef imports.



- 22 -
4.02      A significant feature of the Project is that it encourages the
shift to livestock fattening on improved pasture (initiated by the First Bank
Project), thereby reducing the demand for imported cereals for livestock feed-
ing. Furthermore pasture improvement would be based on the use of legumes,
plants which fix in the soil significant quantities of nitrogen from the at-
mosphere, rather than on the application of nitrogenous fertilizers. Given
the rising cost of fertilizers and the world-wide concern for finding methods
of reducing grain consumption by livestock and thereby releasing cereals for
direct human consumption, the Project has special significance at this time.
Spain has the potential for significant further developments in exploiting
pasture-fed livestock and the Project provides the necessary leadership.
B. Markets and Marketing
4.03      Many of the concerns expressed in the First Livestock Project with
respect to veal imports and to the market operations of CAT are no longer a
major factor regarding beef production. The slaughter of calves is prohibited,
the weight of slaughtered cattle has risen sharply through incentive price
policies, and the significance of CAT's market activities in beef have been
greatly reduced. Beef imports have declined while domestic beef production
has risen sharply and should continue to rise. Beef prices have increased
as well.
C. Prices
4.04      Although the continued absence of veal imports has helped maintain
the absolute ratio between veal and beef prices, the relative gap has been
narrowed as beef production has increased. In 1967 beef prices were 81.5%
of veal prices and in 1972 they had increased to 87%. Beef cattle prices
have risen 59% since 1967 while veal prices rose only 48% (Annex 2).
4.05      Although CAT is empowered to support beef and other meat prices
by domestic purchases and storage, as well as to limit price increases by
importing meat, beef prices have customarily been well above support levels.
Government intends continuing this relationship, which is resulting in a
gradual improvement of beef prices relative to veal. With the exception of
lamb prices, beef prices have risen more rapidly than those of other meats
(Annex 2) indicating a gradually increasing incentive to beef producers.
Since the mid-sixties, lamb prices have risen more sharply than cattle prices
and, at the present time, exceed Ptas 100 rer kg liveweight for one month old
and Ptas 60 per kg for three to eight month old lambs. Current mutton prices
are just under Ptas 30 per kg liveweight. There is an unsatisfied demand for
sheep meat in Spain. Local meat prices are in line with projected world
prices (para 5.03 and Annex 11).



- 23 -
4.06      Borrowing farmers, particularly the poorer farmers in the North, are
expected to achieve substantial increments in income as a result of their par-
ticipation in the Project. At full development in year 13, (repayment of all
loans is to be completed in year 12) before and after development income,
before income taxes, for the 8 types of farms is as follows (Annex 4):
Annual Farm Income /1
Before Dev-      After Dev-
Number  Farm Type        Total Area   elopment           elopment /2   Increase
----ha----  ----------US$OOO--------
Southwest
200    500 ha dryland
cattle          100,000         5.4             22.2          4-fold
150    500 ha dryland
sheep            75,000         4.8             43.3         10-fold
200    500 ha dryland
cattle includ-
ing 20 ha irri-
gated           100,000         7.1             33.3          5-fold
200    20 ha irrigated
cattle            4,000         8.9             16.9          2-fold
100    100 ha milk
sheep includ-
ing 5 ha irri-
gated            10,000         1.2             16.4         14-fold
289,000
North
450    6 ha dairy farm    2,700           0.6              5.6          9-fold
350    50 ha rainfed
cattle breeding 17,500          0.3             21.4         71-fold
50    50 ha rainfed
cattle
fattening         2,500         0.3             25.5         85-fold
22,700
/1   After debt services etc.
/2   At full development in year 13.
Estimated financial rates of return on new investments range from 12-13% on
the dryland beef producing farms and 24-27% on sheep producing farms of the
Southwest, to 39% and above for the smaller dairy and beef cattle farms in
the more climatically favorable region in the North (Annex 10).



- 24 -
V.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic Benefits and Rate of Return
5.01      In its future agricultural development Spain faces a totally differ-
ent set of problems than those normally encountered in LDCs. The agricultural
labor force is declining, certain areas have become depopulated and, in the
process, natural resources are withdrawn from the production process. These
developments call for an agricultural development strategy which helps to re-
tain an active and entrepreneurial labor force on the land through enlarge-
ment of operational holdings, land consolidation and significant improvements
in farm income levels. By such means Spanish agriculture can expect to
achieve sustained increases both in production and productivity. The proposed
Project will help to bring about such structural changes.
5.02      The following table summarizes the estimates of important direct
production benefits attributable to the Project:
Annual Output
Before            Full              Increase
Unit              Unit               Development   Development                %
Beef Production  Metric tons          1,992           36,986               1,857
Muitton and Lamb
Production      Metric tons         1,600           11,478                 717
Wool Production  Metric tons            225              995                 442
Milk Production  Metric tons          8,550           28,900                 338
Gross Sales       US$ million            13.4              74.4              556
Realization of these production levels of meat and milk would mean a foreign
exchange saving of some US$60.0 million annually at full development.
5.03      The economic rate of return to the overall Project has been esti-
mated at 16% (Annex 11). The prices used for the major products to be pro-
duced were those prevailing in Spain at the time of appraisal (March 1974).
Since these are in line with projected world prices, no changes were made for
the purpose of estimating the economic rate of return. If capital costs
increased by 20%, the economic rate of return would fall to 13%. Should
benefits decrease by 25%, the economic rate of return would fall to 12%.
5.04      The economic rate of return does not take account of non-quantifiable
benefits. The Project would further the spread of advanced livestock produc-
tion technology based on improved pastures thus exploiting a presently neg-
lected resource and saving future expenditures on nitrogenous fertilizers and
feed grain imports. The demonstrated profitability of these techniques is
already having an effect on farmers who are seeking to adopt the same practices.



- 25 -
The in-service training of local technicians is building up Spanish capability
in these techniques. An important new thrust of the Project is to implement
existing Land Reform legislation in the North vith the objectives of bringing
unused land into production and initiating measures essential for improving
farm structure. Both these objectives would represent a significant step
forward in the modernization of the agricultural sector and would result in
raising the income earning possibilities of Spain's poorest farmers in the
provinces of Galicia where farms are small and fragmented, incomes low and
dependency on agriculture high (Annex 1).
B. Social Benefits
5.05      The introduction of improved pasture and cattle production techni-
ques in the Galicia region is a major social benefit of the Project. The re-
gion presently has large tracts of unused and underutilized land. Local farm-
ers are unaware of the potential usefulness of these lands and communal and
absentee ownership presently limit the growth possibilities for these poorest
of Spanish farmers. A major thrust in this region should assist in bringing
about a better balance in income distribution among Spanish farmers and farm
regions and lead to improved labor utilization on Project farms. The Project,
as a whole, would directly benefit 5,100 farm families (conservatively based
on an average of 3 families per farm), or approximately 25,000 persons through
more than a 6-fold increase in the average farm family income and a 50% in-
crease in the numbers employed. In addition increased employment opportunities
would be created in the processing and marketing of the output from the Proj-
ect. Indirectly, the Project would exert a major impact on a significant
proportion of the 375,000 farmers and their families (about 2 million persons)
in Galicia.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      The Project is technically feasible, economically sound and finan-
cially viable. It follows logically on the groundwork laid down in the First
Livestock Project, and would receive additional technical support from the
Bank-financed Agricultural Research Project. Agreement having been reached
on the principal issues referred to in Chapter 3, and subject to the condi-
tions of Board Presentation and effectiveness described in para 2.32, the
Project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$33 million for a
15-year term with 5 years grace. The borrower would be the Government of
Spain.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Agricultural Economy
1.        Agricultural production in Spain increased in real terms 1/ at an
annual rate of 2.3% between 1962 and 1974, twice the rate of population growth.
Total GNP increased at 7.3% and industrial production at 8.6%. The relative
position of agriculture in the economy is therefore declining and can be ex-
pected to continue to do so in the future. In 1961, agricultural production
accounted for 24% of GDP while in 1973 it had dropped to 13%. The active
population engaged in agriculture has fallen even faster, from 39.2% in 1962
to 27% in 1972. 2/ Over 1.1 million people left agriculture in the past decade
- their numbers falling from 4.5 million in 1962 to 3.5 million in 1972. Al-
though agricultural exports have increased at an annual (current prices) rate
of 12.5% in the past 5 years, agricultural exports as a percent of total
exports have fallen from 50% in the early 1960's to 39.7% in 1968 and to 30%
in 1973. Agricultural imports, increasing at an annual rate of 14.4% from
1968 through 1972 in current prices, have accounted for a fairly constant 20-
22% of total imports. The gradually increasing gap between imports and
exports has contributed to a fluctuating but gradually growing agricultural
export deficit, ranging from 4 to 13% of the total trade deficit (Table 1).
A large proportion of these imports (ranging from 30 to 50%) is made up of
meats and products largely destined for animal feeds - cereals, other feeds
and oilseeds (Table 2).
2.        Partly because of the rapid movement of labor out of agriculture,
net agricultural production has increased at a substantial 6.7% annually in
the last five years, with net output per active person employed in agriculture
rising even faster (Table 3).
3.        The sectoral composition of production has been slow to adjust to
shifting demands brought about by the rapid growth of incomes in Spain over
the past decade, 5.6% per capita annually during 1960-71. In 1962-63, crops
accounted for 58% of agricultural output (which included forestry 4.4% and
fisheries 3%) and livestock production 34%; by 1972-73, crops had declined to
53% and livestock had risen to 38%. This slow adjustment has resulted from
1/   At factor cost in 1964 prices.  Banco de Espana, Informe Annual 1972,
Madrid, p. 237.
2/   The northern provinces of Galicia where this Project is being extended
have not shared in this development however and remain heavily dependent
on agriculture (see para 17).



ANNEX 1
Page 2
difficult land tenure relationships, policies designed to ease the adjustment
for farmers out of traditional crops, especially wheat, the high costs of pro-
ducing livestock products based on imported feeds, and the slowness to adopt
livestock production techniques based on pasture development technology suit-
able for Spain. The First and Second Livestock Development Projects are de-
signed to speed up this adjustment.
4.        Agricultural policies to achieve a more rapid shift in production
in the direction of the changing demand pattern gained momentum in the mid-
sixties and results have begun to emerge. The area sown to wheat, which was
in substantial surplus in the past, has been reduced from 4.3 million ha in
1967 to 3.1 million ha in 1973 (Table 4). Even with greater use of fertilizer
and other yield increasing technology, production dropped 1 to 1.5 million
tons in 1972 and 1973 compared with the 1967-71 level. This development co-
incided with a decline in wheat prices from US$0.11/kg in 1967 to US$0.095 in
subsequent years. The area released from wheat has gone primarily to barley,
a feed grain, the area of which rose from 1.4 to 2.8 ha, while production
grew from 2.5 to 4.4 million tons (Table 4).
5.        The increase in grain yields evident in Tables 4 and 5 reflects in-
creases in fertilizer use and mechanization. Fertilizer use in 1972 was double
the 1961-65 average (Table 6). Tractors and harvester-threshing machines tri-
pled during the same period. Nevertheless, Spanish yields are low compared
with many European countries, partly because of a less favorable climate and
partly due to less use of fertilizer and other yield improving inputs. Spanish
wheat yields are only 65% of those in Greece, half those in Italy and 28% of
those in France. Although Spanish barley and maize yields are closer to those
of Greece and Italy, barley yields are less than half those of France and maize
yields one to two tons/ha below France and Italy respectively.
6.        Production in the livestock sector increased at close to three times
the rate of crop production from 1960 through 1973. Based on 3-year averages
(1960-62 and 1971-73 to reduce the impact of annual fluctuations in production)
meat production has increased over 7% annually (Table 7). Sheep meat production
has grown very slowly, less than 1% per year. Poultry production, after in-
creasing very rapidly from 1960 to 1967, has increased at a slower rate in
recent years. For the whole period pork output increased at about 6.5% an-
nually but grew slowly during 1967-72. Beef output has increased at just over
7% per year. Livestock numbers changed as follows during this period:
1961-65          1970           1971            1972
-----------------thousand head-------------------
Cows                        3,670           4,238          4,235          4,249
iiorses                       434             285            270            250
Hules                       1,054             566            550            530
Asses                         678             386            360            330
Pigs                        5,659           6,915          6,917          7,178
Sheep                     20,855           18,729         18,443         17,863
Goats                       2,714           2,570          2,636          2,514
Source:   FAO Production Yearbook, 1972.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
7.        Spanish agriculture enjoyed a relatively favorable position with
respect to prices between 1964 and 1972. The index of prices received and
prices paid favored agriculture throughout the period and in 1972 agricultural
prices received were 38% above the 1964 level while prices paid were only 11%
above that level, a 24% improvement.
Index of Prices Received and Paid by Farmers, 1964-1972 (midyear)
1964  1965  1966  1967  1968  1969  1970  1971  1972
Prices received         100   117.1 191.4 118.5 195.8 131.6 129.1 135.8 138.2
Prices paid             100   103.3 106.2 108.9 110.0 111.8 114.0 119.7 111.1
Parity index            100   113.4 114.3 108.8 114.4 117.7 113.2 113.5 124.4
8.        Rapid price increases and inflation have produced dramatic changes
in prices in the past three years:
Index of Prices Received and Paid by Farmers, 1971-73
(1964=100)
Prices Received                            Prices Paid
1971   1972       1973                    1971   1972    1973
-- June --  June   Nov.                   -- June ---  June  Nov.
Agriculture        145    161  183    168   General          120    121   133   145
Livestock
products         134    151  151    170   Fertilizer    113    115   124   130
Crops              154    168  204    168
Cereals            108    109  124    115   Seeds            137    141   149   150
Legumes            140    192  180    181
Potatoes           121    137  214    157   Feeds            124    124   139   169
Vegetables         195    199  235    202
Fruits             166    152  204    166   Fuels            111    111   111   117
Wine               147    242  339    282
Olives             140    165  178    192
Although the index of prices paid remained below that of prices received thirough
November 1973, the increase in prices paid since June 1971 was more rapid (20%)
than that of prices received, and most of this increase was concentrated in
1973. Prices paid rose substantiaily in the last month of 1973 and the first
months of 1974. The increases in livestock feed costs are especially signi-
ficant. Between 1964 and 1972 feed costs increased only 24% but from mid-
1972 to November 1973 they were 60% above the 1964 level. The very slow re-
lative increase in cereals' prices since 1964 is a major explanation of the
declining role of wheat. Surprisingly, however, livestock product prices
received by farmers have risen no more rapidly than prices received for crops
in general. This suggests a continuing absence of a strong incentive to shift
rapidly towards livestock production.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
9.        Rapidly growing per capita incomes have resulted in major shifts in
consumption patterns in Spain (Table 10). The major decline has been in ce-
reals consumption, from 92.5 to 75.0 kg/capita between 1964 and 1972. Per
capita consumption of potatoes, vegetables, fruits and fish have remained
relatively constant. Sugar, meat and milk consumption have all shown sub-
stantial increases. During the first half of the sixties a large portion of
these rapid increases came about as the result of increased imports, especial-
ly of cereals for livestock feed and of meat (Table 12). There has been a
clear slowing down of the rate of increase in meat consumption since 1967
(Table 10) and the quantity of both meat and cereal imports generally stabil-
ized after 1967 at high levels (Table 12). Beef has been the dominant meat
imported but the quantity of beef imported has declined since 1969 (Table 13).
10.       Rapid inflation has influenced the consumption and trade pattern
in agricultural products. The cost of living index rose 22% between 1962 and
1967 and another 20% by 1972. The index for food, beverages and tobacco rose
by 29 and 23% during the same periods. The average annual rise in the cost
of living was 3.9% and for food 4.8% from 1962 to 1972. In 1973 the inflation
rate was nearly 15%. Rising prices have therefore dampened the demand for
more expensive foods, of which livestock products are a major component.
Increased livestock production, especially since 1967, has helped forestall
further major increases in the quantities of livestock products and cereals
imported, but progressively higher international prices for these and oilseeds
have driven their import values up sharply, especially in 1973.
11.       The level of livestock production, especially meat production, in
1973 was exceptionally high. Droughts in 1972 and 1973 and rapidly rising
feed prices in 1973 produced exceptionally heavy slaughter - a 35% increase
in the cattle slaughter rate. It is expected that meat production will fall
in 1974.
12.       Given the high level of fish consumption, Spanish meat consumption
levels are not likely to increase as rapidly as would be expected in other
countries at the same income level where fish is not as prominent in the
diet. As indicated in Tables 10 and 11, however, sizeable increases in the
demand for meat are projected by 1975 and 1980. Total meat consumption is
expected to increase from 1.6 million tons in 1973 to 1.8 million tons by
1975, and from 1.9 to 2.2 million tons by 1980. There is a substantial gap
between these projection levels and the most likely 1974 production level of
about 1.4 million tons.  high world meat and feed prices militate against
filling this gap from large increases in imports, which exceeded US$1.6
billion in 1973 for agriculture products alone.
13.       The high cost of imports, limitations on expanding the area under
cereals, the slow rise in Spanish cereal yields and the very sharp rise in
fertilizer prices indicate a need to increase meat production from domestic
non-grain sources. The direction of projected changes in consumption indi-
cates that the strongest demand increases will be for beef.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Special Characteristics of Galicia
14.       The region of Galicia, where it is proposed that the Second Livestock
Development Project be focussed, consists of the provinces of La Coruna, Lugo,
Orense and Pontevedra. Table 14 shows these to be the four poorest agricul-
tural provinces in Spain, based on production per person occupied in agricul-
ture. Of the 50 provinces, these 4 ranked among the poorest 13 in 1967 and
were the poorest of all regions in 1971. Whereas more advanced provinces
had average agricultural production per person in 1971 of from Ptas 120,000
to 165,000, these provinces averaged between Ptas 30,000 and 39,000 per person.
15.       Table 15 suggests part of the reason - small farm size.  In Galicia
as a whole, 47.6% of the farms are less than 2 ha. An additional 27.2% are
2 to 5 ha and 15% 5 to 10 ha. In La Coruna 71% of farms are less than 5 ha,
in Orense 80% and in Pontevedra 90%.
16.       A second major factor is the age of farmers.  Table 16 indicates
that in these 4 provinces less than 3% of the farmers are 34 years of age or
younger. Farmers between 35 and 54 years old account for 34%, those 55 to
64 account for 29% and 33.6% of the farmers in Galicia are 65 years old or
older.
17.       In Table 17 the proportion of active population occupied in agricul-
ture in Galicia is compared with the proportion in other provinces (compare
Tables 14 and 17). In Galicia as a whole, 52.4% of the active population is
occupied in agriculture while in Viscaya, the 9th province in terms of agri-
cultural production per person employed in agriculture, only 8.1% is thus
occupied. In Lugo and Orense provinces the population occupied in agriculture
reaches 64 to 67%.
18.       Galicia is a depressed rural area where the conditions of small farm
size, low farm income and aging farm population are compounded by heavy depend-
ence of the population on agriculture as a source of income and way of life.
19.       However, the region possesses a major undeveloped potential for
livestock production with much unused and underutilized land.  The problems
of small farm size, communal ownership and lack of knowledge of the technology
for developing the region present major challenges which this Project is de-
signed to attack by introducing pilot projects designed to offer observable
alternatives to the local population backed up with proper technical assist-
ance and capital.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Total and Agricultural Trade, 1968-1972
Annual
Imoorts                      1968      1969     1970     1971     1972    Increase
Total imports (Ptas  iiLl)   246.5   296.3   332.3   347.4   437.6            15.7
Agricultural imports (Ptas   55.7      67.3     66.6     77.1     94.4        14.4
Agricultural of total, %     22.6      22.7    20.1      22.2     21.6
Exoorts
Total eDoorts (Ptas  mil)   111.2    133.0   167.1    205.6   245.2           21.9
Agricultural exports (Ptas   44.2      h7.2     60.2     6h.8     69.9        12.5
mi1)
Agricultural of total, %     39.7    35.5       36.5     31.5     28.5
3alance of agricultural
trade, (Ptas  mil)          -11.5    -20.1      -6.4   -12.3    -24.5
Balance of total
trade, (Ptas  mil)         -135.3   -163.3  -165.2  -141.8   -192.4
Agricultural of total, %      8.5      12.3      3.9      8.7     12.7
Source: "La Agricultura Espanola en 1972tt, Ministerio de Agricultura.
July 23, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
.Ma,jor Agricultural Imoorts and Exports, 1969-73
1969               1970               1971                 1972               1973
% of                % of               % of                 % of               % of       % increase
Value  total       Value   total      Value   total       Value   total       Value   total         during
1969-72
IMports
Oil seeds        7.1   10.5         11.6   17.4        13.3   17.3          14.8   15.7        20.8   11.1           29.7
Cereals         10.0   14.8          9.9   14.9        15.0   19.5          10.3   10.9        17.4   17.6            1.6
Meat             4.2    6.2          4.7    7.1          2.6    3.4          9.8   10.4          8.8    8.9          69.4
Wood             6.6    9.8          6.9   10.4          7.4    9.6          9.0    9.5                              11.1
Hides & skins   3.5    5.2           2.6    3.9         3.9    5.1           8.1    8.6                              41.0
Animal feeds                                                                 2.6    2.8         18.0   18.3           -
Exports
Fruit           13.2   28.0         18.0   29.9         16.9   26.1         20.9   28.0                              17.8
Vegetables &    7.1   15.o           8.3   13.8         9.7   15.0          11.0   14.7                              15.7
products
Beverages        4.4    9.3          5.4    9.0         6.3    9.7           8.7   11.7                              25.8
Legumes & tubers2.2    4.7           5.1    8.5         5.5    8.5           6.3    8.4                              51.4
Olives & oils   4.9   10.4          10.0   16.6        12.6   19.5           5.5    8.4                               0.3
Source! "la Agricola Esparola"  Mj.ni't4ro.`o cie A,rimlt. t, 
July 23, 1974



ANNEX I
Table 3
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
/1
Agriculture in the Spanish Economy.
AverLge   Average
1_900-61  _1965-66    1968      1973
Agriculture GDP as % of total GDP               23.4      17.8      16.2      1h.5
Active population in agriculture as             41.4      32.7      31.4      27.0
% of total labor force
Agricultural exports as % of total exports      54.5      49.0      40.o      28.5
Balance of agricultural trade (in US$ mil)   +210       -267      -164      -138
Fixed capital formation in agriculture as       10.3       9.8      n.a.      n.a.
% of total capital formation
Incremental capital/output ratio
(average 1963-68)
- agricultural                                         1.7
- total economy                                        2.3
Annual growth of GDP per active person in
agriculture (1960-68), in constant prices                      6.6%
Annual growth of GDP per active person,
total economy (1960-68), in constant prices                    5.8%
1 Includes forestry and fisheries.
/2 Corrected for changes in the labor force.
Source: Derived from OECD and Spanish statistics.
July 23, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Area, Yield and Production of Major Cereals, 1961-1973
Total                       Wheat                      Barley                      Maize
Area  Yield Production      Area Yield Production        Area  Yield Production       Area  Yield  Production
Mil ha Tons  Mil tons        Mil ha  Tons/ Mil  tons      Mil ha  Tons  Mil  tons    Mil ha  Tons/  Mil  tons
-a                            ha                           ha                          ha
1961    6.9    1.1     7.5           3.9     0.9     3.4          1.4    1.2      1.7        .447      2.4     1.1
1962    7.3    1.3    9.3            4.3    1.1      4.8          1.5     1.5     2.2        .430      2.1     0.9
1963    9.2    1.3    9.4            4.2    1.1      4.9          1.5    1.4    2.1          .487      2.4     1.2
1964    7.0    1.2    8.3            4.1     0.9     4.0          1.4     1.4    1.9         .514      2.4     1.2
1965    7.1    1.3    8.9            4.3    1.1      4.7          1.4    1.4      1.9        .478      2.h     1.1
1966    7.0    1.3    9.3            4.2     1.2    4.9           1.3     1.5    2.0         .482      2.4     1.2
1967    7.2    1.5   10.7            4.3     1.3    5.6           1.5     1.7    2.6         .478      2.5     1.2
1968    7.4    1.6   11.6            3.9     1.3    5.3           1.9     1.8     3.4        .523      2.8     1.5
1969    7.3    1.6   11.5            3.8     1.3    4.6           2.1     1.9    4.0         .494      3.1     1.5
1970    7.4    1.4   10.2            3.7    1.1    4.1            2.2     1.4    3.1         .530     3.4      1.8
1971    7.5    1.8   13.7            3.7     1.5    5.5           2.4    2.0      4.8        .557     3.7      2.1
1972    7.5    1.6   12.1            3.6     1.3    4.6           2.5     1.7     4.4        .534      3.6     1.9
1973    7.3    1.6   11.6            3.1     1.3    3.9           2.8     1.6     4.4        .531      3.9     2.1
Sources: FAO Production Yearbook, 1972, Vol. 26
Buletin Mensual de Estadistica Agraria,
1 January, 1974, Ministerio de Agricultura.
July 23, 1974                                  



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Yields in Selected Countries
- ------------Quintals per ha  ------------------------------   --Iiters per lactation--
Wheat average                 Barley average                  Maize average                Milk average
1952-56 1964-66  1970-72       1952-56  1964-66  1970-72    1952-56  1964-66 1970-72  1952-56  1964-66  1970-72
Spain         9.5    10.8    12.7            11.5    14.3    17.3           19.0    23.7    35.9         1,710    2,100   2,380
Portugal      8.1     7.6      9.2            5.9     4.7      4.6           9.3    11.2    12.6         1,876/2    --    2,400
Greece       12.1    17.9    19.6            11.0    17.1    18.6           10.7    19.5    35.5           784    1,032   1,200
Italy       17.7    21.4    24.7             11.6    14.1    20.7           24.1    34.9    53.8         2,594    2,530   2,800
France       21.7    30.8    45.8            21.9    29.1    39.0           22.4    36.1    45.8         2,027    2,763   3,300
USA          12.5    17.6    21.9            15.2    21.3    23.5           26.5    43.7    60.8         2,587    3,767   4,500
Source: FAO Production Yearbooks
/ 1  Quintal = 100 kg
72   1961-65
July 23, 19741



ANNEX 1.
Table 6
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fertilizer Use and Mechanization, 1961-65, 1968 to 1972
1961-65     1968      1969     1970     1971      1972
Fertilizer             Average
Conumtiize            --------------- Thousand tons ------- ----------------
Consumption-Tosn   os
of plant nutrients
Nitrogenous             351        520       589       615       621      683
Phosphates              310        369       369       399       h54     1497
Potash                   95        173       206       211       236      281
Tractors in use
(Thousands)           111         -        239       260      282       306
Harvesters -threshers
(Thousands)            10         -         30        32        34       36
Sources: FAO Production Yearbook, 1972
La Agricultura Espanjola en 1972
July 23, 1974



ANNEX 1
Table 7
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Meat, Milk and Egg Production, 1960-1973
Year    Beef &      Pork      Poultry      Lamb &      Total       Milk      Eggs
Vel                              Mutton                   rooo    t ooo
---------------  ----t000  tons ------------------         liters  dozen
1960     160         258         13        110         572          _         _
1961     177         239         82        104         651          -         -
1962     163         245        110         103        671        2,546      429
1963     172         311        128        104         762        1,672      579
1964     225         317        141        117         850        2,690     531
1965     177         266        147        122         764        2,712     535
1966     198         367        213        121         944        3,071     555
1967     215         419        257        122       1,058        3,356     546
1968     241         419        257        118       1,084        3,679     546
1969     256         437        297        116       1,155        3,968      610
1970     308         492        316        127       1,295        4,895      612
1971     324         475        318         124      1,295        4,800      616
1972     303         461        329         126      1,275        5,o42      621
1973     373         587        344        130       1,490        5,294      627
Source:   FAO Production Yearbook
La Agricultura Espanola en 1972
Buletin Mensual de Estadistica Agraria
Jily 23, 1974



ANNEX 1
Table 8-
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Value of Agricultural Production by Subsector
1968/69 - 1972/73
Subsector    1968/69     1969/70     1970/71      1971/72     1972/73    Annual
I.ncrease
--------------------------- Ptas mil-  ----------------------------
Crops         192.0       188.1       191.3        221.5       237.8      5.7
Livestock     120.4       131.4       138.6       147.7        164.0      8.0
Forestry        8.9        10.2        11.5         12.9        14.4     11.5
TOTAL         321.3       329.7       341.4        382.1       416.2      6.7
Percentage Distribution by Subsector
Crops          59.7        57.1        56.o         58.0        57.1
Livestock      34.5        39.8        40.6        38.6         39.4
Forestry        2.8         3.1         3.4          3.4         3.5
Source   Anuarios del Ministerio de Agricultura.
July 23, 1974



ANNEX 1
Table 9
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Gross Value of Production and Foreign Trade
(Crop year 1972/73)
Gross Value /1
of Production -   Imports    Exports    Net Trade
- - ----- _ _----US$ mil-----_____ ______ _
Livestock products         2,828          249          27           -222
Pasture and forages          356           -           -               -
Cereals                      722          180          13            -167
Oil seeds                    379          257          95            -162
Vegetables and fruits    1,705             57         470            +413
Total above             6,988          743         605           -138
Total sector /2         7,239        1,643       1,215           -428
/1   Includes intermediate products such as feed grains, and other
livestock feed, animal labor, etc.
/2   Including forestry, excluding fisheries.
Source: La Agricultura Espanola en 1969
Note:    US$ 1 = Ptas 50.50
July 23, 1974



SPAINI
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPIElNT PROJECT
Per Capita Consumption of Major Foods, 1964-72
and Projections to 1975 and 1980
Year      Cereals       Potatoes     Sugar      Vegetables      Fruits       Meat         Leza          Fish        Milk
---------------------------------------------- Kg per capita ----------------------------------------------
1964t     92.5          105.0        21.3       132.2          93.0          25.5         10.5         29.5         63.5
1965      92.4          104.8        21.5       130.9          88.6          28.1         10.2         30.6         59.4
1966      92.5          109.5        22.9       134.7          97.9          31.4         10.5         29.7         67.0
1967      88.1          104.5        26.8       130.4          83.1          41.2         10.3         27.6         75.0
1968      88.9          107.2        25.0       131.1           87.5         41.3         10.2         30.1         78.8
1969      77.0          110.4        25.7       126.1         101.7          43.0         10.9         26.6         84.1
1970      76.2          110.0        26.6       125.8          79.0          45.0         11.6         25.1         80.9
1971      75.0          106.7        27.0       132.5          97.3          45.5         11.9         28.6         84.2
1972      75.0          108.0        27.4       132.0          98.0          46.o         12.0         28.5         85.0
Projections
1975      70.8          104.3        30.0       140.0         109.0          51.9         13.1          32.9        93.2
1980      65.5           98.6        33.5       146.4         122.9          60.2         14.6         37.2        102.4
Sources:  1964-1972:  La Agricultura expanola en 1972, Ministry of Agriculture Projections,  Agricultural
Commodity Projections, 1970-1980, FAO, 1971 Vol. II (modified - demand functions and major demand
parameters retained but applied to actual Sr.anish per capita consumption figures).
July 23, 1974



SPATN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPlIENT PROJECT
Meat Production and Consumption, Total and by
Types 1965-1973 and Projections to 1975 and 1980
Year          Beef & Veal            Pork                 Poultry             Lamb & Mutton          Total Meat
Produc-   Con-        Produc-   Con-        Produc-   Con-       Produc-   Con-         Produc-   Con-
tion      sumption   tion       sumption   tion        sumption  tion       sumption   tion       sumption
---------  ~~~t000  tonas  -    --        ----                             ----        ------ ----
1965      177        239        266        247         147       170        122       122           764        888
1966      198        278        367        384        213         -         121       121           944      1,001
1967      215        307        417        415        257         -         122       122         1,058      1,324
1968      241       345         419        451        257         -         118       118         1,084      1,347
1969      256        354        437        459        297         -         116       117         1,155      1,417
1970      308        369        492        444        316        286        127       126         1,295      1,498
1971      324        362        475        507        318         -         124       123         1,295      1,530
1972      303       377         461        550        329         _         126       128         1,275      1,562
1973      373        389        587                   344                   130        -          1,490      1,612
/\             ~            ~ ~ ~ ~~I   l                    l                       I
Projections      Spain FAO                 FAO Q                 FAO                  FAO                     FA
1975             434   546                 571                   373                  160                    1,808
1980             525   695                 662                   466                  178                    2,190       
July 23, 1974



ANIVEX 1
Table 12
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
tleat Imnorts, Fresh, Chilled and Frozen 1961-1973
Total Meat                           Beef
Tons          US$ t000              Tons           US$ '000
1961       9,780          4,480                 3,871          1,834
1962      56,990         28,820               42,554         21,643
1963      96,290         46,820               83,232         40,297
1964      21,950         12,690                19,330         11,343
1965      99,020         70,170               68,580         52,804
1966     120,580         83,3h0               87,786         61,934
1967     113,292         71,237               106,660        67,431
1968     117,874         74,157               109,000        69,162
1969     119,148         73,331               112,095        69,270
1970     102,503         66,043                98,848        63,385
1971      43,375         36,998               34,192         30,565
1972     166,305        171,601                78,383        82,532
1973     122,600        160,000                76,000           _
Cereal Imports 1961-1973
Thtal Cereals                Corn            Barley       Others
'000         Value             ________ ------ '000 tons _______.
tons         US$ '000
1961       1,577         106,430              251             361          -
1962       1,351          92,021              306              101         -
1963       1,526          98,418             961              362          -
1964       2,034         129,380           1,149               774         -
1965       2,339         154,930           1,560               539         -
1966       3,432         227,145           2,428               560        361
1967       3,280         212,319           2,575               465        230
1968       2,463         143,859           2,315                10        127
1696       2,401         142,879           2,343                10         46
1970       2,175         141,067           1,972                 6        195
1971       3,146         214,230           2,057               220        677
1972       2,566         160,207           2,383                 7        174
1973       2,947         300,000
/1 Excludes wheat, flour and rice
July 23, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Meat Import by Type, Quantity and Value 1967-73. Li
Year         Total Meat                    Beef                    Pork                Poultry               Sheen
Metric                   Metric                   Metric                Metric                  Metric
tons        US$000      tons       US$'000       tons      US$O000    tons    US$O000          tons    US$ o000
1967      113,2        71,237       106,660   |67,231         1,16)4     872      3,471      1,872        16        9
1968   ! 117,874       74,157       109,000   1 69,162        1,74o    1,337      5,427 9    2,857         10       5
1969   1 119,148       73,331       112,095      69,270       1,228    1,066      3,220      1,726       386      226
1970      102,503      66,0243      98,848       63,385       1,103    1,187      3,305        202         447   285
1971      243,375      36,998        324,192     30,565      3,075   2~,603        4,764     2,713         473    365
1972      166,305     171,601        78,383      32,532      76,151  |81, 16 5    9,241      5,688        806    683
1973      122,600     160,000        76,000        -        39,000   X                        -         7,000      -
_    _   _          _     _     ____x                                         4               __ 
/1   Fresh, chilled and frozen only.  Excludes live animals, processed meats and meat products and other meats.
Source: FAO Trade Yearbook
Ministry of Commerce, Madrid
July 23, 1974



SPAIN                                  Tablei
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMFNT PROJECT
Production Per Person Occupied in Ag'riculture
1967  Ptas                     1969   Ptas                         1971   Ptas
1  Barcelona    92.7              Lerida         T 7. 4               Lerida         1'I.7
2  Valladolid   90.7              Valladolid      123.1              Valladolid    12.0
3  Logrono       88.7             Navarra         122.6               Huesca         141.20
4  Navarra       86.3             Gerona          122.4               Gerona          127.2
5  Huesca        78.1             Alava           114.1               Madrid          123.8
6  Alava         77.3             Huesca          107.3               Barcelona      122.0
7  Gerona        77.3             Barcelona       106.3              Alava           120.2
8  Soria         74.9             Logrono         103.6               Navarra        113).1
9  Cuenca        74.1             Soria           100.1               Vizcaya         11',.4
10  Lerida        73.6             Guipuzcoa,       96.1               Sevilla         112.0
11  Guipuzcoa    72.0              Castellon       94.8               Logrono         11l 6
12  Tarragona    70.3             Segovia           91.7              Cadiz           135
13  Burgos        68.9             Teruel           90.5               Cordoba         1.
16  Vizcaya       67.9            Madrid            89.6               Soria           10
15  Segovia       67.8             Zaragoza         87.9              Segovia         10).7
16  Baleares      67.2             Palencia         87.8               Alicante        ID).
17  Sevilla       67.2             Baleares         87.7              Albacete            i
18  Zamora        67.1             Toledo           86:4               Toledo           98.7
19  Valencia     66.2             Vizcaya           86.o               Baleares        96.'
20  Zaragoza      65.7             Tarragona        80.9               Guip6zcoa        93.8
21  Palencia      64.7             Burgos           80.5               Palencia         92.o
22  Albacete      63.4             Guadalajara      80.3               Burgos           91.6
23  Castello'n    63.3             Cadiz            79.0          -    Tarragona        89.6
24  Badajoz       62.7             Cuidad Real      77.7               Valencia         88.6
25  Santander    61.0              Cuenca           76.9               Guadalajara      85.6
26 Madrid         59.9             Valencia         75.2               Badajoz          85.6
27  C6rdoba       58.2             Albacete         74.4               Teruel           85.0
28  Alicante      57.5             Santander        72.4               Cuenca ,         81.6
29  Toledo        56.1             Sevilla          69.6               Castollon        84.l
30  Salamanca    55.7              Badajoz          66.0               Zaragoza         8L.2
31  Cadiz         55.4             Murcia           65.4               A1neria          84.0
32  Guadalajara  55.3              Alicante         65.0               Cuidad Real      82.7
33  Las Palnas   54.4              Salamnanca       64.o               Murcia           81.1
34  Murcia        54.2             Avila            62.8               Santander        77.1
35  Leon          52.0             Zamora           62.6               Las Palmas       77.4
36  Cuidad Real  51.5              Leon             61.2               Leon             75.l
37  lZu         51.1              Jaen             61.2               Jaen             75.3
38  Sta C. Tener 50.2              Cordoba          59.2               Salamanca        68.!
39  Teruel        49.4             Logo             56.3-              Sta C. Tener.   66.3
l6o  Huelva       48.8             Caceres          55.0               Avila            63.1
61  Malaga        46.1             Oviedo           54.6               Malaga           62.7
42  Granada       45.6             Las Palmas       51.7               Caceres          59.3
43  Avila         4h.6             Granada          51.0               Zamora           57.0
lilt Oviedo       414.4            Huelva           51.0               Granada          56.3
1J5  Caceres      43.7             Sta C. Tener    50.6                Oviedo           53.1
14  Pontevedra   43.3              Malag3           49.1               Huelva           66.o
47  Alneria       39.4             Almeria          47.2               Pontevedra      3Y.0
48  Jae'n         37.7             Pontevedra       43.5               Lugo             37.8
49  La Coruna    33.8              La Coruna        39.6               Il. Coruna       35.8
50  Orense        28.9             Orense           32.7               Orense           30.2
Source: Banco de Bilbao
July 23, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Average Farm Size by Province in Galicia
Region    Total        0-2 ha     2-5 ha       5-10 ha      10-20 ha    20-50 ha    50-100 ha    100 ha
#   114,514       51,633      29,663       19,832       10,513      2,388         209         276
La Coruna
%     100          45.1        25.9         17.3         9.2         2.9          0.2         0.2
81,866      19,250       24,023      21,110       13,369      3,727         197         190
Lugo
100         23.5         29.3        25.8        16.3         4.6          0.2         0.2
83.255      37,125       30,280      10,921        3,702        928          72         227
Orense
%     100          44.6        36.4         13.1         4.4         1.1          0.1         0.3
#    105,556      75,307       20,951       6,301        2,395        406          36         160
Pontevedra
%     100          71.3         19.9        6.0          2.3         0.4          0.03         0.2
#   385,191      183,315      104,917      58,164       29,979      7,449         514         853
Galicia
%     100          47.6        27.2         15.1         7.8         2.0          0.1         0.2
Source: 1972 Census
July 23, 1974



ANNEX 1
Table 16
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK EEVEWLPMENT PROJECT
Age of Farm Owners in Galicia
Region     Iess than
Region           34       35-54        55-64     65 & over   TOTAL       Non-farming
Total       4,034      41,531     31,378      36,088     113,031      33,117
La Coruna
T -          3.6        36.7       27.8        31.9                    29.3
Total       1,855      25,493     22,136      28,314      77,798      14,378
2.4       32.8        28.4       36.4                    18.5
Total       2,153    28,767       24,659      25,784      81,363      16,905
Orense
%            2.6        35.3       30.3        31.7                    20.7
Total       2,822    32,072       32,170      35,746     102.810      36,807
Pontevedra
-           2.7        31.2       31.3        34.8                    35.8
Total      10,864   127,863      110,343    125,932      375,002    101,207
GALIC IA
i            2.9        34.1       29.4        33.6                    27.0
July 23, 1974



ANN   1
Table 17
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Active Population Occupied in Agriculture
La CorIna                          48.0
Lugo                               64.0
Orense                              66.7
Pontevedra                         42.6
GALICIA                             52.4
Oviedo                              29.4
Santander                           31.4
OVIENDO-SANTANDER                   30.0
Guipuzcoa                            7.2
Vizcaya                              8.1
Alava                               16.8
VASCONGADAS                          8.85
R E G I O N                         33.33
Source: "Renta nacional de Espana y su
distribution provincial".
Banco de Bilbao 1969
July 23, 1974



AiNNEX 2
Page 1
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
Government Livestock Production, Pricing and Marketing Policies
Cattle Inventory and Slaughter in Spain
1.        Between 1961-65 and 1970-72, cattle numbers slaughtered increased
31% and beef and veal production increased 70% (Table 1). Until 1969 over half
the total animals marketed were calves weighing less than 125 kg. This propor-
tion had increased from 50% in 1961 to 59% in 1967 (Table 1) and was causing
major concern.  Government policies and programs (including the Bank's First
Livestock Development Project) designed to correct this adverse development
have shown dramatic results since 1967. Calves slaughtered as a percent of
total cattle slaughtered dropped from 59% in 1967 to 54% in 1969 and to 31%
in 1972. Yearlings and young cattle, only 22% of the total slaughtered in 1967,
jumped to 54% in 1972. Older animals slaughtered declined to 15% in 1972.
2.        About one-half of Spain's total cattle inventory is located in the
northern tier of provinces, comprised of Galicia, Vascongadas, and Asturias-
Santander (Figure 1).
Relative Prices of Beef and Veal
3.        Despite the very sharp change in the proportion of calves slaughtered
to total cattle slaughtered, there has been surprising stability in the rela-
tionship of calf (veal) prices to other cattle prices. Average liveweight
prices for calves up to five months rose from Ptas 50.3/kg in 1967 to Ptas
74.5/kg in 1973. During the same period beef prices rose from Ptas 41.0 to
65.0/kg (Table 2). In absolute terms the margin between beef and veal prices
has remained practically identical, Ptas 9.3 to 9.5/kg, but beef prices have
risen from 81.5% of veal prices in 1967 to 87.1% in 1972. Although there is
some seasonal fluctuation in cattle prices there is no clear pattern (Table 3).
Lamb and Mutton Production and Pricing
4.        The major alternative to beef cattle in the pasture regions of
Spain is sheep. Sheep numbers have fallen from 21 million head in 1961-65 to
17.9 million in 1972 (Annex 1, para 6).  Sheep meat production has increased
less than 1% annually, from 103,810 tons in 1961 to 129,600 tons in 1973.
Wool production has declined from 29,000 tons in 1961 to 25,000 tons in 1973.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        Prices of lamb (lechal, one month and pascual, three to eight months)
show greater seasonal variation than do cattle prices (Table 4), due to sea-
sonal pasture conditions in Spain which force lamb sales during the dry season
in late spring, summer and early fall. Lamb prices have risen more sharply
than cattle prices since the mid-sixties:
Changes in Livestock Prices in Spain, 1965-1973
1965   1966   1967   1971   1972   1973   1973/1965
index
--------- Ptas/kg liveweight ---------   1965=100
Veal                       47.4   48.5   50.3   56.6   70.6   74.5          157
Beef (one to two years)  40.4   41.1   41.0   48.5   57.2   65.0            161
Cull Cows                  32.6   31.6   30.4   34.4   40.1   40.7         125
Lambs (one month)          48.3   51.5   54.1   67.8   83.3   97.5         202
Lambs (three to eight
months)              36.1   38.2   40.1   51.1   61.3   68.0          188
Mutton                     23.9   25.5   24.1   24.2   32.0   35.2          147
The strong upward movement of lamb prices reflects rising incomes of consumers,
declining sheep numbers, slowly growing lamb production and the Government's
monopoly of imports of meat. Lamb imports were 10 tons in 1968 (Annex 1, Table
13). They rose sharply to 7,000 tons in 1973, induced undoubtedly by the high
prices prevailing in that year, Ptas 103/kg in October-November, almost double
the 1966 price (Annex 2, Table 4). Both lamb meat and live lambs were imported
in 1973 (Annex 1).
6.        Support prices for lamb have been raised from Ptas 60 to 65/kg
(carcass weight) for lambs under 19 kg in the late sixties to Ptas 90 to 120
in 1972/73.
2Ieat Marketing Channels and Facilities
7.        Cattle and other livestock are purchased from producers as follows:
(a) in some cities, by meat wholesalers who slaughter and process
livestock at municipal abattoirs;
(b)  for other cities such as Madrid, by tratantes (dealers), who
consign the livestock to entradores who on behalf of the
tratantes slaughter and process livestock at municipal
abattoirs; and
(c) by freezing companies which slaughter and process livestock
through their own plants.



ANNE X 2
Page 3
All of these -- the entradores, the meat wholesalers, and the freezing com-
panies -- sell and distribute processed meat to meat retailers, and each is
required to obtain from their local municipal authorities licenses to operate.
Most meat retailers are not licensed to sell frozen meat which is sold by
retailers who have obtained special licenses from local municipalities.
8.        The establishment of a municipal abattoir requires a license from
the Ministry of the Interior; and the establishment of a freezing company
requires a license from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the
Interior. Municipal abattoirs do not generally have freezing and cold stor-
age facilities, although these are available at the Madrid Abattoir. Coopera-
tives, on behalf of their farmer members, also process livestock and sell meat
to retailers. These cooperatives have freezing and cold storage facilities.
The marketing cycle is in some cases fairly complex, but charges at the various
stages are not out of line and costs of marketing are reasonable. The Govern-
ment collects a turnover tax of 2.7% on every occasion that meat carcasses or
cuts are sold.
9.        Meat importing is done solely by the CAT under reciprocal trade
agreements with Governments of meat exporting countries. Bilateral trade
agreements are used which provide for either money payments or exchange of
goods.  Imported frozen beef is purchased directly from CAT by selected meat
retailers who have special licenses to buy and sell frozen meat. CAT sells
imported ciiilled beef to the Retail Butchers Association which then distributes
the meat to selected retailers (Figure 2). Table 5 shows imports of meat by
CAT from 1971 to 1973. Frozen beef has been the principal import since 1964,
but has gradually declined as more pork and lamb have been imported (Annex 1,
Table 13). Veal is not imported.
Beef Price Policies
10.       In an effort to reduce the slaughtering of young calves, the Gov-
ernment has prohibited the slaughtering of all calves weighing less than 125
kg (cleaned carcass weight) and granted premiums as follows:
1969/70   1970/71   1971/72   1972/73
------- Ptas/kg carcass weight -----
Weight of Carcass
180-210 kg /a                       3         3           3
Over 210 kg/a                       6         6           6
190-220 kg                          -         -           -          3
220-270 kg                          -         -           -          6
Over 270 kg                         _         _           _          9
/a   Male animals only.



AlNEX 2
Page 4
These premiums and the prohibition of calf slaughtering have been effective
in shifting the structure of beef slaughter (Table 1). Animals weighing from
180 to 210 kg carcass weight were 35.6% of the total slaughtered in the last
half of 1968 and those weighing 210 kg or more were 64.9%. By the last half
of 1972 the numbers and proportions were as follows:
Carcass Weight of Slaughtered Cattle            % of Total
180 to 210 kg                          15.2
220 to 270 kg                          44.5
More than 270 kg                       40.3
11.       Independent of the production premium system, CAT regulates prices
with minimum and maximum intervention prices. The minimum price is a guar-
antee price at which CAT, acting under the general supervision of FORPPA, is
required to buy carcasses. An indicative price is established which is an
average wholesale price paid by a group of sample slaughterhouses for a
yearling carcass weighing more than 220 kg. When the beef price reaches
the maximum intervention price, CAT is required to sell frozen beef in the
market. These prices for beef from 1969/70 through 1973/74 are given in
Table 6. Table 7 gives the guarantee, minimum and maximum intervention
prices for beef, pork and sheep from 1970/71 through 1974/75.
12.       Support payments are not made to producers but to the owner of
the animals at the time of delivery to the abattoir. Whether producers
actually benefit fully from price support operations is therefore uncertain.
In addition, price supports are not uniformly applicable throughout the
country. There is no automatic provision for purchasing meat in individual
cases. Only when an entire area or region is declared to be one in which
cattle prices are below support levels does CAT stand ready to buy at support
prices. Furthermore it only buys at selected abattoirs, with which CAT has
contracts, after a rather cumbersome and time-consuming administrative pro-
cess. The seller may wait for as long as several months to receive payment
from CAT. There could be numerous sales which are not subject to price
supports in areas which have not been designated as requiring assistance.
13.       CAT's domestic purchases of carcasses to support prices have been
small because domestic prices have usually been above support levels (Table
8). In 1970/71, 16,500 tons of beef were purchased domestically and in
1973/74, 12,500 tons. In 1970/71, 58,000 tons of pork were purchased.
14.       Import unit values for selected meats are given in Table 9.  Aver-
age wholesale prices in Madrid in Februarv 1973 and 1974 given below can be
compared with wholesale and retail prices in selected cities in 1971, 1972
and 1973 given in Table 10.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Average Wholesale Prices at
Type of Carcass                              Madrid Municipal Slaughterhouse
2-20-74              2-21-73
(Ptas/kg carcass weight)
Calf                                           182.50                185.00
Yearling, grass-fed                             132.50               117.00
Bull, grain-fed                                107.50                 99.00
Baby lamb, nursing                             184.00                165.50
Older lamb                                     137.00                134.00
Special pork                                    76.50                 77.00
Kid goat, nursing                              180.00                144.00
15.       The margin between average c.i.f. unit values and the wholesale or
retail price of all meats is substantial. Whereas in the late 1960's CAT's
sales to wholesalers were clearly carried out at a loss (First Livestock
Appraisal Report, July 1, 1969, Annex 2), this does not appear to be the
case presently. The rapid upward movement of all meat prices in 1971-73
(Table 10) suggests that meat imports have not had a significant dampening
effect on meat prices recently.
16.       The system of marketing meat products in Spain, coupled with live-
stock development projects, has brought about a gradual change in the environ-
ment for beef production since the Bank's First Livestock Development Project.
Production has been stimulated and has responded with rapid growth. Imports
have diminished gradually and producer and consumer prices have risen. As a
consequence the price dampening effect of imports has been reduced and the
rate of increase of meat consumption per capita has slowed down with higher
retail prices. Thus, Spain has lived within its own production capabilities
-- maintaining a fairly constant level of imports -- and has managed to in-
crease beef production significantly and consumption moderately since 1967.



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cattle Slaughter by Type 1961-1972
('000 head)
Type              1961       1962    1963    1964    1965    1966    1967          1968    1969   1970        1971     1972
Calves              616       574     615      765      605      720      798      802      797      648      655      467
% of total        50        51       52       50       53       58       59       56       54       39       38       31
Yearlings            -         -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -       485      574      668
% of total         -         -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        29       33       45
Young animals      341       306      326      407      284      294      291      343      397      224      197      133
% of total        28        27       28       27       25       24       22       24       27       13       11        9
Old animals         274       241     240      346      253      228      259      300      288      310      306      221
% of total        22        22       20       23       22       18       19       21       19       19       18       15
Total head       1,231     1,121   1,181    1,518   1,142   1,243   1,348   1,445   1,482   1,666   1,733   1,489
Total tonnage       178       163     172      225      177      198      215      241      256      308      324      302
/1   Carcass weight
Source: Ministerio de Agricultura
July 1974                                                                                                                     & 
- M



ANNEX 2
Table 2
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
Average Annual Prices of Beef and Veal
1965    1966    1967    1968    1971    1972    1973
-   --------Pas/kg liveweight-
Veal                            4 h7.4    48.5    5023   51.3    56.6    70.6    74.5.
Beef                           40.4    4 l.I    4l.0    41.6    4805    57.2    65.0
Oller cattle  /3                 -       -        -        -      34.4    40.1    40.3
Price differentials
Veal to beef (Ptas/kg)           7.0     7.4      9.3      9.7     8.1    13.4      9.5
Beef to older cattle (Ptas/kg)                                    14.1    17.1    25.0
Beef price as % of
veal price                    85.2    84.7    81.5    81.1    85.6    81.0    87.1
/1 Calves up to five months
2  Beef under two years
3 More than two years
Source: Ministerio de Agricultura, Secretaria General Tecnica,
La Agricultura Espanola en 1966 and 1972 (Madrid, 1967 and 1973)
July 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
Monthly Cattle Liveweight Price, 1965-67 and 1971-73
-___________________- Veal  I ------------------             --------------------- Steers L------------Cu--              -------------------- Cull Cows ------------------
1965     1966     1967     1971     1972    197?             1965      1966     1967     1971      1972     1973          1965     1966     1967     1971      1972    1973
-------------------------------------------------------------------  (Ptas/kg liveweight)  ---------------------_--___--______________________________________________
January           41.16    47.92    48.52    52.67    62.28    70.31            34.99    43.36    38.44    47.82    51.78    55.45          29.31    34.20    29.99    32.27    37.42   39.75
February          43.94    48.87    49.28    52.64    63.26    70.51            37.40    42.77    39.87    46.41    52.27    57.06          29.74    33.57    29.36    32.42    37.90   39.68
March             45.74    47.31    50.11    53.39    65.02    69.87            39.13    41.54    40.54    47.41    54.66    58.91          32.86    32.45    30.99    32.93    38.97   40.25
April             48.40    47.73    50.83    54.06    65.66    71.96            40.53    41.40    W0.52    46.92    54.96    57.46          33.91    31.90    30.87    33.32    40.06   40.34
May               49.85    47.80    50.78    56.11    69.04    70.60            41.16    40.97    42.16    47.59    56.84    59.88          33.73    31.83    30,34    33.54    41.12   41.56
June              48.74    45.25    51.01    56.97    69.88    72.95            40.44    40.96    41.74    47.49    58.02    60.35          33.29    31.40    30.49    33.12    42.24   40.93
July              48.51    48.16    49.87    57.42    70.35    72.56            41.28    41.01    40.74    47.52    59.52    62.73          32.44    32.16    29.38    33.39    42.24   40.07
August            48.05    49.63    49.00    56.73    70.12    74.37            41.37    41.31    41.08    46.69    58.14    64.27          32.09    31.87    29.87    33.80    40.26   40.27
September         48.82    49.86    50.51    58.66    70.88    74.57            41.00    40.44    41.34    48.78    58.87    64.66          32.95    30.54    30.25    35.34    70.66   41.13
October           49.16    48.09    51.28    59.85    70.01    74.40            41.49    39.16    41.44    49.26    57.85    65.97          33.37    29.93    30.56    36.93    40.67   41.33
November          48.45    51.37    51,15    60.49    68.82    75.28            42.48    41.53    41.33    50.25    54.50    67.14          34.29    30.95    30.52    37.18    39.91   41.64
December          47.37    49.41    51.52    62.28    69.77    76.50/3          42.74    38.39    42.35    51.64    54.00    68.00/3        33.59    28.51    31.86    37.48    38.12   42.00/3
Average           47.41    48.47    50.34    56.61    70.64    74.50/3          40.37    41.10    41.00    48.50    57.18    65.00          32.65    31.64    30.40    34.38    40.13   40.25/3
/1 Five months old
2  Two years old
3  Estimated
Source: Ministerio de Agricultura, Secretaria General Tecnica, La Agricultura Espaflola 1966, 1967 and Beletin Mensual de Estadistica Agraria, I enero 1974.
July 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monthly Lamb and Mutton Liveweight Prices, 1965-67 and 1971-73
------------- Lamb (Lechul) /I  ---------__----                ------------- Lamb (Pascual)/2 -------------                   ---------------- Mutton ----------------
1965    1966      1967    1971    1972        1973             1965    1966    1967    1971    1972    1973                   1965    1966    1967    1971    1972    1973
-------------------------------------------------------  (Ptas/kg liveweight) --------------------___________________________________________
January            46.48   55.07    53.06   64.51   81.75    95.62                 34.52   41.83   39.48   47.87   63.10   71.40                  22.40   28.75   25.48   22.14   29.09   35.93
February           47.68   50.74    49.92   62.51   77.40    89.39                 36.64   38.89   38.37   47.82   59.42   66.71                  23.98   27.11   24.68   22.06   32.60   34.55
March              46.72   49.09    51.60   62.65   72.27         86.89            36.37   37.08   39.51   48.78   54.07    63.85                 23.96   25.47   25.08   22.03   27.92   32.73
April              45.73   47.01    53.57   64.29   84.94    85.39                 34.53   34.80   40.63   49.08   54.83   58.81                  23.64   25.29   24.33   23.18   28.77   32.61
May                45.34   48.13    54.21   64.82   74.82    88.09                 33.57   35.10   40.47   47.61   57.54   55.57                  23.34   24.60   24.53   22.80   30.43   33.03
June               44.63   47.88    51.21   65.22   77.25    90.33                 33.76   36.03   39.47   48.62   59.90   56.20                  23.17   24.44   24.18   22.51   31.47   33.20
July               45.49   50.10    50.53   65.72   77.28    91.23                 34.14   36.58   38.63   48.32   60.67   57.92                  23.12   24.65   22.65   23.63   33.54   31.74
August             46.55   51.40    52.74   65.69   81.40    94.48                 34.81   37.50   38.36   49.66   60.67    65.56                 22.67    24.33   23.89   23.78   31.81   33.93
September          49.81   53.20    54.54   68.78   89.29   100.11                 35.75   37.82   39.39   52.85   63.83   72.60                  23.53   25.05   24.27    24.08   32.94   35.68
October            50.31   55.38    57.43   72.54   90.54   102.81                 37.37   40.67   41.34   54.49   66.85   75.51                  24.06    25.15   23.07   24.17   32.75   34.74
November           54.10   56.63    60.32   75.05   91.10   102.57                 40.07   41.10   43.14   57.13   66.79   76.04                  26.39   25.41   23.51   25.40   33.24   34.42
December           56.75   54.83    60.46   81.41   95.10   105.00/3               41.92   40.65   42.86   61.92   67.91    78.00/3               26.84   25.09   23.35   28.63   35.35   36.00/3
Average            48.32   51.50    54.15   67.85   83.30    97.50/3               36.12   38.16   40.14   51.05   61.31    68.00/3               23.93   25.52   24.10   24.16   32.04   35.203
LI One month
2  Three to eight months
/3  Estimated                                                                                                                                                                                                zi
mx
Sources:  La Agricultura Espaflola 1966 and 1967 and Boletin Mensual de Estadistica Agraria 1 enero 1974.                                                                                                     v
July 1974



ANNEX 2
Table 5
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Imports of Meat by CAT
Metric Tons
1971
Young cattle, frozen
hindquarter meat             2,458
Young cattle, frozen
adjusted price              21,658
Pork, frozen - carcass         3,752
Lamb, frozen - carcass           144
1972
Young cattle, frozen
hindquarter meat             7,335
Young cattle, frozen
adjusted price              65,286
Young cattle, frozen
boneless                     6,513
Pork, frozen - carcass        74.471
Pork, frozen - breeding
sows                         4,174
Pork., frozen - cut up        14,650
Lamb, frozen                   1,540
Young cattle, refrigerated
hindquarter meat             3,490
1973 (through 31-7-73)
Young cattle, frozen
hindquarter meat            16,708
Young cattle, frozen
adjusted price              40,261
Young cattle, frozen
boneless                     1 ,200
Pork, frozen - carcass         9,200
Lamb, frozen                     500
Source: CAT
July 1974



ANNEX 2
Table 6
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Guarantee, Intervention and Indicative Beef Prices
1969/70   1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   1973/74   197475
Guarantee Prices        --------------- Ptas/kg carcass weight-
Carcass weight, kg
175-180                67           -        -           _         _
180-210                 73         76     80-82          -         _
More than 210           73         79     83-85          -          -        -
More than 220            -          -         -         85         95      118
Cows more than 175      50         50     55-56          -          -
Intervention Prices
(Animals 220 kgs or over)
Maximum                             -     97-102        105       120      132
Minimum                             -     91-93          95       105      122
Indicative Prices
125-180                 77.05       -
180-210                83.95       87.ho    -
More than 210           83.95      90.85    -
Cows more than 175      57.50      55.50
July 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Guarantee, Maximum and Minimum Intervention Prices, 1970/7.1 - 1974/75
Year                  Guarantee           minimum           Maximum
price          intervention       intervention
price             price
Beef                           --------------- Ptas/kg ------------------
1970/71                 76 to 79             -
1971/72                    85               93                102
1972/73                    85               95                105
1973/74                    95              105                120
1974/75 /1                118              122                132
Pork
1970/71                 46 to 48
1971/72                    47               52                 55
1972/73                    50               56                 62
1973/74                    52               58                 65
1974/75 /1                 64.5O            68                 77
Sheep
1970/71                    68
1971/72                    71               78                 96
1972/73                     -               90                120
1973/74                                    100                130
1974/75                                    120                145                            & 3
WrW
Li  Not yet published
Source: CAT
July 1974



ANNEX 2
Table f,
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Domestic Meat Purchased by  CAT,   1970/71 - 1973/74
Year                      Metric Tons                      xPrices
Beef'
1970/71                       16,500                        77.50 Ptas/kg
1971/72                          
1 972/73
1973/74                       12,500                        110.00
Pork
1970/71                       58,000.                        47.00
1971 /72
1972/73
1973/74
Sheep
1970/71                                                      68.00 o
1971 /72
1972/73
1973/74
Source: CAT.
July 1974
I CD 



ANNEX 2
Table 9
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Import unit values of meat, 1967-72
Code number
and                Unit         1967     1968      1969      1970     1971      1972
Kind of meat
011.1 Beef & veal   : Value-uS$'000:  67,431   69,162   69,270   63,385   30,565   82,532
: Quan.-tons     106,660  109,000  112,095   98,848   34,192   78,383
: US$/ton           632.2    634.5   617.96    641.2    893.9  1,052.9
: US$/ kg            0.63     0.63      0.62      0.64     0.89      1.05
: PtasAg:   36.23    36.23    35.65    36.80    51.17    60.37
011.2 Mutton & lamb   Value-US$'000:          9        5       226       285      365       683
: Quan.-tons           16       10       386       447       473      806
US$/ton           562.5    500.0    585.5    637.6    771.7    847.4
US$/ kg            0.56     0.50      0.59      0.64     0.77      0.85
Ptas/kg           32.20    28.75    33.93    36.80    44.27    48.87
011.3 Pork             Value-US$'000:       874    1,337    1,066    1,187    2,603   81,165
: Quan.-tons        1,164    1,740    1,228    1,103    3,075   76,151
US$/ton           750.9    768.4    868.1  1,076.2    846.5  1,065.8
US$ag              0.75     0.77      0.87      1.08     0.85      1.06
Ptas/kg           43.13    44.27    50.03    62.10        48.87   60.95
011.4 Poultry meat  : Value-US$'000:   1,872    2,857    1,726           202    2,713    5,688
: Quan.-tons        3,471    5,427    3,220        305    4,764    9,241
: US$/ton           539.3    526.4    536.0    662.3    569.5    615.5
: us$kg              0.54     0.53      0.54      0.66     0.57      0.61
: Ptas/kg           31.05    30.47    31.05    37.95    32.77    35.07
011.6 Edible offals   Value-US$'000:        754      561       807       734      282       815
Quan.-tons        1,605    1,322    1,955    1,541         461    1,296
US$/ton          469.8    424.4    412.8    476.3    611.7    628.9
US$/kg             0.47     0.42      0.41      0.48     0.61      0.63
Ptas/kg           27.03    24.15    23.57    27.60    35.07    36.23
Source: FAO Trade Yearbook.
July 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Wholesale and Retail Prices for Various Types of Meat
(First Quality), Ptas/kg, 1971-73 In Selected Cities
City        Year           Veal             Yearlings          Young Cattle         nl H0r ratt.e         Sheep
Carcass  PVP        Carcass  PVP        Carcass  PVP         Carcass PVP         Carcass  PVP
MADRID                    /1     /2           Li    /2            Li       2i          L      /2           L      L2
1971        134    235           104    185           85    156           73    148           115    173
1972         170    319          123    229          105    192           84    161           145    223
1973         187    344          127    243          112    217           93    184           161    245
BARCELONA
1971         114    212           97    196           78    155           64    L             138    208
1972         130    264          114    231           88    189           70                  158    220
1973         139    278          124    233           90    193           78     Q            168    241
VAIENCIA
1971         102    185          100    183           85    167           71      .           1o6    158
1972         116    221          116    222          /3      /3           86    /3            130    198
1973         126    240          121    240           3      1            90                  1 141    234
BILBAO
1971         112    191          103    174           92     160          75    128           112    178
1972         129    141          120    215          109    185           96    168           142    220
1973         133    263          123    243          116    195           92    167           170    251
L wholesale
2Retail
Calves shown for Valencia in 1972 and 1973 were not slaughtered, and those shown under Young Cattle in
Barcelona and Valencia at the sales price to the public were destined for processing.                
SOURCE:  CAT                                                                                                             (-
July 1974



j,   <:doo iNoW:-sCooX-lo
4D CD ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ TOSNDHA   IHI   2   m
, < /                                      ~~~~~~~~~~ISOCllRVES                -



ANNEX 2
F'igure 2
SPAIN: LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OUTLINE OF PRINCIPAL BEEF MARKETING CHANNELS
Percntoage
A. RURAL LIVE CATTLE MARKET                                                                                             20
Municipal Abottoir
21   PRODUCER                                              n                                                         I TRATANTE "    >  > CONSUMER  10
BUTCHER RETAILER
B. URBAN  LIVE CATTLE MARKET                                                                                             18
Municipal and Municipl Beef 
1.   PROD"CER         TRATANTE"           Abattoir    Wholesale Morket      BUTCHER RETAILER       CONSUAIR          12
Municipal ad Municiool Beef rX r 
2.   PRODUPCER       TrovYIIIg    m     sson   | Abottoir    Wholesale Mork t                       COSUE             6H
C. URBAN  BEEF MARKET                                                                                                   14
I  l   l    l                ,   ff       |   n~~~~~~~~~~~~~Municipa8   n |ll Be
I.   PRODUCER          Comrnission Mon       ftcking         Wholesale Market       BUTCHER        CNUE 
I  I   ,    n              rn     ,       ,   rm  ~~~~~~~~~~~Municipal B ee'1 1       
2  | PRODUCER                                                Whlsi Marke LocolBM | Packing  >    |  BUTCHER  CONSUMER  9
| |Crnmssion Mon  |          J      |       Deoler             RETAILER       
D. MARKET FOR PROCESSED  BEEF                                                                                             5
1.   PRODUCER            Commission Mon         PROCESSOR          Solesman       RETAILER         CONSUMER           2
2.   PRODUCER                                    PROCESSOR Solemon                 RETAILER         CONSUMER           3
E. MARKET FOR IMPORTED  BEEF                                                                                            30
I      n ~~Licensed Cold Storen                                     
Liese.ol  toe               Retail Butchers Association         BUTCHER RETAILER                CONSUMER         21
CAT          H
2. Licensed Cold Store]
2. ~ ~ ~ATH                 Meat Processors Association  PROCESSOR  --IBUTCERTALR                 ONUR             9
F. OTHER MARKETS                                                                                                         13
ALL MARKETS
1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F-
| i Copital letters indicote owner of the goods.
21 Agent who, on beholf of the Deoler, slaughters ond processes livestock ot the obattois.
| Small letters outside a square indicate an institution.
| / Small letters within a squore indicate the agent thot provides the service.
IBRO- 4277



ANNEX 3
Page 1
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. Agricultural Credit Institutions in Spain
1.        Agricultural credit in Spain is extended through various government-
al agencies, certain special credit programs, and the private banking system.
Instituto de Credito Oficial (ICO)
2.        ICO functions as a statutory board responsible to the Ministry of
Finance, through which Treasury channels Government funds, raised domestically
or through external borrowing, to official credit institutions. The staff of
ICO is small. It is engaged in establishing appropriations and budgets and in
controlling disbursement of funds. The actual lending operations are conducted
by five government owned credit banks and one additional credit institution,
all supervised by ICO, with agricultural credit extended mainly by the Banco
de Credito Agricola SA.
Banco de Credito Agricola SA (BCA)
3.        The BCA is the principal lending source of governmental credit to
agriculture, and as such the channel for ICO's agricultural financing. BCA
was established by Law 2/1962 (reforming the banking system) as a successor
agency to the National Service of Agricultural Credit. Law 13/1971 on the
reorganization of the governmental banks and banking system established BCA
as a Sociedad Anonima, a corporation with share capital fully owned by Govern-
ment.
4.        BCA derives its resources from its capital stock of Ptas 227 mil-
lion, appropriations from ICO totalling about Ptas 50 billion at the end of
1973 and compulsory deposit investment certificates of Ptas 4 billion bearing
2% interest, acquired by private and savings banks. Annual appropriations
from ICO increase BCA's lending resources. BCA's balance sheet is shown in
Table 1.
5.        Although BCA was intended to be an autonomous organization, since
1971 the Government's influence is paramount, as it owns BCA's entire share
capital, appoints its president and all members of the board of directors
(Consejo de Administration) except two, the latter being appointed by the
labor organization (Organizacion Sindical). The Consejo de Administration
decides on lending operations, although decisions on individual loans are
delegated to an Executive Committee. Whereas prior to 1971 BCA had been
properly regarded as an agency of the Treasury, since its incorporation, BCA
claims to have become more independent in its actions without political con-
siderations in its lending policies.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
6.        Organization and Staffing.  BCA's main office is located in Madrid
and it maintains one branch office in Sevilla. 1/ It has a staff of about
150 employees, about 25 of these are senior officers involved in its lending
operations. In addition, BCA has over 100 correspondents located in the pro-
vincial capitals. They are mostly recruited from among the personnel of the
Government's agricultural services and the Treasury, and work part-time for
BCA under contract. Their principal task is to appraise direct loan applica-
tions and to make recommendations to the head office concerning the granting
of credit. In principle, all aspects of a comprehensive loan appraisal are
covered, including the farmer's investment plan and budget. Emphasis is
placed on the creditworthiness of the applicant and the evaluation of the
collateral. The loan cannot be more than 60% of the collateral's value.
However, often more stringent security requirements are demanded. The corres-
pondent's standard of operations include two farm visits during the execution
of the investments, but no supervisory visits during the rest of the lifetime
of the loan.
7.        The shareholder's general assembly each year nominates two independ-
ent outside auditors (Censores de Cuentas) who annually audit BCA's financial
statements and books of accounts. The auditor's certificate of examination
is regularly published as part of BCA's annual report. In addition to this,
ICO has the legal authority and obligation to control and supervise BCA's
activities.
8.        Lending Policies and Procedures.  BCA primarily extends medium- and
long-term credit in accordance with a detailed set of governmental directives.
Few direct loans are granted below the amount of Ptas 1 million. For the
smaller loans, Savings Banks (Cajas de Ahorros) and Rural Savings Banks (Cajas
Rurales) act as credit agencies channelling BCA funds to farmers. BCA also
extends credit for special agricultural programs, channelling credit allocated
by Government to AC for livestock development; to IRYDA for land settlement,
farm improvement and agroindustries; to the Servicio Nacional de Productos
Agrarios (SENPA) for grain storage and other projects and to the LDA. In
addition, BCA extends various types of soft, socio-economic credit, including
emergency loans for relief in cases of natural calamities, as well as loans
without specific purposes to prevent usurious interest rates, but the latter
lending has been of little significance in recent years.
9.        BCA extends limited short-term credit directly to farmers.  In
addition, it makes medium-term advances to collaborating credit institutions
for working capital financing.
10.       The time required to evaluate and approve a farm plan and obtain a
loan directly from BCA, including the processing and recording of a mortgage
may take up to nine months (see Appendix 1 for the required procedural steps).
Less time is required when the collateral is other than mortgage. Usually
1/   This was established to comply with Section 5.03 (b) of the Loan Agree-
ment under IBRD Loan 633-SP.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
the local savings banks who are nearer to the applicant's farm area and often
know the farmer as a client, process the loan applications somewhat faster
and are willing to make advance payments to the borrower.
11.       BCA's direct lending procedures at headquarters include a preliminary
review of the application in MIadrid. The application is then forwarded to the
field correspondents who review the purpose of the loan, appraise the value
of the collateral, and assess the character and creditworthiness of the appli-
cant. The correspondent's report is then forwarded to Madrid where it is
reviewed by BCA's own technicians and lawyers, who make recommendations to
the Executive Committee.  This Committee meets weekly to make credit decisions
and to fix loan terms and conditions. In the case of direct loans, disbursements
are made directly to farmers by BCA, usually in installments, according to the
correspondent's evaluation of the investment plan's progress. Advances to
other credit institutions are made from Madrid and, in general, BCA does not
exercise supervision over the use of the funds. Terms and conditions of loans
are usually as follows (see Table 2 for details):
General Purpose
A.  Direct Loans:
1.  Modernization of farm production;
2.   Investment in agriculture, livestock and forestry, First Livestock
Development Project;
3.   Investment in agroindustries and wholesalers of agricultural
products;
4.   Machinery purchase loans; and
5.   Working capital loans.
B.   Loans through collaborating institutions:
1.   Livestock breeding and fattening;
2.   Improvement of production on viable farms;
3.   Permanent farm improvements;
4.   First Livestock Development Project;
5.   Working capital; and
6.   Small farmers credit.



ANN4EX 3
Page 4
Amounts
Usually from 70% to 80% of the project cost, although in the case
of the First Livestock Project this may reach 85%. The amounts vary
greatly as shown in Table 2. On direct loans it may be as high as
Ptas 40 million to a farmer and even higher to an agroindustry.
Rural Banks may lend up to Ptas 750,000 and Savings Banks up to Ptas
1.5 million.
Terms
Maximum 14 years, although, exceptionally, IRYDA may lend up to
20 years for land purchases. In practice, the terms usually are
not over eight to ten years. The Savings and Rural Banks may
lend up to six years.
Interest Rates
As Table 3 shows, the interest rates charged have been between 2.25
to 7.5% during the past years. Presently (1974) the interest rates
are usually at 6% per annum on loans up to Ptas 2.5 million, and
6.5% above that limit (Table 2), although agroindustries may be
charged 7.5%. The First Livestock Development Project borrowers pay
6.5% plus 0.5% per annum for technical assistance. (The interest rate
structure in Spain is shown in Table 24). Considering that inflation
in Spain was 8% in 1972 and 14% in 1973, most of the interest rates,
and specially those paid by agriculture, are negative interest rates.
Collateral
Collateral is mortgage, bank guarantee, Agrupacion Sindical de Caucion
para las Actividades Agrarias (ASICA) guarantee (since 1968), third
party guarantee or a combination of all these. In some cases satis-
factory personal guarantee is accepted, or the joint guarantee of
farmers' associations or cooperatives (for details see Tables 2, 4
and 5). Fifty percent of the amount of direct loans was secured
by bank guarantee in 1972, and about 25% by mortgage or mortgage in
combination with other types of guarantees. In order to accelerate
the processing of a loan, the farmer often will provide a bank guarantee
which may cost him up to 2% per annum, and will later substitute a
mortgage as collateral.
Lending Operations
BCA's lending operations have developed significantly since it
succeeded the National Service of Agricultural Credit in 1962.
Changes in the loan portfolio and new loans granted by sectors
are given in Tables 6 and 7 respectively. The direct loan applica-
tions received annually varied between 1,364 applications for Ptas
5,830 million (1971) and 1,833 applications for Ptas 7,221 million
(1970). About 1,000 new direct loans were granted annually during
the past 5 years. However, several of these loans were granted



ANNEX 3
Page 5
to groups of farmers, thus less than 1,000 farmers benefitted from
these direct loans. The year end portfolio of BCA's direct loans
included about 7,000 loans during the last few years. During 1972
the average size BCA direct loan was Ptas 2.3 million. Direct loans
were about 32% of the 1972 lending. As almost all small loans and
many of the larger loans are extended through collaborating institutions,
and as the direct loans are not supervised after the execution of the
investment, BCA is able to operate with a relatively small staff.
12.       Repayment Records.  BCA records show that overdue amortization and
interest payments have increased from a 1968 low of 0.7% on all outstanding
loans, to 2.5% in 1972 (Table 8). Judicial sales of mortgage collaterals
have raised about Ptas 5 million in 1968 and Ptas 6 million in 1971. BCA's
conservative policy, requiring a substantial collateral (as a maximum the
direct loan cannot be more than 60% of the collateral's value) assures that
there are only insignificant losses on bad debts. 1/ In addition, BCA being
a second degree lender on about 70% of all loans and on most of the numerous
small loans, much of the credit risk is carried by the collaborating institu-
tions, like the Savings Banks and Rural Banks.
13.       Operating Results.  Table 11 which summarizes the operating results
for the 1968 to 1972 period, shows that BCA suffered losses during each of
these years, ranging from Ptas 210 to 448 million annually. These losses
were absorbed by ICO. As ICO charges 4.9% interest on all credits extended
to BCA, and BCA's average rate of return on loans is only about 4%, the result
is a loss each year of about US$5 million equivalent. Prior to 1967, the
method of computing returns was to allow a return to BCA of 12% of interest
collections, part of which was used to pay interest due to the private sector,
amiounting to 2% per annum on Ptas 4 billion. This method resulted in lower
operating losses for BCA since it obviously did not consider the cost of
credit to the Spanish Government. Ilowever, since BCA has only very limited
funds of its own represented by its share capital, for all practical purposes
it extends credit to the limit of its appropriations from ICO. Its annual
losses are actually absorbed by the Treasury of Spain, via the ICO, so that
these losses do not impair BCA's resources.
Government Agencies Extending Agricultural Credit
14.       Agricultural credit is also extended by governmental agencies, in-
cluding IRYDA and AC, using BCA funds.
15.       IRYDA.  IRYDA is an autonomous agency, functioning within the
Ministry of Agriculture, created in 1971, as the successor of two other agencies
which since 1941 had been in charge of land reform and related activities.
IRYDA is basically a large financing organization for agriculture and live-
stock production, through loans and subsidies (Table 12, 13 and 14). IRYDA's
1/   The size of loans are shown in Table 9; the disbursements, repayments
and net increases of the loan portfolio in Table 10.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
activities in land reform in the classical sense have been minimal, since
during the 43 years of its existence (including its predecessors') only 1.05%
of its financing has been used for land distribution. In 1973, 2.3% of its
loans and subsidies went for this purpose for an area of 3,167 ha. IRYDA's
1973 annual report characterizes as unsatisfactory this performance, blaming
the high land transfer taxes that prevent agricultural land distribution at
acceptable prices.
16.       IRYDA grants two types of loans (Table 2):
(a) to individual farmers for improving production of viable farms
in amounts up to Ptas 2.5 million at 6% annual interest for 5
years. New irrigation projects may receive loans for up to Ptas
5 million, but the interest rate above Ptas 2.5 million is 6.5%.
These rates applied up to mid-1974 when they were raised to
variable levels depending on the size of the loans: 6.5% for
loans up to Ptas 2.5 million; 7.0% for loans from Ptas 2.5 to
5.0 million; and 7.5% for loans above Ptas 5 million.
(b) loans for permanent improvements, which may be made even to
non-viable farms. The amount of the loan may be up to Ptas 15
million to groups of farmers. Interest rates are 5.5% per annum
for land purchases, otherwise the same as in (a) above.
17.       In 1973, IRYDA made 15,805 loans for Ptas 5,395 million, including
subsidies that usually are granted together with the loans. About 83% of the
recipients were individual farmers, who received an average of Ptas 297,800
(Table 12).
18.       Since its inception in 1941 to 1973, IRYDA has disbursed Ptas
29,432 million in assistance, of which Ptas 1,125 million (3.8%) were granted
for livestock purchases, Ptas 5,734 million (19.5%) were used for rural con-
struction, an unspecified part of which went for the construction of stables,
fences and other installations on livestock farms (Table 13).
19.       Table 14 gives details of livestock project costs, amount of IRYDA
loans and that of subsidies, and the farmers' own investment in 1973. The
projects included about 140,000 animals with about 26,000 head of cattle.
Also shown are about 600 m2 of stable and 2,200 m2 wintering shelter construc-
tion for cattle and sheep, and the building of about 4,000 km of pasture
fences.
20.       None of the IRYDA assisted projects can receive more than 80% of
the project costs in the form of loans and subsidies.
21.       AC.  The AC program for beef production was introduced in 1964.
Accomplishments of the program during the past 8 years, including 1973,
are shown in Tables 15 and 16. Basically the program is concerned with the



ANNEX 3
Page 7
provision of credit for beef production under approved conditions. Partici-
pants may be individual farmers, syndical groups, associations, corporations
or cooperatives operating either production units or general slaughterhouses
with refrigerated facilities.
22.       Agreements are entered into between the Government and the producer
for a minimum period of five years and credit maay be extended for all aspects
of the enterprise having a direct bearing on beef production, including build-
ings and facilities, machinery and the purchase of calves. Credit is made
available for a period of 8 to 10 years for financing up to 80% of the invest-
ment in buildings, permanent improvements, equipment and animals; 55% of the
investment in breeding and fattening cattle for 1 year; and 30% of the amount
budgeted in the project for working capital for 18 months. At the time of
appraisal interest rates were 6% per annum for loans up to Ptas 2.5 million
and 6.5% for loans above this amount. In mid-1974, the rates were raised to
variable levels depending on the size of the loan (para 16a). Mortgages,
bank guarantee, ASICA guarantee or acceptable third party personal guarantee
are required as collaterals.
23.       In order to participate in the program each producer is supposed
to follow a predetermined system of husbandry, and in principle the enter-
prise is subject to periodical inspection during the term of the loan. No
technical assistance or guidance on production techniques are provided to the
producers, who are required to fatten the animals up to a liveweight of 350
kg, or to sell the animal to another fattening enterprise which operates under
a similar minimum liveweight - fattening contract.
24.       The farm plans are drawn up by the producers in cooperation with
the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture. The creditworthiness of
the prospective borrowers are evaluated by BCA. During the period 1966 to
1973, AC provided loans and subsidies totalling about Ptas 6,000 million, with
individual producers contributing about Ptas 4,800 million, or 44.3% of the
total project costs. During these years about 300,000 animals were fattened
with AC assistance, and about 80,000 milk and beef cattle under breeding
operations were involved. As shown in Table 16, the fattening operations
during the past few years have included about 40 - 60,000 animals annually
and the yearly breeding operations have varied from about 11 - 19,000 head
of cattle. Although during the early years the program's future may have
been doubtful, it has now developed into a substantial livestock fattening
endeavour.
Banco de Espana (BE)
26.       BE is the State Bank and handles its Treasury.  In addition it is
the Central Bank and as such controls liquidity. It finances the marketing
of agricultural products and related activities through five governmental
agencies, as shown in Table 17. The year end balances of outstanding credits
to those agencies increased from Ptas 46 billion in 1968 to Ptas 63 billion
in 1973. As shown in Table 18 one of these agencies (SENPA) is giving subsi-
dies to growers of maize, sorghum and alfalfa for forage and loans for the



ANNEX 3
Page 8
purchase of seeds and fertilizers. BE financing facilitates the price regula-
tory and price support activities of the five agencies, with resulting bene-
fits to the agricultural and livestock sectors.
Saving Banks and Rural Banks
27.       Savings Banks and Rural Banks, all private enterprises, provide
substantial credit for agriculture throughout Spain where together with credit
cooperatives they have over 6,000 financing outlets.
28.       The network of these Spanish banks is unusually strong, with con-
siderable financial resources. Organized into a national federation (Con-
federacion de Cajas de Ahorro) the 87 regional Savings Banks cover almost
every province of Spain. Their financial strength is typified by the Cajas de
Ahorros de San Fernando with 129 branches in Sevilla and Huelva, with 240,000
accounts and deposits in excess of US$43 million equivalent. The Cajas de
Ahorras de Sevilla have resources of Ptas 5 billion. Special law provides that
each Savings Bank has to invest at least 13% of its resources in agricultural
loans. The most important agricultural credit is medium-term, up to six years.
Portfolios of agricultural loans extended by Savings Banks at the end of 1972
was about Ptas 53 billion which increased to Ptas 59 billion by the end of
1973 (Table 20).
29.       Although the Rural Banks are small credit cooperative type banks,
their considerable financial strength is indicated by their agricultural
loan portfolio which as of August 31, 1973 totalled over Ptas 34 billion.
They are organized into 46 regional and 1 national federation.
30.       Agricultural credits by the Savings Banks are usually up to 6 years,
at 7.25 to 7.5% interest. Industry and housing borrowers are charged 7.5 to
7.75%, commercial borrowers and artisans at 8.0 to 8.5%, while financing of
investments in the stock market are at 6.75 to 7.75%. Loans are granted only
up to 70% of project costs. The average loan per borrower has been around
Ptas 130,000 during the past years. In 1972, in addition to lending their
own funds, 72 Savings and 30 Rural Banks operated as agents for BCA, for loans
up to Ptas 750,000. Normally the banks administer such loans and carry the
full credit risk for a loan fee of 1% per annum. The banks also actively
participate, with BCA funds, in the financing of the First Livestock Devel-
opment Project at a 0.75% per annum lending fee from BCA.
31.       Those banks which operate mostly in the rural areas, with few
commercial and industrial borrowers, are inclined to lend to farmers at in-
terest rates of about 7.25 to 7.5% interest as this is practically their
only outlet for lending. These banks would be among the logical private
financial institutions that could absorb a portion of the Second Livestock
Development Project financing.



ANNEX 3
Page 9
Commercial and Industrial Banks
32.       Up to 1962 the Commercial Banks were the only private financial
institutions of Spain, outside of the Savings and Rural Banks mentioned above.
The operations of these banks were greatly restricted as to the loan interest
rates, the types and terms of loans they could grant, and the kind of colla-
teral that could be accepted. In order to foster industrial development
through medium- and long-term industrial and agricultural lending, at higher
interest rates, the so called Industrial Banks were established in 1962 under
the bank reform and related laws. Many of these new banks were created and
controlled by the existing Commercial Banks. The Industrial Banks' resources
were created through the issuance of industrial bonds. Although the Indus-
trial Banks have developed rapidly, their share in private institutional fi-
nancing is still small. At the end of 1972 the outstanding loan portfolio
of the Industrial Banks was Ptas 192 billion as contrasted with the Commercial
Banks' portfolio of Ptas 1,412 billion.
33.       Commercial Banks extend credit to commercial farmers who operate
on a large enough scale to be financially viable but almost exclusively on a
short-term basis. Up to 1968 Commercial Banks were only authorized to grant
credit up to 18 months. Since then this limit has been extended to three
years, and on livestock loans up to five years. On the other hand, Industrial
Banks are authorized to extend medium- and long-term credit to agriculture and
industry without such time limits.
34.       The private banking structure has a dense network of national,
regional and local banks throughout Spain with the necessary facilities to
extend lending services to livestock farmers. With the existing interest
rate structure the private banks can collect on industrial and commercial
credits up to 11% per annum for interest, commissions and other charges, and
the maximum 6.5 to 7.5% interest that farmers are currently paying on loans
is not attractive to private banks. In addition private banks are seldom
willing to lend for more than 3 years, and therefore agriculture, requir-
ing loans often up to 12 years, is not the domain of private lending. The
grace period of up to three years required by most agricultural projects is
a further obstacle to private institutional credit.
35.       Private commercial banks in Spain are required to invest 22% of
their deposit resources in government securities (15%) and in industrial, com-
mercial and agricultural lending (7%). Years ago, a special portion of the
latter was segregated as compulsory lending to agriculture, and revival of
such a legal requirement might increase the flow of credit to agriculture and
livestock enterprises.
36.       Private banks, specially those with headquarters in the northern
agricultural areas of Spain, might be willing to absorb the early maturing
agricultural loans (up to three years) if no grace period is involved, and
the official credit institutions would continue to finance the portion of
the loans which mature after three years. However, even so, the low agricul-
tural interest rates appear to present an obstacle.



ANNEX 3
Page 10
37.       Fifteen private banks mostly with headquarters in the interior of
Spain have participated in AC and the First Livestock Development Project
using BCA funds. They receive from BCA an interest margin of 0.75% per year
for servicing the loan and carrying the credit risk. Two of these collaborat-
ing banks and 3 Rural Banks have used their own funds to finance 37 of the
Project sub-loans totalling about Ptas 104 million, at 6.5% annual interest
rate. This should be considered as a favorable sign.
Credit Guarantees for Small Loans Without Collateral
38.       ASICA was founded in 1967 as an independent legal entity by the
Spanish Organization Sindical (a semi-official labor organization) to provide
credit guarantees for agricultural loans up to Ptas 2.5 million for indi-
viduals, and even larger amounts in the case of cooperatives. Its purpose
is to facilitate the granting of agricultural loans to those who otherwise
would have difficulties in providing satisfactory collateral. ASICA charges
1% annual guarantee fee and requires that the borrower deposit 6% of the
amount of the loan guaranteed into a fund out of which all guarantee losses
cf ASICA are paid. If, during the lifetime of a guarantee, no such losses
occur, the borrower's 6% deposit is returned to him intact when his loan has
been completely repaid. AC, IRYDA and the LDA are willing to accept ASICA
credit guarantees. Private financial institutions usually require other types
of collateral.
39.       Since 1968, ASICA has received applications for guarantees rising
from 394 to 1,006 annually and amounting to 3,194 in 5 years for a total of
Ptas 3,220 million. Only 877 applications were actually honored for a total
of Ptas 519 million. At the end of 1973 the outstanding guarantees totalled
Ptas 486 million (about US$8 million equivalent) for about 1,000 borrowers.
ASICA's resources, paid in by the Sindicates, and accummulated profits total
only about Ptas 60 million (US$1 million equivalent), which limits the num-
ber of guarantees it can issue. Although ASICA represents a start in the
right direction, its impact on agricultural lending is small. It would be
highly desirable to increase ASICA's capitalization through governmental con-
tributions, which would enable it to extend guarantees to a larger nunber of
small farmers, who are unable to offer acceptable collateral for loans. If
ASICA could issue about 10,000 guarantees instead of the 1,000 outstanding
at the end of 1973, the small farmers, specially in the Galicia area of
Northern Spain, would be substantially benefited.
Governmental Subsidies to Farmer
40.       Table 18 shows the important governmental agencies that give sub-
sidies to farmers and livestock enterprises, and the terms on which subsidies
may be obtained. Table 19 gives the details of the Ptas 6,145 million sub-
sidies that were paid to agriculture in 1972. As noted, Ptas 1,820 million
of the total were granted to livestock farmers, who could also have obtained
subsidies for machinery purchases, pesticides, marketing assistance, etc.



ANNEX 3
Page 11
41.       Practically any farmer, including those borrowing under the IBRD-
financed First Livestock Development Project, are eligible for subsidies.
Publicly financed agricultural loans, including subsidies, cannot be more than
80% of the borrower's project cost. Some of IRYDA's subsidies have a Ptas
500,000 upper limit per farmer, but other subsidies are a fixed percentage
of project cost, or a fixed amount per animal, irrespective of the size of
the operation (Table 18).
The First Livestock Development Project
42.       The LDA is administering the First Livestock Development Project in
Spain. From 1970, when the Project was initiated, until the end of 1973,
about 600 livestock development sub-projects totalling Ptas 1,921 million
have been approved and Ptas 1,268 have been actually disbursed (Table 21).
The Project funds consisting of IBRD's loan of US$25 million and the matching
contribution of the Spanish Government of Ptas 1,120 million, total about
Ptas 2.5 billion. Considering the speed with which the Project has progressed
in 1973, it is reasonable to expect that the Project funds will be completely
allocated in 1974 to approved sub-projects.
43.       LDA's performance in livestock development compares favorably with
the record of the two other governmental agencies that grant loans in the
same field, namely IRYDA and AC. The total loan amount granted by these 3
organizations in 1973 follows:
Ptas million
IRYDA                     901
AC                        941
LDA                     1,010
While IRYDA has been operating since 1941 and AC since 1964, the LDA is only
about four years old.
44.       Up to June/July 1974, AC and IRYDA granted livestock development
loans on softer terms than LDA, namely at 6% per annum up to Ptas 2.5 million
and at 6.5% for higher amounts. The LDA's interest charges are uniformly 7%
per annum, including a 0.5% fee for technical assistance. Since June/July
1974, AC and IRYDA interest rates have been raised to a level approximately
equivalent to LDA rates. Technical assistance is not provided by either AC
or IRYDA; neither is assistance provided for the careful preparation of farm
plans. Their loans are based more on safe collateral than on the viability
of the borrower's farm plan.



uNNEX 3
Page 12
II. The Volume of Agricultural Lending
45.       BCA, Savings Banks and Rural Banks are the principal sources of
intermediate and long-term lending while the commercial banking sector is
the principal source of short-term financing. During recent years there has
been a rapid expansion of all types of agricultural credit in Spain, reflect-
ing the sector's need for capital inflow both to bring about much needed
modernization, and reduce the large imports of food and feed. Annual agricul-
tural investment from 1960 to 1972 is shown in Table 22, while annual private
investment from 1966 to 1972 is shown, according to sector details, in Table
23. Both show a steady rise of investment in agriculture from Ptas 10.4 bil-
lion in 1960 to Ptas 43.4 billion in 1972.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 1
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Time required for the processing of a loan application to participate in the
First Livestock Project through the LDA
1.        Loan application (Solicitud de estudio tecnico de la explotacion)
and specification of the collateral (Plan de Garantias) offered are prepared
by the applicant with general guidance from the LDA.
2.        A desk study is undertaken by LDA's technical group during which
the obviously unacceptable applications are rejected. The successful appli-
cants are visited by the LDA technicians who prepare a Preliminary Project
(Anti-projecto) setting forth the amount of the project cost.
3.        The Preliminary Project is sent to the collaborating credit insti-
tution, suggested by the applicant, for a desk study mainly to evaluate the
applicant's offer of collateral.
4.        If the credit institution finds the collateral acceptable, the LDA
prepares the Final Project (Projecto Definitivo), the loan application, and,
if real estate has been offered as collateral, the certificate of registra-
tion in the name of the applicant.
Note: The time required for accomplishing the above four steps may be from
one to three months, occasionally longer when the collateral title is not clear.
5.        The application and the Final Project with any supporting documenta-
tion is examined by the Loan Committee (Consejo de Prestamos) of the credit
institution. If the application is for a BCA direct loan and the applicant
is in the Sevilla region, the BCA Sevilla branch does a routine examination
and forwards the papers with recommendations to BCA in Madrid.
6.        After the Loan Committee has reached a favorable decision, the
papers are returned to the LDA with the decision. (In case of an unfavorable
decision, the case is either discontinued or an effort is made to amend the
Final Report.)
7.        The credit institution asks the official "Officer of Deeds" (Notario)
to prepare the mortgage document (Escritura de la Hipoteca) to be signed by
the loan applicant. After signature, the document is sent by the credit ins-
titution to the Registry of Landed Property (Registro de la Propriedad Immo-
biliaria) for entering in the Land Register. With the statement of registra-
tion, the document is sent by the Registry to the Notario who forwards it to
the credit institution.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 2
8,        The credit institutic2  obtains the taxK essipticn certificate from
the Provincial Delegate of the Ministry of the Trea-ury.
9.        After receiving the tax exemption certificate, the credit institute
issues the loan contract l(Formalizacion del Prestamo) to the LDA.
10.       The LDA issues its "Authorization of Loan Disbursement" (Libramento
de los Fondos) to the credit institution, authorizing it to pay the first
installment of the loan in accordance with the progress of the sub-project.
11.       The credit institution pSvS the aut:orLized amount directly to the
borrower.  In the case of a BCA direct loan, ZCA requests the BE to pay out
of BCA's account the authorized amount directly to the borrower, (this needs
from 20 to 25 days).
Note: The above steps No. 5 to 11 require 5 months for a direct BCA loan
from Madrid, and 2 months with a collaborating credit institution located
near the applicant's home base, where procedural shortcuts can be taken. If
bank guarantee or third party guarantee is offered, instead of a mortgage, the
time required is shorter. The LDA's records show that the preparation of sub-
projects and the processing of the loan application through a credit institu-
tion require an average of 197 days, the maximum being 388 days. Out of this
time, BCA takes up as much as 15Q days, other credit institutions about 70
days.



SPADI
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPKDET PROJECT
EANCO DE CREDITO AGRICOLA
Consolidated Balance Sheet froc December 31. 1968 to 1973
(Ptas nil)
ASSETS                                                                                                      Preliinsiry
1968         1969       1970        1971          1972          1973
Cash on Hand                                     4           (1)          1           1             1              1
Deposit in the                                  72           167        385         402           150            207
Banco de Espaefa
Government Bonds                                  5            5          5           4             4              4
Deposits in Savings Banks                         -            -          -           -             -            260
Loans Outstanding                           32,116        38,143     42,663      47,760       48,907          52,403
Amortization and Interest                       221          710      1,098       1,123         1,242          1,289
Payments Overdue
Lans in Default                                56             -          -           -             -              -
Loans under Judicial                            21             7          6           a             3              2
Proceedings
Furniture, Fixtures and                          39           38         37          89            86             84
Materials
Miscellaneous                                    24           38         44          43            92             92
Operating Losses of the Year                    301          210        448         386           271            175
Tr  al            32,859        39,318     44,687      49,808        50,756         54,517
July 23, 1974
-a



Preliminary
LIABILITIES                              1968           1969          1970           1971           1972           1973
Credits from the Instituto
de Credito Oficial: 2
Regular Agric. Credits                  27,411         35,009         40,253        43,872         45,562         48,544
Disaster Credits                          -              -              -               66            123            925
For the Agencia de                                       -              -               85            300            621
Desorollo Ganadero
Special Credit Fund                                      -              -                           -                  9
Credits from Private
Banks and Savings Banks                4,000          4,000         4,000          4,000          4,000          4,000
Government Deposit on                                    -              -               888           384              -
Current Account
Deposits on Current Accounts                                6              4              7             9             91
Miscellaneous Liabilities                   31             43            170           232            106             55
Interest Payable on the Ptas
4,000 million loan from                   40             40             40          -             _
the Private and Savings
B1anks
Capitalization by the Gov't                220            220            220           272            272            272
1971 Gov't Contribution to
Absorb Operating Isses                 -              -              -              386          -
Interest Payable to the
Institute de Credito
Oficial  2                             1,157           _      -                     - _
Total          32,859         39,318         44,687        49,808         50,756         54,517
1 Less than Ptas 500,000
Up to 1971: Instituto de Credito a Medio y Iargo Plazo
June 28, 1974






H             0         H'             0              '-0             H'          00
loHol     10    o             0          0              0             H                0           0                   00000  HEHO"
I'"                   10000      I'    -             0    0  00           HO  H          'H    Hoooo  0              00                    H  HO  Oo,'oO
gi                              000                                                     0    OH  "HO          HOO  0  0       0  OH'                   '0 OH  00"HH   '00,',
I    I                     iA        I                  H    00  H'           HO  H    H' H HOH'     HOOHo                 o.                     0 00  00000   00
l                                               H             0    H                "'H  H    OOO'HH       HH'HO                                        000 HHH'HOOoH
H'            0    00  0            H        HO 0H  0   000  00 H H                                   'O00H   H  OH OH  H    0'H',oO  - 000  0  0  -  oH'0000  0,
*             0      H             0'00  H    000000   0H0"O'0  -            0''                    0   HO
O                   H   H          OH  H'   HO OOHOO,HHO  0 H' 0              '0 H0                              H'O   HO
'H                                                                     000    HOOHO  00.  oH                                "                 0000000
00                  -0              H  "    00   0 '   '00000  0 H            H  HO
-'         0 o-O     HH'HOO   o  0          H                        H0'0HH
-4                                                         H             -    "H'  H           H   H'  00 H'HO  0    00 HO  OH                                     H 00,   0      000
H                                   H           000       H"HHH0                -                     00HOH01
0                   -'  0                       0'O0      Ho -        0       H   0        0              OH  0000H
HH'           H'                   00              -        '0                       o         "00                      2  ts'r     OH
HO            *                   00'H 00                                         -                       -              -
00               OH H'H               OH        0           0  00  0  H      HO
OH      000      H H                                 H'      oOH.0   HO
HO            ,,                  HO               0            HO       0050    H             HO         H               -  0   H    HO
OH                                HO                            00       HO H H   H '0         0          H           H      HO        HO
OH            H                   HO                            "0        0000       H                    0          0   0' HH 0OH
0                   00                           H"          OHO      0                    H           0   0 00         HH'
HH                                OH                                      0 H                             H           0   0
HO                                                                        00         H                               H   HA"o         o
H'        H' H'                                          00    H   H'
HO                                                                                                                   H'   0   H"
   gc.a'   'H
co                           0          0    oo       00           00'            HO        HH  0'         o               00 00   o00'" 000         HO    HOHO   0HZ        00
HH'HH          O0HO0OH000H'                                     >0             0        H'          '0ooo               0  0    OH  0   0        H 0   0000000
00 OH 0                 oooooob oo   O                   0H'o00   0                 HO          H 0         '00000                      H0000HOHOO  H'  H
0000000001                          0"'             V        '                         00         00  0                           H  H    00  H   H'       0 H   OH  0  0000    H-
o 00  0000                0 000,   "'        H    H       H HHH'                                                               _  -    00  0   H'        0 0   HOO'o  00H        H
OH  H   '000            000  0'o  0 000      o     o       000  H'                    0          00           0                  0  0    00  00   0          0   HO       000      OH
H'  HO   000              00"' 00  OHH       00   ""        00  000                    0         00  H
O 'go   000           VOOH't  0   0"H      o   0         OHH'OH'                    0         0   0                           H  H'   00        H       "0 0   H"00H  000      H
000   H                 oooo oo"0 H H H'                   00000                                0                                0  0    00  0   0        H H   HHO    000
HO  00   oOj             '0  0100   00    H'o               '000                                     0                                    000' H   0      H 0 0>0  H  'ooo
HO      OH                 000
H   0    H'H'             HO"  000                           0000                                                                           OHo,           0 "00"  Ho         H
OH   0                     0 000       HO                                                                                                                       OH
OH  000    HO             HO  OHO  000'       H'              HOH
000    '                                                H                                      H 0  00       H'   00000  H    00
HO  H    H                OH  000, HOHI                       000H'                                   0                                     0 00 -o        "  0    OHH    00        H'
00  00   000              "H  00H'   00    o*                0000
000             0   -00  HH'0    HO                00  0                                                                          H 00 H            0 00000
0000  OHH                 00  OH                                                                               0                            0H
0000            H 000 H'                                                                                                          OH   OH        000'HO                  0
01   00          0    '0    0                                                                                                           00
o  'H          HO  0 0                                                                                                                  HO                 Oo    00
OH              00000
0  0            0    00
H            H                                                                                                                                          00    00
o            0                000      H'  oooo
O             H         ooo'                                                  HH    00
0  O  00000       HO
0080                                                                               0                                0
0   0                        000
0000' HOHOHOOO'O00000H'0H'    00             OOHOHHOO                                                        0                   0   to oo
I                                                                                       0    00                                 0
000  OO,OHOoOOH0OH0H              0"         0000                                                      00              0000      oolo"  oo
HO 0 0000 ooo0%0OOOo    00            f                                                                              0000                                                 Io
H    HOHHOoH000
0000    000            0'                                                     00
0000  000  00000000000            HO            0                                                                                                            '
HO'    00  H  H   0 0                           00
000  0' 000000  "0                              '0
000    o                                                                    010                                                       [       H
00000,00   00                  010                                                                                                            000                      8
0001   000  00   00' -                  0'                                   OH  H oO*HHOH                 00       H000 00",    0                    000        F
0      00     00  00  0                 "'           HO                     H'0  0   OHO
O      o   '000    0                   'i                           HH0000  0 00H0                               H  OH'
H  000                        Ho                             000000  0    0"oH'                           OHOHO       0
0                         OH                                  H'0  H 00000                                                                         F
0180002       '4
0   H'0OH'                               HOOO
,800O       H'   '0
200        0                                                                                0000>                                                08
0               I
0>0     "                                                                                          0
08
S
S
000                                                                                                         8
1!



ANNE 3
Table 3
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BANCO DE CREDITO AGRICOLA
Portfolio of Outstanding Loans According To The Rate of Interest
From December 31, 1968 to 1972
(Ptas mil)
Rate of Annual Interest
1968         1969        1970        1971        1972
2.25%                     12             9          -           -           -
2.50                     933           717        516         385         138
2.75                   6,852         5,200      4,632       3,420       2,466
3.00                   7,034        10,220      9,326       6,976       4,565
3.25                     744         1,037      1,211       1,061         816
3.50                   1,098         1,900      1,727       1,797       1,236
3.75                   5,207         6,462      5,342       4,653       4,145
4.00                   4,655         5,141      6,950       8,866       7,999
4.25                     288           633        972       1,119       1,059
4.50                   1,029         1,468      2,239       3,082       5,904
4.75                       -             -      1,078       2,640       2,063
5.00                   1,579         1,975      2,703       5,052       6,468
5.25                       -             -        139         596       3,398
5.50                       -            32      1,986       2,861       2,342
5.625                    244           198        142          90          54
5.875                  1,998         2,033      1,827       1,501       1,159
6.00                       2            28        183         544       1,212
6.25                       -             -          -         102         118
6.50                      74           781      1,486       1,952       2,509
6.75                     125             -          -         178         189
7.00                       -             -        339         414         959
7.25                      99           123        143         165         143
7.50                       -             -         10          20          20
/1
Advances to the                 306            575        403         894         658
Rural Banks
Interest  A"t                  58           321        408          509         529
Total                      32,337        38,853    43,762       48,884      50,149
/1  The interest rates on these advances were as follows:
1968      4/, 5%, 6%
1969    4.5%, 5.5%, 6.5%
1970-72    5.5%, 6.5%, 7.5%
July 23, 1974



AX=z 3
SPAIN                                    Table
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BANCO DE CREDITO AGRICOLA
Portfolio of Outstanding Direct Loans by BCA, From December 31, 1969 To
1972. According to the C.llat.ra3j of the Loan
(Ptas mil)
Types of Collaterals On Direct Loans
by BCA (Short & Medium Term)           1969        1970         1971        1972
Personal Guarantee                       3,093       3,177        3,228       2,771
Mortgage                                  3,300      3,772         3,907      4,320
Bank Guarantee                            5,740,    6,486         6,971       7,387
Warrant                                      39         195           41          11
Deposit of Valuables                          4           8           20          24
Special Agreement with Collaborating
Credit Institutions                        85          85           75           -
Mixed Collaterals:
Personal and Bank Guarantee                294         280          258        272
Mortgage and Bank Guarantee                687         675          653         755
Mortgage and Personal Guarantee            974         875          761         604
Unclassified                                 52          70           74          85
Total                               14,268      15,623       15,988      16,229
Loans Granted Through Collaborating
Credit Institutions                   24,585      28,139       32,896      33,920
Total Loan Portfolio                38,853      43,762       48,884      50,149
Note: 1968 figures were not available
July 23, 1974



AM 3
SPAIN                                    Table 5
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BANCO DE CREDITO AGRICOLA
New Direct Loans by BCA From December 31, 1969 to 1972 According to the
-Collaterals. of the Ikmna -_-
(Ptas mil)
Types of Collateral On
Direct Loans by BCA           1969         1970         1971         1972
(Short & Medium Terms)
Personal Guarantee            1,616        1,156          905          784
Mortgage                        690          771          965          828
Bank Guarantee                2,103        1,515        1,706        1,830
Warrant                           -          220
Deposit of Valuables              7            4            13           7
Mixed Collaterals:
Deposit of Valuables            21            -             -           9
and Bank Guarantee
Personal and Bank               86            9           30           37
Guarantee
Mortgage and Bank              179           73          332           86
Guarantee
Mortgage and Personal           28           48           30          115
Guarantee
Special Agreement with            -            -           75
Collaborating Credit
Institutions
Subtotal                   4,730        3,796        4,065        3,696
Loans Granted Through         8,744       10,838        9,816        9,676
Collaborating Credit
Institutions
Total Loans Granted          13,474       14,634       13,881       13,372
Note: The 1968 figures were not available.
July 2, 1974



AN=S 3
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BANCO DE CREDITO AGRICOLA
Portfolio of Loans Outstanding From December 31. 1968 to 1972
-            (Ptas mil)
Disbursed Directly and Through Collaborating Credit Institutions
1968         1969         1970          1971           1972
Direct Loans by BCA                         h1 14,268   15)623       15,988          16,229
Savings Banks                 l,517l        12,353       14, 543      16,776          16,660
Rural Banks                    14,083        )4,940       5,012        5,835           5,661
Commercial Private Banks          82           367         643            842            865
IRYDA                         5,o47          6,627       7,745         9,039          10,372
Other Public Organizations    1,373             298         196          404             362
Total                    32,337        38,853       43,762       48,884          50,149
July 2, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BANCO DE CREDITO AGRICOLA
New Ians Granted by Sector  !LwI:L  the 1968 to 1 72 Years
(Ptas mil)
Livestock Loans                   1968       1969       1970        1971        1972
Livestock Purchases               1,233      1,125      2,134       1,003       1,313
Others                              330
Total                            1,563      1,125      2,134       1,003       1,313
Agric. and Agroindustry Loans
Dryland Improvements                  -        122        243         282          62
Irrigation                        1,099        352        367         341         388
Constructions                         -        755        740         394         606
Machinery Purchases               2,758      3,116      3,451.      3,010       3,773
IRYDA                             2,200      2,208      2,130       2,909       2,850
Miscellaneous                     1,152          9        459         106         237
Agroindustries                    1,578      1,926        880       1,565       1,060
Distribution (Storing               970      3,641      3,130       3,158       2,788
and Marketing)
Total Investment Loans           11,320    13,254    13,504        12,759      13,077
Short Term Working                  141        220         98         118         102
Capital Loans
Emergency Loans to                  909          -      1,032       1,004         193
Stricken Agric. Areas
Total                            12,370    13,474    14,634        13,881      13,372
July 23, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BANCO DE CREDITO AGRICOLA
Amortization Installments and Interest Payments Overdue on Loans From 1968 To 1972
(Ptas mil)
1968               1969                  1970           1971               1972
DirecL Loans                         Amt.       Int.       Amt.    Int.         Amt.   Int.    Amt.  Int.    Amt.           nt.
Less than six months                172        26         299     42          609      54      519      61      572       60
Six months to one year               11         1          33       5           17       4       22      7       32        9
One to two years                      8         1          34       3           27       4       36      5       56       11
Over two years                        2         0          24      2           34       3       31       2       48        5
Total                             193        28         390      52          687      65     608      75      708       85
Loans through collaborating            -          -          -      268            4    342         6    434        5      444
credit institutions
193        28        390    320           691    407       614    509       713     529
Total                                      221                 710                  1,098            1,123          1,242
Overdues as percentage of all
loans outstanding (rounded)               0.7%                1.8%                 2.5%             2.37.          2.5%
July 23, 1974



AINNE 3
Table9
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BANCO DE CREDITO AGRICOLA
Portfolio of Outstanding Loans According to the Size of the Loans, From
December 31, 1968 to 1972
(Ptas mil)
Size of Loans                 1968       1969        1970       1971          1972
to Ptas 750,000              14,402    16,825        19,255      22,081       21,774
750,001 - 1 million              402        415         434         437           400
1 to 1 million                  587        621         630         634           607
1 to 5 million               3,345      3,653        3,998       4,136        4,031
5 to 10 million                2,212      2,735       3,048       3,207         3,284
10 to 25 million              2,704       3,180       3,551       3,575        3,694
25 to 50 million               1,926      2,197       2,424       2,517         2,418
50 to 100 million                652        805         838         897         1,072
Over 100 million                 119        133         243          211          398
Atcion Concertada
Loans -
to Ptas 24 million               736      1,038       1,286       1,467         1,486
2 to 5 million                  227        304         423         533           585
over 5 million                   379        689         843         990           848
Miscellaneous Loans
Advances to Rural Banks          306        575         403         894           658
Advances to IRYDA              4,282      5,362       5,978       6,796         8,365
Interest Accumnulated             58        321         408         509           529
Total                        32,337    38,853        43,762      48,884       50,149
Jul7 1, 1974



ANX3
Table 1 0
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BANCO DE CREDITO AGRICOLA
Operations From 1967 to 1972
(Ptas mil)
Loans and Interest
Year     Disbursements  Repayments  Net Increase In    Outstanding
On Loans                    Outstanding Loans  At End of Year
1967         9,502          6,151            3,391          27,098
1968        11,454          6,214            5,295          32,393
1969        13,584          7,652            6,460          38,853
1970        13,341          8,347           4,994          43,762
1971        15,384         10,853           4,530          48,884
1972        13,719         12,474            1,245         50,149
1973         n.a.           n.a.             n.a.          53,692
Surcess  Banco de Espaft; Bletin Estadistico
July 2, 1974



ANN   3
SPAIN                                       Table 11
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
BANCO DE CREDITO AGRICOLA
Profit and Loss Statement For the Years Ending December 31, 1968 to 1972
(Ptas mil)
INCOME                              1968       1969      1970        1971        1972
Interest Income                     999     1,441      1,521       1,872       2,095
Other Income                      _           _             1          -           2
Total                          999     1,442      1,522       1,872       2,097
EXPENSES
Interest on Gov't Loans           1,157      1,483     1,813       2,070       2,172
Interest on                           -          -          -          -           4
LDA Funds
Personnel                            45         62         68         98         100
Materials                            16         27          8          8          11
Interest Charges on Ptas             80         80        80          80          80
4,000 Million Loan From
Private & Saving Banks
Other Financial and                 a          a          /             1         /
Miscellaneous Expenses
Losses on Bad Debts                   2       L           8           /           /
Total                        1,300     1,652      1,970       2,258       2,368
Losses absorbed by the ICO           -301        210        448         386        271
/1 Negligible.
July 2, 1974



ANNEX 3
Table 12
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IRYDr
Assistance in 1973, According to
Groups of Applicants
Pt as mili
No. of applications   Total IRYDA  Percentage of total
assistance    IRYDA assistance
Individual farmers          15,144                4,467        82.  80
Colonization groups            .287                 363         6.72
Cooperatives                     70                 169         3.13
Rural                           101                  76         1.41
Farmers' and farm workers
associations                   63                 167         3.08
Others                          l1O                 154         2.86
Total              5n,805              5,395      100.00
Note: Average IRYDA assistance to individual famners was
Ptas  297,800 in 1973.
July 2, 1974



ANNEX 3
Table 13
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IRYDA
Assistance to Agricultural, Livestock and Agroindustrial
Enterprises by IRYDA since its Inception in 1941 to
December 31, 1973
1941 - 1973
Ptas           % of
mil            Total
Irrigation                     10,634         36.13
Rural Construction              5,734         19.48
Machinery Purchases             3,910         13.29
Electrification &               3,249         11.04
Agroindustries
Soil Improvements               2,128          7.23
Purchase of Livestock           1,125          3.82
Crops                           1,040          3.53
Purchase of Land                  307          1.05
Miscellaneous                   1,305          4.43
Total       29,432         100.00
July 2, 1974



ANNE 3
Table 1
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IRYDA
Assistance to Livestock Farmers and to Other Agricultural and
Agroindustrial Enterprises by IRYDA in 1973
Total     Project          Sub-       Sub-    Private
Units      Units         Cost  Loans sidies       total  Investment
Livestock Purchase                        -                                     -
______________________  _  -_ -  -_---    -             (Pta s  mil 1) -      - -
Milk Cattle              head       6,678          205    107      35        142     63
Beef Cattle              head      19,864          242    101      38        139    103
Sheep & Goats            head    108,727           202    1Q6      35        141     61
Pigs                     head         758            3       2    /1           2      1
Poultry                  n.a.        n.a.          n.a,   n.a.  n.a.         n.a.   n.a.
Miscellaneous            head       3,693            2      18      8         26    -24
Subtotal                        139,720          654    334    116         450    2o4
Construction for Livestock
Projects
Stables for Milk Cattle   t000 3    232            327    178      59        237     90
Stables for Beef Cattle   '000 Ai   165            226    121      39        160     66
Stables for Sheep & Goats '000 3    204            225    122      39        161     64
Stables for Pigs           too( i    /L            ai   /L    LD            La      /1
Stables for Poultry        '000  2      4           13       7      2          9      4
Miscellaneous               '00        31           44      24      8         32      12
Wintering Shelters         '000 S  2,227           363    211      63        274      89
Fences                       km    3,963           220    102      40        142     78
Subtotal                   _          -        1,418    765    250       1,015    403
Permanent Pasture Developlment -      8,971           44      11      4         15      29
Livestock Projects            _         -        2,116  1,110    370       1,480    636
Other Agricultural &                               6352_97        938      3,9151,720
Agroindustrial Purposes
GRAND TOTAL                           -        7,751  4,087  1,308       5,395  2,356
/1 - Less than one unit of this schedule.
July 2, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND ISVESTOCK DVEIOPMANT PROJECT
ACCION CONCERTADA
Investments in Livestock Operations With Accion Concertada Assistance during the Eight Iwar Period. 1966 - 1273
Total of Accion       Livestock Farmers'
No. of          Total                            Permanent         Working         Livestock        Totel      Concertada           Own Investments
Years    Enterprises   Project Cost       Subsidies       Improvements        Capital         Purchase         Loans      Assistance            Amount  %
(Ptas mil) ---
1966         34               61              2                 17                4                8              IJ           32               29      47.5
1967        389              758             30                211               51              113             375          405              353      46.6
1968        575            1,274             54                378               81              196             655          708              566      44.4
1969        507            1,465             61                454               82              253             79G)         851              614      41.9
1970        568            2,130             84                613              123              390           1, 1',6      1,210              921      43.2
1971        367            1,335             51                416               75              218             708          759              576      43.1
1972        373            2,067             78                584              122              349           1,056        1,134              933      45.1
1973        382            1,844             81                439              134              368             941        1,022              822      44.6
Total     3,195           10,934            441              3,112              672            1,895           5,681        6,121            4,814
Ju3,y 2, 19741



SPAIN
SECCI)D LTVSTOCD              PROJECT
1CCT CeONRTADA -
Fattening and Breeding Operations Developed With Accion Concertada Assistance During 1966-1973
Beef Fattening                Breeding Operations for               Breeding Operations for
Years                                                   Milk  Cattle                          Beef Cattle
No. of     No. of              No. of        No. of                   No. of           No. of
Enterprises   Animals           Enterprises     Aa3J                  Eniterprises         Ania
1966                 24          2,483                 4            318                      6                422
1967                315        31,297                 33          1,476                     41              2,754
1968                449        39,419                 59          3,404                     67              4,764
1969                322        40,601                 87          4,460                     98              6,458
1970                355        59,862                118          5,771                     9j             12,100
1971                160        33,338                109          4,301                     98              4,863
1972                183        54,526                103          7,858                     87             11,609
1973                159        39,972                 97          3,116                   12A               8,350
Total   1,967        301,498               610         30,704                    618             51,320
July 2, 1974
I



AN=E 3
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banico do Esaa's Portfolio of Outstanding Agricultural Type Credits from
1 9&tp 17to Five Government A encies Financing the Mar-keting of
Agricultural Producto and Related Activities,'
(Ptas bil)
Agencies                1968    1969       1970      1971       1972      1973
SENPA                     20      16         4         -          -         -
CAT                       16      13       12          9          9        13
CCE Vino                   9       8         7         8          8         8
Cotton Premiums            1       1         1         1          1         1
FORPPA                     -      20        36        37         36        41
TOTAL                   46      58       6o         55         54        63
Sources Banco de Espana. Boletin Estadistico. January 1974.
Explanation of the Above Abbreviations:
SENPA     Servicio Nacional de Productos Agrarias
CAT       Comisaria de Abastecimientos y Transportes
CCE Vino Comision de Compras de Excedentes de Vino
FORPPA    Fondo de Ordenacion y Regulacion de Precios y Producciones Agrarias
July 2, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Governmental Subsidies Available to Farmers as of January 1974
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE                           MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE                                   MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
ACCION CONCERTADA                      (Direccion General de Is Produccion               (Direccion General de la Produccion                        (Direccion General de la Production
Agaria)                                           Agraria)                                                 Agraria)
Subsidy for the production of               Subsidy for the production of sheep                Subsidy for the purchase of                               Subsidy for pasture improvements and
meat cattle, up to 107% of                   for meat in cooperative enterprises               machinery:                     Price                      production of forage up to 250 ha per
investments in buildings                    where the owners of the animals                    for soil preparation           207%                       individual farmer, or without limit
installations, equipment and                establish joint sheep farms. The                   for fertilizing                30th                       for joint efforts of groups of farmers.
breeding cattle.                             subsidy is Ptas. 200 for pregnant                 for collection of forage    35%
female animals of over 6 months of                                                                          The subsidy may reach 60% of the cost
The livestock enterprise also               age.  Additional Ptas. 200 subsidy                Whenever the machinery is                                  of seeds, 40% of the cost of fertilizer
receives 95% reduction on five              is paid for any of these animals which I           purchased by farmers' groups                              50% of the cost of cleaning of difficult
different types of taxes, and               have to be replaced during the first               or cooperatives an additional 10%                         terrains of stones, bushes and other
the free technical assistance               6 months of the enterprise up to a                 of subsidy is paid,                                       growth;  20% of the cost of fences on
of various agencies of the                  maximum of 207 of the herd. Additional                                                                       pastures.
Ministry of Agriculture.                     Ptas. 50 annual subsidy is paid for
each animal whenever the cooperative
The cattle can not be sold                  employs a technical expert for the
until they reach 350 kg live                better development of the enterprise.
weight prior to 20 months or
have to be sold to other                    The enterprise is obligated to
fattening enterprises to                    transfer all increases of the herd
reach the same weight.                      to fattening establishments, with
the exception of breeding animals.
The enterprise has to have at
least 30 animals for fattening
or 40 breeding cows.
SENPA                                                                                  IRYDA                                                                             ICONA
1. Subsidy for the cultivation                       1. Subsidy for the joint exploitation of agricultural areas for livestock,                          Subsidy for soil conservation and control of
of maize and sorghum  for forage                     whenever it covers 80% of the area of municipality, and no farmer owns                               errosion, covering works of general interest
in zones of Spain suitable for                       more than 50% of the jointly exploited land.  The subsidy may cover up                              up to 100% of their cost; works of community
their production. Subsidy covers                     to 207% of the cost of seeds, fertilizers and pesticides.                                            interests up to 807. of their cost; and of
the price of the:                                                                                                                                         private interest up to 15% of the cost.
seeds            50%                                  2. Subsidy to small and medium size farmers to purchase agricultural                                Additional subsidies are available for specific
fertilizer       20%                                 land to increase their holdings to a viable farm.  The subsidy covers                                river, road, harbor, drainage, etc. works and
pesticides       various                              10%7 of the purchase price of the additional land.                                                  earth movement.
Note: in the humid North of
Spain, higher subsidies are paid.                     3.  Subsidy only to viable farms, up to a maximum of Ptas. 500,000 for the
purcba of equipment, machinery and animalstneeded for programs of
2. Subsidy for the cultivation of                     improvements and conservation, up to 207 of the project cost.
for forage and leguminous
concentrates, covering 40I of the
cost of seeds.
4.  Subsidy for permanent improvements and installations, including
3. Subsidy for the cultivation of                     irrigation, rural housing, rural industries, rural electrification,
alfalfa: 50% of the cost of the                      water works, usually up to 30% of the project costs.  The upper limit
seeds.                                                of the subsidy varies greatly; it may reach 1 million Ptas. for
municipal governments and Ptas. 500,000 for individual farmers.  No
upper limit is set for the construction of certain irrigation works
for livestonk d6iflopment, where the subsidy may reach 307 of the project                                                                                     w
costs.                                                    I
Note:  IRYDA loans and subsidiesnimay not exceed 80' of the cost of mny project.
July 2, 1974



ANNEX 3
Table 19
SPAIN
SECCND LIVESTOCK DEVEIDPNENT PROJECT
Governmental Subsidies Paid to Aariculture in 1972
Type of SubsidY
Pta. ail
Livestock:
Construction on Livestock Farms                                              61
Censtruction of Livestock Markets                                            54
Pasture Improvement                                                          180
Livestock Improvement                                                     1,015
Livestock Purchases                                                          59
Compensation for the Slaughter of Sick Animals                              351
Seeds and Fertilizer for Forage Production and Pastures                      100
Subtotal                                                               1,80
Agriculture:
Seeds and Fertilizer                                                      1,060
Machinery Purchases                                                          217
Rural Construction                                                           217
Corn and Sorghum Driers and Silos                                            102
Plantations                                                                   12
Improvement of Low Yielding Cereal Growing                                  521
Improvement of Agricultural Production                                       162
Pesticides                                                                   717
Marketing Assistance                                                         785
Soil Conservation                                                             97
Improvement of Forests                                                       131
Agroindustries and Electrification                                            32
Subtotal                                                               4,053
Social Improvements in the Rural Areas:
Electrification, Waterworks, Education, Infrastructure                       272
GRAND TOTAL                                                             6,145
July 23, 1974



spAI
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Portfolio of Agricultural Loans of the Saving Banks (Cajas de Ahorro)
December 31, 1971 to November 30, 1973
(Rtas mi1)
Ty;S&  of L4a&=                                       w                              M*
Bonds of the BCA                           0.880     1.8       o.881    1.7      o.881      1.5
Working capital                            3.994      8.1      4.326    8.2      3.889      6.6
Special loans without new                 12.005    24.1      13.315   25.2    14.478    24.6
investments
Machinery purchases                        4.135      8.4      3.8224    7-3     3.724      6.3
Investment in farms and                   20.863    42.1      22.533   42.7    23.759    40.3
agroindustries
Purchase of additional farm land           2.177     4.4       2.458    4.6      2.877    4.7
Subtotal                         44054    88.9       47.337   89.7    49.608    84.0
Mortgages of a general nature              2.538      5.1      1.742    3.3       2.071     3.6
General loans with personal                2.962     6.0       3.672    7.0        .318    12.4
guarantee                           --
Total                            49.554  . .        . 10v   2.751    100  58.997   100
Fuente: Confederacitn Lspatola de Gajas de Ahorros Ber>fL z .
Ju2l  23, 19t74                                                                                                             O



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sub-loans Processed Under IBRD Loan 633-SP, during 1970-1973
(Ptas mil)
Preliminary       Agencia Approvals
Farm Plans        of Farm Plans            Bank  A      ls                 Disburseent
Number of           Subproject           Subproject            Amount of        %T F              of
Applications  No.     Costs       No.      Costs       No.       Loans    Availability AJA.nt  AvailabWUi
1970         452        131       416        70       197          39        118          4.7        40         1.6
1971         469        334       765       212       534         119        293         11.6       122         4.8
1972         685        397    1.145        259       763         181        500         19.8       348       13.8
1973         652        443    1,726        342     1,435         259      1,010         40.1       758        30.1
-726         -        -             _
Total      2,258      1,305    4,052        883     2,929         598      1,921         76.2     1,268        50.3
Notet Total Fund Availability:  IBRD's $25 million equals about Ptas   1,400 million
Matching Gov't Funds     Ptas   1,120 million
Total     Ptas   2,520 million
July 23, 1974
-hU



SPAIN
SBCE D LIVESTOCK DVEWOPDT PROECT
ANNUAL A0IICURAL INISN  FM  Iffe9 TO 1972
(Ptas bil)
_ea~                              Nb.Pbc          private          Total
1960                              5.4              5.0            10.4
1961                              6.6              6.6            13.2
1962                              7.9              9.1            17.0
1963                             10.6              9.6            20.2
1 964                            11.9              8.1            20,1
1965                             12.7             114.6 L3        27.3
1966                             13.2             17.3            30.5
1967                             12.2             20.5            32.7
1968                             11.9             21 *7           33.6
1969                             13.1             23.6            36.7
1970                             13.0             23.6            36.6
1971                             21.4             24.3            45.7
1972                             18.2             251.2              4
Total              158.1           209.2            367.3
/1  Sines 1965, a wider definition has bee  used.
Somrce: Ministry of Agricultur.
July 1, 1974



SPAIN
SECU D LIV2E3'7>CY l)V'LL'.     -  JE,
AlJrlAL PRIVATE ITVESTM2IT ILl AO82ICUL"TUR  Fli  196f,      1 972
(Ptas mil)
1966         1967        1968          1969         1970          1971         1972
Tractors                                          14765         4860         4,754         5,288        4,967        5;866         51,469
Other machinery and equipment /1 3L5                            3,060        3,720        14,49         2,615        2,361          2,495
Action Concertada,  Cattle,                       6,0(l          776        1,3-8         1,663        2,54         1,345          2,05&
Agro-'lndustries  /i                               n.a.         2,090        1.12           )990         2,729       2000           12814
Farm buildings  /1                                 n.a.          420          481           54,3          435        1,463          3,022
Irrigation works /I                                n.a.         1,220        2,253          1,421        2,083       2,808          2,04
Other investinents /1
On.a.        1,730       1i242          14389        1416         1,261          1,026
Investments through industrial banks                -             -           -              -           1]388         691           702
Other state aided investments                      n.a.         1030         2622          2,666         1,388       2,560          2,179
Plantations                                        3,660        3)880        3)715         -3:25         3,463       3038           2,941
Other unaided investments                          n.a.    _     1,250   L    ,723         1152           942        1P78           1179
Tetal                                        17)275        2U,16       Zy140        a3611        23,580       2471          2i159
Ll Financed through the Agricultuaral Credit Dank
Source: Ministry of Agriculture, La Agricultura Espaiola, various years.
Ju2y 1, 1974



Table 24
Page 1
SEOD TIvESTOC K DEVEIflMITJMQaM~
TUhter_est Bate Stnruture in Soain
Per Annum Rate (,
Interest Rates Paid to epositors by Private Banks
Interest as of July 21, 1969
Current sight accounts                                                        0.50
Savings account sight deposits                                                2.50
3-month deposits                                                              3000
6-month deposits                                                             4
1-year deposits                                                              4.50
Over 2 years (industrial banks)                                         no set limit
Interest since July 26, 1973
Current sight accounts                                                        0.75
Savings account sight deposits                                                2.50
Savings account, 2-year deposits )
Private banks, 2-year deposits   )                                            6100
Credit coops, 2-year deposits    )
Interest Rates on Goverrment Obligations
Amount of Obligation
(Ptas mil)                      Term
20,000                        1 month                           J. C'
2 months                          11'
6,000                        3 months                          5 .0
10,000                       10 years                           5.0
8,000                        6 months                          4.0
1 year                           4.5
Discount Rates of the Banco de Espafla (1969-1973)
Date
July 1969                                                    5.50
March 1970                                                   6.50
January 1971                                                 6.25
April 1971                                                   6.00
October 1971                                                 5.00
July 1973                                                    6.00



ANNEX 3
Table 24
Page 2
Selected Interest Rate on Loans Charged by Saying Banks
as of February 197
Type of Loan              Maximum Amount                Term               ltate (.t)
Working capital            Ptas mil 2                   3-11 months           7.25
Machinery purchases        Ptas mil 2                   5 years               7.50
Investment in farms    ) 70% of project cost;             -                  7.50
and atro-industries   ) up to Ptas mil 12
Subsidized construction)  Ptas 2,000 per m ;            5-16 years           7.50
of living quarters    ) 70% of project cost
Purchase of             ) 70% of project cost;          12 years             7.50
agricultural land      ) up to Ptas 800
Other medium-term                                       1-1/2 - 3 years      8.00
loans                                                 >  3 years            not
regulated
Selected Interest Rates on Loans Charged by the BCA
Type of Loan                   Maximum Amount
(Ptas mil)
Machinery purchases                  -                                 5.50
To small farmers                    1-5                                6.00
To commercial farmers              > 2-1/2                             6.50
Agro-industries                                                        7.50
Older special loans                                                2.50 - 4.75
Maximum rate on loans                                    7.50
Selected Interest Rates on Loans Charged by Private Banks
Short-term loans                                                   7.5 + 1.0
commission
Maximum rate including commission
and ether charges                                                    11.0
June 27, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 500-HA DRYLAND CATTLE FARM - SOUTHWEST
On-Far-m Investment Projections
Development Phasing                    Cost - 200  Farms
Average        Average            Cost Per Farm                    ------------------Year ----------------
Investment Item                   Unit       Units Per      Unit Coat                         (US$ '000           1             2             3          4                          (US$ mil.
Farm          (Ptas)        (Ptas '000)         equiv.)          (----------------Ptas '000--------------           Ptas mil.)        equiv.)
Pasture establishment
Land clearing                    ha           50            5,000              250              4.3            150           100            -          -           50.0             0.86
Primary land preparation         ha           50            3,000              150              2.6             90            60            -           -           30.0            0.52
Seeding L1                       ha          150            6,500             975              16.8            390           390          195           -         195.0             3.36
Pasture consolidation              ha          150            1,200              180              3.1             -              72           72         36           36.0            0.62
Fencing                            km            7           55,000              385              6.6            128           128           129          -           77.0            1.28
Watering Points                    No.           4           20,000               80              1.4             40             40           -           -           16.0            0.28
Hay Shed                           m2          600               250             150              2.6             75             75           -           -           30.0            0.52
Feeding bunks                     l.m.         150              350               52              0.9             26             26           -           -           10.4            0.18
Cattle working facilities          No.            1         150,000              150              2.6             75             75           -           -           30.0            0.52
Machinery
Fertilizer spreader              No.           1           24,000               24              0.4             24             -            -           -            4.8            0.08
Forage wagon                     No.           2          120,000               40              0.7             40             -            -           -            8.0            0.14
Hay baler                        No.                      252,000               80              1.4             80             -            -           -           16.0            0.28
Hay rake                         No.           1           30,000               30              0.5             30             -            -           -            6.0            0.10
Mower                            No.           1           72,000               72              1.2             72             -            -           -           14.4            0.24
Cultipacker                      No.           1           62,000               62              1.1             62             -            -           -           12.4            0.22
Housing for labor                  No.            1         100,000              100              1.7             100            -            -           -           20.0            0.34
Cattle
2-yr old heifers                 No.          40           25,000            1,000             17.2          1,000             -            -           -          200.0            3.44
Yearling heifers                 No.         100           15,000            1,500             25.9            750           750            -           -          300.0            5.18
Yearling bulls                   No.           2           40,000               80              1.4             40             40           -           -           16.0            0.28
Mature bulls                     No.            1          60.000               60              1.0              60            -            -           -           12.0            0.20    0 
Total                          -            -              -              5,420              93.4          3,232         1,756           396         36         1084.0           18.7
Li Including seed, fertilizer and tillage.
/2 Only 30% of the farms own forage wagons and balers.
May 22, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELiPMENT OF 500-HA DPYLAND CATTLE FARM - SOUTHWEST
Cattle Herd Development Projections
Before               ---------------------------------------------- Years ----------------------------------------------
Category                    Unit            Development              1              2              3             4              5              6              7              8-12
Herd Composition
Breeding cows                No.                  70                69             108            151           203            206            220            220             200
Bulls                        No.                   2                 4               5              5              7              7              8             8               8
2-yr old heifers             No.                   7                48              57             71             37            49             38             38              38
Yearling heifers             No.                   8                58              72             38             50             39             39            39               39
Weaned calves                No.                  48                48              86            121            162            165            176           176              176
Total incl. calves    No.                   135               227             328            386            459            466            481            481             481
Total                    AU                  87               178             242            265            297            301            305            305             305
Mortality
Cows                         No.                  1                  1               2              3              4              4              4             4                4
2-yr old heifers             No.                  -                  I               I              I              -              I              1              1               I
Yearling heifers             No.                  -                  I               I              I              I              I              1              1               1
Total                    No.                 1                   3               4             5              5              6              6              6               6
Sales
Weaners, females             No.                 16                  2               5             10             42             43             49             49              49
Weaners, sales               No.                 24                 23              42             58             79             80             86             86              86
Cull cows                    No.                  7                  7              11             15             30             30             33             33              33
Cull bulls                   No.                  -                  1               1              1              2              2              2              2               2
Total                    No.                47                  33              59             84            153            155           170            170              170
Purchases
Yearling heifers             No.                  -                 50              50               -              -              -             -              -
2 yr old heifers             No.                  -                 40                -
Yearling bulls               No.                  -                   I               I              -              -              -              -              -               -
Mature bulls                 No.                  -                   I               -              -              -              -              -              -
Total                    No.                  -                 92              51              -              -              -                      -              -
Technical Coefficients
Calves weaned                %                    70                 70             80             80              80             80            80              80              80
Cows culled                   ,                   10                 10              10             10             15             15             15             15              is
Bulls culled                                      25                 25              25                            25             25             25             25
Mortality                                          2                  2               2              2              2              2              2              2               2
/1  Animal -nits.  All animals 1 year of age or older.  poes not include calves.
May 21, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 500-HA DRYLAND CATTLE FARM - SOUTHWEST
Sales Projections
Before            ---------------------------Years-------------------------------
Category                              Unit          Development            1           2           3           4            5           6-12
CATTLE
Number of Head Sold
Weaners
males                            No.                24                 23          42          58          79          80          86
females                          No.                16                  2           5          10          42          43          49
Cull cows                           No.                7                  7          11          15          30          30           33
Cull bulls                          No.                 -                 1           1           1           2            2           2
Average Liveweight
Weaners
males                             kg               190                190         200         200         210         210         210
females                          kg                170                170         180         180         190         190         190
Cull cows                           kg               500                500         500         500         500         500          500
Cull bulls                          kg               750                750         750         750         750         750          750
Price Liveweight
Weaners                          Ptas/kg               68                68          68           68          68          68          68
Cull cows                       Ptas/kg               45                 45          45          45          45           45          45
Cull bulls                      Ptas/kg               50                 50          50          50          50           50          50
Cattle Sales
Weaners                          Ptas '000            495               320         632          911      1,671        1,698       1,861
Cull cows                        Ptas '000            158               158         248         338          675         675         742
Cull bulls                       Ptas '000              -                38          38           38          75          75          75              -w
Total                         Ptas '000            653                516         918       1,287       2,421       2,448       2,678
May 21, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVEL0PMENT OF 500-HA DRYLAND CATT1E FARM  - SOUTHWEST
Projected Operating Expenses
Before            ---------------------------Years-------------------------------------------
Unit         Unit Cost        Development           1         2          3         4          5          6         7          8-12
(Ptas)         (-------------------------------------------Ptas '000------------------------------------------
Pasture maintenance
Fertilizer - natural pasture            ha             1,000               _              200       200        200        200       200        200        200          200
Fertilizer - improved pasture           ha             1,200               -               -          -         72        144       180        180        180          180
Annual forage                             ha             7,500              80              213       299        348        425       425        425        425          425
Animal health
Before development                      AU               150              13               -         -          -          -         -          -          -            -
Year 1-12                               AU               300               -               53        73         80         89        90         92         92           92
Labor
Before development                man equiv.         100,000             200               -         -          -          -         -          -          -            -
Year 1-12                         man equiv.         120,000               -              240       240        240        240       240        240        240          240
Repair and maintenance                    -              /-                                  -           3         5          8          8         8          8           8
of fence
Building repair and                       -              /-                                  -           6        11         11         II        1I         11          11
maintenance
Machinery repair and                      -              /2                  -               20         31        31         31         31        31         31          31
maintenance
Taxes                                     -              /3                 47               66         68        72         75         76        76         76          76
Subtotal                              -               -               340               792       920      1,059     1,223      1,261      1,263      1,263      1,263
Total /4                                              -                340              871     1,012      1,165      1,345     1,387      1,389      1,389       1,389
/1  2% on cost of construction.
12  10% on cost  of machinery.                                                                                                                                            1 >
3 70 Ptas per ha real estate tax plus 135 Ptas per AU.
/4  Including 10% allowance for contingency, except in situation "Before Development."                                                                                    ( 
May 22, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCIK DEVELROPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 500-HA DRYLAND CATTLE RANCH--SOUTHWEST
Finan-ial ProjectIons
------------          -----------  -------- --- -----------  -----------  ----- ------ ------- ---- ---- - Y -a -s - ----------- ----------- ----------- -----------  -----------  --------- -- -----------
De-vloptt             1              2              3                                         5   6              7               8              9             10              11             12               13
CASH EN7L0w
1. Annual eales                           653             516             918          1,287          2,421          2,448           2,678          2,678          2,678           2,678         2,678           2,678          2,678            2,678
2. Investment capital          I
a. Farner's c-ntributicn /               -             646            351              79              7               -              -              -               -              -              -              -              -                -
b. Lang-tern Noan                        -           2,586          1,405             317             29               -              -              -               -              -              -              -                               -
3. Working capital
a. FPrmer' -coetribktion                 -             313            313             203             88            209             228            300            300             300           300             300            300
b. Short-tern lone                       -             479             745            859            740            485               -               -              -              -              -              -               -
Total enpeetod caskh iflow                653           4,540           3,732          2,745          3,2895          3,142          2,906          2,978           2,978          2,978         2,972           2,978          2,978            2,678
CASH OUTFLOW
1. lnveetment                                -          3,232           1,756            396             36                       -              -              -               -              -                     -               -                -
2. Operating enpe-ses                     340              871          1,012          1,165          1,345           1,387          1,389          1,389           1,380          1,389         1,389           1,389          1,389            1,389
3. Debt -eevice
a. Long-tern loan12
(i)  Intereet -                       -              64            214            270             282            251            219             188            157             125            94             63              31
(ii) Principal -                      -               -              -               -            481            482            482            482             482            487            482            482             482
b. Short-tern on-2
(i)  Interest-                        -              31             48             56              48             32               -              -              -               -             -               -              -
(ii) Principal    /4                  _               _            479            745             859            740            485                              -              -                      -              -                -
c E. ) Prihnicip src-                 -               9             20              25             25             22              17             14             12              lo             7               5              2
Total expeeted  -ash outflow              340           4,227           3,529          2,657          3,076           2,914          2,592          2,073           2,040          2,006          1,972          1,939           1,904           1,389
Total enpreted eash balane-
at  -ear's end                          313             313             203             88            209             228            314            905             938            972         1,006           1,039           1,074           1-289
1  A-oonts far 202. of the total on-fern enveerneet cost.
/2  6.57' on the ontetanding loan.
/3  12 yearc repa-ent wiEk 3 yearn of groer.
/4  0.55 on the -otstanding debt.
D-ernbec 19, 1074                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ar



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 500-HA DRYLAND SHEEP FARM - SOUTHWEST
On-Ranch Investment Projections
Development Phasing
Average        Average            Cost Per Farm                ------------Years-__________          Cost - ISOFarms
Investment Item                      Unit      Units Per       Unit Cost                        (US$ '000         1            2        3       4                (US$ mil
Farm          (Ptas)        (Ptas '000)       equiv.)       (------------Ptas '000-------------)(Ptas mil)  equiv.)
Pasture establishment
Land clearing                       ha             50          5,000             250              4.3          150          100       -                3 37.5      0.64
Primary land preparation            ha             50          3,000             150              2.6           90           60       -        _       22.5        0.39
Seeding /1                          ha            150          6,500             975             16.8          390          390      195       -      146.2        2.52
Pasture consolidation                  ha           150          1,200             180              3.1           -            72       72      36        27.0       0.46
Fencing                                km             7         55,000             385              6.6          128          128      129       -       57.7        0.99
Watering points                        No.            8         18,000              144             2.5           72           72       -        -        21.6       0.37
2
Hay shed                               m          1,000            250              250             4.3          150          100       -        -        37.5       0.64
Feeding bunks                          l.m.         270            350              94              1.6           47           47       -        -        14.2       0.24
Sheep working facilities               No.            1         25,000              25              0.4           25           -        -        -         3.7       0.06
Sheep shed                            m             500          1,000             500              8.6          250          250       -        -       75.0        1.29
Machinery:
Fertilizer spreader                 No.             1         24,000              24              0.4           24                -            -         3.6      0.06
Forage wagon                        No.             1        120,000             120              2.1          120           -        -        -       18.0       0.31
Hay baler                            No.            1        252,000             252              4.3          252           -        -        -       37.8       0.64
Hay rake                             No.            1         30,000              30              0.5           30           -        -        -         4.5      0.07
Mower                                No.            1         72,000              72              1.2           72           -        -        -        10.8      0.18
Tractor                              No.            1        360,000             360              6.2          360           -        -        -       54.0       0.93
Sheep:
Ewes                                 No.        1,000          3,000           3,000            51.7         1,200        1,200      600       -      450.0       7.75
Total                                -             -            -              6,811            117.4        3,360        2,419      996      36    1,021.7      17.6            v
/I Including seed, fertilizer and tillage.
May 7, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 500-NA DRYLAND SHEEP FARM - SOUTHWEST
Sheep Flock Development Projections
Before      -          -----------------------Year - -------------------------
Category                                   Vnit           Development               1            2            3             4            5             6-12
Flock Composition
Breeding ewes                               No.                 500                500         900         1.340       1,660          1,800            1,800
Breeding rams                                No.                 22                 22           36          54            66            72               72
Lambs we-ned                                No.                 400                635       1,215         1,916       2,374          2,574            2,574
Replacement ewes                            No.                 125               i11           255          465         567            454              454
Replacement rams                            No.                   5                 19           25           24           20            15                15
Total                                   No.,1            1,052              1,287        2,431         3,799       4,687         4,915            4,915
Total            /2                     AU                 109                 109         203           314         386            390              390
Ewe equivalents                         No.                652                652        1,216         1,883       2,313          2,341            2,341
Mortalitv
Ewes                                         No.                 25                 25           36           54           66            72                72
RaEs                                         No.                  1                  1            1             1           1              1                1
Replacement ewes                            No.                  10                  9           17           23           28             22               22
Total                                   Mo.                 36                  35          54            78          95             95               95
Sales
Lambs                                       No.                 270                355          726        1,329        1,905         2,105            2,105
Ctll ewes                                    No.                 90                 77          162          268          332            360              360
Cull rsm                                     No.                  4                  4            6            11          13             14               14
Total                                   No.                364                 436         894         1,608       2,250          2,479            2,479
Porchases
Yearling ewes                                No.                 -                 400          400           200         -              -                -
Technical Coefficients
Mortality:
(a)Ewes                                   5                     5                  5            4            4            4            4                   4
(b)ems                                                          4                  4            4            3            2            2                   2
(c) Replacement ewes                                            8                  8            7            5            S            5                   5
Culling:
(a) Ewes                                                       18                 15           18           20           20            20                 20
(b)Rams R-                                                     18                 18           18           20           20            20                 20
Ewes lanbing                                 7)                  80                  85          85            85          85            85                 85
Lambs per ewe lambing                        No.                  1.25                1.25        1.25          1.20         1.25         1.0?5               1.25
Lambs per ewe per year                       No.                  1.00                1.50         1.50         1.00         1.50         1.50                1.50
Lambs weaned                                 7)                  80                 80           85            90          90            90                  90
Yield of wool                         kg/ewe equiv.                2.3                2.4          2.5          2.S          2.5          2.5                 2.5    
/1  6 sheep are eqoivaleot to 1 animal  nit (AU).
/2 Total of all sheep except weaned lambs.
May 7, 1974



P ATN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 500-HA DRYLAND SHEEP FARM  - SOUTHWEST
Sales Projections
Before               ----------------------Years-------------
Category                                  Unit            Development             1           2            3             4            5             6-12
SHEEP
Number of Head Sold
Lambs                                   No.                 270               355         726          1,329        1,905         2,105           2,105
Cull ewes                               No.                  90                77         162            268          332           360             360
Cull rams                               No.                   4                 4            6            11            13           14              14
Average Liveweight
Lambs                                   kg                   27                27          27             27            27           27              27
Cull ewes                               kg                   35                35           35            35            35           35              35
Cull rams                               kg                   57                57          57             57           57            57              57
Price Liveweight
Lambs                                 Ptas/kg                60                60          60             60            60           60              60
Cull ewes                             Ptas/kg                26                26          26             26            26           26              26
Cull rams                             Ptas/kg                26                26          26             26            26           26              26
Sheep Sales
Lambs                               Ptas '000               437               575       1,176          2,153        3,086         3,410           3,410
Cull ewes                            Ptas '000               82                70         147            244          302           328             328
Cull rams                           Ptas '000                 6                 6           9             16            19           21              21
Subtotal                          Ptas '000               525               651       1,332         2,413         3,407         3,759          3,759
WOOL
Number shorn                        ewe equiv.              652               652       1,216          1,883        2,313         2,341           2,341
Yield                             kg/ewe equiv.               2.3               2.4          2.5           2.5           2.5          2.5             2.5
Production                              kg                1,500             1,565       3,040          4,708        5,782         5,852           5,852
Price                                Ptas/kg                 70                70           70            70            70           70              70
Sales                                Ptas '000              105               110         213            330         405            410             410
TOTAL SALES
Sheep                               Ptas '000               525               651       1,332          2,413       3,407          3,759           3,759
Wool                                 Ptas  000              105               110          213           330         405            410             410
Total                             Ptas '000               630               761       1,545          2,743       3,812          4,169           4,169
May 1, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 500-HA DRYLAND SHEEP FARM - SOUTHWEST
Projected Operating Expenses
Before           ------------------------Years.------------------------------.---______
Unit        Unit Cost        Development         1         2          3           4           5          6           7        8-12
(Ptas) (_--------------------------------------------------Ptas '000-------------------------------------
Pasture maintenance:
Fertilizer - natural pasture                ha             1,000              _            200        200        200         200        200         200         200        200
Fertilizer - improved pasture               ha             1,200               -            -          -          72         144        180         180         180        180
Annual forage:
Fertilizer                                  ha             3,000              30           120        150        150         150        150         150         150        150
Seed and tillage                            ha             3,000              30           120        150        150         150        150         150         150        150
Hay making                                    tons              500             15            100       100        100         100         100         100        100        100
Concentrates:
Lambs                                      head                50             20             32        61         96         119         129        129         129        129
Animal health                            ewe equiv.              20             13             13        24         38          46          47          47         47         47
Labor                                    man equiv.        120,000             180            240       240        300         300         300        300         300        300
Shearing                                 ewe equiv.              20             13            13         24         38          46          47          47         47         47
Repair and maintenance
of fence                                                     A                                          3                      8           8           8           o         8
Building repair
and maintenance                                                                -             -         11         20          20          20          20          20        20
Machinery repair
and maintenance                             -                                  -2             43       86         86          86          86          86          86        86
Taxes                                          -               a                50             50        62         77          87          88          88          88        88
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-3
Subtotal                      _                 -             351             931     1,111      1,332       1,366        1,505     1,505       1,505      1,505
Total                                           - 4            351         1,024      1,222      1,465       1,503        1,655     1,655       1,655      1,655          a
\o -r7-
/1 2% on cost of construction.
2 10% on cost of machinery.
/3 70 Ptas per ha real estate tax plus 135 Ptas per AU.
Including 10% contingency allowance, except in situation, "Before development."
April 30, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOP1MENT OF 500-hA DRYLAND ShEEP RANCH--SOUTHWEST
Financial Projactions
B.f. .  -- ---- --- ---- ---- ---- --- ---- ---- --- ---- ---- ---- --- ---- ----  --- ----  ----   Yea--     ---- ---- ---  ----  ----  ----  --- ----  ----  --- ----  ----  ----  ---  ----  ---- ---
Bef ore
Development           1               2               3               4               5                6               7               8                9              10               11              12                13
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                 Pt..s  '000  -------------------------------------------------------------F----s---'000--
CASN INFLOW
1. Annual sales                                630              761           1,545           2,743            3,813           4,169           4,169           4,169            4,169           4,169          4,169             4,169           4,169             4,169
2. Investment capital
a. Farer's contributiou -                    -               672             484              199               7             -               -                -               -                -              -                -                -                -
b. Long-term loan                            -             2,688           1,935              797              29
3. Working capital
a. Famer's cotribution                       -               279               11             -
b. Short-tem  loan                           -               102              122             -               -               -               -                -               -                -              -                -                -                -
Total empected cash inflow                     630            4,502            4,096           3,739           3,849           4,169           4,169            4,169           4,169            4,169          4,169            4,169            4,169            4,169
CASN OUTFLOW
1. Investment                                   -             3,360           2,419              996              36             -                -               -               -                -              -                -                -                 -
2. Operating expenses                          351            1,024           1,222            1,465           1,503           1,655           1,655            1,655           1,655            1,655          1,655            1,655           1,655             1,655
3. Debt service
a. Long-tem  loan,
(i)  Interest  2                         -                 94             256             351             380             339              297             255             212              170            127                85              42               -
(ii) Principal a                         _                  -               -              -              601             606              606             606             606              606            606              606              606
b. Short-term lo?4
(i)  Interest  -                                            7               8              -               -                -               -               -               -                -               -                 -               -
(ii) Principel .                          -                 -             102             122               -               -               -               -                -               -               -                         -               -
c. Technical service                         -                 7               19              25              27              24              21               18              15               12              9                6                3              -
Total empected cosh outflow                    351            4,492            4,026           2,959           2,547           2,624            2,579           2,534           2,488            2,443          2,397            2,352            2,306             1,655
Total espected cash balance
at year's end                                279                10              70             780           1,302           1,545           1,590            1,635           1,681            1,726          1,772            1,917            1,863            2,514
/1  Accounts for 20% of the total on-fam investnent cost.
/2  7.0% on the outstanding losn.
al 12 years repayment with 3 years of grace.
/4 6.5% on the outstanding loan.
/5 0.5% on the outstanding debt.
December 19, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPNENT OF 500-HA DRYLAND FARM  WITH 20-HA IRRIGATED ALFALFA - SOUTHWEST
On-Ranch Investment Projections
Development Phasing
Average       Average           Cost Per Farm                  ---------------Years---------------            Cost - 200 Farm3
Investment Item                 Unit      Units Per      Unit Cost                       (US$ '000        1           2           3          4                         (Us$ mil
Farm          (Ptas)        (Ptas '000)        equiv.)       (--------------Ptas '000-------------)        (Ptas mil)        equiv.)
Pasture establishment:
Land clearing                  ha           50           5,000            250              4.3         150         100          -           -            59.0            0.86
Primary land preparation        ha          50           3,000            150              2.6          90          60          -           -            30.0           0.52
seeding L                      ha          150           6,500            975             16.8         390         390       195            -           195.0            3.36
Pasture consolidation             ha          150           1,200            180             3.1          -           72         72          36             36.0           0.62
Alfalfa establishment /I          ha           20          9,000            180              3.1          90          90          -           -            36.0            e.6?
Fencing                           km           7          55,000            385              6.6         128         128        129           -            77.0           t.3P
Watering points                   No.           4         20,000             80               1.4         40          40          -           -             16.0           0.28
Hay shed                          m          850             250            212              3.7         106         106          -           -            42.4           0.74
Feeding bunks                     l.m.       250             350              87             1.5          44          43          -           -            17.8           0.30
Cattle working facilities         No.           1        150,000            150              2.6          75          75          -           -            30.0            0.52
Machinery:16002
Hay baler                       No.         /2         252,000             80               1.4         80          -           -           -            16.0            0.28
Fertilizer spreader             No.           1         24,000              24             0.4          24          -           -           -             4.8            0.08
Forage wagon                    No.         L2         120,000             40              0.7          40          -           -           -             8.0           0.14
Mower                           No.           1         72,000             72               1.2         72          -           -           -            14.4            0.24
Hay rake                        No.           1         30,000             30              0.5          30          -           -           -              6.0           0.10
Electrical installations a        No.           1        300,000            300              5.2         150         150          -           -            60.0            1.04
Irrigation equipment and          ha.         20          30,000            600             10.3         300         300          -           -           120.0           2.06
installation
Cattle:
2-yr old heifers                No.         80          25,000          2,000             34.5       1,000       1,000          -           -           400.0             6.90
Yearling heifers                No.         70          15,000           1,050             18.1        525         525                      -            210.0            3.60
Yearling bulls                  No.           6         60.000             360              6.2        180          -         180           -             72.0            1.24
Total                          -          -             -             7,205            124.2       3,514       3,079        57c          36         1,441.0           24.8        (3
g  Including seed, fertilizer and tillage.
Only 30%S of farms own balers and forage wagons.
A For irrigation.
May 16, 1974



ATrOEX 4
Table 12
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 500-HA DRYLAND FARM  WITH 20-HA IRRIGATED ALFALFA - 301THWEST
Cattle Herd Development Projections
Before   -          --------               ---Years ---------
Category                             Unit            Development              1          2          3           4          5           6          7           8-12
Herd Composition
Breeding cows                         No.                 90                 88         127        188         220        235         255        255           255
Bulls                                 No.                  3                   6          5           8          9           9          9           9            9
2-yr old heifers                      No.                 10                 50          84         65          53         73          57         57            57
Yearling heifers                      No.                 10                 45          66         54          74         58          58         58            58
Weaned calves                         No.                 63                  62        108        160         187        200         217        217           217
Total incl. calves               No.                176                 251        390         475        543         575        596         596          596
Total                           AU                  113                 189        282         315        356         375        379         379          379
Mortality
Cows                                 No.                   2                   2          2          4           4          5           5          5             5
2-yr old heifers                     No.                  -                    1          2           1          1           1          1           1            1
Yearling heifers                     No.                  -                    1          1           1          1           1          1           1            1
Total                            No.                 2                    4          5           6           6          7           7          7             7
Sales
Weaners, males                       No.                  31                 30          53         77          92         98         107        106           107
Weaners, females                     No.                  22                  -          -            6         35         42          50         51            50
Cull cows                            No.                  10                   9         19         28          33         47          51         51            51
Cull bulls                           No.                  -                    1          1           2          2           2          2           2            2
Total                            No.                 63                  40         73         113        162         189        210         210           210
Purchases
Yearling heifers                     No.                  -                  35          35          -          -           -          -           -             -
2-yr old heifers                     No.                  -                  40          40          -
Yearling bulls                       No.                  -                    3         -           3
Total                            No.                  -                  78         75          3           -          -           -          -             -
Technical Coefficients
Calves weaned                                             70                 70          85         85          85         85          85         85            85
Cows culled                          7                    10                 10          15          15         15         20          20          20           20
Buils culled                                              25                 25          25         25          25         25          25         25            25
Mortality:
(a)  Yearlings                     %                     2                  2           2          2           2          2           2          2             2
(b)  2-yr old heifers              %                     2                  2           2          2           2          2           2          2             2
(c) Cows                           %                     2                  2           2          2           2          2           2          2             2
11ay 16, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 500-HA DRYLAND FARM  WITH 20-HA IRRIGATED ALFALFA - SOUTHWEST
Sales Projections
Before            -       ---------------------------Years----------------------
Category                    Unit        Development           1         2             3           4             5            6            7            8-12
CATTLE
Number of Head Sold
Weaners
males                    No.           31                30         53           77           92            98          107          107           107
females                 No.            22                -          -             6           35           42           50            51            50
Cull cows                  No.           10                  9        19           28           33            47           51           51            51
Cull bulls                 No.            -                  1          1            2            2            2            2            2             2
Average Liveweight
Weaners
males                    kg           190               190        220          220          220           220          220          220           220
females                 kg            170               170        200          200          200          200          200           200           200
Cull cows                  kg           500               500        500          500          500          500           500          500           500
Cull bulls                 kg           750               750        750          750          750           750          750          750           750
Price Liveweight
Weaners
males                Ptas/kg           68                68         70           70           70            70           70           70            70
females              Ptas/kg           68                68         70           70           70           70            70           70            70
Cull cows              Ptas/kg           45                45         45           45           45            45           45           45            45
Cull bulls             Ptas/kg           50                50         50           50           50            50           50           50            50
Cattle Sales
Weaners                Ptas '000        655                388       816        1,270         1,907        2,017        2,348        2,346         2,348
Cull cows             Ptas '000         225               202        428          630          742         1,058        1,148        1,148         1,148
Cull bulls            Ptas '000           -                38         38            75           75           75           75           75            75        
Total               Ptas '000         880               628      1,282        1,975        2,724        3,150         3,571        3,571         3,571                   (D
May 16, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 500-HA DRYLAND FARM WITH 20-HA IRRIGATED ALFALFA - SOUTHWEST
Projected Operating Expenses
Before            --------------------------------------------- Years ----------------------------------------------------
Unit          Unit Cost       Development          1          2         3         4         5         6          7         8         9        10         11        12
(Ptas)        (-------------------------------------------------------Ptas  '000-----------------------------------------------------
Pasture maintenance
Fertilizer - natural pasture                 ha              1,000              -             230        230       230       230       230       230        230       230       230       230        230       230
Fertilizer - established pasture             ha              1,200              -               -         -         72       144        180       180       180       180        180       180       180       180
Alfalfa maintenance
Fertilizer                                   ha              3,000              -               -         30        60        60        60         60        60        60         60        60        60        60
Reseeding                                    ha              9,000              -               -         -         -         -          -         90        90        -          -         -         90        90
Annual forage                                  ha              7,500             160             345                        -         -         -         -          -         -                        -          -
Nay making                                    tons               500              -               -         75       150        150       150        75        75       150        150       150        75         75
Animal health
Before development                           AU                150              17              -         -         -         -          -         -         -         -         -          -         -         -
Years I - 12                                 AU                300              -               57        85        94       107        112       114       114       114       114        114       114       114
Irrigation                                     ha              2,000              -               20        40        40        40        40         40        40        40         40        40        40        40
Labor                                       man equiv.       120,000             240             360       480       480       480       480        480       480       480       480        480       480       480
Repair and maintenance                         -                a                 -               -          3         5          8         8         8         8          8         8                   8          8
of fence
Building repair and                            -                /                                 -          5        11         11        11        11        11         11        11        11        11         11
maintenance
Machinery repair and                           -                L2                -               35        92       115        115       115       115       115        115       115       11S       115        115
maintenance
Taxes                                          -                A                 50              60        73        78         83        85        86        86         86        86        86        86         86
Subtotal                                   -                -               467           1,107     1,113      1,335    1,428      1,471     1,489     1,489    1,474       1,474     1,474     1,489      1,489
Total /4                                   -                -               467           1,218    1,224       1,468     1,571     1,618     1,638     1,638      1,621     1,621     1ft2i      1,638     1,638
L   2o on cost  of construction.
2  10% on machinery cost.
70 Ptas per ha real estate tax plus 135 Ptas per AU.
i   Including 10% allowance for contingency, except in situation "Before Development."
May 31, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVEIOPEIFr OF 500-HA DRYLAND RANCH WITH 20-HA IRRIGATED ALPALFA--SOUTHWEST
Financial Frojactions
Before         --Year                                                                                                                                                                                     -
Development          1              2               3              4              5              6               7              8               9             10             11              12              13
-o ts 0 '000. -.--------.-.----------------------------------------
CASH INFLOW
1. Annual sales                           8S0             628          1,282           1,975          2,724          3,150          3,571          3,571           3,571          3,571         3,571           3,571          3.571            3,571
2. Investment capital
a. Parmer's costribotin  /               -             703            616             115              7              -               -              -              -               -             -              -               -                -
b. Long-tern loan                        -           2,811          2,463             461             29              -               -
3. Working capital
a. Former's contribution                 -             413            284              22            187            114            145
b. Short-tem  Soan                       -             609            612             734            628            162                      -               -                      -             -              -               -                -
Total expected cash inflow                880           5,164          5,257           3,307          3,575          3,426          3,716           3,571          3,57i          3,571          3,571          3,571          3,571            3,571
CASH OUTFLOW
1. Investment                               -           3,514          3,079             576             36              -               -              -              -               -             -              -               -                -
2. Operating expenses                     467           1,218          1,224           1,468          1,571          1,618          1,638           1,638          1,638          1,638          1,638          1,638           1,638           1,638
3. Debt service
a. Long-term  loann
(i)  Interest /- _                                   98            283            385            403            358             314            269            224             179           134              90             45                -
(ii) Principal                        -               -              -              -            644            640             640            640            640             640           640            640             640
b. Short-torn loa74
(i)  Interest-                        -              40             40             48             41              11              -              -               -              -             -               -              -
(ii) Principal                        -               -            609            612            734            628             162              -               -              -             -               -              -
c. Technical service -                   -              10             23              31             32             26             22              19             16              13            10              6               3
Total sopected cash inflow                467           4,880          5,235           3,120          3,461          3,281          2,776           2,566          2,518           2,470         2,422          2,374           2,326           1,638
Total erpected cash balance
at year's end                           413             284              22            187            114            145            940           1,005          1,053          1,101          1,149          1,197           1,245           1,933
/1 Accoouts for 207. of total on-farme investment cost.
/2  7.07, on the outstanding lonn.
/3  12 years repayment with 3 years of grace.
/4 6.5% on the outstanding lonn.
/5  0.5% on the outstanding debt.
December 19, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 20-HA IRRIGATED FARM FOR CATTLE FATTENING - SOUTHWEST
On-Farm Investment Projections
Development Phasing
Average         Average                Cost Per Farm                --------Years------
Investment Item                               Units Per       Unit Cost                         (US$ '000                                             Cost - 200 Farms
Unit         Farm           (Ptas)           (Ptas '000)       equiv.)         1         2         3         (Ptas mil.) (US$ mil. equiv.)
----- Ptas '000 ----
Pasture establishment               ha           11             9,000                99             1.7            64       35        -            19,8              0,34
Alfalfa establishment               ha            3             8,500                26             0.4            17         9       -             5.0              0.08
Fencing (stationary)                km            2            55,000              110              1.8            72       38        -            R220              0.36
Fencing (movable, electric)         No.           1            15,000               15              0.3            15         -       -             3.0              0.06
Pit silo                            m           500               400               200             3.4           130        70       -            40.0              0,68
Hay shed                            m           120               900               108             1.9            71        37       -            21.6              0.38
Watering points                     No.           3             5,000                15             0.3            15         -        -            3.0              0.06
Feeding bunks                       lm           50               500                25             0.4            17         8       -             5,0              0.08
Cattle shed                         m2          150             1,000               150             2.6            98        52       -            30.0              0.52
Sprinkler irrigation                ha           20            35,000              700             12.1           455      245        -           140.0              2.42
Machinery:
Forage harvester                  No.           1           144,000              144              2.5           144         -       -            28.8              0.50
Forage wagon                      No.           1           120,000              120              2.1           120         -       -            24.0              0.42
Mower                             No.           1            72,000                72             1.2            72         -        -            14.4             0.24
Hay rake                          No.           1            30,000                30             0.5            30         -       -             6.0              0.10
Hay baler                         No.           1           252,000               252             4.3           252         -       -             50.4             0.86
Total                            -           -               -               2,066            35.6          1,572      494        -           413.2              7,1
May 15, 1974



AmuEX 4
Table 17
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 20-HA IRRIGAFED FARM  FOR CATTLE FATTENING - SOUTHWEST
Sales Projections
Before             -----Years------
Category                               Unit         Development           1           2-12
CATTLE
Number of head sold                   No.              -               104           157
Average liveweight                    kg               -               425           425
Price liveweight                   Ptas/kg             -                68            68
Cattle Sales                     Ptas '000             -             3,006        4,537
CASH CROPS
Area
Wheat                                 ha               4                -            -
Maize                                 ha               5                -            -
Potatoes                              ha               2                -            -
Cotton                                ha               7                -            -
Tomatoes                              ha               2                -            -
Alfalfa                               ha               2                -            -
Yield
Wheat                               kg/ha          3,000                -            -
Maize                               kg/ha          6,000                -            -
Potatoes                            kg/ha         15,000                -            -
Cotton                              kgiha          2,000                -            -
Tomatoes                            kg/ha         30,000                -            -
Alfalfa                             kg/ha         50,000                -            -
Production
Wheat                                             12,000                -            -
Maize                                 kg          30,000                -            -
Potatoes                              kg          30,000                -            -
Cotton                                kg          14,000                -            -
Tomatoes                              kg          60,000                -            -
Alfalfa                               kg         100,000                -            -
Prices
Wheat                              Ptas/kg             7                -            -
Maize                              Ptas/kg             7                -            -
Potatoes                           Ptas/kg             3                -            -
Cotton                             Ptas/kg            38                -            -
Tomatoes                           Ptas/kg             2.5              -            -
Alfalfa                            Ptas/kg             0.5              -            -
Sales
Wheat                            Ptas '000            84                -            -
Maize                            Ptas '000           210                -            -
Potatoes                         Ptas '000            90                -            -
Cotton                           Ptas '000           532                -            -
Tomatoes                         Ptas '000           150                -            -
Alfalfa                          Ptas '000            50                -            -
Subtotal                      Ptas '000          1,116                -            -
TOTAL SALES
Cattle                           Ptas '000           -               3,006         4,537
Cash crops                       Ptas '000         1,116                -            -
Total                          Ptas '000         1,116             3,006         4,537
May 15, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 20-hA IRRIGATED FARM FOR CATTLE FATTENING - SOUTHWEST
Projected Operating Expenses
Before                                  -    -     -     -     -    Years-----------------------------------------------------
Unit        Unit Cost      Development         1          2          3        4         5          6         7         8         9         10        11        12
(Ptas)         ------------------------------------------------------------Ptas  '000--------------------------------------------------
Pasture maintenance
Fertilizer                           ha            3,500              -             -          24        38        38        38        38        38        38        38         38        38        38
Reseeding                            ha            4,500              _      -                 -         -         16        16        16        16        16         16        16        16        16
Alfalfa maintenance
Fertilizer                           ha            3,500              -             -           7        to        10        10        10        10        10         10        10        10        10
Reseeding                            ha            8,500              -             -          -         -         -         -         17         9         -         -         -         17         9
Annual forage
Maize silage                          ha          17,000              -            100        100       100       100       100       100       100       100        100       100       100       100
Vetch and oats                       ha            7 ,500             -             45         45        45        45        45        45        45        45        45         45        45        45
Cash crop                               ha           9,000             198            -           -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Labor                             man equiv.       120,000             360           240        240       24C       240       240       240       240       240        240       240       240       240
Purchase of weaners                   head          15,000              -          1,590      2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400          2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400    2,400
Concentrates                          head           2,000              -            208        314       314       314       314       314        314      314        314       314       314       314
Animal health                          head            250              -              26         40        40        40       40        40         40        40        40        40        40        40
Purchase of irrigation water           ha            2,000              40            40         40         40        40       40        40         40        40        40        40        40        40
Repair and maintenance                   -                              -              -           2         3         3         3         3         3         3         3         3         3         3
of fences
Building repair and                      -            L                                -          16        20        20        20        20        20        20        20        20        20        20
maintenance
Machinery repair and                     -            /2                -              46         62        62        62        62        62        62        62        62        62        62        62
maintenance
Taxes                                    -            /3                 1              9         13        13        13        13        13        13        13        13        13        13         13
Subtotal                            -              -               599         2,304      3,303    3,325    3,341    3,341    3,358    3,350          3,341    3,341    3,341        3,358    3,350
Total /4                                    -                      599         2,455      3,513    3,538    3,555    3,555    3,574    3,565          3,555    3,555    3,555        3,574    3,565
(D
/I  2% on cost of construction.
/2 10% on cost of machinery.
/3 70 Ptas per ha real estate tax plus 70 Ptas per calf.
4 Including a contingency allowance of 10% on operating expenses, except purchase of weaners, plus 54 on purchase of weaners, except in situation
"Before Development."
May 31, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 20-HA FARMS FOR CATTLE FATTENING--SOUTHWEST
Financial Projections
Before
Development          1               2               3               L               5                6               7               8               9               10              11              12               13
---------------------------------------~------------~--------------------------------------------- ---- Ptas ' 000 - --- ----- ---------------- --------------_---_---_________--_______---------------
CASH INFLOW
1. Annual sales                            1,116           3,006           4,537           4,537           4,537           4,537           4,537            4,537           4,537           4,537          4,537           4,537            4,537            4,537
2. Inve ntmeot capital          /3
a. Farmer's contribution  -314                                             99m
b. Long-term loan                            -          1,258             395
3. Working capital
a. Farmer's contribution                                     -               -
b. Short-tem  loan                                           -               -               -               -               -               -               -               -                -              -
Total empected cash inflow                  1,116          4,578           5,031           4,537           4,537           4,537            4,537           4,537           4,537           4,537          4,537            4,537           4,537            4,537
CASH OUTFLOW
1. Invesment                                    -          1,572             494                -               -               -               -               -                -               -              -               -                -                -
2. Operating eapenses                         599          2,455           3,513           3,538            3,555           3,555           3,574           3,565           3,555           3,555          3,555            3,574           3,565            3,555
3. Debt service
a. Long-term Ioan/2
(i)  Interest 7s                         -              41              94             107             107              95              83              71              59               48             36              24              12                 -
(ii) Principal -3                                        -               -               -             189             183             183             183              183             183            183             183             183
b. Short-term loan
(i)  Interest
(ii) Principal                           --
c.Technical service-                         -              3                7               8               8               7               6               5               4                3              2               1               1                 -
Total expected cash outflow                   599          4,071           4,108           3,653            3,859           3 840           3,846           3,824           3,801           3,799          3,776            3 792           3,761            3,555
Total expected cash balance
at year's end                              517             507              923             884             678             697             691             713              736             748            761             755              776              992
/L  Accounts for 20% of the total on-for  investment coat.
/2  6.5% on the outstanding loan.
/3 12 years repayment with 3 years of grace.
/4 0.57. on the outstanding debt.
December 19, 1974                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    e



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 6-HA DAIRY FARM - NORTH
On-Farm Investment Projections
Development Phasing
Average        Average                                             ---_ Cost per Farm  Years------  Cost - 450 Farms
Units Per      Unit Cost                           (US$ '000            1        2                              (US$ mil.
Investment Item                Unit           Farm           (Ptas)         (Ptas '000)          equiv.)        (---Ptas '000---)         (Ftas mil.)          equiv.)
Pasture establishment           ha              3             12,000            36                 0.6             36         -               16.2               0.27
Pasture consolidation           ha              3              4,000            12                 0.2              -        12                5.4               0.09
Fencing                         km              1.5           30,000            45                 0.8             27        18               20.2               0.36
Watering points                 No.             8              5,000            40                 0.7             24        16               18.0               0.31
Cattle housing (cubicles)       No.            20              8,000           160                 2.8             96        64               72.0               1.26
Young stock housing             m2             25              1,700            42                 0.7             25        17               18.9               0.31
Milking parlor /1               No.              1            50,000            50                 0.9             50         -               22.5               0.40
Pit silo                        m3             80                500            40                 0.7             40         -               18.0               0.31
Manure pit                      m              70                500            35                 0.6             35         -               15.7               0.27
Milking equipment               No.              1            50,000            50                 0.9             50         -               22.5               0.40
Cattle
Cows                          No.             2             50,000           100                 1.7            100         -               45.0               0.76
Heifers                       No.             2             25.000            50                 0.9             50         -               22.5               0.40
Total                         -             -               -              660                11.4            533       127              297.0               5.1
/I 4-stall parlor
May 24, 1974
X >m
ax4.
Co 



ANNEX 4
Table 21
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 6-HA DAIRY FARM - NORTH
Cattle Herd Development Projections
Before           ----------------------Years---------------------
Category                                 Unit            Development          1               2               3               4-12
Herd Composition
Mature cows                               No.                 6               9              11              13                15
Replacement heifers 1-2 yrs               No.                 2               4               4               4                4
Calves born                               No.                 5               7               9              11               12
Total incl. calves                    No.                13              20              24              28               31
Total                                 AU                  8              13              15              17               19
Sales
Male calves                               No.                 3               3               5               5                 6
Female calves                             No.                 -               -               -               2                 2
Heifers                                   No.                 -               -               -                -                1
Cull cows                                 No.                 1               2               2               2                 3
Total                                 No.                 4               5               7               9               12
Purchases
Cows                                      No.                 -               2               -               -                 -
Heifers                                   No.                 -               2               -                -                -
Total                                 No.                 -               4               -               -                -
Technical Coefficients
Calving rate                              %                  80              80              82              82                82
Mortality /1
Cows culled                               %                  20              20              20              20                20
Milk production                        kg/cow             3.800           4,000           4,200           4,400            4,500
/I No allowance made for mortalities.
May 23, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 6-HA DAIRY FARM - NLRTH
Sales Projections
Before                                    ----------------------------------Years---------------------------------
Category                       Unit        Development        1           2           3           4           5            6           7           8           9           10           11          12
CATTLE
Number of Head Sold
Cows                         No.             1            2           2           2           3           3           3           3           3            3           3           3           3
Heifers                      No.             -            -           -           -           1           1           1           1           1            1           1           1           1
Male calves                  No.             3            3           5           5           6           6           6           6           6            6           6           6           6
Female calves                No.             -            -           -           2           2           2           2           2           2            2           2           2           2
Price
Cows                     Ptas/head        20,000        20,000      20,000      20,000      20,000      20,000      20,000      20,000      20,000       20,000      20,000      20,000      20,000
Heifers                  Ptas/head        20,000        20,000      20,000      20,000      20,000      20,000      20,000      20,000      20,000       20,000      20,000      20,000      20,000
Male calves              Ptas/head          8,000        8,000       8,000       8,000       8,000       8,000       8,000       8,000       8,000        8,000       8,000       8,000       8,000
Female calves            Ptas/head         7,000         7,000       7,000       7,000       7,000       7,000       7,000       7,000       7,000        7,000       7,000       7,000       7,000
Cattle Sales
Cows                     Ptas '000             20           40          40          40          60          60          60           60          60          60          60           60          60
Heifers                  Ptas '000           -            -           -           -             20          20           20          20          20          20          20          20           20
Male calves              Ptas '000             24           24          40          40          48          48          48           48          48          48          48          48           48
Female calves            Ptas '000           -            -           -             14          14          14          14          14           14          14          14           14          14
MILK
Cows                         No.                6            9          11          13          15           15         15           15          15          15          15           15          15
Calving rate                  %                80           80          82          82          82          82          82           82          82          82          82           82          82
Cows in milk                 No.                5            7           9          11          12           12         12           12          12          12          12           12          12
Milk yield                  1/cow           3,800        4,000       4,200       4,400       4,500       4,500       4,500       4,500       4,500        4,500       4,500       4,500        4,500
Milk production           '000 1               19           28          38          48          54           54          54          54          54          54          54           54          54
Milk price               Ptas/l                10           10          10          10           10          10          10          10          10          10           10          10          10
Milk sales               Ptas '000            190          280         380         480         540         540         540         540          540         540         540          540         540
TOTAL SALES
Cattle                   Ptas '000             44           64          80          94         142          142         142         142         142         142         142          142         142
Milk                     Ptas '000            190          280         380         480         540         540          540         540         540         540         540          540         540
Total                    Ptas '000            234          344         460         574          682         682         682         682         682         682         682          682         682
May 24, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 6-HA DAIRY FARM - NORTH
Projected Operating Expenses
Before             ------------------------------------Years-----------------------------------------
Unit Cost       Development           1          2           3           4           5           6           7           8-12
(Ptas)         ---------------------------------------------Ptas '000-------------------------------------------------
Pasture maintenance
Fertilizer
Before development             ha             2,000             10                                       -           -           -           -           -            -
Years 1-12                     ha             4,000               -                                       16         16          16          16          16           16
Reseeding                        ha             7,500                       -                   -           -           15         15           15          15           15
Annual forage                      ha             7,500               8               15          15          15          15          15          15          15           15
Animal health
Before development               AU               400               3               -           -           -           -           -          -            -            -
Years 1-12                       AU               550               -                7           8           9          10         10          10          10            10
Concentrates
Cows                            head            8,000             48                72          88        104         120         120         120         120          120
Heifers                         head            3,000               6               12          12          12          12          12          12          12           12
Labor                          man equiv.       120,000             120              120         120         120         120         120         120         120          120
Repair and maintenance              -                                 -                6           8           8           8           8           8           8            8
of fence and buildings
Machinery repair and                -                                 -                5           5           5           5           5           5           5            5
maintenance
Taxes                              -                                  2                3           4           4           5           5           5           5            5
Subtotal /                     -                -              197               240         260         293        326         326         326         326           326         ' 
Total                          -                -              197               264         286         322        359         359         359          359          359         a S
Ili. 4~
/1 2% on cost of construction.
/2 10% on cost of equipment.
/   135 Ptas per ha real estate tax plus 200 Ptas per AU.
/ Including 10% allowance for contingency, except in situation "Before Development."
May 23, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 6-hA DAIRY FARM--NORTH
Financial Projections
-Year- ------- ------------------------------------------------ -----------------------   Ye-                ---------------
Before
Development           1               2               3               4               5               6               7                8               9              10               11               12               13
------------------ta-------------------------                          __________________________________--   --     Ptas    000   --------- -   -     -----------     --------------------------------------------------
CASH INFLOW
1. Annual sales                              234               344             460             574             682             682             682             682              682             682             682              682              682              682
2. Investment capital           /1
a. Farmer's contribution-                  -                107              25
b. Long-term loan                          -               426              102
3. Working capital
a. Farmeras contribution                                     -               -
b. Short-tern lon                          -                 -               -               -               -               -               -               -                -               -               -                 -               -                -
Total expected cash inflow                    234              877             587             574             682             682             682             682              682             682             682               682             682              682
CASH OUTFLOW
1. Investment                                  -               533             127              -               -               -                -               -               -               -               -                 -               -                 -
2. Operating ..penses                         197              264             286             322             359             359             359             359              359             359             359               359             359              359
3. Debt service
a. Long-term    an /2-                                       14              31              34              34              31               27             23               19              15              11                 7               4-
()Itrs   /3
(ii) Principal/                         -                -               -               -               56               59              59              59              59              59               59               59              59
b. Short-term loan
(i)  Interest                           -                -
(ii) Principal       4                                   -
c. Technical srvice-                       -                                  2               3               3               2               2               2                1               1               1                 1-                              -
Total axpected cash outflow                   197              812             446             359             452              451             447             443             438             434              430              426             422               359
Total expected cash balance
at year's end                               37                65             141             215             230             231              235             239             244             248             252               256             260              323
/1 Accounts for 207. of the total on-farn investment cost.
/2  6.5% on the outstanding loan.
/3 12 years repayment with 3 ye.ar of grace.
/4  0.5% on the outstanding debt.
December 19, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 50-HA MOUNTAIN FARM  FOR BEEF PRODUCTION - NORTH
On-Farm Investment Projections
Development Phasing
Average         Average                Cost Per Farm                 ---------Years---------
Units Per       Unit Cost                          (US$ '000           1          2         3                 Cost - 350 Farms
Investment Item                      Unit          Farm           (Ptas)         (Ptas '000)           equiv.)        (-------Ptas '000 ------)        (Ptas mil.)       (US$ mil. equiv.)
Pasture establishment
Land clearing                       ha            50            15,000              750                12.9          375        375         -            262.5                 4.51
Seeding                             ha            50            10,000             500                  8.6          250        250         -            175.0                 3.01
Pasture consolidation                  ha           50              4,000             200                 3.4            -          -        200            70.0                  1.19
Fencing                               km             5            36,000              180                 3.1           90         90         -             63.0                  1.08
Watering points                       No.             7             5,000              35                 0.6           35         -          -             12.2                  0.21
Silo (clamp)                          m3           650                200             130                 2.2          130         -          -            45.5                  0.77
Storage building /I                   n.a.         n.a.           50,000               50                 0.9           50         -          -             17.5                 0.31
Cattle working facilities             No.             1           80,000               80                 1.4           40         40         -             28.0                 0.49
Machinery
Tractor                             No.             1          200,000              200                 3.4          200         -          -             70.0                  1.19
Trailor                             No.             1           72,000               72                 1.2            72        -          -             25.2                 0.42
Fertilizer spreader                 No.            1            24,000               24                 0.4           24         -          -             8.4                  0.14
Front-end loader                    No.             1           72,000               72                 1.2           72         -          -            25.2                  0.42
Road improvement                                                  100,000             100                 1.7           50         50         -             35.0                  0.59
Cattle
Cows                                No.           50            30,000            1,500                25.9        1,500         -          -           525.0                  9.06
Heifers                             No.           20            25,000              500                 8.6          500         -          -           175.0                  3.01
Bulls                               No.            2            50.000              100                 1.7          100         -          -            35.0                  0.59
Total                              -              -              -              4,493                77.5        3,488        805        200        1,572.5                 27.1
/I Remodeling of existing structure.
May 21, 1974



ANNEX
Table 2d
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 50-HA MOUNTAIN FARM FOR BEEF PRODUCTION - NORTH
Cattle Herd Development Projections
Before                            ---        -----------Years ---------------------
Category                    Unit              Development             1            2           3            4            5            6           7            8-12
Herd Composition
Breeding cows                No.                  -                   50           64          77           85           92          100         100            100
Bualls                       No.                  -                    2            3            3           4            4            4           4               4
Neifers 8-20 months           No.                  -                  20           20           20          22           24           18           18             18
BuLlls 8-20 months           No.                   -                  -            20          27           31           35           38          42             42
Weaned calves                 No.                  -                  40           54           65          72           78           85           85             85
Total incl. calves         No.                  -                  112         161          192          214         233          245          249            249
Total                      AU                   -                   72         107          127          143          156         160          164            164
Mortality
Cows                         No.                  -                    1            1            1           2            2            2            2              2
Bulls                        No.                  -                    -            -            -            -           -            -            -              -
Neifers 8-20 months          No.                  -                    -            -            1            1           1            1            1              1
Bulls 8-20 months            No.                  -                                 -            1            1           1            1            1              1
Total                      No.                  -                    1            1           3            4            4            4           4              4
Sales
Weaners (females)             No.                  -                   -            7           10          12           21           24           24             24
Bulls (fattened)             No.                  -                    -           20          25           30           34           37           41             41
Cull cows                    No.                   -                   5            6           11          13           14           15           15             15
Culi bulls                   No.                  -                    -            -            1            1           1            1            1              1
Total                      No.                  -                    5          33           47           56           70          77           81             81
Purchases
Heifers 8-20 months          No.                   -                  20                         -            -                  -                  -              -
Cows                         No.                  -5                                             -            -                  -                  -              -
Bulls                        No.                  -                    2            -            -
Total                      No.                  -                   72            -            -
Technical Coefficients
Calves weaned                 %-                                      80           85          85           85           85           85           85              85
Cows culled                                        -                  10           10           15           15          15           15           15              15
Bulls culled                 7                               -                      -          25           25           25           25           25              25
Mortality                     %-                                       2            2            2            2           2            2            2               2
May 17, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 50-HA MOUNTAIN FARM FOR BEEF PRODUCTION - NCRTH
Sales Projections
Before             ------------------------------------- Years --------------------------------
Category                          Unit         Development           1            2           3           4           5            6           7-12
CATTLE
Number of Head Sold
Weaners                          No.               -               -           7            6          10          11          21             24
Bulls (fat)                     No.                -               -          20          25           30          34          37             41
Cull cows                        No.               -               5           6          11           13          14          15             15
Cull bulls                       No.               -               -           -           I            I           I           I              I
Average Liveweight
Weaners                          kg                -             220         220         220          220         220         220            220
Bulls (fat)                      kg                -             425         425         425         425          425         425            425
Cull cows                        kg                -             500         500         500         500          500         500            500
Cull bulls                       kg                -             750         750         750         750          750         750            750
Price Liveweight
Weaners                        Ptas/kg             -              80          80          80           80          80          80             80
Bulls (fat)                   Ptas/kg              -              70          70          70           70          70          70             70
Cull cows                      Ptas/kg             -              45          45          45           45          45          45             45
Cull bulls                    Ptas/kg              -              50          50          50          50           50          50             50
Cattle Sales
Weaners                       Ptas '000            -               -         123         106          176         194         370            422
Bulls (fat)                   Ptas '000            -               -         595         743         893        1,012       1,101          1,220
Cull cows                     Ptas '000            -             112         135         248         292          315         338            338
Cull bulls                    Ptas '000            -               -           -          38           38          38          38             38
Subtotal                  Ptas '000           -              112         853       1,135       1,399       1,559        1,847         2,018
CASH CROP (Rye)
Area                             ha                5                -           -           -           -            -           -             -
Yield                          kg/ha          1,000                 -           -           -           -           -            -              -
Production                       kg           5,000                -            -           -           -           -            -             -
Price                        Ptas/kg               6                -           -           -           -           -            -             -
Sales                         Ptas '000          30                      -            -           -           -           -                    -
GRAZING FEE
Area                             ha               45                -           -           -           -           -            -              -
Price                        Ptas/ha            200                -            -           -           -           -            -             -
Rent                           Ptas '000           9                -           -           -           -            -           -             -
TOTAL SALES                                                                                                                                                                       (D x
Cattle                         Ptas '000           -             112         853       1,135        1,399       1,559       1,847          2,018                                _ 
Cash crop                      Ptas '000          30                -           -           -           -            -           -             -
GrazinR fee                    Ptas '000           9                -           -           -           -            -           -             -
Total                       Ptas '000          39              112         853       1,135       1,399        1,559       1,847          2,018
M.y 20, 19/4



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 50-HA MOUNTAIN FARM FOR BEEF PRODUCTION - NORTH
Projected Operating Expenses
Before           ---------------------------------Years-----------------------------------
Unit          Unit Cost       Development          1         2         3          4          5         6        7         8-12
(Ptas)         (------------------------------------------------Ptas '000---------------------------------
Pasture maintenance
Fertilizer                             ha             4,000               -              -         -          -         200       200       200      200        200
Reseeding                              ha             4,200               -              -         -          -          20         20       20       20         20
Cash crop (rye)                          ha             2,950 /I            15                       -          -          -          -         -        -          -
Hay                                     tons              500               -              -         10         12         15         15        15       20         20
Silage                                  tons              175               -              25        50         50         50         50       50       50         50
Concentrates
Cows                                  head              600               -              30        38         46        51         55        60       60         60
Yearlings                             head            2,000               -              -         40         50         60         70        75      80         80
Animal health                                             250               -              18        27         32         36         39        40      41         41
Labor                               man equiv.        150,000               -             150       150        150        150        150       150      150       150
Road maintenance                          -               /2                -               1         2          2          2          2         2        2          2
Repair and maintenance                    -               /2                -              -          2          4          4          4         4        4          4
of fence
Building repair and                       -                2                -              -          5          6          6          6         6        6          6
maintenance
Machinery repair, maintenance             -               /3                -              28        37         37         37         37        37       37         37
and operation
Taxes                                                     /4                5              18        25         29         32         35        35       36         36
Sub-total                                          -               20             270       386       418        663        683       694      706        706        a x
Total X                                                           20             297       425        460        729        751       763      776        776        0 v
co
/1 Including tillage, seed, fertilizer and harvesting.
2 21% on cost of construction.
7l10o   on cost of machinerv Plus 300 Ptas per ha for fuel and lubricants.
T   70 Ptas per ha real estate tax plus 200 Ptas per AU.             -
7 Includes 10M allowance for contingency, except in situation "Before Development".
May 20, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 50-PA MOUNTAIN FARM FOR BEEF PRODUCTION--NORTH
Financial Projections
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_________-___--Years----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Before
Development          1               2              3               4              5              6               7              8               9              10             11              12              13
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Ptas '000 -------------------------------------------------------------------------_---_
CASH INFLOW
1. Annual sales                             39             112            853          1,135           1,399          1,559           1,847          2,018           2,018          2,018          2,018          2,018           2,018           2,018
2. Investment capital         Li
a. Farmer's contribution                 -             698             161             40               -               -              -              -               -               -             -               -              -
b. Long-term loan                         -          2,790             644             160              -
3. Working capital
a. Farmer's contribution                 -               19             13             22             175
b. Short-term  loan                      -              297            103               -              -               -              -              -               -               -             -               -              -
Total expected cash inflow                  39           3,916          1,774           1,357          1,574           1,559          1,847          2,018           2,018           2,018         2,018           2,018          2,018            2,018
CASH OUTFLOW
1. Investment                                -           3,488            805             200               -              -              -               -              -               -             -               -               -
2. Operating expenses                       20             297            425             460            729             751            763            776             776             776           776             776            776              776
3. Debt service
a. Long-term 10577
a. ) Interest lo?                     _              91             202            228            234             208            182             156            130             104             78             52              26
(ii) Principal -                      -               _               -              -            394             400            400             400            400             400           400             400            400
b. Short-term 1057
(i) Interest                                         19               7              -               -              -               -              -               -              -              -              -               -
(ii) Principal    /4                  -               -             297            103               -              -              -               -               -              -              -              -               -
c. Technical service -                    -               8             16              18             18              16             14             12              10               8             6               4              2
Total expected cash outflow                 20           3,903           1,752          1,009          1,375           1,375          1,359           1,344          1,316           1,288         1,260           1,232          1,204              776
Total expected cash balance
at year's end                            19               13             22             348            199             184            488            674             702             730           758             786            814            1,242
/I Accounts for 207, of the total on-farm investment cost.
/2 6.57, on the outstanding loan.
/3 12 years repayment with 3 years of grace.
/4  0.5% on the outstanding debt
December 19, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 50-EA MOUNTAIN FARM FOR BEEF FATTENING - NORTH
On-Farm Iavestment Projections
Development Phasing
Average        Average              Cost Per Farm               --------Years--------
Units Per      Unit Cost                        (Us$ '000        1          2          3                       Cost -50 Farms
Investment Items                Unit        Farm           (Ptas)        (Ptas  000)        equiv.)       (-------Ptas '000-------)            (Ptas mil.)       (US$ mil. equiv.)
Pasture establishment
Land clearing                  ha          50           15,000              750             12.9         375        375         -                 37.5                0.64
Seeding                        ha          50           10,000              500              8.6         250        250         -                 25.0                0.43
Pasture consolidation             ha          50            4,000              200             3.4          -          -         200                10.0                0.17
Fencing                           km          10           36,000             360              6.2         180        180         -                 18.0                0.31
Watering points                   No.          7            5,000               35             0.6          35         -           -                 1.7                0.03
Feed lot                         m2       1,500               250              375             6.5         225        150         -                 18.7                0.32
Silo (clamp)                     m3          750              200              I50             2.6         150         -          -                  7.5                0.13
Storage building /1              n.a.       n.a.           50,000              50              0.9          50         -          -                  2.5                0.04
Cattle working facilities        No.           1          150,000              150             2.6          90         60         -                  7.5                0.13
Road improvement                 n.a.       n.a.          100,000             100              1.7          50         50         -                  5.0                0.08
Maohinery
Tractor                        No.           1          288,000             ,88              5.0         288         -          -                 14.4               0.25
-Mower                         No.           1           72,000               72             1.2          72         -          -                  3,6                0.o6
Trailer                        No.           1          72,000                72             1.2          72         -          -                  3.6                o.o6
Fertilizer spreader            No.           1           24,000               24             0.4           24         -          -                 1.2                0.02
Front-end loader               No.           1           72,000              72              1.2           72                                                         o -  3.6  _._6
Total                                    -              -              3,198             55.1        1,933    1,Q65         200              159.9                 2,8
L   Remodeling of existing structure.
May 14, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 50-HA MOUNTAIN FARM  FOR BEEF FATTENING - NORTH
Sales Projections
Before            ------ Years-
Category                             Unit           Development          1          2-12
CATTTF
Number of head sold                  No.               -              144          240
Average Liveweight                   kg                -              400          400
Price liveweight                  Ptas/kg              -               70           70
Cattle sales                      Ptas '000            -            4,032        6,720
CASH CROP (Rye)
Area                                 ha                5                -           -
Yield                              kg/ha           1,000               -            -
Production                           kg            5,000               -            -
Price                             Ptas/kg              6               -            -
Sales                             Ptas '000           30               -
GRAZING FEE
Area                                 ha               45               -
Price                             Ptas/ha            200               -
Rent                              Ptas '000            9               -            -
TOTAL SALES
Cattle                            Ptas '000            -            4,032        6,720
Cash crop                         Ptas '000           30               -            -
Grazing fee                       Ptas '000            9               -            -                                                                                                      w
Total                           Ptas '000           39            4,032        6,720
May 15, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 50-HA MOUNTAIN FARM FOR BEEF FATTENING - NORTH
Projected Operating Expenses
Unit          Unit Cost          Before           ------------------------------------Years-----------------------------------------
(Ptas)         Development          1            2           3           4            5           6            7          8-12
(--------------------------------------------------Pts             -       -------------------------------)
Pasture maintenance
Fertilizer                          ha              4,000               -               -           -            -          200         200          200         200           200
Reseeding                           ha              4,200               -               -           -            -           20          20           20          20            20
Cash crop (rye)                        ha             2,950 /1           15               -            -           -           -            -           -            -            -
Silage                                ton                175               -              65         105          105         105          105         105         105           105
Hay                                   ton                500               -              38           63          63          63           63          63           63           63
Concentrates                        head               2,000               -             288         480          480         480         480          480         480           480
Animal health                        head                250               -              38           63          63          63           63          63           63           63
Labor                            man equiv.         150,000                -             150          150         150         150          150         150          150          150
Road maintenance                       -                2                  -                1           2           2           2            2           2            2            2
Repair & maintenance                   -                 2                 -               -            4           7            7           7           7            7             7
of fence
Building repair &                      -                 2                 -               -           11          15           15          15          15           15           15
maintenance
Machinery repair,
maintenance & operation              -                                   -              40          53           53          53          53           53          53            53
Purchase of weaners                  head            15,000                -           2,250       3,750        3,750       3,750       3,750        3,750       3,750         3,750
Taxes                                  -                /4                 4              14           21          21          21           21          21           21           21
Suihtotal                          -               -                 19            2,884       4,702       4,709       4,929        4,929       4,929        4,929        4,929
Total /                            -               -                 19           3,060        4,985       4,993       5,234        5,234       5,234        5,234        5,234
/I  Including tillage, seed, fertilizer and harvesting.
/2  2% on cost of construction.
Ai 10% on cost of machinery, plus 300 Ptas per ha for fuel and lubrication.
/4  70 Ptas per ha real estate tax, plus 70 Ptas per calf.
A5  Including a contingency allowance of 10% on operating expenses, except purchase of weaners, plus 5% on purchase of weaners, except in situation
"Before Development."
May 15, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVEWPFENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 50-lA MOUNTAIN FARM FOR BEEF FATTENING--NORTH
Financial Projection.
BeforeYer
Development          1              2              3               4              5              6              7               8              9             i0              it             12              13
CASH INFLOW
1. Annual sales                            39           4,032          6,720          6,720          6,720           6,720          6,720          6,720          6,720           6,720         6,720          6,720           6,720           6,720
2. Iveat.cent capital
a. Farmer'a contribution                 -             387            213             40               -              -              -              -              -               -             -              -               -               -
b. Long-term loan                        -           1,546            852            160
3, Working capital
a. Farmer's contribution                                 -              -
b. Short-term  loan                      -               -              -
Total expected cash inflow                 39           5,965          7,785          6,920          6,720           6,720          6,720          6,720          6,720           6,720         6,720          6,720           6,720           6,720
CASH OUTFLOW
1. Investment                               -           1,933          1,065            200               -              -              -              -               -              -             -               -              -                -
2. Operating eapenaes                      19           3,060          4,985          4,993          5,243           5,243          5,243          5,243          5,243           5,243         5,243          5,243           5,243           5,243
3. Debt service
a. Long-term loan/2
(i)  Intereat -                      _              50             128            161            166            148            129             111             92             74            55              37             18                -
(ii) Principal /3                                     -              -              -            286            284            284             284            284            284           284             284            284
b. Short-term loan
(i)  Interest                                                                                      -              -               -              -              -              -              -              -               -
(ii) Principal    /4                                  4             1              1              1              1               1               9              7              6                                                             -
c. Technical service -                   -               4             10             12              13             11             10              9               7              6             4               3              1
Total expected caah outflow                19           5,047          6,188          5,366          5,708           5,686          5,666          5,647          5,626           5,607         5,5e6          5,567           5,546           5,243
Total expected cash balance
at year's end                            20             918          1,597          1,554          1,012           1,034          1,054          1,073          1,094           1,113         1,134          1,153           1,174           1,477
/1  Accounts for 207. of the total on-fern investment coat.
7i  6.5% on the outstanding loan.
/3  12 years -epeyment with 3 yc-a  grtce.
T4  0.5% on the outatanding debt.
December 19, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 100-HA DRYLAND MILK SHEEP FAR- 'WITH 5-PA IRRIGATED PASTURE - MARGINAL CEREAL ZONES
On-Farm Investment Projections
Development Phasing
Average        Average              Cost Per Farm                   --        Years---------
Units Per      Unit Cost                        (US$ '000       1            2          3                 Cost - 100 Farms
Investment Item                  Unit        Farm           (Ptas)        (Ptas '000)       equiv.)       (--------Ptas '000-------)          (Ptas mil.) -  (US$ mil. equiv.)
Pasture establishment             ha           5            10,000            50                0.9        25           25          -              5.0                0.09
Alfalfa establishment             ha           20            8,000           160                2.8        80           80          -             16.0                0.27
Fencing                           km            6           55,000           330                5.7       110          110         110            33.0                0.57
Watering points                   No.           2           25,000            50                0.9        25           25          -              5.0                0.09
Sheep shed                         2         400             1,000           400                6.9      200           200          -             40.0                0.69
Milking parlor                    m            70            2,500           175                3.0       175           -           -             17.5                0.30
Milking equipment,/A incl.        No.           1         430,000            430                7.4       430           -           -             43.0                0.74
refrigerated milk storage
tank   2
Mechanical feeding units          No.          24           11,000           264                4.6       264           -           -             26.4                0.46
in milking parlor
Mower                             No.           1           50,000            50                0.9        50           -           -              5.0                0.09
Hay rake                          No.           1           30,000            30                0.5        30           -           -               3.0               0.05
Sheep:
Ewes                            No.        300             3,500         1,050               18.1    1,050            -           -            105.0                1.81
Rams                            No.          12           12,000           144                2.5       144           -           -             14.4                0.25
Total                         -            -              -            3,133              54.0    2,583           440          110           313.3                5.4                 ' >
/I  Two rows of twelve sheep each,
/2  1,200 1. capacity.                                                                                                                                                                     -
May 13, 1974



Table 35
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 100-HA DRYLAND MILK SHEEP FARM WITH 5-NA IRRIGATED PASTURE - MARGINAL CEREAL ZONES
Sheep Flock Development Projections
Before- -------------------- -Years -------------------------------------------
Category                                   Unit          Development
1           2            3            4             5          6-12
Flock Composition
Breeding ewes                               No.                -                  300         374          400           400          400          400
Breeding rams                               No.                -                   12          15            16           16           16            16
Lambs born                                  No.                -                  318         595          636           636          636           636
Replacement ewes                            No.                -                   -          143           111          111          111           ill
Replacement rams                            No.                -                   -            5             3            3            3             3
Total                                  No.                -                  630       1,132         1,166        1,166         1,166        1,166
Total                                  AU                 -                   52           90           88            88           88           88
Ewe equivalents                        No.                -                  312         537           530          530           530          530
Mortality
Ewes                                        No.                -                    6           7             8            8            8             8
Rams                                        No.                                    -           -             -            -             -            -
Lambs                                       No.                -                   32         59            51            51           51           51
Replacement ewes                            No.           _                        -           3              2            2             2            2
Total                                  No.                -                   38          69            61            61           61           61
Sales
Lambs                                       No.               -                   138        422           471           471          471           471
Cull ewes                                   No.               -                    60         75             80           80           80            80
Cull rams                                   No.                -                    2          3              3            3             3            3
Yearling ewes                               No.                -                   -          32             21           21            21           21
Total                                  No.                -                   200        532           575          575           575          575
Purchases
Ewes                                        No.               -                   300         -              -                          -            -
Rams                                        No.                -                   12
Total                                  No.                -                   312                -             -                   -             -
Technical Coefficients
Ewes lambing                                                  -                    85         85             85           85           85            85
Lambs per ewe lambing                       No.               -                     1.25       1.25           1.25         1.25          1.25         1. 25
Lambs per ewe per year                      No.               -                     1.50       1.50           1.50         1.50          1.50         1.50
Culling:
(a) Ewes                                                    - _                  20         20            20            20           20            20
(b) Rams                                                    -                    20         20            20            20           20            20
Mortality:
(a) Breeding ewes                        -%                                       2          2              2            2            2             2
(b) Replacement ewes                                        -                     2          2              2            2            2             2
(c) Lambs                                                   -                    10         10             8             8            8             8
Milk production                         1/ewe/yr.              -                   90        135            135          135           135          135
Yield of wool                        kg/ewe equiv.            -                     2.2        2.2            2.2          2.2           2.2          2.2
May 8, 1974



ANSNFX 4
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 100-RA DRYLAND MILK SHEEP FARM WITH S-NA IRRIGATED PASTURE - MARGINAL CEREAL ZONES
Sales Projections
Before-                 ------------------------Year-
Category                                    Unit           Develop-ent
1           2             3            4             5             6-12
SHEEP
Nuaber of Read Sold
La-b.                                     No.                 -                  138          422          471           471         471            471
Coil ewes                                  No. .                                  60           75            80           80           80            80
Call rRos                                  No. .                                    2           3             3            3            3              3
Breeding aninals                           No.                -                    -           32            21           21           21             21
A-erage Live-eight
Lanks                                     kg                  -                   12           12            12           12           12             12
Culle1wes                                  kg                 -                   45           45 41                      45           45            45
Cull ra-s                                  kg                 _                   60           60            60           60           60             60
Price Liveweight
Laebs                                   Ptes/kg               -                  105          105          105           105          105           105
Cull e-es                               Ptas/kg               -                   32           32            32           32           32             32
Coil ra-s                               Pt.s/kg               -                   32           32            32           32           32             32
Breeding aninals                        Ptas/head             -                2,700        2,700        2,700         2,700       2,700          2,700
Sheep Sales
Laa,bs                                 Ptas  '000             -                  174          532          593           593          593           593
Cull e.es                              Ptas '000              -                   86          108          115           115          115            115
Cull reose                             Ptis '000              -                    4            6             6            6            6              6
BreedinC . ninals                      Ptas '000              -                   -            86           57            57           57            57
Subtotal                             Ptas '000              -                  264         732           771           771         771            771
WOOL
NBaber shorn                           ewe equiv.             _                  312          537           530          530          530           530
Yield                                kg/ewe equiv.            -                     2.2         2.2           2.2          2.2          2.2            2.2
Production                                  kg                -                  686        1,181        1,166         1,166        1,166         1,166
Price                                   Ptis/kg               -                   70           70            70           70           70             70
Sales                                   Ptes  '000            -                   48           83            82           82           82             82
Ewes                                       No.                -                  300          374           400          400          400           400
Lasbing rate                                %                 -                   85          127           127          127          127            12'7
Ewes in oilk                               No. .                                 255          475          508           508          908            50B
Milk yield                              1/-ue/yr.             -                    90          90            90           9O           90             9O
Milk prodoction                          '000 1               -                    23          43            46           46           46             46
Milk prior                              Ptis/I                -                    22          22            22           22           22             22
Milk sales                             Ptas'000               -                  506          946        1,012         1,012        1,012         1,012
CASN CROPS
Area
Wheat                                      he                SO                    20          20            20            20          20             20
Grain legues                               ha                25                    -                         -             -           -              -
Sugarbeets                                 he                 5                    -           -             -             -           -              -
Yield
Wheat                                    kg/ha            1,000                1,000        1,000         1,000        1,000        1,000          1,000
Grain legune                            kg/he               700                    -           -             -             -           -              -
Sugarbeets                              kg/he           30,000                     -           -             -            -            -              -
Production
Wheat                                     tons               50                    20          20            20            20          20             20
Grain legune                              tons               17                    -           -             -             -           -              -
Sugarbeets                               tons               150
Prices
Wheat                                    Pt.s,/kg             7                     7           7             7             7           7              7
Grain leg-e.                             Ptes/kg             10
sogarbeets                              Ptis/kg               2                    -           -             -             -           -              -
Sales
Wheat                                   Ptie  '000          350                   140         140           140           140         140            140
Grain leguee                           Pt.s '000            170                    -           -             -             -           -              -
S.g.rb..ts                             Ptas  000            300                                 -                          -
Subthtal                             Ptis '000           820                   140          140          140           140          140           140
TOTAL SALES
Sheep                                  Ptis '000             -                   264          732           771          771          771            771
Wool                                   Ptis '000             -                     48          83            82            82          82             82
Milk                                   Ptas '000             -                    506         946         1,012        1,012        1,012          1,012
Cash crops                             Pts '000             820                   140         140           140          140          140            140
TotaS                                Ptis '000            820                  958        1,901        2,005         2,005       2,005          2,005
May 10, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 100-HA DRYLAND MILK SHEEP FARM WITH 5-hA IRRIGATED PASTURE - MARGINAL CEREAL ZONES
Projected Operating Expenses
Before         ----------------------------------------------------Years-----------
Unit         Unit Cost         Development         1          2           3          4          5          6          7          8          9         10         11         12
(Ptas)           (--------------------------------------------------------Ptas  '000--------------------------------------------------------------
Pasture maintenance
Fertilizer                   ha            3,200                 -             _            8         16        16         16         16         16         16         16         U.         16         16
Alfalfa maintenance LI
Fertilizer                   ha            1,800                 -             -           18        36         36         36         36         36         36                    3e                    36
Reseeding                    ha            8,000                 -             -           -          -         -          -          80         80         -          -          _:
Annual forage                  ha            7,500                 -            150         150        150       150        150        150        150        150        150        150        15r)       150
Cash crops
Wheat                        ha            7,000                350           140         140        140       140        140        140        140        140        140        140        14()       140
Oats                         ha            6,000                 -            120         120       120        120        120        120        120        120        120        120        120        120
Grain legume                 ha            4,000                100            80          80        80         80         80         80         80         80         80         80         80         80
Sugar beets                  ha           25,000                125            -           -          -         -          -          -          -          -          -          _-                    -
Concentrates                  head             180                 -             54          67         72        72         72         72         72         72         72         72         72         72
Animal health              ewe equiv.          120                 -             37          64         64         64        64         64         64         64         64         64         64         64
Labor                     man equiv.       150,000                150           150         150       150        150        150        150        150        150        150        150        150        150
Repair and maintenance
of fence                     -               L2                  -             -            2         4          7          7          7          7          7          7          7          7          7
Building repair and
maintenance                  -                                     2           -            8         12         12        12         12         12         12         12         12         12         12
Machinery repair and
maintenance                  -               /3                  -             38          76         76         76        76         76         76         76         76         76         76         76
Taxes                          -               /4                  22            29          34         34         34         34         34         34         34         34        34         34         34
Subtotal                   -              -                  747            798         917       954        957        957      1.037      1,037        957        957        957      1,037      1 037
Total A                    --                                747            878       1,009     1,049      1,053      1,053      1,141      1,141      1,053      1,053      1,053      1,141      1,141
/I Dryland alfalfa.
/2  2% on cost of construction.
3  10% on cost of machinery.                                                                                                                                                                             g  -
/4  70 Ptas per ha real estate tax plus 135 Ptas per AU plus 15,000 Ptas annually for Social Security.                                                                                                   a
Ai Including 10% contingency allowance, except in situation "Before Development."'                                                                                                                       u t-
May 31, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVEWLPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPHENT PROJECTIONS
DEVELOPMENT OF 100-HA DRYLAND MILK SHEEP FARM WITH 5-HA IRRIGATED PASTURE--MARGINAL CEREAL ZONES
Financial Projections
Before          ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Years ----------__________-___________________________________________________________-_
Development            1               2               3               4                5               6               7               8                9              10               11              12               13
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------P----------                 Pt..s  '000 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CASH INFLOW
1. Annu.al salee                             820              958           1,901           2,005           2,005            2,005           2,005           2,005           2,005            2,005          2,005            2,005           2,005            2,005
2. Invesement  capitol                                        517               88              22               -               -                -               -               -                -              -               -                -                -
a. Fars,er'a contribstion
b. Long-ten  Sees                           -            2,066             352              SS
3. Working cepital
a. Farmer's contribution                    -               73               -
b. Short-term  lo.-
Total expected cash inflow                   820            3,614           2,341           2,115            2,005           2,005           2,005           2,005           2,005            2,005          2,005            2,005           2,005            2,005
CASH OUTFLOW
1. Investment                                  -            2,583             440              110               -               -                -               -               -                -              -               -                -                -
2. Operating expenses                        747              878           1,009           1,049            1,053           1,053           1,141           1,141           1,053            1,053          1,053            1,141           1,141            1,053
3. Debt service
a. Long-tern loan,2
(i)  Interest 7I                        -               67              146             160             163             145             127              109              91              73             54               36               18                -
(ii) Principal  3                       -                 -               -               -             274             279             279             279             279              279            279              279             279
b. Short-term loan
(i)  Interest                                                                                             -               -                -               -               -               -               -               -               -
(ii) Principal    A                                                                       -               -               -                                                                - 
c. Technical service -                      -                5               1l             12               13              11              10               8                7               6              4                3               1                 -
Total expected cash outflow                  747            3,533           1,606           1,331            1,503           1,488           1,557           1,537            1,430           1,411          1,390            1,459           1,439             1,053
Total expected eash balance
at year's end                               73               01             735             784              502             517             448             468              575             594            615              546             566               952
/1 Accounts for 20% of the total on-farm investment cost.
/2 6.5% on the outstanding loss.
/3 12 years repayment with 3 years of grace,
/4  0.5% on the outstanding debt.
December 19, 1974



ANNEX 5
Table 1
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates L/
Ptas million                       US$ million                  X
For_i.n
Local   Foreign    Total          Local   Foreign    Total        tghan5
I.   On-Farm Development
Pasture establishment       718      637     1,355          12.4      11.0      23.4
Pasture consolidation        92       92       184           1.6        1.6       3.2
Fencing                     330       41       371           5.7       0.7        6.4
Watering facilities          78       16        94           1.3       0.3        1.6
Farm buildings              665       74       739          11.4        1.3      12.7
Machinery and               619      319       938          10.7       5.5       16.2
equipment
Road improvement             40       -         40           0.7         -        0.7
Livestock                 2,324      258     2,582          40.1       4.4       44.5
Working capital           1,020      364     1,384           17.6       6.3      23.9
Subtotal                5,886    1,801     7,687         101.5      31.1      132.6           23.0
II.  .Livestock Development
Agency
Expatriate experts          -         22        22           -         o.4        0.4
Local staff                 433       -        433           7.5        -         7.5
Vehicles and expenses       110       73       183           1.9        1.3       3.2
Training grants             -          6         6           -         0.1        0.1
Subtotal                  543      101       644           9.4        1.8      11.2          16.0
rI1, Livestock Procurement
Service
Subtotal                  320       -        320           5.5         -        5.5
!V.   Total Project Cost          6,749    1,902     8,561          116.4      32.9    149.3            22.0
/1   Costs are based on prices obtained at time of appraisal, February/March 1974.
September 6, 1974



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
On-Farm Development Cost by Region and by Farm Type
Southwest                                                                            North
Dryland          Dryland          Dryland         Irrigated        Dairy
Cattle            Sheep            Plus             Cattle         Sheep                            Dairy            Cattle          Cattle
Production       Production       Irrigated        Fattening      Production       Subtotal        Production       Production       Fattening       Subtotal       Total
Cattle
Production
--------------------------n--------------------------------------------US$ million---------------------------------------------------------Cn------)
Pasture establishment                    4.7               3.6              5.4             0.4            0.4            14.5               0.3              7.5            1.1             8.9          23.4
Pasture consolidation                    0.6               0.5              0.6              -              -              1.7               0.1              1.2            0.2             1.5           3.2
Fencing                                  1.3               1.0              1.3             0.4            0.6             4.6               0.4              1.1             0.3             1.8          6.4
Watering facilities                      0.3               0.4              0.3              -             0.1             1.1               0.3              0.2              -             0.5            1.6
Farm construction                        1.6               2.2              1.5             1.7            1.0             8.0               2.5              1.6            0.6             4.7          12.7
Machinery and equipment                  1.1               2.2              3.9             4.6            1.3            13.1               0.4               2.2            0.5             3.1         16.2
On-farm roads                             -                 -                -               -              -               -                 -               0.6            0.1              0.7          0.7
Livestock                                9.1               7.7             11.8              -             2.1            30.6               1.2             12.7              -             13.9         44.5
Incremental working capital             12.9               0.6              8.0              -              -             21.5                -               2.4              -              2.4         23.9
Total                       31.6              18.3             32.8              7.1           5.4            95.2               5.1              29.5            2.8            37.4         132.6
September 9, 1974



Table 1
SPAIN
S3CCIID LI;ESs'OCK D3VELOPMENT PROJECT
LIV};STOCK DEVELOPHENT AGENCY
Staffing Pattern
m- 
AWdlnistrative Staff
Senior                      L;           44
Tuni.or                    L4           16           18           18           l 8
Supporting                 33           37            2            2 k2
T'echnical Staff
Senior /1                  35           38                                     4
Peritos                    48           55           60           60           60
Yo~~~~                 34~~        250165                    16-          16
Co+t.-   __13'                             3150        1e7_
/1  Includes Technical Consultant.
July 23, 19714



ANNEX 6
Table 2
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
Administrative Costs
1       ~     ~~2    3            45
Technical Consultant      3.0             3.0         3.0          3.0         3.0
Salaries                    53.0         62.5        71.9         75,5        79.3
Social Security               8.0         9.4        10.8         11.3        11.9
Office Operating
Expenses                26.0         30.0        33.0        35.0         38.0
Purchase of Vehicles
and Equipment            1.0          1.0         1.2          1.2         1.5
Overseas Training            1.0          1.0         1.0          1.0         1.0
Part-Time Consultants         0.9         0.9         0.9          0.9         0.9
Sub-Tot l                   92.9        107.8       121.8        127.9       137.6
Total Li.   102.2                       118.6       134.0        140.7       149.2
/1  All staff benefits and travel costs are included.
/2  Includingl0% allowrance for contingency.
July 23, 1974



kX,+iN EX U
APPepcix 1
Page 1
SPAIN
SECOND LIVES TOCK DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
Consultants - Di:aft Terms of Reference
Technical Consultant
1.        Qualifications:  A university degree in Agricultural Science,
preferably with an animal husbandry and/or farm management bias, or the
equivalent. Candidates must have broad professional experience of at least
10 years in land development as welL as in riodern teclniques of dairy and
beef production from pasture.  They should have the ability and experience
to undertake technical and financial evaluation of investment plans for farm
development. They should also have the ability to prepare and carry out
training programs for livestock technicians and have wide experience in on-
farm extension.
2.        Duties:  The Techrnical C2onsultant would be responsible for the
technical aspects of the Project, particularly in respect of the Northern
Project Area, and would be direcLly responsible to the Director of the LDA.
His specific duties would include but would not be limited to the following:
(a)  Advise tJe           o,irct   o  the LDA on major policy matters in
respect ol thce Irofi:.p iArticularly iri the Northern Project
Area;
(b) Advise and assist the Director of the LDA in recruiting,
training and managing the technical staff, particularly for
the Northern Project Area;
(c)  With the assistance of the 'ocal staff, help participating
farmers to prepare on- farm developm4ent programs, as well as
review and approve farm investment plans;
(d)  On the auithority -f t.i-  rec&r of the LDA, recomTmend loans
under the P.roject to warticipatimg lending institutions;
(e) Supervise the execution of approved farm development plans,
particularly in the Northern Project Area, and recommend
remedial actiorn when  eded;



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
Page 2
(f) Maintain records of investment plans and loan supervision,
particularly in respect of the Northern Project Area, in
order to provide an adequate basis for measurement of Proj-
ect impact;
(g) Prepare Quarterly and Annual Progress Reports as required
by the Director of the LDA; and
(h) Assist the Director of the LDA in the selection of recipients
of training fellowships provided for under the Project.
Seed Production Specialist
3.        Qualifications:  A university degree in Agricultural Science,
preferably with a major in pasture agronomy, or the equivalent. Candidates
must have broad professional experience in pasture and forage seed production,
including at least 5 years in the production and harvesting of annual forage
legume seeds, especially subterranean clover. In addition, they should be
able to design and carry out research and demonstration trials and to organize
training programs in seed production.
4.        Duties:  The Seed Production Specialist would be responsible for
advising the Director, National Institute for Seeds and Nursery Plants, and
assisting the Ministry of Agriculture in planning and implementing a pasture
and forage seed production program. his specific duties would include but
would not be limited to the following:
(a) Advise as to what pasture and forage seeds are the most
suitable for production in Spain, including the feasibility
of increasing the production of those grasses and legumes
indigenous to the country;
(b) Demonstrate modern and efficient techniques of pasture and
forage seed production, including harvesting;
(c) Assist in setting up the most feasible system of producing
high quality seed, i.e., on Government farms or by farmers
under license;
(d) Advise and assist in recruiting and training the technical
personnel needed for the seed production program;
(e) Advise and assist in the importation of any special machinery,
equipment or seed stock; and
(f) Advise and assist in seed quality control and seed certification.



SPAIN
SECOND LiVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Development Agency
Proposed Organizational Chart
fl                   Coordinating Commission                                         MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
lUnder-Secretary of Agriculture (President)                               Directorate General of Agricultural Production
Director General of Agricultural
Production (Vice-president)                                _ _
Representative of FORPPA
Representative of the Directorate General of the
Treasury and Budgets
(Representative of IRYDA
Representative of ICONA
|Representative of the Office of the Deputy Director
General of Foreign Financing                                                             DIRECTOR
Representative of ICO                                                                         -      L
Representative of the National Livestock Raising           -
Organization                                                  I
IRepresentative of the National Farmers' and Ranchers' Society                                                                                                              AUDITOR        LEGAL
Representative of the Ministry of Development Planning                                                                                                                                   ADVISOR
(Representative of DGCEA
The Deputy Director General for Animal Production                                        DEPUTY DIRECTOR
|The Director of the Livestock Development Agency
PROJECTS        TECRNICAL            LIASON AND            RESEARCH AND                  CHI F  OF                                                    SECRETARY
ASSISTANCE       PROGRAM SERVICES       EXPERIMENTATION                   OFFICE                                                      GENERAL
CARTOGRAPHY          LIRRARy
AND   DOCUMENTATION                                             TEAMS               GENERAL                      ACCOUNTING           REGISTRY
DRAFTING  |  LPUBLICATIONS                                                                          AFFAIRS   i                                      AND FILES        |  AFFfIRSS
DIRECT RELATIONS - - - - - - - - - - CO-ORDINATION
July 23, 1974



ANNEX 7
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Number and Phasing of Loan Commitments
-------Years-------
1        2        3         Total
- - - - - Farms - 
Dryland cattle production             100      100        -         200
Dryland sheep production               75       75        -         150
Dryland (plus irrigated               100      100        _         200
pasture) cattle production
Irrigated cattle fattening             60       60        80        200
Dairy cattle production               150      150       150        450
Mountain cattle production             50       20       100        350
Mountain cattle fattening              16       17        17         50
Dairy sheep_production                 30       30       140        100
Total                            581       732      387       1,700
August 29, 1974



SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cash Flow L
----------------------------------------------------------------- Years ----------------------
1         2         3         4          5         6          7         8         9          10        11         12        13         14          15      Total
Pr-------------------------------------s--------------------- Ft.s Millio  ----------------_______________________________________________
INFLOW
1.  Government contributian             850.0  1,500.0  1,000.0        250.0    130.0         -         -          -         -          -         -         -          -         -            -    3,730.0
2.  IBRD loan                           411.8    788.8    533.6    139.2           40.6       -         _          _         _          -         _         -          -         _            _    1.914.0
Subtotal                       1,261,8  2,288.8  1,533.6        389.2    170.6         -          -         -         -          -         -         -          -          -           -    5,644.0
3. Loan repayments
(a) Dryland cattle farms           -         -          -        48.1      96.3       96.4      96.4      96.4       96.4      96.4       96.4      96.4      48.2        -            -       867.4
(b) Dryland sheep farms            -         -          -        45.1      90.5       90.9      90.9       90.9      90.9      90.9       90.9      90.9       45.5       -            -       817.4
(c) Dryland cattle farms           -         -          -        64.4    128.4    128.0    128.0    128.0    128.0            128.0    128.0       128.0      64.0        -            -    1,152.8
with irrigated pasture
(d) Irrigated cattle               -         -          -        11.4      22.3       37.2      36.6      36.6       36.6      36.6      36.6       36.6       25.6      14.6          -       330.7
fattening farm
(a) Dairy farm                     -         _          _         8.4      17.2       26.2      26.6      26.5       26.6      26.5       26.6      26.5       17.7       8.8          -       237.6
(f) Mountain cattle                -          -         -        19.7      98.8    139.4    140.0    140.0    140.0    140.0    140.0    140.0                120.0      40.0          -    1,257.9
production fanm
(g) Mountain cattle                -          -         -         4.6        9.4      14.3      14.2       14.2      14.2      14.2       14.2      14.2        9.6       4,8          _       127.9
fattening farm
(h) Milk sheep farm                -          -         -         8.2       16.o      27.7      27.9      27.9       27.9      27.9       27.9      27.9       19.5      11.2          _       250.6
Subtotal                           -          -         -       209.9    479.5    560.1    560.6    560.5    560.6    560.5              560.6     560.5      350.1      79.4          -    5,042.3
4.  Interest income                      36.7      145.4    264.3    322.2    304.6    288.2    248.8    213.2    175.9    138.5    101.3                  64.6       27.5       5.1          _    2,336.3
5.  Teehnical service6                    3.4       12.3      21.5      25.8       25.0      22.0       18.8      14.9      13.2       10.4       7.8       4.7        2.0       0.3          -       182.1
Total cash inflow              1,301.9  2,446.5  1,819.4        947.1    979.7    870.3    828.2    788.6    749.7    709.4    669.7               629.8    379.6        84.8          _   13,204.7
OUTFLOW
1. Loans to
(a) Dryland cattle farms         258.6    399.1    172.2         34.6       2.9        -         -          -         -         -                    -          -         -                    867.4
(b) Dryland sheep farms          201.6    346.7    204.9         62.0       2.2        _         _          _         _          _         -         _                    _ -                  817.4
(c) Dryland cattle farms         281.1    527.4    292.4         49.0        2.9       -         -          -         -         -          -         -          -         -            -    1,152.8
with irrigated pasture
(d) Irrigated cattle              75.5      99.3      124.3      31.6        -         -         -          -         -         -          -          -         -         -            -       330.7
fattening farm
(e) Dairy farm                    63.9      79.2       79.2      15.3        -         -         -                                                                                             2 -  _  -  -  _  _  _  737.6
(f) Mountain cattle
production farm              139.5    590.2    415.8         96.4      16.0        -         -          -         -         -          -         -          -         -            -    1,257.9
(g) Mountain cattle               24.7      39.9       43.3      17.2        2.8       -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -           -       127.9
fatteniag farm
(h) Milk sheep farm               62.0      72.5       95.8      16.7        3.6       -         -          -         -          -         -          _         _          _           -       250.6
Subtotal                       1,106.9  2,154.3  1,427.9        322.8       30.4       -          -         -         -          -          -         -         -          -            -    5,042.3
2.  Operation LDA                       102.0     118.0    134.0       141.0    149.0         -          -         -         -          -         -          -         -          -           -       644.0
3. IBRD loan serice
Interest & commitment fee         30.3       76.8    128.1    154.1    161.1    162.4    151.7    139.8             126.9      112.9      97.7       81.2      63.3      43.9         23.2  1,553.4
Principal                           -         -         -          -         -       129.3    140.0    151.9    164.8          178.8    194.0    210.5        228.4    247.8         268.5  1,914.0
Subtotal                      30.3      76.8    128.1    154.1    161.1         291.7    291.7    291.7    291.7          291.7    291.7    291.7        291.7    291.7          291.7  3,467.4
4. Government loan aervice
Interest                          17.3       65.3     116.3    141.8    149.5    152.2    139.5    126.3    112.6               98.3      83.4       67.8      51.9      35.1         29.9  1,387.2
Principal                          -          -         -          -         -       310.5    323.2    336.4        350.1    364.4    379.3    394.9          410.8    427.6         432.8  3,730.0
Subtotal                      17.3      65.3     116.3    141.8    149.5    462.7    462.7    462.7    462.7              462.7     462.7    462.7       462.7    462.7          462.7  5,117.2
Total cash outflow             1,256.5  2,414.4  1,806.3         759.7    490.0    754.4    754.4    754.4    754.4    754.4    754.4    754.4                754.4    754.4         754.4 14,270.9
CASH SALANCE-
Yearly                                   45.4       32.1      13.1    187.4    489.7        115.9       73.8      34.2       (4.7)    (45.0)   (84.7)  (124.6)   (374.8)  (669.61           (754.4)(1,066,2)
Cumulative                               45.4       77.5      90.6     278.0    767.7    883.6    957.4    991.6    986.9             941.9    857.2       732.6     357.8   (311.8)  (1,066.2)
/1  If cash aurploses are reinve.ted at ac intret rat. of 5,757O per annum, the final cash deficit i  year 15 would be reduced to aboot Ptas 680 million.
Decenber 20, 1974



ANNEX 9
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Quarterly Disbursements
IBED Fiscal Year                        Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                               at end of Quarter
-US$ '000)
1975/76
June 30                                             355
September 30                                      1,420
December 31                                       3,550
March 31                                          7,100
1976/77
June 30                                           9,140
September 30                                     11,860
December 31                                      15,940
March 31                                         20,700
1977/78
June 30                                          22,080
September 30                                     23,920
December 31                                      26,680
March 31                                         29,900
1978/79
June 30                                          30,260
September 30                                     30,740
December 31                                      31,1460
Marct; 31                                        32,300
1979/80
June 30                                          32,1405
September 30                                     32,545
December 31                                      32,755
March 31                                         33,000
August 29, 1974



SLAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPIENT PHOJECT
FINANCIAL RATES oF RETURN
Before                                                                 Years                                      lO         1            2        Financial
ODvelopnen.t   1        2           3         4          5           6           7           B           9           15         15           12    Rate of Retur
------------------------------------------------------------------- Ptas 0                                                                             r------------------------------------------------------  -   12
Yearn
One 500 h. Drylnd Form  - Cattle Produ-tion                                                                                                                                                             (per camtl
Bales                                             653       516       918       1,287      2,421     2,448       2,678       2,678       2,678        2,678       2,678       2,678       2,678
operoting Expe-oee                                 340      871    1,012        1,165      1,345      1,387       1,389       1,389       1,389       1,389       1,389       1,389       1,389
On Ra-cS Invest-ent                                 -     3,232    1,756          396         36        -           -           -           -           -           -
lncremental Voce liHed                                                                                                                                                                    7,906
Balance                                      313   (3,587)  (1,850)         (274)    1,040      1,061       1,289       1,289       1,289       1,289       1,289       1,289      98195
Incremenetl  ooBance                               -    (3,900)  (2,163)         (587)       727        748         976        976          976         976         976         976       8,882
12
One 500 ho DryJand Farn  - Sheep Prod,StEon1
soles                                             630       761    1,545        2,743      3,012     4,169       4,169       4,169       4,169        4,169       4,169       4,169       4,169
Operating Expemnes                                 351    1,024    1,222        1,465      1,503      1,655       1,655       1,655       1,655       1,655       1,655       1,655       1,655
on Ree11 Investnent                                 -     3,360    2,419          996         36        -           -           -           -           -           -
Increnectal Val-e Fleck                                                                                                                                                                   9,587
Balance                                      279   (3,623)  (2,096)          282     2,273      2,514       2,514       2,514       2,514       2,514       2,514        2,514      12,101
Increnentai Balance                                 -    (3,902)  (2,375)           3      1,993     2,235        2,235      2,235        2,235       2,235       2,235       2,235      11,822
24
one 500 ha Dryland Faon   with
20 ha Irrigated Pastare - Cettle Production
Boles                                              880      628    1,282        1,975      2,724      3,150       3,571       3,571       3,571       3,571       3,571       3,571       3,571
Operating Expenscs                                 467    1,218    1,221        1,468      1,571      1,618       1,638       1,638       1,621       1,621       1,621       1,638       1,638
On Ranch Inve-tment                                 -     3,514    3,079          576         36        -           -           -           -           -           -
Incremental Value Heed                                                                                                                                                                    9,385
Balance                                      413   (4,5n4)  (3,021)          (69)    1,117      1,532       1,933       1,933       1,950       1,95C        1,950       1,933      11,318
Increnental Belence                                 -    (4,517)  (3,434)        (482)       704      1,119       1,520       1,520       1,537       1,537       1,537       1,520      10,905
13
One 20 ha Irrigated Fore - Cattle Fattening
Boles                                           1,116    3,006    4,537         4,537      4,537      4,537       4,537       4,537       4,537       4,537       4,537       4,537       4,537
Operating Enpen-es                                 599    2,455    3,513        3,538      3,555      3,555       3,533       3,565       3,555       3,555       3,555       3,5/4       3,565
On FaPn  Invest-ent                                 -     1,572       494         -          -          -           -           -           -            -          -            -           -
Balance                                      517   (1,021)       530         999        982       982         963         972          982         982         982         963         972
Increnm-al BSalane                                  -    (1,538)       13         482        465        465         446         455         465         465         465         446          455
21
One 6 ha Dairy FaPr
Sales                                              234      344       460         574        682        682         682         682         682         682         682         682          682
Operating Enpe.ses                                 197       264      286         322        359        359         359         359         359         359         359          359         359
on Farm Investment                                  -        533      127         -          -          -           -           -           -           -            -           -           -
Incremental Val-e lard                                                                                                                                                                       272
Balance                                       37      (453)       47         252        323        323         323         323         323         323         323         323         595
Incremental Balance                                 -       (490)      10         215        286        286         286         286         286         286         286         286          558
39
One 50 ha Fare - Cattle Peoductiom
Soles                                               39       112      853       1,135      1,399      1,559       1,847       2,018       2,018       2,018       2,018       2,018        2,018
Operoatig E.penmce                                  20       297      425         060        729        751         763         776         776          776         776         776         776
on Flon  1n-e-t,noct                                -     3,488       805         200        -          -           -           -           -            -           -           -           -
Incre1n- tal Val-e iled                                                                                                                                                                  5,550
Balance                                       19   (3,673)      (377)        475        670        808       1,084       1,242       1,242       1,242       1,242       1,242       6,792
Incremntanl Balance                                 -    (3,692)    (396,         456        651        789       1,065       1,223       1,223       1,223       1,223        1,223       6 773
19
one 100 ha Deyland Milk sheepPoem
With 5 ho Irrigated Pasture
Sal.e                                              820       958    1,901       2,005      2,005      2,005       2,005       2,005       2,005       2,005        2,005       2,005       2,005
Operating Expenses                                 747       878    1,009       1,049      1,053      1,053       1,141       1,141       1,053       1,053        1,053       1,141       1,141
On Fane Investmert                                  -      2,583      440         110        -          -
Sncomnmti bEeValn Fleck                                                                                                                                                                    1,574
Balanct                                       73   (2,503)       452         846        952        952         864         864         952         952         952         864       2,438
Incremental Balance                                 -    (2,576)      379         773        879        879         791         791         879          879         879         791       2,365
27
One 50 ho Fore - CoLtlc  Fatteng27
Sales                                               39    4,032    5,720        6,720      6,720      6,720       6,720       6,720       6,720       6,720        6,720       6,720       6,720
op-eating Expee-ne                                  19    3,060    4,985        4,993      5,243      5,243       5,243       5,243       5,243       5,243        5,243       5,243       5,243
On Pane leveetment                                  -      1,933    1,064          200       -          -            -          -            -           -           -           -           -
Balance                                       20      (961)      670       1,527      1,477      1,477       1,477       1,477       1,477       1,477       1,477       1,477        1,477
T      -cremenL0l Ralaone                           -       (981)     650       1,50,'    1,457       1,457       1,457       1,457       1,457        1,457       1,457       1,457       1,457
Sons-itivity Analysen:  1.  Operating enpens.en increoed 10% and                                                                 1
on-facm i-vestment ionceased 207                                                                    3S                t
2. op-r-tlmgnnpenten  in-p--    e  10%l -,do
_____________________________________________ _ __     salts   dcnreased   57                               _2* 97
July 29, 1974



ANNEX 11
Page 1
SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis and Rate of Return
1.        The prices used for valuing sales in the financial analysis of all
farm plans were those prevailing in Spain at the time of appraisal (March 1974).
In comparing the quality of Spanish livestock products with imported commodi-
ties to determine whether a set of comparable shadow prices is needed, the
following considerations are appropriate.
2.        Beef:  The imported product used for purposes of comparison was
chilled Argentine hindquarters (boneless) c.i.f. Smithfield. The IBRD Com-
modities Section projected 1980 price, in constant 1974 prices, is US$377.00/100
kg or US$3.77/kg. At a conversion factor of 50% this converts to US$1.88/kg
(bone-in carcass weight basis). At the 1974 exchange rate of US$1.00 = Ptas 58,
this converts to a Spanish price of Ptas 109.04/kg carcass weight; and at a
constant 1972 exchange rate for British L, US$ and Spanish Ptas, it would con-
vert to Ptas 117.00/kg carcass weight. Since Spanish carcasses would be pre-
dominantly fresh home-killed yearlings compared with Argentine three to four
years old animals (chilled), a 7% premium should be allowed for the Spanish
carcasses. This would raise the shadow price between Ptas 116.63/kg and
125.19/kg, depending upon exchange rate used. Approximately 30% of the beef
produced under the Project would be cull cows and bulls and i0% yearlings.
The March 1974 carcass weight price for yearlings (Madrid market) was Ptas
132.50/kg and for cull cows and bulls Ptas 107.50/kg. This results in an
average carcass weight beef price for the Project (March 1974) of Ptas 125.00/kg
which is identical to the upper range of the shadow price calculated above.
3.        Given the variability of the exchange rates involved and the margin
of error involved in the various conversion factors used, the price of beef
production resulting from the Project is in line with the projected world
price. Consequently no deduction is made in the value of beef sales for this
Project compared with a 20% deduction made in the First Project because
Spanish beef prices at that time were considered to be above world prices.
4.        Lamb:  The projected 1980 IBRD lamb price is between US$1.30 and
US$1.50/kg c.i.f. UK markets, which converts to a Spanish price of Ptas 75.40
to 87.00/kg carcass weight. These would be frozen New Zealand carcasses.
The Spanish product being freshly slaughtered requires a 20% premium over
frozen imported lamb. About 78% of the mutton and lamb production from the
Project would be lamb, of which 71% would be from lambs three to eight months.
The price used in the financial analysis of farm plans for lambs up to three
months was Ptas 105/kg liveweight (22% of total mutton and lamb production),
for lambs three to eight months, Ptas 60/kg (56% of mutton and lamb production),
and for mutton, Ptas 26/kg (22% of mutton and lamb production). The average



ANNEX 11
Page 2
liveweight price for all mutton and lamb produced in the Project is about Ptas
60/kg. This is the average of prices received by farmers in the Project areas
where mutton and lamb is produced and differs from the average liveweight prices
reported for the country as a whole (Annex 2, Table 4).
5.        At a dressing percentage of 50%, the projected world lamb price in
1980, at 1974 constant prices, would be between Ptas 37 and 43/kg. Since
fresh lamb deserves a premium of 20% this would raise the average world shadow
price to about Ptas 50/kg.
6.        As in the case of beef -- and again in contrast to the situation
prevailing at the time of the First Project when it was considered that
Spanish mutton and lamb prices were appreciably above world market prices --
the prevailing Spanish prices used in the financial analysis of farm plans are
only slightly higher than present projected world prices.
7.        Milk and Wool:  The amount of wool produced under the Project is
relatively small and differences in Spanish and world market wool prices do
not have a significant effect on the economic analysis. Since alternative
milk supplies come from nearby European countries, the imported price of
whole milk (Ptas 9.50/liter) are not substantially different from the pre-
vailing Spanish price (Ptas 10/liter) and no adjustment is warranted.
8.        Based on the above, the prices prevailing in Spain for the major
products to be produced under the Project do not appear to differ greatly
from projected 1980 world prices. Therefore, by contrast with the First
Livestock Project, no adjustment is made in the value of output between the
financial and the economic analysis.



SPAIN
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return  L
Y e a r s
2            3           4          5          6          7          8          9         10         11          12           13           14
-_____________________________________________________ __________-_           s m--L -------------------------------------------------------------------
Aggregate of Farms
Incremental Cash
Balances  E                 (1,578)      (2,864)      (1,475)        530      1,231       1,425      1,563      1,523     1,641       1,648      1,643      1,643        1,643       10,882
Net Transfer
Payments  1a                  (142)         (258)        (77)      (207)        (65)       (45)       (23)       (23)       (23)       (23)       (23)       (23)         (23)          (23)
Operation of the
LDA                           102           119          1314 'i.               14S                  144i 145             144         144        la         144          1141,         4
Net Cash Balance               i,322)       (3,241)      (1 ,7-36)     182       1,017      1,236      1,396      1,356      2,b174     1,481      1,476       1,476       1,476       10,715
Bate of Return: 16%
/1 Negative figures appear between parentheses.
/2 Cash balances have been aggregated on the basis of the investment phasing.
/3 Taxes minus subsidies.
July 23, 1974



j 7 l.XXHoay  o........af 815sc ay,'
I    (     r            X                      Satatrnder               y
, . g;. L U 6 ' .-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A                                                   N      C     E --   
~~~~~~~AS  j- U RI AD- 0 y
-41'~~.   Santiago/A L1 UJ G                                                                                                                                               43
-      . . - \    C A ;    L E  S N              G+                                                           e/erna
,/. r--,E Nt wS  -1 Se 
A~ ~      ~ tlo  Bl  AZ D     m,    
41'~~~~~a                                                                GOVI ,<                           )
|                   l            / S E V I L L ~~~A Ver IA L> A                                                      -(MADRIDi   Bunare
O  50    100   700                 @       C\,_                                                        SPAIN~~~J            5e
I  '  I KILOIsA}ETERS  I   .                       SECOND   LiVESTOCK  DEVELOPMENT PSECOND ROJECT                                      s
mr2!~~~~~~~D                         A  J.  E                             NFIRST PROJE.CpT,l. > b
N~9 ;,lr AIiverc.s..  L_1'.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~\HEV                                                                                                                             Prvni._ondre



