7S-43
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1141 SP
Loan Agreement
(Second Livestock Project)
BETWEEN
SPAIN
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JULY 16, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1141 SP
Loan Agreement
(Second Livestock Project)
BETWEEN
SPAIN
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JULY 16, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 16, 1975 between SPAIN (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS the Bank has previously made a loan to assist in financing a
Livestock Development Project (hereinafter called the First Project) for the
development of livestock resources in Spain, all as more fully set forth in a loan
agreement dated July 17, 1969, between the Borrower and the Bank;
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Bank to continue to assist in
financing such development; and
WHEREAS the Bank is at this time willing to participate further in financing
such development by making a loan for that purpose on the terms and conditions
hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Agencia" means the Agencia de Desarrollo Ganadero of the Borrower;
(b)   "ICO" means Instituto de Credito Oficial, an agency of the Borrower
and any successor thereto;


﻿4
(c)   "Agrilcola" means Banco de Crddito Agri'cola, an agency of the
Borrower and any successor thereto;
(d)   "Fondo" means the fund and resources established or to be established
with ICO for purposes of the Project;
(e)   "Livestock  Procurement Service" means the service for local
procurement of breeding cattle for the Project referred to in paragraph 10 of the
Description of the Project and provided for in the Order of the Ministry of
Agriculture of October 20, 1974;
(f)   "Southwest Project Area" means the geographical area included in the
First Project (Part A), which embraces the Extremadura and Western Andalucia
regions, plus the provinces of Salamanca, Toledo, Ciudad Real, Albacete, Jadn,
Granada, Mlaga, Segovia, Avila and Madrid;
(g)   "Northern Project Area" means the geographical area included in the
First Project (Part B), which embraces the province of Santander, plus the provinces
of La Coruna, Lugo, Orense, Pontevedra, Asturias, Le6n, Palencia, Burgos, Alava,
Vizcaya, Zamora and Valladolid;
(h)   "pesetas" means pesetas in the currency of the Borrower; and
(i)   "Communal organizations" means communal organizations established
under the laws of the Borrower as Grupos Sindicales de Colonizaci6n or other
types of livestock producers organizations.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty-three million dollars ($33,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿5
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods and services
(other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be procured through regular commercial channels from responsible
suppliers with adequate service facilities.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be October 1, 1980 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
The Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural, administrative and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause its agencies responsible for the carrying out
of the Project (including Agencia, ICO and the agencies operating the Livestock
Procurement Service) to operate in respect of the Project in accordance with
appropriate agricultural, administrative and financial practices and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall cause Agencia to employ at least one full-time consultant
experienced in land development and modern techniques of dairy and beef


﻿6
production from pasture, the qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions
of employment of such consultant to be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   Within one year from the Effective Date, the Borrower shall employ,
in its Ministry of Agriculture, a seed production specialist acceptable to the Bank
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to assist the Borrower in
developing a pasture seed production program in Spain.
(c)   In addition, the Borrower shall cause Agencia to employ, after
consultation with the Bank, short-term consultants for specific assignments relevant
to the Project including the organization and development of pasture seed
production in Spain.
Section 3.03. The organization, credit and operational policies in respect of
the Project of the agencies of the Borrower entrusted with the carrying out of
the Project (including Agencia, ICO and the agencies operating the Livestock
Procurement Service) shall at all times be satisfactory to the Bank, such policies
to include the policies set forth in this Agreement and in Schedule 4 thereto,
and any other policies from time to time agreed upon between the Borrower and
the Bank. The Borrower shall ensure that all such policies are duly and promptly
put into effect and carried out by such agencies.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes that Agencia will at all times
function under a statute and regulations satisfactory to the Bank and have such
powers, management, staff and resources as are necessary to carry out the Project
diligently and efficiently and to make appropriate use of the benefits to be derived
therefrom.
(b) The Borrower shall cause Agencia to refrain from providing technical
services under the Project to livestock producers who refuse to participate further
in the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, for the purpose of carrying out the credit
program included in the Project: (i) make or cause to be made available, out of
Fondo's resources or otherwise, such credit, on such terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be required by the livestock producers participating
in the Project in order to achieve promptly and fully the benefits of the Project;
(ii) take all action deemed necessary by the Bank in respect of the transfer from
the Borrower to Fondo's account with ICO of such amounts of the Loan as shall
be allocated in Schedule 1 to this Agreement for such credit program and in respect
of the management and supervision of such program by ICO.


﻿7
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause Agencia and ICO to exercise their
rights in relation to each credit operation financed by the Loan in such manier
as to protect the interests of the Bank.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause to be submitted to the Bank, for review
and approval, any credit to be made under the Project amounting to more than
the equivalent of $350,000.
(c)   The Borrower shall make or cause to be made adequate provision
satisfactory to the Bank for the re-utilizatiorn, in the credit program included in
the Project, of the proceeds of repayment of the principal of and of payment
of interest on, credits made under the Project, to the extent that such proceeds
are not required for purposes of servicing the Loan.
Section 3.07. The Borrower undertakes that all other livestock credit agencies
of the Borrower will refrain from offering to livestock producers within the areas
of the Project lending terms which may be substantially more favorable than the
lending terms provided herein for credits from Fondo's resources.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall promptly take or cause to be taken all
such administrative and other action and provide all such funds, facilities and
resources as shall be required for the timely and efficient operation of the Livestock
Procurement Service.
Section 3.09. The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of and r6sults achieved by the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and farms and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall review the need to establish and operate
a branch of Agricola in the Northern Project Area and take all necessary action
for the continuation of the operation of the branch of Agricola set up in Sevilla
under the First Project.


﻿8
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
:Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, specific security
from the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no
cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term  "public assets" means assets of the
Borrower, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause ICO in respect of the Project
and Agencia to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices their operations and financial
condition.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause ICO in respect of the Project and Agencia
to: (i) have their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of


﻿9
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by the
Borrower's Intervencion General de la Administracidn del Estado; (ii) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than five months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of their financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of ICO in respect of the Project and Agencia and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiven.-ss of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   Funds have been credited to Fondo which shall be sufficient to enable
the credit program included in the Project to begin operations; and
(b)   At least five suitable communcal land areas in the Northern Project
Area has been selected by Agencia for development under the Project.
Section 5.02. The date October 15, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministro de Comercio of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿10
For the Borrower:
Secretaria General Tdcnica
Ministerio de Comercio
Almagro 34
Madrid 3, Spain
Cable address:
SERCOM
Madrid
With copies to:
Direcci6n General de Politica
Financiera
Ministerio de Hacienda
Montera 24
Madrid 14, Spain
Cable address:
MOHDA
Madrid
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿11
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the      parties hereto, acting  through  their
representatives thereunto duly author;zed, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
SPAIN
By /s / Jaime Alba
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s! Munir P. Benjenk
BM                BRegional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿12
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)   Long-term Loans for
Farm Development;
Pasture establishment
and consolidation;
Fencing; Watering
points; Farm buildings;
Machinery; Breeding
Stock; other related
items
A.    Northern Pro-           16,800,000          60% of amounts
ject Area                                    disbursed by ICO
for the Project
B.    Southwest Pro-          11,700,000          20% of amounts
ject Area                                    disbursed by ICO
for the Project
(2)   Technical Services             1,800,000          16% of amounts
disbursed for the
Project
(3)   Unallocated                    2,700,000
TOTAL         33,000,000


﻿S
13
2.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if any such taxes shall be included in the cost of any item to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
correspondingly reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
1.   The Project is the continuation of the First Project and has as its basic aim
the further development of livestock resources in Spain with special emphasis on
the potentialities of the Northern Project Area. The Project is aimed at increasing
the supply of domestically produced meat, especially beef, thereby reducing import
costs, while raising simultaneously farm incomes in the area. The Project consists
of (a) a credit program to livestock producers supervised by Agencia, (b) technical
services supplied by Agencia, and (c) the Livestock Procurement Service.
The Project includes:
A.    Credit Program
2.    In the Southwest Project Area, credit is to be provided for the development
of about 550 dryland farms totalling about 200,000 to 275,000 hectares, each
with a minimum of 100 animal units, and about 200 irrigated farms totalling about
2,500 to 4,000 hectares, each with a minimum of 120 animal units. Beef cattle
breeding, with the sale of weaners for fattening, will be carried out on most of
the dryland farms. Sheep production units will be developed in about 150 dryland
farms, which are included in the above-mentioned 550 dryland farms. Specialized
beef fattening will be carried out on the irrigated farms, with the weaners from
the dryland farms being one of the main sources of animals for fattening. Increased
productivity in the dryland farms will be based on free-seeding, self-regenerating
annual legumes (mainly subterranean clovers) adequately supplemented with hay,
silage and feed grains; and high quality temporary and permanent pastures plus
conserved forage crops and concentrates, in the irrigated farms.
3.    In the Northern Project Area, credit is to be provided for the development
of beef and dairy operations on both existing farms and unutilized land. It is
expected that about 400 beef production farms totalling about 12,000 to 20,000
hectares, each farm with a minimum of 50 animal units, will be developed for
beef cattle, mainly for breeding and some for fattening, and that about 450 dairy
farms totalling about 2,500 to 3,000 hectares, each farm with a minimum of 12
animal units, will be developed. The communal land areas referred to in Section
5.01(b) will be financed and developed as part of the beef production farms
provided for above. Modern land tenure and management techniques will be put
into effect in the area.
4.    In the cereal zones of La Mancha and Tierra de Campos, credit is to be
p-ovided for the development of about 100 milk sheep farms totalling about 5,000
to 10,000 hectares, each farm with a minimum of 45 animal units.


﻿15
5.    Credit is to be provided for pasture improvement. Production of pasture
seeds will be organized and developed with a view to limiting seed importation.
More efficient techniques for establishment, maintenance and utilization of
improved pastures will be used.
6.    Credit is also to be provided to livestock producers for fencing, farm
buildings, machinery, watering facilities, on-farm roads, purchase of livestock, and
other related goods and services.
7.    For purposes of paragraphs 2 and 3 above, one animal unit equals one bovine,
one year or older; and of paragraph 4, six sheep.
B.    Technical Services
8.    Technical services essential for the successful planning and development of
the forage and livestock production and management practices (including accounting
assistance to livestock producers) are to be provided by Agencia.
9.    Training fellowships abroad are to be provided for selected Spanish Agencia
technicians.
C.    Livestock Procurement Service
10.   A system  of livestock procurement for the purpose of obtaining, for the
Project, a sufficient quantity of high-quality cattle for breeding stock, is to be
operated in accordance with the provisions of Part B of Schedule 4.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                 (expressed in dollars)*
October 1, 1980                                         1,080,000
April 1, 1981                                           1,125,000
October 1, 1981                                         1,175,000
April 1, 1982                                           1,225,000
October 1, 1982                                         1,275,000
April 1, 1983                                           1,330,000
October 1, 1983                                         1,385,000
April 1, 1984                                           1,445,000
October 1, 1984                                         1,505,000
April 1, 1985                                           1,570,000
October 1, 1985                                         1,635,000
April 1, 1986                                           1,705,000
October 1, 1986                                         1,780,000
April 1, 1987                                           1,855,000
October 1, 1987                                         1,935,000
April 1, 1988                                           2,015,000
October 1, 1988                                         2,100,000
April 1, 1989                                           2,190,000
October 1, 1989                                         2,285,000
April 1, 1990                                           2,385,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿17
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                 1-1/2%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                                2-3/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                5-3/4%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                                    7%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                8-1/2%


﻿18
SCHEDULE 4
Organization, Credit and
Operational Policies
A.    Credit Policies
1.    Proceeds of the Loan from Category (1) included in paragraph I of Schedule
I will be credited to Fondo.
2.    ICO will maintain in Fondo separate accounts for: (a) On-Farm Investment,
and (b) Agencia, crediting Agencia's technical services fees to the Agencia account.
3.    ICO will extend Fondo refinancing privileges under the Project to Agr(cola,
to other lending institutions participating in the First Livestock Project, and to
any other eligible participating lending institutions. Eligibility of such institutions
will be based, inter alia, on: (a) past experience and performance in agricultural
lending; (b) financial condition; (c) managerial capacity; and (d) geographical
proximity.
4.    ICO will refinance up to 100% of eligible credits made under the Project
by participating lending institutions, at a yearly interest rate, including a 0.5%
yearly fee for technical services, which shall provide a minimum spread between
the rate charged by ICO to the participating lending institutions and the rate charged
by the latter of 0.75% yearly.
5.    Credit will be extended to livestock producers under the Project solely on
the basis of investment plans approved by the Director of Agencia or his deputy.
6.    Participating lending institutions will be required to:
(a)   make credit available to livestock producers on, inter alia, the following
terms and conditions:
(i)         the amount lent to livestock producers shall not exceed the
equivalent of approximately eighty per cent (80%) of
medium-term capital needs as provided in the investment plans;
(ii)        the repayment terms shall be of up to 12 years, including grace
periods of up to 3 years; and
(iii)       the interest, including the annual fee for technical services at
the rate of one-half per cent, shall be at the minimum rates


﻿19
of: (1) seven per cent per annum in the case of loans of up
to five million pesetas; (2) seven and one-half per cent per annum
in the case of loans of more than five million pesetas; provided,
however, that in the case of loans to communal organizations
the annual interest rate in (1) and (2) hereof shall be reduced
by one-half per cent; and (3) six and one-half per cent in the
case of loans to communal organizations on communal lands.
(b)   provide, in addition, the livestock producers' short-term capital needs
as indicated in the investment plans.
B.    Livestock Procurement Service
The Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower, assisted by Agendla, will provide
a system of livestock procurement to participating livestock producers, such service
to be rendered under the Ministry's technical supervision and animal health control.
The service will provide the participating livestock producers a choice of: (a) In-calf
heifers already mated to selected bulls, from breeding farms established by
agreement with provincial non-profit organizations or agencies, purchased through
payment of 50% of their value on delivery and payment of the balance in two
equal installments payable at the end of the first and second years after purchase;
(b) female weaners of less than one year of age, to be mated and used for breeding
in the farms of the participating livestock producers. These weaners will be
purchased from   groupings (concentraciones de compra) established under the
supervision of the Ministry. For each three heifers purchased by each participating
livestock producer one heifer will be delivered free to the livestock producer for
rearing and production. It is expected that option (a) will be more prevalent in
the Northern Project Area, while option (b) will be more prevalent in the Southwest
Project Area.


