The World Bank
FOR OFFICUAL USE ONLY
Reo N    P387,7-E
REPOM ANDREOM        TU
FRESThENT OF HE
BA  FOR REOO  AND DEE
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIHECORS
FOR A PROPOSED TOF US$6.2 MILLION
TO THE
REPRUNr OF THE SEYCHELES
TEANSFORT PRDJECT
January  3 1985
This deret ba a   iesktud diuib    nd may be .usd by Iecipin-I only in tbe pezfztmce d
tbeir offmal dlie  It Ponten- may lnt odlrwise be dised wi_toi-  Wed Bok autlhodu__..



Curency Unlt - Seycheles Rupee
US $1.00      m SR's 7.30
SR 1.00      - US $ 0.137
wAm or un A MEND3ES Uuic st
1 meter (m)                - 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)           - 0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogrm  (kg)            - 2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (a ton)       - 2,205 pounds (lb)
AD?       - Average Daly Traffic
AfDB     -  African Development Bank
BADE&    - Arab Bank for EcoOmic Development in Africa
DOT      - Department of Transport
EEZ      - EXclusive Economic
GCD      -  Gross Domesic Product
- Gross Registered Tonnage
IDC      -  Island Development Corporation
1>        - Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
LPG      - Liquified Petrolea Gas
LTD      -  DepartL "t of Transport, Land Tranport Division
*m       - !finistry of Kiannu and External Relations
NDP      -  National Developmt Plan
NEC      - NorwegEan Ezpcrt Council
ODA      -  Overseas Development Administration C(Il)
OPEC     - Organization of-Petroleum Exporting Countries
PKSD     -  Ports and Marine Services Division
SC,      -  Seychelles Concrete Production
SFA      -  Seychelles Fishing Authority
SNIC     -  Seychelles National Investment Corporation
SPTC     -  Seychelles Public Transport Co.
ULC      -  Union Lighterage Company
UNCTAD    - United Nations Commission on Trade and
Development
WEL       - Works Enterprises Limited
Government Fiscal Year: January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL US ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUF SEyHELLES,
TRANSPORT PROJECr
WJDAN AND PROJECr SUDIR
Borrower:             Republic of the Seychelles
Benefici$ry:          Ports and Marine Services Division (P(SD) and the
Department of Transport
Amount:               US$6.2 million (Including the capitalized front-end
fee of USS15,461 eq3ivalent).
Terms:                15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate
Co-lenders:          African Development Bank and Goverament of Norway
Project Description:
Objectives:        The primary objective of the project Is to improve the
capacity and quality of key parts of the transport
system, specifically in the oommercial port and
bighway sub-sectors.
Components:       For the commercial port  the project inciudes (a)
dredging of tbe entrance channel and the ship turning
basin, (b) construction of a petroleum products and
cement discharge terminal; (c) rehabilitation of the
port's open areas; (d) financial studies; and (e)
technical assistance. For the highway component. it
includes: (a) rehabilitation of the road network; (b)
training for the Land Transport Division's staff; and
Cc) technical assistance.
Benefits:         For the commercial port, the benefits would result
from savings in the cost of petroleum and fuel Imports
and from a reduction in ship waiting time and cargo
losses. For tne highway component, the benefits would
result from reductions in vehicle operating and road
maintenance costs. The road rehabilitation and
improved maintenance would also result in significant
accident reduction.
Risks:            Very little risk is associated with the
project. The risk frequently associated with dredging
works is limited in this case and the road
rehabilitation program is sufficiently flexible to be
adapted to changes without significant loss of
benefits.
Estimated Costs                                   Local    Foreign    Total
ISSmillion      -
A. Commercial Port
Jredging and reclamation                      0.1        1.3       1.4
Petroleum discharge facility                  0.7        2.8       3.5
Civil works                                   0.5        1.7       2.2
Consultant services                            -         1.2       1.2
Port Sub-total               1.3         7.0      8.3
Thi documeu has a retred ditrbutin and may be used by recipents only in the peforance |
of tbe offci duties Its contents may no otberwse be diclsd without World Bank iautwaS 



Local      !E        otal
115$ milion
B. Road RehabilUtation
Civil works                                  1.6        2.4      4.0
Engineering and supervision                  0.1        0.2      0.3
Trainig      tecrhical asitance               -         0.3      0.3
Road Sub-total              1.7        2.9       4.6
C. Project Coordinator
.
Project Engineer                                        0.2      0.2
BASE COST                                         3.0       10.1      13.1
Physical cortIngencies                       0.3        1.0      1.3
Price conencies                              0.5        1.8      2.3
Total cotgencies                             0.8        2.8      3.6
Total Project Cost                           3.8       12.9     16.7 11
Financing Plan
A. Gommercial Port
AfDB                                                    5.8      5.8
Norway                                                  0.9      0.9
Bank                                         -          2.1      2.1
Government                                   1.5         -       1.5
1.5        8.8     10.3
B. Road Rehabilitation
Bank                                         -          3.9      3.9
Government                                   2.3         -       2.3
2.3        3.9      6.2
C. Project Coordinator
Bank                                         -          0.2      0.2
Total Project Costs                          3.8       12.9     16.7
Estimated IBRD Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Years    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
---USS Million---
Annual                0.7     2.3      1.4     1.2    0.6
Cumulative            0.7     3.0     4.4      5.6     6.2
Economic Rate of Return:         Commercial port    : 15 percent
Road rehabilitation:  23 percent
Combined return    : 18 percent
Appraisal Report:  Report No. 5219-SEY, dated December 21, 1984
Maps:              IBRD 18511, IBRD 18259, IBRD 18260
1/ The project is exempt from taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL BAK FOR REONSTRCTION ANID DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMADION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBIC OF THE SEYCHELLES
FOR A TRANSPORT PROJECr
1.        I submit the following report and         ntio  an a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Seychelles, for the equivalent of US$6.2
million to provide flnancing for a Transport Project. The loan would be
for 15 years, including a 3-year grace period at the standard variable
interest rate. The African Development Bank (AfDB) would participate in
the financing of the project with a loan of US$5.8 million on standard AfDB
terms. Norway has provided grant financing for US$0.9 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Introductory Economic Memorandum on the Seychelles (No.
2629-SEY) was issued on November 1, 1979. The information contained in
this section is based on an economic visit to the Seychelles in March
1984.
ackgrd
3.        The Republic of the Seychelles became independent in 1976 and has
been a World Bank member since 1980. The country including its territorial
waters covers an area of about 1 million square kilometers in the Indian
Ocean. it comprises over 100 islands with a total land area of only about
425 square kilometers. Most of the islands are uninhabited and some 90
percent of the country's total population of about 64,000 is located on the
ma-fn island of Mahe. The islands fall into two distinct categories. The
first group of around 30 islands lie within a 35 km radius of Mah" and
typically have a granitic, mountainous Interior and a narrow coastal
strip. The topography limits available agricultural land and makes
internal comcmnication difficult. The second category of islands is
largely coralline, is spread over a much greater area, and is mostly
uninhabited.
4.        Since the early 1970's the Seychelles' economy has undergone a
striking transformation from one almost exclusively based on agriculture
and fishing with very limited external trade to a predominantly service
economy oriented towards international tourism. Until the opening of an
international airport on Mahe in 1971 the economy had depended mainly on
the production of copra and cinnamon for export with local production of
fruit and vegetables supplemented by fish and imported rice.
5.        With the opening of the international airport in 1971 the number
of tourists increased from about 3,000 in 1971 to a peak of about 79,000 in
1979, an average increase of about 50 percent per annum. The first half of
the 1970s was a period of exceptional development not only in tourism as
such but in the related construction boom of hotels, roads, water,



- 2 -
electricity and transport facilities as well as in the growth of services
ancillary to tourism such as trade, banking, and handicrafts. By 1976, the
year from which official national accounts statistics start, the economy
was already very heavily oriented towards service activities. Tourism and
other services including government services accounted for over 75 percent
of GDP.
Table 1. Economic Structure
(percent of GDP at market prices)I/
1976            1982
Agriculture, Forestry & Fishing         9.7             5.7
Mining, Manufacturing & Construction  14.8             14.8
Tourism                                14.6            11.4
Government Services                    14.2            19.0
Other Services                         46.7            49.1
100.o           100.0
I/ Based on data at current prices
6.        The table shows that by 1982 the share of tourism in CDP had
decreased significantly while the share of government services had
increased. Tourism's share as reflected in this table relates only to
value added in the tourism sector as such (tourism is defined to cover
hotels and restaurants, handicrafts, air transport services, tour
operators, taxi and car hire services and recreation services). When
account is taken of the indirect effects of income from tourism in
generating demand for the output of other sectors, it is estimated that
tourism may account directly and indirectly for as much as 50 percent of
GDP.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        With increasing tourist numbers, a rapid growth of GDP was
maintained from 1976 to 1979 - an average real growth of about 10 percent
per annum over the three years. From 1979 the number of tourists dropped
sharply. This decline in tourism was due to a number of factors:
recessionary conditions in Western Europe, rising air fares to Indian Ocean
locations, and the unsettling effect of the mercenary raid on Mahe in
1982.  It was also due to falling hotel standards and rising costs
accelerated by a 15 percent revaluation of the Seychelles rupee in March
1981. The revaluation which was undertaken to dampen domestic inflation
took place while other countries in the region with large tourist
industries, e.g. Mauritius and Kenya, were devaluing their currencies. As
a result of the decline in tourism the volume of GDP decreased by about 2
percent in 1980, by about 8 percent in 1981, and by about 2 percent in
1982. Preliminary estimates for 1983 indicate a further small decrease in
real GDP. Per capita GDP in 1983 is estimated at about US$2,300.



- 3 -
8.        Air access to the islands is vital for the tourism industry.  Air
traffic declined from a peak of some 79,000 arrivals in 1979 to about
47,000 in 1982. Air access was aggravated by the fact that a tour operator
with his own aircraft purchased the two largest hotels, thus reducing
demand to such an extent that two regular airlines stopped direct services
from Europe to the Seychelles. However, one of the hotels has since been
repurchased by the Government from the tour operator and connecting flights
through Nairobi have also increased. Air Seychelles and a European carrier
also provide weekly services. As a result of these actions, tourism
arrivals increased to almost 56,000 in 1983 and preliminary estimates for
1984 put the number of arrivals at about 65,000.
9.        In its trading relations with the rest of the world the
Seychelles has a large deficit on merchandise account. Merchandise
exports, consisting primarily of three commodities - copra, fish and
cinnamon - are the equivalent of around 4 percent of GDP while merchandise
imports on average have been equivalent to about two thirds of GDP.
Imports cover a wide range of consumption, manufactured and investment
goods. Until 1979 the trade deficit was financed by receipts from tourism
and transfers (grants) from the rest of the world. The reduction in
tourism earnings coincided with a decline in transfer receipts so that over
recent years the growing current account deficit has been increasingly
financed through external borrowing. The United Kingdom has been the major
source of medium- and long-term loans and over recent years the African
Development Bank and Fund have become significant sources of official
borrowing.
10.       External Public Debt which was estimated to have been only about
11 million rupees at end 1977 increased to about 159 million rupees at end
1980 and about 405 million rupees at end 1983, i.e. US$60 million. Debt
service payments have increased sharply but the debt service ratio in 1983
was still only about 5 percent. With expiring grace periods, service
payments on existing debt will concinue to increase and by 1985 the debt
service ratio is likely to be around 9 percent, a still modest level thanks
to the relatively concessionary terms for financing so far obtained and
which are likely to continue. Service payments arising from the new
borrowing for the port project would increase the debt service ratio to
about 12 percent in the late 1980's.
11.       The Seychelles public finance position has deteriorated over
recent years, the overall deficit of the public sector having increased
from the equivalent of about 7.5 percent of GDP in 1979 to about 16 percent
in 1983. This development has been strongly influenced by the operations
of parastatal agencies. There are a large number of these agencies
spanning activities in virtually all sectors of the economy including
marketing and trade in export and import goods. Overall, the parastatals
record a sizeable deficit on their operations and have become increasingly
dependent on general budget financing.
12.       From 1976 to 1980 inflation accelerated by about 18 percent per
annum. Since the revaluation of the Rupee in early 1981 there has been a
sharp reduction in inflation, average prices increasing by about 10 percent
in 1981 and by about 4 percent in 1982 and 1983.



4-
Pollcy Issues
13.       Government policy is now directed at (i) promoting a revival in
tourism, (ii) diversifying the economy to limit its undue dependence on
tourism for foreign exchange earnings, (iiL) reducing the economy 'a high
import dependency and (iv) correcting the imbalances in public finances.
Seychelles tourism had also been adversely affected by declining air access
with the withdrawal of service by a number of international airlines, but
recent measures have been taken to improve air access (para 8). The
Government has also taken a number of other measures including the
appointment of a Director of Tourism, substantial increase in promotional
activities in Europe and Japan, the conclusion of package tour and charter
arrangements, and the award of management contracts to foreign hotel
management agents. Government has also undertaken a systematic review of
costs and imposed ceilings on hotel rates.
14.       The present National Development Plan for 1982-86, the fourth
plan since independence, differs from previous plans in allocating a larger
share of resources to economic sectors. Agriculture and fisheries are
allotted about 26 percent of planned expenditures, almost twice the share
in earlier plans. Allocations to social sectors have been substantially
reduced. The inability of Government to mobilize sufficient domestic
resources has been an obstacle to plan implementation.
15.       Generally prospects for diversification of export earnings are
somewhat limited although prospects for deep sea tuna fishing appear good.
Government has entered into agreements with European fishing fleets to
ascertain prospects of commercial exploitation of tuna fishing and results
are very promising. In the context of this project Government has drawn up
a development plan for the fisheries sector, a principal aim of which would
be to develop deep sea tuna fishing.
16.       Government has also initiated a drive to increase the production
of local fruit and vegetables which could reduce imports. This effort
could be fortified if domestic agricultural producers had greater freedom
to market their products at realistic market prices rather than as at
present being obliged to channel production through state marketing
agencies at arbitrarily controlled prices.
17.       Government has taken active measures to reduce the public finance
deficit by increasing customs duties and extending the scope of the
turnover tax. It has also trimmed expenditures of various ministries and
for the past three years a general freeze on public sector salaries has
been enforced. Government has also embarked on an intensive review of the
finances of parastatal agencies and the report of a commission on their
management and financing is due shortly.
18.       The Seychelles economy has always operated on the basis of a free
and unrestricted operation of international market mechanisms including a
freely convertible currency. Responses to changing economic circumstances
have generally been prompt and effective. Expectations of rapid and
sustained development were no doubt unduly inflated during the exceptional
period of tourism development. Policy now has to adapt to a more measured
pace and ensure a more efficient utilisation of both domestic and foreign
resources.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP PROGRAH
19.       This is the Bank's first lending operation in the Seychelles
since the country joined the Bank Group in 1980. At that time the
Government wished to secure Bank assistance for this project which was
particularly large by Seychelles standards and required co-fnanncing from
several sources. Initially, at a time of very rapid tourism growth, this
project, known as the East Coast Project, included the construction of a
new road between Victoria and the airport and substantial land reclamation
in addition to extension of both the commercial and fishing ports. In the
course of dialogue with the Bank, the new road construction and most of the
land reclamation were deleted and the existing main airport road is now
being improved, mostly with bilateral aid from Abu-Dhabi, OPEC and the
U.S.
20.       Due to the availability of concessional finance from other
sources and the size of the Seychelles, the Bank's lending role in the
Seychelles has been necessarily limited. The Bank has concentrated on
assisting the Government in the preparation and financing of this project
which with the fishing port is the largest undertaken by the Government of
the Seychelles. Nevertheless, we have stood ready to assist the Government
with key projects calling for major investments, and we have surveyed
several sectors in the course of the past four years.
21.       Discussions have taken place on lendi-g for water/sanitation and
power and small missions have visited the Seychelles to determine whether
the Bank could offer assistance in agricultural and fisheries development
(see para. 26). In 1980, the Bank acted as executing agency for a
UNDP-financed project which provided technical assistance in land use
planning to the then Ministry of Planning and Development. Furthermore, in
January 1984 a report entitled Issues and Options in the Energy Sector
was prepared by the joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Assessment Program. The
energy report reviewed the Government's 20-year integrated approach to
develop renewable energy technologies. The IFC has no investments in the
Seychelles.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Background
22.       The transport system is dominated by the need to link the islands
by sea and air. In addition, the larger islands, especially the main
island of Mahe, have a significant road network and about 4,400 road
vehicles. There are over 500 registered boats, including about 50
schooners. Air Seychelles operates 3 Trislander and Islander aircraft for
regular interisland air services and the Island Development Co. Ltd. has
one aircraft. Nine other islands are regularly served from Mahe by these
air services. For international services MahS has a well-equipped airport
capable of serving wide-body aircraft and a deep-water port at Victoria,



the capital. The largest parastatal companies in the sector are the
Seychelles Public Transport Corp. (SPTC) operating bus services on the
islands of Mahe and Praslin and the Union Lighterage Co. Ltd. (ULC)
providing most of the services of the port of Victoria and managing two
small government-owned vessels.
Organization of the Transport Sector
23        The main responsibility for implementing Government's transport
policies is carried by the Department of Transport (DOT) which has been
since October 1982 diroctly under the Presidency. The Department of
Transport has a Land Transporr Division (LTD), responsible for roads. a
Port and Marine Services Division (PMSD), responsible for the management of
all the Seychelles ports, harbors, navigation aids, licensing of vessels
and pilotage, and a small Administrative Division. The ULC, a parastatal,
provides operating services for the port, and another parastatal, the Works
Enterprises Ltd. (WEL), does most of the road maintenance for the Land
Transport Division. DOT provides limited services directly such as
licensing, pilotage etc. and only supervises the actual work carried out by
WEL for road maintenance and by ULC for port services. Some functions such
as traffic management and accounting have not yet been transferred to LTD,
but will be in 1985.
24.       Planning and Sector Strategy.  As in the case of other sectors,
the Ministry of Planning and External Relations (MPER) has the overall
responsibility for developing policy in the transport sector. The National
Development Plan 1982-86 has as a main objective a higher standard of
living through diversifying the economy. To pursue these objectives, MPER
is veste-, with the responsibility of making the best use of the country's
resources, such as fish and tourism so that maximum and lasting benefits
will accrue to the Seychelles. Accordingly, transport policy is geared
towards supporting a rational exploitation of the country's substantial
fish stocks and promoting tourism as a main foreign exchange earner. In
ths case of tourism, the policy is to provide improved services rather than
investing in new infrastructure.
25.       Transport strategy is therefore aimed at supporting these goals,
by providing more cost effective services and limiting foreign exchange
expenditures. The Government has increased its role in the operation of
transport services like SPTC while still giving freedom to private taxis
and trucks as well as interisland schooners. After a period of inadequacy,
bus fares have now been adjusted to provide full cost recovery. The
Government in recent years has given priority to air and port subsectors
whereas roads, and in particular road maintenance, has received more
limited attention. Of a central Government budget of SR 434.6 million for
recurrent expenses in 1983 some SR 21.5 million has been provided to the
sector. In addition the parastatals provide funds for the transport sector
-- for example - ULC in 1983 had expenditures of SR 11.7 million.
Transport investment in 1982-1983 was very modest, SR 8.8 million, mainly
in road rehabilitation. This is much lower than investment in the port and
the airport in the early part of the 1970's which had a major impact on the
economy.



- 7 -
26.       In its efforts to develop the fisheries sector, especially
pelagi'c fisheries, the Government in 1981, requested the 3ank to consider
the development of Victoria's fishing port in the context of the proposed
transport sector project. Thus the Bank requested the Government to
prepare a fisheries sector development plan and alao an action plan showing
how the development plan would be implemented over time. These two plans,
prepared by MPER with the assistance of consultants, were reviewed in 1982
by the Bank, which agreed with their major elements.  Since then the Bank
has continued its dialogue with the Government on sector priorities,
strategy, and institution building issues and has, in particular, supported
the creation of the Seychelles Fishing Authority (SFA) to manage the
sector. Thus, preparation of the project included the development of a
fishing port as a major component which would provide the necessary port
infrastructure needed for the implementation of the Government's fishery
action plan.
The Port of Victoria
27.       The port of Victoria, located on the east coast of the island of
Mahe, is the principal port and only deepwater facility in the
archipelago. Until 1975, when the present commercial port facilities came
into use, import and export cargo were handled using lighters operating
from the old -long pier" to vessels lying at anchor. Today, the commercial
port handles bulk oil and cement imports, general cargo and containers, and
vessels requiring bunkering. The old "long pier' (which has since been
modified by dredging landfill alongside it) with recent additions handles
all fishing vessels, inter-island schooner traffic and frozen fish exports
and is separated from the commercial port facilities by an enclosed basin
used for mooring yachts.  The only ship repair facility - a marine railway
- is located adjacent to this basin. The port administration offices are
located within the customs area of the commercial port.
28.       The Harbor and Commercial Berthing Facilities.  The outer harbor
anchorage can accommodate up to six vessels at anchor. The entrance
channel leads to the inner harbor, well protected by surrounding reefs and
small islands; but during strong winds the turning of vessels in the inner
harbor is difficult even with the use of the port tug. The berthing
facility is about one and a half berths, but the port typically handles two
vessels at a time by overhanging at the end of the quay and using permanent
mooring buoys. A detailed survey of the reinforced concrete beams is
required, to be followed by remedial works - possibly 5 percent of the
beams will need repair. The upper working surface of the deck is in
excellent condition. In recent years a problem has arisen with the
increase in the sizes of petroleum products carriers, which are unable to
discharge in the port when fully laden because of the draft limitations and
thus a "second port discharge fee is charged by the carrier. The
Government wishes to eliminate this fee and also to ensure more regular
deliveries by the provision of a discharge facility that can accept the



- 8 -
fully laden vessels. However, in view of the depth restriction with the
existing berths, even if the channel and turning areas were to be deepened
it would be necessary to construct a new facility.
29.       Storage Areas and Services.  The land side of the port was
originally conceived as a combined passenger/cargo terminal, and fairly
extensive passenger reception, customs and immigration bu'ldingd were
constructed close to the berth.  Today these buildings are used for port                     s
offices and other Govern:-ent departments.   Other buildings within the port
confines include offices and workshops for the cargo handling and
stevedoring company, a small flour warehouse and gatehouse. The open
storage areas of the port are very limited and mostly unpaved. The lack of
easy access to adequate storage areas makes it difficult for the port to
handle container traffic efficiently. Fresh water, telephone and bunkering
points for gasoil and fuel oil are available. A maintenance and repair
workshop is adequate and well run. A privately-owned marine railway in the
port is the only organized repair facility in the Seychelles. Although
continuously in use the facility has been neglected in the past and needs
rehabilitation and additional equipment which will be undertaken as part of
a recent agreement with a Spanish joint venture fishing company.
30.       The 'Long Pier' Fishing and Inter-island Schooner Port.  The
existing berth facilities consist of 65m of inter-island quay and 1Orn of
fish landing and export quays, in good condition, and simple structures
used to berth schooners and small fishing vessels.  The shore facilities
consist of several old warehouses and unused buildings, two recently built
cold stores, an ice plant and various office buildings occupied mainly by
government agencies associated with the fishing industry. There is a
serious shortage of space and land for the developing fishing industry and
most of the older buildings need to be replaced or rehabilitated. Fresh
water and electrical power are available but inadequate. A major
deficiency is the lack of fuel outlets. At present the vessels of the
Seychelles Defense Force are based on the northern extremity of the port
but arrangements are underway to relocate them outside of the Victoria port
area.
31.       Organization and Administration. The port is presently managed by
the Ports and Marine Services Division (PMSD) of the DOT. All stevedoring,
cargo handling and the supply of fresh water and telephone services to
vessels is carried out by the Union Lighterage Company Limited (ULC) - a
recently formed parastatal company. Both PMSD and ULC are located within
the port confines. At present, the port harbormaster also controls the
movements of fishing vessels within the port area which is becoming an
onerous task; there is a clear need for a separate organization to manage
the fishing port. Generally, PMSD's staffing is adequate for these needs.
32.       The PMSD is responsible for overall operation and maintenance of
the port. However, because of the recent construction of the commercial
port infrastructure, the maintenance asp-:cts have been somewhat neglected
and PMSD needs to reinforce its maintenance unit. The port leases its



- 9 -
sheds ame open storage areas to ULC but che charges do not reflect the real
costs of these facilities. Similarly P#SD is responsible for port security
and charges ULC for this service which is not related to its actual cost.
Because P1SD is a divisioa of the Department of Transport, it follows
Government accounting procedures; it only accounts for cash receipts and
expenditures, and does not produce balance sheets_ The proposed project
would introduce financial and management information systems which will
enable PXSD to better control costs and to establish a cost-based tariff
system.
33.       The ULC is responsible for the handling of dry cargo and
containers from the ship's hold to delivery from the port and vice versa.
ULC provides the equipment needel and leases the port infrastructure. More
recently ULC has expanded its oFerations to include acting as shipping
agents, freight forwarders and truckers. ULC also acts on behalf of the
'1SD in providing vessels with fresh water, telephone and some other
services. Om October 1, 1980, ULC came under new management as the
Government acquired the majority of Its share capital. The Seycbelles
National Investment Corporation (SNIC), the Government holding company for
all parastatals, is ULC's ultimate parent. ULC employs about 200 people on
its regular staff, mostly dock workers, and another 200 casual laborers are
employed as needed on a daily basis. Labor relations are good, ULC's
operations are profitable and its financial condition is satisfactory.
34.       Pbrt traffic has increased since the late 1970's as a result
primarily of rapidly expanding tourism and Its effect on the construction
Industry. Seychelles is geographically well placed for brief calls en
route between the Far East and Southern Africa and between Europe and
Reunion/Mauritins. This ensures frequent calls despite the small trade of
the islands. The disadvantage is that the port is unable to accommodate
very large vessels. Compared to relative stagnation of the dry cargo
trade, fuel imports are beginning to increase rapidly as a result of
increased bunkering of ocean fishing vessels and greater deliveries of
aviation fuels as the tourism trade revives.
35.       Financial Performance. The Port of Victoria had operating cash
surpluses from 1979 through 1983, though operating results deteriorated
over the five-year period. The operating result decreased from SR 4.1
million in 1979 to SR 2.4 million in 1983, while the working ratio (ratio
of expenses to revenue) increased from 72 percent in 1979 to 76 percent in
1983. There are essentially two reasons for this change. First and
foremost ULC, which was nationalized in 11'$0, took over from PfSD the
collection of certain freight related charges without adequately
compensating PMSD for the use of port facilities.  Second, there was a drop
in traffic and number of ships calling at Port Victoria due to the domestic
and international economic slowdown.
The Roads Subsector
36.       The Seychelles has a total of 257 km of motorable roads and
streets, of which 192 km are on Maha, 49 km on Praslin and 16 km on La



- 10 -
Digue. Out of the 257 kzm, 152 km are paved, 'hile the balance, 105 am, are
imroved earth roads. The network serves the densely populated coastal
areas of the island  and ha7  a density of 1 km of road per 251 ihitants,
which is considered adequaat for a country whose economy is largely
dependent on tourism and has 1-iited agricultural developnent. The largest
island, Hah6, has an area of 148 square kilometers. It is approximately 27
km long from north to south and varies In width from 3 to 8 km east to
vest. The island is made of granitic and coralline mass, with peaks rising
to over 900 meters above sea level. Except for a few flat sections along
the shores and reclaimed land area, the existing roads traverse the sbarp
slopes along the shores or cross the island east to west over the
ouacutainos terrain.  Because of the topography of the island, the roads
have sharp winding and reverse S-curves, liited sight distance and steep
grades.
37.       The roads were improved to their present standard from footpaths
or mule tracks without the use of specific engineering standards and
construction methods. The low maintenance funds allocation and poor
management of the recently established system of contract maintenance are
the main reasons for the poor condition of the existing roads. The present
level of traffic volume and the predicted future traffic indicate that when
the proposed project is implemented, the existing roads will be able to
cope with the traffic demand for the foreseeable future.
38.       Administration and Planning.  The Land Transport Division (LTD)
was established in 198i ;ad is responsible for the administration of the
road network. LTD will have bhghway designs and survey, traffic management
and accounting sections once it is fully developed by 1985. At present,
LTD has only a highway section, the other responsibilities being
vested in other Governmeat agencies. The planned :ransfer of these
functions to LTD will include the major portion of staff from these
agencies, thus little recruitment of new staff will be needed. The
Director, a civil engineer, and an American Peace Corps engineer comprise
the professional staff of LTD in addition to three road technicians. There
is need for at least four qualified and wel-trained road superintendents
to cope with the field work. There is also a need for LTD to carry out
basic and frequently needed road material testing. Road construction and
maintenance are contracted to WEL, Seychelles Concrete Production (SCP),
and a few small local contractors. The demand is within the existing locl
construction industry capacity which should be able to cope with ie,reased
future workloads.
39.       Highway Financing and Road User Charges. Direct income from road
users. mainly license fees, does not adequately cover the costs of road
maintenance. Nevertheless, duties for fuel and motor vehicles exceed the
costs of road maintenance. In order to raise general revenue, gasoline is
taxed at a higher rate than is diesel fuel, thus discouraging excessive
consumption. However, since Governmeat parastatals are by far the largest
consumers of diesel fuel, an increase in the price of dies;el fuel would
have little direct effect on consumptiou.



- 11 -
40.       Engineering and Construction. There are no national standards or
records of design and construction methods to permit assessnent of the
existing roads. Moreover, improvement of the network is restricted by the
difficult topography and major improvements would be prohibitively
expensive. Because of the relatively low traffic volumes, both now and in
the future, the short length of roads, and short journey times, extensive
alterations to alignment and/or carriageway width would produce only
marginal benefits to road users.  Valuable improvements can be made,
however, in both safety and traffic management measures. *including adequate
provision of off-street parking areas and footpaths.
41.       ResponsLble for overall administration of the network, LTD's role
is limited to supervising and contr.lling construction and maintenance
which are carried out under contract. This organizational structure has
the advantage of reducing overhead cost, avoiding retention of surplus
manpower, comnn in most higbway organizations operating on force account,
and avoiding inefficient use of materials and equipment. However, LTD's
capacity to plan and program maintenance work, to specify quality standards
for each activity, and to provide high caliber supervision is inadequate.
The 1983 budget appropriation of SR 2.6 million was increased to SR 5.7
million, but decreased to SR 4.0 million in 1984; this low allocation,
coupled with poor management and deferred maintenance, failed to provide
adequate levels of maintenance.
42.       Most road constractuon and maintenance is contracted to WEL, the
manpower, equipment and facilities of which are mainly those transferred to
it from the previous Public Works Department. WEL has retained the
valuable technical and managerial experience of the Public Works
Department. It has a well developed organizational structure, staffing
pl.an and operational policies and procedures. WEL has a capacity to carry
out over 80 percent of road construction and maintenance requirements in
the country and recent paving is judged to be of good quality. The second
largest construction capacity is that of the Seychelles Concrete Production
(SCP). SCR specializes in the production cf crushed stone, concrete blocks
and concre-;e slabs. Its production capacity fully meets demand. In
addition, there are small contractors engaged in more labor-oriented type
of work such as retaining walls, headwalls, seawalls, paved ditches and
footpath repair.
43.       Investment, Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program. The
1982-86 National Development Plan (NDP) makes a provision for construction,
improvement, rehabilitation and integrated efforts to introduce adequate
maintenance for roads. The Seychelles has received modest multilateral and
bilateral financial assistance amounting to SR 15.0 million for road
building materials for 1983-84 from Abu Dhabi, OPEC and the United
States. New road construction for valleys with agricultural potential
(under the Plan) has not been realized up to now, primarily due to low
priority given to the agricultural sector. The priority of maintenance,
strengthening, upgrading and improving existing roads -will exceed that of



- 12 -
new construction for a long period to come. The Government recognizes the
high priority of protecting the investment made in existing roads through
cost effective road maintenance and strengthening programs.
44.       The four-year road maintenance and rehabilitation program for
1985-88 includes about SR 76 ililion for the existing road network. of
which SR 24.4 million is for road maintenance and LTD's administrative
expenditures and SR 51.6 million for road rehabilitation, technical
assistance and training. The amnt allocated to rehabilitation alone,
SR 41 nillion, is considered reasonable and would cover 52.7 km of
strengthening/rehabilitation. The maintenance allocation would cover
annual periodic maintenance for about 28 km of paved and 20 km of improved
earth roads, based on a review of the detailed inventory and field
inspection of about 80 percent of the roads. Reduced maintenance. due to
the rehabilitation of 52.7 km of main roads, is taken into account in
determining the maintenance workload. The administrative budget for LTD is
estimated at 6 percent of the total program cost, or 12.5 percent of the
maintenance expenditure and is comparatively lower than that of most
developing countries' highway organizations.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       The proposed project was identified in April 1979, at the time
that the Seychelles applied for membership in the Bank. An advance of
USS300,000 under the Project Preparation Facility was approved in December
1980 to provide consultants for the feasibility study of this project. It
was appraised in March 1984 by a Bank mission assisted by a fisheries
consultant. Negotiations were held in Paris from November 26-28, 1984.
The Seychelles delegation was headed by Mrs. Danielle de St. Jorre,
Principal Secretary of the Ministry of Planning and External Relations* A
representative of the African Development Bank participated in the
negotiations and a representative of the European Investment Bank was
present for some of the discussions. A report entitled Staff Appraisal
Report, Republic of the Seychelles, First Transport Project, No. 5219-SEY,
is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. A loan and
project summary is provided at the beginning of this report, and a
supplementary data sheet is attached as Annex III. Three maps are
attached.
Project Rationale
46.       Development of infrastructure on the east coast of MahM has been
considered by the Government for a long time, prior to the Seychelles
becoming a Bank member. As the country is small with a relatively young



- 13 -
administration, the Government requested Bank Group assistance in financing
the proposed project in order to obtain Bank advice and guidance on the
management and financing of the project. Bank staff have provided this
throughout preparation. The proposed project would support Bank strategy
to assist Government in key projects involving basic infrastructure,
specifically in the commercial port and highway subsectors,  It would also
contribute to institution-building, through provision of technical
assistance and training for management of the road subsector (Land
Transport Division - LTD) and studies for new accounting and financial
systems for the port subsector (Ports and Marine Services Division -
PHSD). This as;istance, which has not been included in the economic return
calculations, is expected to strengthen key areas in an otherwise
reasonably well-managed sector.
Project Objectives and Description
47.       The primary objective of the proposed project would be to improve
the capacity and quality of key parts of the transport system. The project
would include the dredging of the entrance channel and ship turning basin,
the rehabilitation of all of the port cargo handling areas, the
construction of a petroleum/cement products discharge terminal, financial
studies, and technical assistance. Part of the existing road network on
Kahe would be improved through the rehabilitation of deteriorated sections
of the roads. The maintenance management system and road materials testing
capability of LTD would be strengthened through consultants' services
iucluding training of LTD's staff.
Detailed features of the project are as follows:
48.       The commercial port component of the project would consist of:
a)   Dredging of the Port Entrance Channel and Turning Basin.
Dredging to -12.5 m of the existing entrance channel would
provide a minimnm width of 225m. Dredging the turning basin off
the existing berths and future berth extensions would enable
vessels to be turned easily under all weather conditions without
hazard. The material resulting from this work - 500,000 cubic
metres of coral - would be placed ashore adjacent to the
commercial port area to create new land for future port expansion
and light industrial development.
b)   Rehabilitation of Port Facilities.  The laying of about 7,000
square meters of rectangular concrete block paving and about
12,000 square meters of asphalt paving would provide modern
access, handling and storage areas for both container traffic and
general cargo. Construction of a new port workshop, with some
new equipment and provision of services, i.e. drainage works,
electrical works including improved floodlighting and reefer
outlets, etc. would also be included. The existing berths
contain a 'set-back' in the berth face line, which would be
filled in using steel piles and a concrete deck as per the
original structure. Part of the concrete deck structure of the
berths, particularly the beams, has deteriorated and will be
rehabilitated.



- 14 -
c)  Construction of a Petroleum/Cement Products Discharge Terminal.
At appraisal it had been agreed to provide a mininum cost
terminal consisting of a siuple dolphin berth with a central
manifold platform. However, following receipt of the bids for
civil works, tL.e possibility arose of extending the existing quay
construction for only a small increase in cost over the dolphin
berth. The Government requested the AfDB, which is financing the
component, to change the concept since this would affectively
increase the capacity of the general port when the bulk terminal
is not in use. The AfDB agreed to the proposal and will
therefore increase its contribution to the project.
d)   Road Rehabilitation. The work consists of patching, leveling, hot
mx- overlay and civil works rehabilitation of culverts, bridges,
seawalls and other asso-iated items on 13 short sections
totalling 52.7 ka of existing paved roads on the island of Mahe.
It would be carried out by contract over four years.
e)   Consulting Services and Training. The project would provide for
an overall project coordinator, studies of new accounting and
financial systems for PMSD, and technical assistance for the
establishment of a maintenance management system and materials
testing unit in LTD and for project supervision. Also includec
would be overseas training of four of LTD's road superintender.ts
in road maintenance planning, programming, costing and quality
control.
49.       The investment program for transport -  of which the proposed
Bank-assisted project is a part - is of high priority for the Seychelles.
Also included in the Government's investment program is a fisheries :aector
development plan, whose major elements were found acceptable during a
review by the Bank in 1982. While preparation of the project inc'-ed
development of a fishing port (ref. para. 26), during appraisal the
Government informed the Bank of its intention to finance all fishing port
development through other lending institutions.  Therefore, 'ishing port
development is being appraised and financed by the Kuwait Fund and BADEA
with assistance from an on-going AfDB project, and is not included in the
proposed operation. Because of the importance for the Seychelles of both
the commercial and fishing ports, which are contiguous, and the size of
possible future investments in either, Government would consult with the
Bank on the economic viability of any new investment in the Port of
Victoria in excess of US$4 million equivalent (Section 4.07, draft Loan
Agreement). Government and the Bank would exchange views on the Borrower's
plans for continuing development of the fisheries sector.
Project Cost and Financing
50.       Total project cost net of customs duties and taxes is estimated
at about US$16.7 million equivalent including contingencies. Foreign
exchange costs are estimated at about US$12.9 million equivalent or about
77 percent of total project costs. The commercial port civil works and



- 15 -
dredging costs are derived from the preliminary evaluation of the tenders
received on November 12, 1984. Generally, the lowest evaluated tenders
were lower than the consultants' estimates had been for the dredging but
somewhat higher for civil works. Provision for contingencies has been
included: (a) physical variation in dredging at 20 percent; general civil
works 8 percent and paving works at 15 percent; (b) annual price escalation
on foreign and local costs at 3.5 percent for 1984; 8.0 percent for 1985;
and 9.0 percent for 1986 and 1987. The cost estimates for the road
rehabilitation works have been provided by LTD, which was assisted by
NORPLAN engineering consultants, and are considered realistic. A physical
contingency of 10 percent has been included. Annual price escalation is
based on the same rates as for the commercial port.
51.       The Government held a co-financers meeting for the project toward
the end of the appraisal mission period which was attended by AfDB, KF,
BADEA, Belgium, UK and USA. At this meeting the financing of both the
proposed project and further development of the fishing port was assured.
The allocation of the various project components among the co-financers was
made on the basis of the consultants' cost estimates. (The commercial port
and the fishing port are linked through a single dredging contract.)
52.       The Government invited the Bank to finance with AfDB the project
investments in the commercial port. In addition, the Bank loan of US$6.2
million (including the capitalized front-end fee of US$15,461 equivalent)
would cover road rehabilitation. The AfDB would finance construction of
paving works, workshops, and the bulk products discharge facility for
US$5.8 million. Fulfillment of all conditions precedent to initial
disbursement of the AfDB Loan is a condition of effectiveness of the Bank
loan (Section 6.01, draft Loan Agreement). A Norwegian grant of US$0.9
million would continue to finance the consultant for civil works
supervision, financial studies, and detailed engineering for the road
component. The entire investment in the fishing port development would be
financed jointly by KF, BADEA and theon-going AfDB operation.
Project Implementation
53.       Implementation of the proposed project would be the
responsibility of the Ministry of Planning and External Relations (MPER).
The MPER has set up a small unit, headed by a civil engineer, to be
responsible for overall project management. He will be supported by an
experienced project co-ordinator to be recruited and financed under the
project, with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank (Section
3.02 (c), draft Loan Agreement). Studies to be undertaken for the
commercial port and the technical assistance and training program for the
LTD would be provided through consultants with qualifications, experience,
and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank and
Government (Section 3.02, draft Loan Agreement).
54.       For the p,rt component, MPER would rely on the services of
consultants for the supervision of the civil works and dredging.
Consultants financed by Norway on a grant basis have been responsible



- 16 -
for the detailed engineering and preparation of tender documents and would
continue to assist MPER in project execution. The LTD would be responsible
for the road rehabilitation component, and would be assisted by engineering
consultants for civil works supervision and for the establishment of a
maintenance management system. The actual road rehabilitation works would
be carried out by local contractors. LTD would execute the road
maintenance works through LCB.
55.       The project would introduce accounting, financial and management
information systems which will enable PMSD to control costs and to
establish and periodically revise a cost-based tariff system. By
December 31, 1985, Government would adopt a new tariff system for PMSD
sufficient to enable PMSD to achieve a return on net assets revalued
annually of 3 percent in 1986, gradually increasing to 6 percent in 1989
(Section 4.04 draft Loan Agreement).
56.       The Government agreed that it would ensure that the Union
Lighterage Company (ULC)'s current ratio does not fall below 1.5:1 (Section
4.05, draft Loan Agreement). Government also agreed that (a) it would only
permit ULC to lend to other parastatals at prevailing commercial rates and
terms in the Seychelles; and (b) it would ensure that all Government
agencies and parastatals pay their bills from ULC within 90 days of the
invoice date (Section 4.06, draft Loan Agreement).
57.       The Government, through MPER, would furnish to the Bank quarterly
progress reports on project implementation (Section 3.04 (b), draft Loan
Agreement). By October 31 of each year of project execution beginning in
1985, the Government, through LTD, would furnish to the Bank for comment a
work program for the periodic and routine maintenance work to be carried
out by LTD over the following fiscal year (Section 3.06, draft Loan
Agreement). Government would also prepare a project completion report
within six months of the closing date of the project (Section 3.04 (d),
draft Loan Agreement). Implementation of the project is expected to be
completed by June 30, 1988. The Closing Date would be Decembei 31, 1988.
Procurement and Disbursement
58.       Contracts for the dredging and commercial port civil works will
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding and the
prequalification of tenderers in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
The dredging work for the commercial and fishing ports was tendered as a
single contract. The Bank would finance only the items applicable to the
commercial port based on detaileX. bills of quantities. Mobilization and
demobilization costs would be divided in the ratio of fishing port costs to
commercial port costs.
59.       The road rehabilitation civil works would be carried out by local
contractors since (i) the nature and size of the works are unlikely to
attract foreign contractors; and (ii) the local construction capacity is
adequate in both size and quality to carry out the project without
difficulty. To increase efficiency and improve cost effectiveness, the
work would be packaged into elements of pavement structures, crushed stone



- 17 -
production and baulage to enable tenderers to employ their particular
specialization and expertise. Contracts would be awarded on the basis of
locally advertised competitive tendering according to procedures acceptable
to the Bank.
Proposed Procurement Methods
(US$ Million)
Project Element                    ICB    LCB    OTHER   N.A.   Total Costs
Dredging and reclamation          2.2                                  2.2
Commercial port civil works       7.0                                  7.0
Commercial port finance study                      0.1                 0.1
Road rehabilitation civil works           5.7                          5.7
Road rehabilitation technical                      0.2                 0.2
assistance
Road rehabilitation training                       0.1                 0.1
program
Consultants for supervision                                1.4         1.4
of civil works
Total                    9.2    5.7       0.4    1.4         16.7
60.       As this is the first Bank project in the Seychelles, there is no
disbursement profile. The proposed disbursement schedule is based on a
realistic program related to the advanced state of preparation of the
project, Government's commitment to it, and the relatively simple nature of
the project works. The proposed Bank loan of US$6.2 million would be
disbursed against 95 percent of total expenditures on port civil works; 60
percent of total expenditures on roads civil works; 80 percent of total
expenditures on consulting services; and 100 percent of overseas training.
studies and technical assistance costs. All disbursements would be fully
documented, except reimbursements under contracts for goods and services
valued at less than US$10,000 whLch would be made solely on the basis of
Statements of Expenditure. Documentation would be made available to Bank
representatives for inspection during supervision missions.
Revolving Fund
61.       A revolving fund would be set up under the proposed project with
a special account, to be opened and maintained in the Central Bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2.02 (c) and Schedule 5,
draft Loan Agreement). The special account, with an initial contribution
of US$500,000 by the Bank, would finance items such as payments to small
contractors, consultants and training.



- 18 -
ProJect Accounts, Audit and Reporting
62.       Unde- the project, PNSD would introduce accounting, financial and
management information systems appropriate for a revenue-earning entity.
Consultants financed through the project would assist PMSD to organize
itself as an autonomous accounting unit within the Department of
Transport. Separate accounts for project expenditures woul-d be maintained
by PMSD and LTD, and audits would be required for all accounts, to be
carried out annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank in
accordance with satisfactory auditing procedures. Audited reports would be
submitted to the Bank for review within nine months following the end of
each fiscal year (Sections 4.02 and 4.03, draft Loan Agreement). ULC's
annual financial statements are audited by a qualified independent
accounting firm acceptable to the Bank.
Environmental Impact
63.       The major environmental concern of this project is the dredging
works and the resulting impact on the coral formations in and around the
port entrance channel and turning basin. The risk associated with this
type of work is that dense clouds of suspended fine particle matter
resulting from the dredging and, more particularly, the reclamation work,
could obscure the coral from essential light and lead to destruction.
Recent experience with previous dredging and reclamation works undertaken
in the port and also at the airport has shown that little, if any,
permanent damage to the coral is likely to occur.
Benefits
64.       For the commercial port the immediate beneficiaries would be the
ship- and cargo-owners. For ship-owners a transfer to the Government would
take place in the form of increased port charges, particularly related to
improved deep water access. Savings in ships' waiting time would normally
be reflected in lower freight rates and/or in the form of so-called
dispatch money 1/ at half the rate of ship demurrage charges. For the road
improvements the Government would benefit through future reduction in road
maintenance expenses and in vehicle operating costs because of its
ownership of heavy vehicles (trucks and buses) through WEL and SPTC.
Indirectly the tourism industry would also benefit from a reduction in
vehicle costs and accidents.
65.       For the Victoria commercial port investment the estimated return
is 15 percent and for the road rehabilitation, 23 percent. For specific
road sections the ERRs vary from 13 percent to 47 percent primarily
depending on traffic density. Sensitivity tests indicate that the retarns
on project components would remain above the opportunity cost of capital
(12 percent) in almost all cases. The combined return for the
Bank-financed project is 18 percent.
1/ Compensation from shipowner to shipper for more rapid loading and
discharging of ships.



- 19 -
Risks
66.       The project has been designed to reduce risks associated with
implementation as much as possible. The project also provides considerable
flexibility for adaptation to changed circumstances. Since the port
already is capable of receiving most ships, marginal changes in the
dredging program, if required, would have limited adverse effects.
Similarly the road rehabilitation which is spread over a four-year time
span can easily be adapted without serious loss of benefits. Local costs
are reasonably well assured through adequate budgetary allocations. No
particular technical problems are foreseen other than usual risks
associated with a dredging contract in a remote location. Recent
world-wide experience indicates that this industry at present has a surplus
capacity.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Seychelles
and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. There is only one
additional condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan, namely, fulfillment
of all conditions precedent to initial disbursement of the AfDB Loan (para
52).
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank. I -ecommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
January 23, 1985
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -                                          AN3 I
TAsLZ  34                                        rlAC  1
SUCuR                 - SOCIAL TI"Aos D   nvS
sUOIZUZs                           ESPUENCE UsoU  (UZCUT  AlmamU) Is
MOST                Cwr XZcEN ZUTIAT  /b
rUCUS?       KIDDIE D EtZ          xrmcmz:TSa
IL96db    1970&     ZSuIjuL      APICA  S. 0  SADA   1. 104 A MM VAST
AM CtMOS    sq- nlo
TOAL                                0.3         0.3        0.3
AilCIOLTUKAL                        0.1         0.1        0.1
*  .W      cpAmfi  1oo)                     '' ''                  .            1112.9                  1249.6
minwy inmumrzm  m   AE
CeILOQEAs OF OIL HqIALgBR)         35.0       300.0      922.0            329.0                   622.1
BOMAUS AM  TAL StlATIV
POPULATIW.N-WAS. CTUSADS)          41.7        53.3       66.3
URBA  POPULATION CZ OF T A)        26.2        26.9       37.0             29.7                    ,8.2
POPOLATION inCTIO
POPMUATIOS I S  2000 N tL)                               0.1
STATONA  IOPUIrTwi (NELL)
POPULATION ,. .3T
POPUIATIOU DE0sm1
PI SQ. 1OL                      148.9        190.4     227.9             55.6                    36.3
FM SQ. ML AGl. LAN              63.0        1066.0    1276.0            111.5                   461.7
POPMATIlO AGE STRCTURE CZ)
0-1 US Y                        35.5        43.4       39.8             45.4                    43.6
15-64 US                         55.3        50.3       53.8             51.7                    53.1
6S AND ABODE                      6.2         6.3        6.4              Z.9                     3.3
POPULATION CWM BATE (2)
TOTL                              2.4          2.5       1.6              2.8                     2.8
URBAN                              ..         2.7        6.2              5.2                     4.5
ClDanCITH RAE (PM Tross            41.0        32.0       2.2              47.0                    40.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PM TOM)          11.0         8.0        7.5             15.2                    11.5
GROSS 1E1EOUDC    A                  ..           ..       2.0              3.2                     2.3
.-MWY PLANNIN
ACCEOS. AN)U'L (T''S
UsEUs C OF E          D)           ..          ..         ..               ..                    22.2
FM An micez
XiM  OF FMOD M. PER CAPI
(1969-71-100)                        ..          ..         ..             91.6                    97.3
PER CAPT SO.?Y oF
CALOzS CZ OF gEQWUIV     )         ..           ..        ..             98.2                   110.l
PROTENS (CWM PEI DLT)              ..          ..         ..             56.7                    70.1
OF MICE ASDSAL AND PMSE          ..          ..         ..             17.0                    17.8
HILlD (CAES I-4) DEATH RATE         7.9         4.0        1.9             18.7                    14.6
uam
LIE N   Se. A mArT  (MM)           63.0        66.0       66.0 Ic          51.7                    57.5
INFAXT PM. RATE (PIR   U)          57.8        39.8       26.6            102.7                   101.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATE C(P0P)
TOTAL                              ..        23.2         ..             35.6                    59.7
URN                                ..        41.6         ..              4.1                    64.5
RURAL                              ..         17.7        ..             27.3                    33.4
ACCESS TO 1E5EA DISPOSAL
CZ or POPLATion)
TOUL                               ..          ..       94.5 Ic
UBAN                               ..          ..         .                ..
.RUN                               ..          ..
POPULAII  PER PHSICIAN           3210.0      4970.0    2320.0 Id        11948.3                  4345.1
POP. iN  SINIlC FERSOII           710.0 A     490.0      250.0 71        2248.9                  1831.1
POP. in  OSPMIL BED
TOTAL                            140.0       W.0.0     200.0 It         966.9                   632.9
n31AM                              ..          ..         ..            368.7                   543.5
RURAL                              ..          ..         ..           4012.1                  2513.5
ADtllSSIWS PR HOSITAL BD             ..          ..         ..              ..                     26.2
AVEJAGE SIZE OF 1o0SEIO
TOTAL                              ..          4.7       4.9 /c
URBAN                              ..         4.7
RURAL..  4.7
AVAGE NO. OF PZRSONSI/ROOl
TOL                                 ..         1.6
URBAN                              ..          1.6
RMLAL                             .*           1.7
ACCES TO ML. (Z oF WAunsS)
OTOL                               ..         27.4      4 43.2 /           ..                    46.2
R                                  ..          ..       61.1                -_                   77.7
RURAL                              ..          ..       32.8 s_            ..                    16.1



-21 -                                               ANNEX I
TA6LE  3A                                         PAS 2
s                        SLs  - sOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SIT
SETWELLES                             ERVNI  GEOcPS (ZIBGND AVERAGES) La
MOST                (MST REcur ONMTE) lb
Recu         MIEDDLE rE              IDRE hoG
198O-I   197OL6    EST1AMLb   APUICA S. or sAnau    J. AJICA & HID  ST
ADJUSTED EEPOLIJENT RATOS
R     :  TOTAL                      ..           ..      95.0 /C          91.0                     U8.3
ML                        ..          ..         ..             90.5                    102.5
FEaALE                   ..           ..         ..             73.6                     73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    --           '         '               17.4                     43.0
MALE                     ..           ..         ..             23.7                     52.3
FEALE                    ..           ..         ..             14.8                     33.0
VOCATIONAL (C OF SECONDR)            2.8         9.7       20.0              5.3                      10.3
P1UIL-TEAC- RATIO
FADeS                             26.0         24.0      21.0              38.6                     30.3
SE rNDARY                         18.0         20.0      15.0              24.3                     23.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)             45.9         57.7        ,,             35.6                      43.5
PASSENOER CARS/TNOUSAD POP            ,          244       65.9 lb          20.7                      17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/?NOOSAND POP        12.0        131.3     396.8            100.8                     138.8
TV  ECEIVERS/TIIUSAND POP             ..           ..        ..              18.5                     46.1
5SPAE   (UAXT GEMRAL
INTEREST) CIRMAUXIOS
PER  TcAD  POPULAION              20.2         37.5      55.8 Id          17.2                      31.2
CDXE! ANMUAL ATrENDANCECAPrEA        2.5          ..        6.S 7            0.3                      1.7
TOTML LAOR FOUE C(D05)              18.0        20.0       29.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  40.9         33.0      36.9 Ic          33.8                      10.8
AGICULT1E (PERCENT)                 ..         26.1      19.5 s7          57.1                      42.4
NDMUS    (PERCNT)                   --        27.2       24.0 7;          17.4                     27.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             42.6         37.7      *6.7             36.3                      26.2
MAUE                              51.4         50.7      59.3              47.6                     48.4
FENIl                             34.2         24.7      33.8             25.1                      5.8
ECONOMIC DEFIEXCY RATIO              1.1         1.3        1.1              1.4                      1.8
INCONK DISTRI3ITrn
PERCENT OF PRIVATE 11OUS
RECEIVED mr
NIGEST 5Z or   H S                  ..           ..        ..U..O..
RISERS 20Z OF lDUSEUOS              .*.                    *
LONS 2O0 OF NOSEROLIS
LOVEST 402 OF ROUSEROLDS            ..           ..
pwm       DIGE Cm
ESThK2ED AUSOLUE POVERITY INCO
LEEL CUSS FER CAPITA)
URIAIr                              --           -         .             325.3                    274.8
.L                                     .. ..249.0                                       *77.2
ESTInM RELATIVE POVERTY INLM
LEVEL CS PER CAPITA)
URAN                                ..           ..         .4 77.4                               402.6
RMRAL                               ..           .          .            186.0                    284.9
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVEErT IENO LEVEL (C)
UR.                                                                         .
RUAL                                ..           ..
. NT AVAIABLE
DT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each tdicator are populatioe-ue1bted critimtic  eans. Coverage of countrleamong the
indicatora depend an avalabIlity of dta and In not uiform.
/b   Unles otherzvse noted, -Data for 19lf refer to an  year betwean 1959 and 1961; -Dta for 1970- betwaen 1969 and
1971; and date for Maet Raceat Eetlate- between 1980 and 1982.
/c  1977; Id 1979; Ie 1.962; If 1975; L 1967; lh 1978; II 1976.
* GNP per capita for 1981 estimated at US$1,800 (1983 World Bank Atlas);
GDP per capita for 1983 estimated at US$2,300 (World Bank econ3mic visit ij 1984).
June 1984



22-                                                                          ANNEX I
--                                                         ~~~~~~~Page 3
flea.,Mets-e thuice.  u tra   tea...atea asat.Iic9.tgi  tt.nce ArA titeetae.-  sad rlia . -it-it U aLec  eA. e.t thte.  sacs.c- tcs tlat
............   at tic arm   t ul~.4adtas attiutai - -........   (ydtt.I c   a--r,a-na.  eeclci    tee dci.-    %e desire   ucshai-. t.,.t  a 
d.cautb.artar.  t acted.   Steam. ia-a  sa  eracti.tnt  ajartetf.,ee  cfite..d cet.lr. .-        -,
aujc   otsLcet,I rla   ...Ot'iamr    t.  ef Ih.        U1    tMl    e-h-bbOcWtldi aW'   cs   ccc ut sir-ace ".-laant.aaL
-Itta ti.......-.t  u.l.ta.                         t                                     A.    .   -         tmlrttc   te.s.ttc  ditd   i  -a..  1 Ift-cttt
-  .a   ucna.   .rtt    c  isc a   tciittiie.tl.   it  Citr                                                          ca   sia   icie.C 
-J   ta  fu.5c.;iec  trta.;. srl. -  IsIt cta  IeM   Wtstsr ftsct-..
btr..ttts   -Is;.t.  5  s5..!.raC5aa-ttset al. C  aeccttecatsac  fst  acdactarcc  aaitcIt,.a..                         .c.e...    araIc.
..1. a.   ..                                                                         cett.eet nutc  hd-cs    srIP-..  e-rarc   -    1tstits   ta-a L
tuo. 1-to.                  eg.ac  si auaa.   asiIcaict.te-ar  aetdcIatl-
eac   ntTtatse  2atf?It-t a .tts - C-      aceecc aar""                               nLL!icic -1rc1-teca-c iafict- tIehaIcu  ret  .. stCc
Ia.at ta   asta.        F-L.                                                                 cat-r .ctrt ee  -  sta-.aerat  steatttu  aV Alaebas-t
Z.                   M~~~~~~~~~~~~~,aarit etu  qfl .ea tct
ctwyiAtleti fl dIM. creytenrl~~~~~~~~~~~f itip.                                       1
cttrilat.  i-tcar tr.  ccuata    at  Mtct ta.  .  1tt4  cst  Cl                  aI.-ttttia                                           &-      -       gE.
Lat.auti  *t e ceaei idatc  e  hcdsJ  tZc.   src.ci.
`Pet ttc    attt     at- urn tea          tf ct =t cwriteu  atdu                           a   ht    aaia        wra   ctts    .--                    b  cetti
tic rratat i.e                                                              eusraic ccr Lt turascla tar ce-ttu    tuC. act L=ts  sard   .$.
ii~d~i~iIca.!r 1)I'a Curqsce rcqtet   rluia   r   aa        W                      tpr-.-ra  cc .tt tenet, ad - ccud Aeta, e-.tstia.ct
cites   fructela  ~umsc-c  Rn artatit   rt   c-CufAqu                                aeurt   e
taet  c.et                                                                        M=.s.c.ya   tlc.ratuattey   tsae   lsrst  enc  .   silss   tu    cha   c  c
P ..cttt   ..esftcer   ~at tstr   c  h. slsc   -a  uia.cn                              it.yl
C arcetea  tin i   tcm      Icc           F ate.aa.te  -iIhrteC entactS                     L  a-Ct  a  AcLa.ts   c   trra.  dnPtra at crs.cdrts fcr,I
V= -c  ties is care   :I eatar   taclut  cccnc   cts      -w tee                               tc. a    alcar  at      as.teit  ra   rtcia
=ltt. ad  the  ccu  c. LL   i  tLraItt rata ccrtsssttn.-ieta   oar-c   su    rsr  Carucdrcr    atal-
rccctutta    csa  a La tee        teeC Its    --a reattta-O jrtt   icaec.treTac is-a.-.5"cc   - CttIruda certc                                                 u
ceCcasataq  crltte   .  Ietuca tas  ct'I  a-a  t. lir.                                     teta  tsc.t.               Lattu    St- .ta  at=sa   s&sl T-n5cc   F
scafC is.. **s-a)c                                      . %   -ry .reAuc,s. -cda.ct.5hlarst.t,s..-.....Sua.c                                               1 --s.1070
it.  -1- 5e-sc,p.ct.- set sca-  ct. .sc41tIs  taltarsa  am                              .  Strarast  tcscta
c,.ta   ta   at   a'.aataItt.                                                           ft-.,.Itr.crt    tss-CteaachtcIt  t   a-atas-t-
-sets;  sa'. CsC na tdt dat.:I           '      .-de                                              
rsstcea   celtrrar   cct.r    hiitc. l                      Tt ssct.    rbIci-a  atl     ratlcirf istl  -AI,                                      RI
tccttl;  ea, ilr5  -  ticjd la-a.                       -rafl                              aat d  5c  e  -Aid.t tscc.srsC                tsta   -t         u
feiw ppsltt tRIme tttsc  cc-sc -    c-                                                  t-sic.tsestcsc t4 c m"P  aadato-st-esl  ecatrncscfr  at
tcact   s-t ace  Itaeact  a urea  - uenat        toa Iran at cnn -sctn.i  cc--   ulcta    ns -nueirnse
rcrudattet dte  lil. ca  slatdata    aFiaret  aalt  int.adrCsat. .0  -dC   Aiee-Ic WIt                                                                 ,R caare
era. e      .ebece  Sait  haer-c unc.-r  nics    an:;. gIttI   alit is-C                   tStCF  ai   afa. cerastCt.a        .ca   I    at
ta   s..  a -acta -stc-  Cf?    - eb.e Lata     - rrca-e ci -escc                           :_etreraaeccscti.cts pita a_ - _    te  -as -e                 .
tat                                                                                   etatmea -d.=       F    1  -4 tlesisaC  rtnmqC   ccdeacstlce    tS   slss
rftcdrn.                                                                                    cishuec seat -t&;.; 1ee taaq1  icetaIvry  a-.lia-as7cs Ir scata ce-"Ia-  c
mIt. rlcceset  ttacc ta-ectu M-rradj      ct s_ t-te.ca cf a-trid                      c Ebea- fctLt.
Sc  t etd-tt. VAIA    L  M at. acctflst   ar         - Cecdc -IL`
ecceei  a dfar-c     a-  -aatisc .:tuel striC. c90    is dAt- *1tf'                                             "".f~I X1  4,-                    -R      -
ebttaeetis  s        gcratt    c td  laac  tattetfa  ia           t_1c a LI rt JttC f-t.dca tti-ecttlms  teec  traa.   tctesea
ttin  ca.crcaareecs ales Cs a-anrai fc  sttar as dteaaC                APAea  =at   1 utcaits cc   claitiasaca  uttct.t.  raC
Hasanah      l   e.   tieia   .srastasrs   r   -
tR c   va.   a-ceLit                                                                        elalL mIS-- d InF      md  a.
besca a. aaal aeri recicer urea- scahuat  ial-a-lrit-C.. -d Ic,              cmttai
=at-                                                                                      rareeeitinha-  (seectt -tari. at..-  fstsa pate.raua- 
eart-pe   Ictl VW.f tFC-ca tiara-attI ra-iReAsu  s uCt fi                                    tCe   at  t  sna        att  a5   a   a.tb   aa
et      qaclcaada   au   atta.aadlba  - iaut   arcptatr                                      casan51iL:uccaea  utd   apdtemadilea   a-aalLr
satat        taarb'PRuat.Z eeal-. at%   al-tim   Ii fsatatRar, -_
taiscll  lacihal  felt a   its dMIa l-    etPacrjplest
.t  atctute   rciefsu   a   aistaet   al.dtLrr-e                                           Ctetm-a   qc-  trc   et   cce          ai    aacdc   iha 



-23-                                  iIQ I
D3aESC lX             N 1983                    am MID  NIER EtKE II 1983
-SS I      x                                      Valn' &        Lab  Fict
CPat    e pcfr~15pr1cer0.US$; Pan  Z    000    Z
Cme  Ac tI1            14.7    -9.7       A     pdml                       92  6        i    13.4
xx wf GE                       12.)      7.9   loEZ                              23.3 15.4   2.7   16.8
inpots Of                      87.8     581   Services                          117 785  11.2   69.8
Total at azket gfr:s          151.2 10.0  16.16 100.0
CftAL aD1aeOr FIlM  IN 1983                    MaE. (IT A!D ER
St Ifn     -of (P                                  1 198191 l1982    193
Qzreat Receipts               402.8     384                                 (Sit Mn- cet  perlod)
Qirent xpedEture              417.9  44 9   'bey aud Qzisa limy                 294.1 292.8  Z.   276.1
Oirret Surpbs                 -15.1     -1.5  1ik Credit to Pdb c Sen  ('m)   19.0 45.4  53.7   87.1
CiRal leIiLtre                 62.9      6.1   Bn CLit to Privace Secor)        160.1 155.3 14337  1VA
External Assistmm              38.1      3.8
W  (F PAL
S9I IS        19 83   Genieal Pdre Imic (1979-I10)   121  13    132    140
(Us M11           AmiL pmec  -
Geal Pxie IndeC                   14.0  0.6  -0.9    6.1
ECporr- of Gooid           17.1  15.7  20.3  Bazk Crmk ito Pt1c Sectr (et)  52.0 138.9  183   62
Frtsm of Goods             93.3  IO.9  87.8  BRik CredEt to Private Seo          3.0 -3.0  -7.5    4.4
Trale Baj~K~         -76.2  85.2 -67.5
E    ES (aee 8
Nn Fator Serifes (mr)   )                             DSS                                          Z
Faorj Semvicer. wintlTa.fers)56.8  55.2  52.8
Oarrent Acmct Bn          -9.4 -WO0 -14.7   C                                           1.5I       8.5
Ciam                                    0.48       2.7
Gouerrumt Capital (mt)    I.8  20.5  11_3   Fish                                        25        6.9
Private Captal (nt)          -        1.6   1.4  a                                                 -
0dxes                                   U0.2D      1.0
ITre   in Pseres -)         8.6   7.9   2.0   Herecxmrts                              14.60      80.9
Total                             18.07     IOD.0
RRE aF EXW(
198D            191             19
USS132I. 0M   U$1 .00.M-3149 US$1S1.0(      ?5025 uSSlJC.R6J676
St IM.DM0.156 Sit I.O-W_ -158 SR I$00.153 SRt lSS0.148
Note: All xmvers1i   tD duats In this tabl are at the avere
r   prevalig   rlg duze period coeed.
Janay 1985



- 24 -
ANNEX H
SrATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE SEYCELLES
A. Stat-et of Bank Loans (as of September 30, 1984)
T.o
Boan
N__be       Yer_o__ie                Purpose          IBD     Undisbursed
-=Uss    -Ii
none
B. Statemt of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1984)
'one



-25-
ANNEX I
SEYMEL1ES
TRANSPORT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATk SHEET
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
Identification                                      April 1979
First Preparation mission:                           October 1979
Appraisal mission:                                   February 1984
Negotiations:                                        November 1984
Planned date of effectiveness:                       June 1985
Section II:  Special Implementation Action:
The Bank has approved a Project Preparation Facility of US$300,000 to
finance consultants for the feasibility study.
Section III: Special Conditions of the Project:
a) Government would consult with the BanT on the economic viability
of any new investment In the Port of Victoria in excess of US$4 millior
equivalent (para 49);
b) By December 31, 19 5, Government would adopt a new tariff system
for PMSD sufficient to enab..e P1SD to achieve a return on net assets
revalued annually of 3 percent In 1986, gradually increasing to 6 percent
in 1989 (pars 55);  and
c) Government agreed that (i) it would ensure that ULC's current
ratio does not fall below 1.5:1; (ii) it would only permit JLC to lend to
other parastatals short term at prevailing commercial rates and terms in
the Seychelles- and (iii) it would ensure that all government agencies and
parastatals pay their bills from ULC within 90 days of the invoice date
(para 56).
Section IV: Conditions of Loan Effectiveness:
Fulfillmabt of all conditions precedent to initial disbursement of
the AfDB Loan (para 52).



iNIANRl      Clf"  A N
PROJEC 
Sections to be Resurfaced in
19 5                                                 N IlhPoint                                                 SEYCHELLES
- --1986 
198 7
1988                                                MA MABEE                                    TRANSPORT PROJECT
Maln Roads (rnerollod)                                                                                          Mahe   Island
-    - Main Roads (unvnetalledl                                                                           T     A      S    O           P       J
Minor Roads
_---rfcicks                                                                      Sl
Rivers                                                                   ,  -
'''      Co,al                                         g ^                        ,      .
Tea Plantations                                                       'I,    \
____- - Nctional Pork Boundaries                       1,
Admrnitcative Boundorirl                      I.                                                                      ,
, .,II.,, I                                                    ASne Isuand
- -. -  Internotional Boundarues                                                           ,N
,/,5,      1  ib                  ~~~~~~~NATilONAl 'II
,BINE AU            _  | f      ; r '-                / P                 /      (I0'A
Vr>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L| i
BS r CIAL   /                                                   I tS                                                    <
ffESIRVEIr                         A4AE  S  CiIii   IAiNA\  Ail                                       : 
txrf vr t7ERN 5d ti.'M                SF  /lt        A 16.` 
MARINE NATOA   A% 
I         *~~~~~  C ~~POuRI%LI
f?aa meho bmrJr    rOi                                                                         . .,
I'd 'e "i         "   '    'e' '  :    '  "    '   ' "L'
Wilmo his booiperpee  bV'ch 
enIl MWO 11"' 00 sircmi, en rlie
CoPar 1File T~Ahes dri* li
01 IS DUMPSON NW up
lwemMviMFbwwxeCoeAPoeti                    0 ~  /    CI i N
eeiei P i  e tA VW



CASCA:                                        qoa
OrS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I d4e k W
I.                                          Saleilte                        T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ALBOT              uEgI
AW        h W Ow                                                                       ''*W  of II' rh''s  I
Cmwbm rrw eewN - i
an HV  ip w do bO e*, on rS                                                                                        )
owtdo TN Hbod Mik W  d r
hhfrlFr Jwpetab/         i Zy t))  /VJ         C t .1 ?V                                                   '>
NWdl we 1 on et  e* D\aM,
-  lie Nenbii  ;awc
ofd mV lieow bofwiia  l
01  rv~ o0@r          ofl2l
w'5gs,                        IS' 3  dCCst45pll' 
a~~~~A ha'~~~~~~~~dw~~A id 
C3' IS                                                                                                                                               ANSE
torihCevrn     C     .                                              . 1                         11BOILEAU
50uIhCoi,un       Pray/1n                   Annel
,r 1t;ltorI                                          /Island             tao ogi I
/  ',  !   /  ,}  |   ^   l ,'.                                                                                       98                                         1 figicio  
Si/hoayell /                          iCm/fe /..t> 
'    ! ,0'r'                                                                                                                                           
*4 4               rn in m an, gp  <b4                                                    fi 5 .                                       ) C  (
I!Nv^' 43                                      -oj                              7'_
MAkaL                      S        /H                                                                                 )AKAMAKA H       61EI
Argo    of   ' er    /o  t 4N Are a of  Inset  map
){i   ~   1   mainmop                I C.v oe   -h                                               
.4'dI*               / I                                 4*NOIAN  OCfAN
5' 8  n4   )   _/   }         twomebv1/MAURITIUS                                                                                                               _     s           
\e.>> F t ~~~~~~~~CeopadosCore/os Shoals   S    
&,/ )MADAGASX^|t IitOv#$/ ~~~~~~~~KILOMETERtS q!F?l  f
55.5.                         5,0L2...
Amu non.      Ara Mof Iielu                                             MILES DI0~                                                               ra    
-     I.                             6 O700  I&w



co
C    7Z
< -       ~~ X~  z
* @: -- ~~~~~~z  >  z
VESSEL
TURNING
\     \t    g       F I s v E R r   t>  < SM0<;> PP O
BASIN
PORT                             ~~~         ~        ~~~~~TUG  EJS?G237-m 513H
-~~~ ~CONTAINER
SfRGEPEA~ - 
lp ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~cG



IBRD 18260
SEYCHELLES
TRANSPORT PROJECT
Mahe Island
P h~ogeCComponents:
Part Fcilities
Dredged Area
= =      \-IRedclimed Area
Eiifng:
Port Facilities
Port Cus*ans Fences
-    Roods
I Corl Reefs
Iredged Area
a  I                          -    Isobaths in Meters
0        F        20        39D      A"0       59IETMl
dS t 0' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wa t AL
9,/S,kaX/k/w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i Aw isI
<4~W ,                                                                               S53                 5..
t. .s 1   CiL -   '   - _ i
=~             XX\                                           1145-- -iD
TA NZANIASE IC HELLE D'k 
\\    /       ~     ~     ~     ~           > orA        5           ,   _  <wmogw 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,e e                         I r
As ~ ~ AN
_r X _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oao 71W. ,                                           -          r1  fAARnuIS              lS@-
Aft of lb. d bwd Bow www                            '
mdwnm5owj%- -Co Gm  Aw- -                     -AD AGArCA
\~~~~~~~~~~~Adh.& StCELE _Or rF  0,
N                                            ,~5  -*o                      -', ."   " -b P'
E mi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M~~~~~~  I~~~~
or~~~~~~~~--.
C.~~~~wMm. ~~A                                60u-w



IBRD 18511
404E E5E                                                                         EV
ETHIOPIA          -,SEYCHELLES
*  ETHIOPIA7,_                                       FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
~'  /  SOMALIA                              ---       wTETuIz.L BOUNDARIES
(                             (                                                     THE SEYCHELLES EXCUAME
ECOONOLUC  MARIE ZONE
KENYA    |                                           ,.                .
i      ,;0O                      
\                              \CO
*10Il-.5. 
PN nba                                       4         R 0I
ZArMOA^R            ,, __                           Po--* G   n r_  xI VpMW
zC   vncesS   Z                5~~~~~~~~~D-j Sft  &CDsWL L 
z                    (-
2a-                                      Cc5uaid <                                     _a-
Ara&            St Pb i
~~~~~~~~Assmta               C.Unb   -     rwi                                                 i ,_-
&~~~~~~~O 0 0    Nt
L Awno                             u
o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ N                    -=.                                                c I_
THE LtASCARENE
MADAGASCAR                                                  sA
n-_ _~~C
___d1  u_                                                                                           RodngueS
p__
Mauritius
Reunion
,SrE                                     EVE
SepIeIber 19"



