Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
gg. o29'2-S&/
Report No- 5219-SEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SEYCHELLES
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
December 21, 1984
Transportation Projects Division 1
Eastern and Southern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIALENTS
Curency Unit = Seychelles Rupee
US $1.00      = SR's 7.30
SR 1.00       = US $ 0.137
UNITS OF WEIGRT AND MEASURES: METRIC SYSTEM
Metric               BritishbUS Equivalent
1 meter (m)                 = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)            = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)             = 2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)        = 2,205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADT       -  Average Daily Traffic
AfDB      -  African Development Bank
BADEA     -  Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
DOT       -  Department of Transport
EEZ       -  Exclusive Economic Zone
CDP       -  Gross Domestic Product
CRT       -  Gross Registered Torniage
IDC       -  Island Development Corporation
KF        -  Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
LPG       -  Liquified Petroleum Gas
LTD       -  Department of Transport, Land Transport Division
MPER      -  Ministry of Planning and External Relations
NDP       -  National Development Plan
NEC       -  Norwegian Export Council
ODA       -  Overseas Development Administration (UK)
OPEC      -  Oil Producing and Exporting Countries
PMSD      -  Port and Marine Services Division
SCP       -  Seychelles Concrete Production
SFA       -  Seychelles Fishing Authority
SNIC      -  Seychelles National Investment Corporation
SPTC      -  Seychelles Public Transport Co.
ULC       -  Union Lighterage Company
UNCTAD    -  United Nations Commission on Trade and
Development
WEL       -  Works Enterprises Limited



FOR OMFCIAL USE ONLY
Republic of the Seychelles
First Transport Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents                                                 Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ......................    (i)
I.         THE TRANSPORT SECTOR 1      ...      ...............       1
A. General 1         ...............1
B.  The Transport System                                   2
C.  Organization of the Transport Sector  ......           3
D.  Planning, Sector Strategy and Main Issues  .           3
II.        THE FISHERIES SECTOR............                           5
III.   THE PORT OF VICTORIA            .        .......               6
A. General                        . ...    6
B.  Port Facilities      .     ...... . .......            6
C.  Organization and Administration                        8
D. Traffic........  10
IV.        THE ROAD SUBSECTOR.              .    .............       11
A.  The Road Network                                      11
B.  Administration and Planning                           11
C.  Highway Financing and Road User Charges               12
D.  Engineering and Construction            .13
E.  Maintenance, Strengthening  and Rehabilitation  14
F.  Road Maintenance, Strengthening and
Rehabilitation Program (1985-88)                   15
THE PROJECT..                                                17
A.  Project Objectives and Composition                    17
B. Project Description                ...                 17
C. Technical Evaluation  . .19
D.  Cost Estimates and Financing Plan   ...               20
E.  Procurement and Disbursement                         23
F.  Project Implementation                 .              24
G. Project Monitoring. .                                 25
H. Environmental Impact. .                                26
I. Institution Building ...26
I  shs document has a restricted distibution and may be used by repients only in the perfonmane of
their offcl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



-2-
Table of contents (continued)                                  Page No.
VI.       ECONOMIC EVALUATION  ........................    27
A.  General.*                  * *..                    27
B.  Commercial Port  .... ...          ..........    27
C.  Road Rehabilitation                    .    ...    28
D.  Economic Returns and Sensitivity Analysis  .    28
E.  Beneficiaries  ......           ............    29
F. Risks ...................                            29
VII.      FINANCIAL EVALUATION      .      .................      30
A. Operating Performance    . .30
B.  Financial Condition                      .          34
C.  FinanLial Objectives  .. ....................    36
D.  Financial Forecasts - Assumptions                   36
E. Projected Operations.                                36
F.  Projected Funds Statements        .    . .39
c.  Projected Financial Condition             .         40
H.  Financial Rate of Return.                           41
I.  Financial Covenants                  .              41
VIII.     AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ...43
ANNEXES
Annex 1 - Transport Sector
Annex 2 - Fisheries Sector
Annex 3 - The Port of Victoria
Annex 4 - The Road Sector
Annex 5 - The Project
Annex 6 - Economic Evaluation
Annex 7 - Financial Evaluation
Annex 8 - Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
MAPS
IBRD 18259 - General Map and Highway Network
IBRD 18260 - Mahe Island and Port of Victoria
IBRD 18511 - Seychelles Exclusive Economic
Maritime Zone
This report was prepared by John R. Lethbridge (mission leader/Senior Ports
Engineer), Bengt Bostrom (Senior Transport Economist), Silvio Capoluongo
(Senior Financial Analyst), Shiferaw Demissie (Highway Engineer) and John
C. Harr (Consultant-Fisheries Specialist) who appraised the project in
March 1984. Annex 2 was prepared by L. Sprague (Fisheries Specialist,
AGR).



(i)
SEYCHELLES
TRANSPORT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of the Seychelles
Beneficiary:          Ports and Marine Services Division (PMSD) and the Land
Transport Division (LTD) of the Department of
Transport
Amount:               US$6.2 million
Terms:                15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate
Co-lenders:           African Development Bank and Norway
Project Description:
Objectives:        The primary objective of the project is to improve the
capacity and quality of key parts of the transport
system, specifically in the commercial port and
highway sub-sectors.
Components:        For the commercial port this includes (a) dredging of
the entrance channel and the ship turning basin, (b)
construction of a petroleum products and cement
discharge terminal; (c) rehabilitation of the port's
open areas; (d) financial studies; and (e) technical
assistance. For the highway component, it includes:
(a) rehabilitation of the road network; (b) training
for Land Transport Division's staff; and (c) technical
assistance.
Benefits:          For the comnercial port, the benefits would result
from savings in cost of petroleum and gas imports and
from a reduction in ship waiting time and cargo
losses. For the highway component, the benefits would
result from reductions in vehicle operating and road
maintenance costs. The road rehabilitation and
improved maintenance would also result in significant
accident reduction.
Risks:             Very little risk is associated with the
project. The risk frequently associated with dredging
works is limited in this case and the road
rehabilitation program is sufficiently flexible to be
adapted to changes without significant loss of
benefits.
Estimated Costs                                    Local    Foreign    Total
----US$ Million---
A. Commercial Port
Dredging and reclamation                      0.1         1.3       1.4
Petroleum discharge facility                  0.7         2.8       3.5
Civil works                                   0.5         1.7       2.2
Consultant services                            -          1.2       1.2
Port Sub-total               1.3         7.0       8.3



(ii )
Local    Foreign    Total
US$ Million
B. Road Rehabilitation
Civil works                                   1.6        2.4       4.0
Engineering and supervision                   0.1        0.2       0.3
Training and Technical assistance              -         0.3       0.3
Road Sub-total               1.7        2.9       4.6
C. Project Coordinator
Project Engineer                               -         0.2       0.2
BASE COST                                          3.0        10.1     13.1
Physical contingencies                        0.3        1.0       1.3
Price contingencies                           0.5        1.8       2.3
Total contingencies                           0.8        2.8       3.6
Total Project Cost                            3.8       12.9      16.7 I/
Financing Plan
A. Commercial Port
AfDB                                          _          5.8       5.8
Norway                                                   0.9       0.9
Bank                                          -          2.1       2.1
Government                                    1.5         -        1.5
1.5        8.8     10.3
B. Road Rehabilitation
Bank                                          _          3.9       3.9
Government                                    2.3         -        2.3
2.3        3.9       6.2
C. Project Coordinator                           -          0.2       0.2
Total Project Costs                           3.8       12.9      16.7
Estimated IBRD Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Years    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
----------US$ Million
Annual                 0.7     2.3      1.4     1.2     0.6
Cumulative             0.7     3.0     4.4      5.6     6.2
Economic Rate of Return:
Commercial port        15 percent
Road rehabilitation: 23 percent
Combined return    :  18 percent
Maps:       IBRD 18259, IBRD 18260, IBRD 18511
_/ The project is exempt from taxes and duties.



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. General
1.01      The Seychelles is a middle income country, with about 65,000
inhabitants; its sea and land territory based on about one hundred islands
stretches over an area almost as large as the island of Madagascar. Mahe
and the two nearby islands, Praslin and La Digue, a total of about 200
square kilometers, account for about 98 percent of the total population and
45 percent of the land area. In spite of Seychelles' proximity to the
equator, the climate is moderate by the oceanic environment. The present
Government came to power on June 5, 1977 following independence in June
1976.
1.02      Social conditions in the Seychelles compare favorably even with
those of developed countries; the rate of population growth is relatively
modest (about 2.1 percent per annum); universal primary education has been
virtually achieved; general health conditions, as evidenced by an infant
mortality rate of 26.2 per thousand and a life expectancy of 66 years, are
good. Unemployment is estimated at about 10 percent of the labor force
with about half of the unemployed under 20 years of age. The labor force
will increase by about 1,000 persons per year over the next decade and the
provision of employment opportunities could become an increasingly serious
problem.
1.03      The economic expansion which took place over the second half of
the 1970s has also been characterized by a rapid growth of government in-
volvement in economic activities. Several parastatal agencies have been
established and public investment has accounted for a large and growing
share of investment activity. This was made possible by buoyant economic
conditions and by a ready availability of concessionary external finance.
These are likely to provide significantly less impetus in the coming years
and the financing of public investments could become a distorting factor.
The economy's development prospects are clearly limited by the very small
size of the domestic market and by the tight constraints on balance of
payments imposed by the narrow dependence on tourism for foreign exchange
and domestic revenues and by a high import content in consumption and
investment activities. Future prospects depend on the capacity to
diversify economic activities and reduce import dependency.
1.04      The Seychelles as an island nation has always been very dependent
on transport, both for its foreign trade and for linking these islands
which are spread over an exclusive economic zone (EEZ) of more than 1
million square km of ocean. This dependency has increased with the growth



of tourism, as a result of opening the main island of Mahe to direct air
travel in 1971. Thus transport, distribution and communications account
for a high share of GDP (Annex 1.1). Tourism receipts from some 56,000
visitors in 1983 covered about 482 of net import value (Annex 1.2).
Seychelles has clearly become a service economy with hotels and
restaurants, finance, government and other services accounting for much of
total GDP.   The latest National Development Plan (1982-86) (NDP) attempts
to rationalize the traditional income generating sectors and in particular
tourism. With the Government seeking greater emphasis on agriculture and
fisheries, it is in this context that government's interest in obtaining
foreign support for fisheries and transport investment should be viewed.
In this plan, infrastructure investment, mainly transport, represents 24%
and fisheries 112.
B. The Transport System
1.05      The transport system is dominated by the need to link the islands
by sea and air (Hap IBRD 18259). Nevertheless the larger islands,
especially the main island of Mahe, have a significant road network (para.
4.04) and the largest number of about 4,400 road vehicles (Annex 1.3).
There are over 500 registered boats, including about 50 schooners (Annex
1.4). In addition Air Seychelles operates 3 Trislander and Islander
aircraft for regular interisland air services and the Island Development
Co. Ltd. has one aircraft. Nine other islands are regularly served from
Mahe by these air services. For international services Mahe has a
well-equipped airport capable of serving wide-body aircraft and a
deep-water port at Victoria, the capital.
1.06      Air access to the islands is vital for the tourism industry.
Air traffic declined from a peak of some 79,000 arrivals in 1979 to about
47,000 in 1982, increasing again to almost 56,000 in 1983. Unfortunately,
at that time, air access was aggravated by the fact that a tour operator,
with his own aircraft, purchased the two largest hotels. Thus, the demand
was reduced to such an extent that two regular airlines stopped direct
services from Europe to the Seychelles. To improve the situation the
Government, through Air Seychelles, has been providing a weekly service in
addition to two weekly direct services by the remaining European air
carrier. One of the hotels has now been repurchased by the government from
the tour operator and connecting flights through Nairobi have also
increased to three times a week. As a result of these actions, tourism
prospects for 1984 are likely to continue the growth of 1983. The first
four months in 1984 indicate about 1OX increase compared to the
corresponding period a year earlier.
1.07      The largest parastatal companies in the sector are the Seychelles
Public Transport Corp. (SPTC) operating frequent bus services on the is-
lands of Mahe and Praslin and the Union Lighterage Co. Ltd. (ULC) providing
most of the services of the port of Victoria and managing two small
government-owned vessels.



- 3 -
C. Organization of the Transport Sector
1.08      The main responsibility for the transport sector is carried by
the Department of Transport which has been since October 1982 directly un-
der the Presidency. Civil aviation, however, is under the Department of
Finance and Industry. The Department of Transport has a Land Transport
Division (LTD), responsible for roads, a Port and Marine Services Division
(PMSV) and a small Administrative Division. Budgets and revenue estimates
for these activities are given in Annex 1.5. In addition to the services
provided for the port by ULC, another parastatal, Works Enterprises Ltd.
(WEL), is carrying out most of the road maintenance for the Land Transport
Division.
1.09      The division of work between supervisory agencies such as LTD and
PMSD and executing agencies like WEL and ULC resulted from the general
creation of parastatals in the beginning of the 1980s and concentration of
central government activities. The split between the Department of
Transport (DOT) and Civil Aviation Division only took place in 1982. DOT
therefore now is responsible for all transport activities except air
transport, but provides limited services directly such as licensing,
pilotage etc. and supervising the actual work carried out by WEL for road
maintenance and by ULC for port services (para. 3.09). Some functions such
as traffic management and accounting have not yet been transferred to LTD,
but will be in 1985 (para. 4.04).
D. Planning, Sector Strategy and Main Issues
1.10      The Ministry of Planning and External Relations (MPER) has the
overall responsibility for the transport sector as well as for other sec-
tors with LTD and PMSD carrying out most of the detailed planning. The
National Development Plan 1982-86 is now being revised and will become a
new plan for 1984-88. The main objective of aiming for a higher standard
of living through diversifying the economy is likely to remain.  This is
the reason for continued emphasis on exploiting the substantial fish stocks
of the EEZ of the Seychelles and the adjacent Indian Ocean. The main issue
is to make use of these resources in such a way that a maximum and lasting
benefit will accrue to the Seychellois. This will be discussed in more
detail below. At the same time tourism as a main foreign exchange earner
will continue to need support, but less in the form of new infrastructure.
The aim is to obtain more value from tourism without a major increase in
the number of visiturs.
1.11      The role of the transport sector is primarily to support these
goals, by providing more cost effective services and limiting foreign
exchange expenditures. The Government has increased its role in the
operation of transport services like SPTC while still giving freedom to
private taxis and trucks as well as interisland schooners. Foreign trade
is also largely unregulated by the Government. After a period of



- 4 -
inadequacy, bus-fares have now been adjusted to provide full cost recovery
similar to ULC and the aviation subsector. The Government in recent years
has given priority to air and port subsectors whereas roads, and in
particular road maintenance, has received more limited attention. Of a
central Government budget of SR 434.6 millions for recurrent expenses in
1983 some 21.5 SR millions has been provided to the sector. In addition
the parastatals provide funds for the transport sector -- for example -
ULC in 1983 had expenditures of SR 11.7 millions. Investments in
1982-1983 have been very modest, SR8.8 million in road rehabilitation.
This is much lower than the major investments in the port and the airport
in the early part of the 1970's which had a major impact on the economy.
The fishing port complex is the Government's next focus for development of
the Seychelles.
1.12      The program of infrastructure development on the east coast of
the main island of Mahe has been considered for a long time -- even prior
to the Seychelles becoming a Bank member in 1980. Initially at the time of
very rapid tourism growth the Government's then East Coast Project included
the construction of a new road between Victoria and the airport and
substantial land reclamation in addition to extension of both the
commercial and fishing ports. As a result of the dialogue with the Bank
the new road construction and land reclamation have been deleted and the
existing airport road is now being improved, mostly under bilateral aid
from Abu-Dhabi, OPEC and the U.S. Part of this aid was also used for
resurfacing of some main roads on Mahe amounting to about SR7.0 million in
1983.
1.13      As a result of this progressive change in program scope the Bank
is now considering this transport sector project for both the land
transport and the port subsector. Although these parts of the transport
system are meeting different needs they are interrelated both financially
and administratively. Also, with the small economy there are strong
financial linkages within the transport sector and between it and the
fishery sector. The continuous dialogue with the Government over the past
few years has resulted in revised priorities in the sector and the
introduction of a road strengthening and rehabilitation component into the
project. In the port sub-sector the Bank's recommendation is only to
include such development as is needed to enable the Seychelles to
effectively develop their fisheries resources and to be able to handle
container traffic and bulk fuels efficiently.



II. THE FISIERhES SECTOR
2.01      Bank involvement in the Seychelles fisheries sector commenced in
1981 as a consequence of the Government's intentions to develop its pelagic
fish resources and its request that the Bank consider the development of
the fishing port in the context of the proposed transport sector project.
2.02      Thus the Bank requested the Government to prepare a fisheries
sector development plan and also an action plan showing how the development
plan would be implemented over time. These two plans were prepared by the
MPER with the assistance of consultants. A Bank mission subsequently
visited the Seychelles in February 1982 and reviewed the plans and also the
work of the consultants carrying out a study of the fisheries sector
(NORPLAN with KF financing).
2.03      The Bank was in agreement with the major elements of the
fisheries plans including the estimates of fish resources and fishery
development prospects. Since that time the Bank has continued to have a
constructive dialogue with the Government on the development priorities,
strategy and institution building issues and which has, in particular,
caused the Seychelles Fishing Authority (SFA) to be created to manage the
sector. Thus preparation of the project included the development of a
fishing port as one major component which would provide the necessary port
infrastructure needed for the implementation of the Government's fishery
action plan.
2.04      It was intended to carry out a full appraisal of the fishing port
component. However, during appraisal, the Government informed the Bank of
its intention to finance all fishing port development through other lending
agencies (KF, BADEA and AfDB). Discussion with these agencies and the
Government showed that they welcomed the Bank's views on the development of
the Seychelles fisheries and were strongly supportive of them but that they
would appraise the fishing port aspects of the proposed project as part of
more comprehensive efforts to develop the Seychelles fisheries resources.
2.05      Because of the Bank's interest in furthering the policy dialogue
with the Government on their fisheries development and also the need to
present an integrated approach for the development of the transport sector
an overview of the fisheries sector is included in this report as Annex 2.
However, it is important to state that no attempt has been made to present
an appraisal of the fishing port infrastructure in detail which is being
appraised and financed by other agencies. A review by Bank staff of
Government's proposed developments for the fishing port shows that they
appear to have acceptable rates of return and to be based on reasonable
assumptions.



- 6 -
III. THh PORT OF VICTORIA
A. General
3.01      The port of Victoria (see Map IBRD 18260) located on the east
coast of the island of Mahe is the principal port and only deepwater
facility in the archipelago. Until 1975 when the present commercial port
facilities came into use, import and export cargo was handled using
lighters operating from the "long pier' to vessels lying at anchor. Today,
the commercial port handles bulk oil and cement imports, general cargo and
containers and all vessels requiring bunkers. The old "long pier' with
recent additions handles all fishing vessels, inter-island schooner traffic
and frozen fish exports and is separated from the commercial port
facilities by an enclosed basin used for mooring yachts. The only ship
repair facility - a marine railway - is located adjacent to this basin.
The port administration offices are located within the customs area of the
commercial port.
B. Port Facilities
3.02      Approaches; Channel; Anchorages; Turning Area:  Following a
simple hazard free approach the outer harbour anchorage can accommodate up
to six vessels at anchor in depths from 9.0 to 23.7 m. The entrance chan-
nel with a dredged depth of 10.7 m and a minimum width of 200 m leads to
the inner harbour. These are well protected by surrounding reefs and small
islands but during strong winds the turning of vessels in the inner harbour
Is difficult even with the use of the port tug. This is particularly the
case during the NW monsoon. The mean springs tidal range is 1.2 m and cur-
rents or tidal streams are negligible. Cyclones are unknown.
3.03      Commercial Berthing Facilities:  The berth consists of a rein-
forced concrete deck and berth face supported on tubular steel piles and
backed up by hydraulically placed dredged fill. The underwater slope is
protected with rock blankets. The length is 237 m, the depth alongside is
10.6 m and cannot be increased for structural reasons. Three bunkering
outlets are provided along the length and discharge points for bulk cement
and petroleum product imports are situated at the northern end of the
berth. In effect, the facility is about one and a half berths, but the
port typically handles two vessels at once by overhanging and using perman-
ent mooring buoys. A step back in the berth face line was provided at the
southern end for schooner traffic but this was ill-conceived and is never
used. The condition of the structure is such that a detailed survey of the
reinforced concrete beams is required to be followed by remedial works -
possibly 5X of the beams will need repair. The upper working surface of
the deck is in excellent condition. In recent years a problem has arisen
with the increase in the sizes of petroleum products carriers. Typically
the Seychelles are served by a 30/35,000 dwt vessel originating in the



Arabian Gulf and with a laden draft of 11 m. Such a vessel is unable to
discharge in the port when fully laden because of the draft limitations and
thus a "second discharge' fee is charged by the carrier. The Government
wishes to avoid this fee and also to ensure more regular deliveries by the
provision of a discharge facility that can accept the fully laden vessels.
However, in view of the depth restriction with the existing berths, even if
the channel and turning areas were to be deepened it would be necessary to
construct a new facility.
3.04      Open Storage Areas; Buildings; Sheds:  The landside of the port
was originally conceived as a combined passenger/cargo terminal since the
principal access route to the Seychelles was by ship at that time. Thus
fairly extensive passenger reception, customs and immigrations buildings
were constructed close to the berth and landscaped with lawns and trees.
Today these buildings are used as the port offices and also to house other
Government departments which have no particular need to be within the port
confines.  A 3,150 sq.m transit shed is available immediately behind the
southern end of the berth and two other sheds in the port area are used for
copra exports (1,890 sq.m) and as a general and bonded warehouse (1,620
sq.m). The sheds are in very good condition. Other buildings within the
port confines include offices and workshops for the cargo handling and
stevedoring company, a small flour warehouse, gatehouse, etc. The open
storage areas of the port are very limited and mostly unpaved. Their use
is complicated by numerous access roadways with kerbs and sidewalks, open
drainage channels and landscaping. This lack of easy access to adequate
storage areas makes it difficult for the port to handle container traffic
efficiently. Similarly, the location of non-port related government of-
fices within the port gives rise to security problems.
3.05      Services:  Pilotage is compulsory for vessels over 150 tons GRT.
Pilots are available only during daylight hours and with 24 hours notice.
The service of a port tug is available (the present tug, although old, is
in good condition but is shortly to be replaced). The tug has a fire
fighting capability. A water barge is able to service vessels at anchor.
VHF and SSB radio communications are maintained. On the berth, fresh
water, telephone and bunkering points for gasoil and fuel oil are availa-
ble. All fuels and petroleum products are handled by one individual oil
company.
3.06      Equipment:  All the cargo handling equipment is owned and
operated by the stevedoring and cargo handling company. The major items
are: 25t container frontlift; 4 mobile cranes of 40,15,15 and 6t capacity;
9 forklift trucks of 3 to 1.5t; 3 tractors and 8 trailers. Including some
additional tractors and trailers now being delivered this quantity is suf-
ficient for the present traffic needs. A maintenance and repair workshop
is adequate and well run. Equipment owned by the port includes the pilot
boat, mooring launches, an interisland boat used for the maintenance of
navigation aids and the port tug.



- 8 -
3.07      Small Ship Repair Facility:  A privately owned marine railway in
the port is the only organized repair yard in the Seychelles. It consists
of two parallel railways (one small, one larger) and the maximum capacity
is 300t and 4m draft. The facility although continuously in use has been
neglected in the past years and needs rehabilitation and additional equip-
ment which will be undertaken as part of a recent agreement with a Spanish
joint venture fishing fleet. The capacity is such that most of the
Seychelles based vessels can be serviced. Repair to most types of hulls
are undertaken together with engine maintenance and some simple electrical
work.
3.08      The 'Long Pier' fishing and inter-island schooner port:  The
original lighter port now handles fishing vessels, inter-island schooners
and reefer vessels loading frozen fish for export. The existing berth
facilities consist of 65m of inter-island quay and llOm of fish landing and
export quays. The water depth alongside is about 4 to 5m. The quays are
in good condition. Further into the port basin are simple quay structures
used to berth schooners and small fishing vessels engaged in the dermersal
fishery and also an old seaplane ramp now used as a slipway for fishing
vessel repair. The shore facilities consist of several old warehouses and
unused buildings together with two recently built cold stores, an ice plant
and various office buildings occupied by mainly government agencies asso-
ciated with the fishing industry. There is a serious shortage of space and
land for the developing fishing industry and most of the older buildings
need to be replaced or rehabilitated. Fresh water and electrical power is
available but inadequate. A major deficiency is the lack of fuel outlets.
At present the vessels of the Seychelles Defense Force are based on the
northern extremity of the port but arrangements are in hand to relocate
them outside of the Victoria port area.
C. Organization and Administration
3.09      The port is presently managed by the PMSD of the DOT.  All
stevedoring, cargo handling and the supply of fresh water and telephone
services to vessels is carried out by the Union Lighterage Company Limited
(ULC) - a recently formed parastatal company. Both organizations are
located within the port confines.
3.10      Port and Marine Services Division:  The total staff of PMSD num-
bers 78 and an organization chart is shown as Annex 3.1.   PMSD is respon-
sible for the management of all the Seychelles ports, harbours, navigation
aids, licensing of vessels and pilotage. At present in Port Victoria the
port harbourmaster also controls the movements of fishing vessels within
the port area which is becoming an onerous task and there is a clear need
for a separate organization to manage the fishing port. Generally, PMSD's
staffing is adequate for these needs.



- 9 -
3.11      The PMSD is responsible for overall operation and maintenance of
the port. However, because of the recent construction of the commercial
port infrastructure the maintenance aspects have been somewhat neglected
and PMSD needs to reinforce this maintenance unit. The port leases its
sheds and open ztorage areas to ULC but the charges do not reflect the real
costs of these facilities. Similarly PMSD is responsible for port security
and makes a charge to ULC for this service which is not related to its ac-
tual cost.
3.12      PMSD controls the allocation of berth space and provides mooring
boats and shore gangs making appropriate charges for the services provided
including that for the port tug. The UNCTAD system of port statistics is
well maintained.
3.13      The present port workshop for the maintenance of the equipment
owned by PMSD is located in the fishing port and needs expansion as well as
relocation to the commercial port area. This workshop also maintains the
navigational aids.
3.14      Since PMSD is a division of the Department of Transport, it
follows Government accounting procedures; it only accounts for cash re-
ceipts and expenditures, and does not produce balance sheets. Because PMSD
lacks adequate systems to match revenues and expenses, its pricing needs to
be improved. This project will introduce financial and management informa-
tion systems which will enable PMSD to better control costs and to estab-
lish a cost-based tariff system.
Union Lighterage Company Limited
3.15      The ULC is responsible for the handling of dry cargo and con-
tainers from the ship's hold to delivery from the port and vice versa. ULC
provides the equipment needed and leases the port infrastructure. More re-
cently ULC has expanded its operations to include acting as shipping
agents, freight forwarders and truckers. However, it is not the objective
of the Government for ULC to eventually take over all these activities com-
pletely from the private sector. ULC also acts on behalf of the PMSD in
providing vessels with fresh water, telephone and some other services.
3.16      On October 1, 1980, ULC came under new management as the Govern-
ment acquired the majority of the capital shares. The Seychelles National
Investment Corporation (SNIC), the Government holding company for all
parastatals, is ULC's ultimate parent. ULC employs about 200 people on its
regular staff. About 180 regular employees are dock workers. In addition,
about 200 casual laborers are employed as needed on a daily basis. Labor
relations are good. ULC's operations are profitable and its financial
condition is satisfactory.



- 10 -
D. Traffic
3.17      The port traffic is shown in Annex 3.2 (ships calling) and Annex
3.3 (sea freight). As indicated in Chapter VI port traffic increased
rapidly in the late 1970's as a result primarily of rapidly expanding tour-
ism and its effects on the construction industry. Throughout the last de-
cade a continuous growth in containerization has taken place. Of the main
trade routes -- Europe, South Africa and the Far East - representing 85%
of general cargo trade, containerization from Europe has reached 60Z and
the other two are now following the same trend through new containerized
services. Seychelles is geographically well placed for brief calls en
route between the Far East and South Africa and between Europe and Reunion-
Mauritius. This ensures frequent calls despite the sm11 trade of the is-
lands. The disadvantage is that the port is unable to accommodate very
large vessels. Compared to a relative stagnation of the dry cargo trade,
fuel imports are showing a tendency to increase rapidly as result of in-
creased bunkering of ocean fishing vessels and increased deliveries of
aviation fuels as the tourism trade revives. After a low of some 44,500
tons in 1981 the bulk oil demand in 1989 is expected to be about 106,000
tons/year compared to 107,000 tons for general cargo imports, depending on
different scenarios for the Seychelles development. Thus, the initial 6.5%
yearly growth for petroleum products and 4% yearly growth for general car-
go, based on population, tourism arrivals, industrial production and GDP
projections, would taper off to 2% (Annex 3.4).



- 11 -
IV. The Road Subsector
A. The Road Network
4.01      The Seychelles has a total of 257 km of motorable roads and
streets, of which 192 km are on Mahe, 49 km on Praslin and 16 km on La
Digue.  Out of the 257 km, 152 km are paved, while the balance, 105 km, are
improved earth roads.
4.02      The largest island, Mahe, has an area of 148 square kilometers.
It is approximately 27 km long from north to south and varies in width from
3 to 8 km east to west. The island is made of granitic and coralline mass,
with peaks rising te over 900 meters above mean sea level. Except for a
few flat sections along the shores and reclaimed land area, the existing
roads traverse the sharp slopes along the shores or cross the islands east
to west over the mountainous terrain. Because of the topography of the is-
lands, the roads have sharp winding and reverse S-curves, limited sight
distance and steep grades.
4.03      The roads were improved to their present standard from footpaths
or mule tracks without the use of specif.c engineering standards and con-
struction methods. Retaining walls, sea walls, roadside headwalls and
paved ditches are prevalent. The type of construction and the high rain-
fall conditions contribute significantly to network maintenance costs. The
low maintenance funds allocation and poor management of the recently
established system of contract maintenance are the main reasons for the
poor condition of the existing roads.  The network serves the densely popu-
lated coastal areas of the islands and has a density of 1 km of road per
1.73 sq. km or 1 km for 251 inhabitants, which is considered adequate for a
country whose economy is largely dependent on tourism and has limited agri-
cultural development. The present level of traffic volume and the pre-
dicted future traffic indicates that when the proposed program is imple-
mented, the existing roads will be able to cope with the demand for the
foreseeable future. Traffic on the road sections to be improved (Annex
4.1) increased substantially between 1978 and 1983/84. On the other hand
the vehicle fleet on Mahe has changed very little (Annex 1.4). Since
present vehicles can increase their yearly mileage considerably, traffic is
mostly dependent on population distribution and economic conditions on the
island. To give an indication of future traffic potential on the roads to
be improved a 3% yearly growth has been assumed.
B. Administration and Planning
4.04      The LTD was established in 1981 and is responsible for the
administration of the road network. LTD will have highway designs and
survey, traffic management and accounting sections (Annex 4.2) once it is
fuilly developed by 1985. At present, LTD operates only the highway
section, the remainder being the responsibility of other Government



- 12 -
agencies. The planned transfer of these functions to LTD will include the
major portion of staff from the agencies, thus little recruitment of new
staff will be needed. The Director, a civil engineer, and an American
Peace Corps engineer comprise the professional staff of LTD in addition to
three road technicians. Though the total road network is only 257 km,
there is need for at least four qualified and well-trained road
superintendents to cope with the field work. There is also a need to es-
tablish a small laboratory unit in LTD to carry out basic and frequently
needed road material testing. Road construction and maintenance are con-
tracted to WEL, a parastatal formed in 1981, Seychelles Concrete Production
(SCP), a contractor and a few other small local contractors. The demand is
within the existing local construction industry capacity which should be
able to cope with increased future workloads.
Road Network 1978-83 (km)
1978  1979  1980  1981  1982            1983            Total
Mabe Praslin La Digue
Surfaced      122   128   137   139   148   130       18       4       152
Unsurfaced     70    76    83    83   106    62       31      12       105
Total         192   204   220   222   254   192       49      16       257
C.  Highway Financing and Road User Charges
4.05      As indicated in Annex 1.5, direct income from roads users, such
as license fees, does not adequately cover the costs of road maintenance.
Nevertheless, duties for fuel and motor vehicles will exceed these costs.
In 1983 the customs duty on motor vehicles resulted in revenues of about SR
6.0 million and duty on vehicle gasoline and diesel oil totalled SR 28.0
million. The price structure for fuel for most of 1983 was as follows:
SR/Litre                    Gasoline (95 Octane)- Gas (Diesel) Oil
Base cost                            1.62                  1.60
Duty                                 2.53                  1.87
Market and Retail Margins             .49                   .28
Retail price                         4.64                  3.75
Retail price
(US$IUS gallon)                      2.68                  2.17



- 13 -
4.06      Government's policy is to discourage excessive consumption
through relatively heavy fuel taxation. Diesel prices, however, are lower
than parity prices would indicate, but Government parastatals are by far
the largest consumers of diesel fuel. A change in parity between gasoline
and diesel, therefore, would have very little effect on changes of
consumption.
D. Engineering and Construction
4.07      There are no national standards or records of design and con-
struction methods to permit assessment of the existing roads. Since 1976
two feasibility and engineering studies have been carried out by
consultants. One was limited to a short section of road and focused on
major horizontal and vertical realignment, requiring extremely high
construction costs and the demolition of several needed buildings, and as a
result, implementation was not found to be feasible. The second covered
all the existing roads and new road requirements, but information is
limited to a general visual assessment of the condition of the existing
roads. However, this study provides valuable material related to the need
to improve road standards through the introduction of road safety, parking
lots, footpaths, bustands and lay-bys.
4.08      LTD has no coordinated access to WEL's design and material test-
ing facilities to satisfy its needs routinely. The current organizational
structure limits LTD to a supervising and controlling agency since con-
struction and maintenance are carried out under contract.
4.09      Improvement in vertical and horizontal alignment of the existing
roads is restricted by the difficult topography and possibilities for major
improvements would be prohibitively expensive. Because of the relatively
low traffic volumes on the roads (Annex 4.1), both now and in the future,
the short length of roads, and short journey times, extensive alterations
to alignment and/or carriageway width would produce only marginal benefits.
to road users. Valuable improvements can be made, however, in both safety
and traffic management measures, which would reduce conflicts and simplify
the decisions that drivers are required to make. The proposed measures
would provide adequate provision of off-street parking areas and foot-
paths. Some 50% of the existing paved roads in urban areas with average
daily traffic (ADT) above 500 would warrant provision of varying degrees of
such improvement. The geology provides structurally sound subgrade
material for road construction and the existing roads are relatively
lightly loaded since the traffic is primarily composed of passenger cars
and 30-seat buses with a maximum gross weight of six tons. The subgrade
and base of the roads are well protected from water damage since the
pavement is paved from edge to edge and side ditches are either cut in rock
or paved.  Over time uncompacted sub-base material underneath the bitumen
surface has consolidated under traffic, leaving an irregular and deformed
pavement cross-section. Based on the detailed condition assessment, the
pavement distress will be corrected by applying a leveling course and a
thin layer of overlay to supplement the structural strength.



- 14 -
4.10      The manpower, equipment and facilities of WEL are mainly those
transferred to it from the previous Public Works Department and it has
retained the valuable technical and managerial experience and since
increased the parastatal's skill, efficiency and management. It has a well
developed organizational structure, staffing plan and operational policies
and procedures. The parastatal has four independent divisions, each
differing in area of operation and each financially accountable; these are
civil construction, supplies, building and plant, and mechanical services.
WEL has a capacity to carry out over 80% of road construction and
maintenance requirements in the country and recent paving work carried out
is judged to be of good quality. WEL has a 60 ton per hour capacity hot
mix asphalt batch plant in almost new condition suitable for all paving
work in the country. The fully automatic asphalt concrete paver of WEL
needs repair to provide continuous and good quality of finished work. The
second largest construction capacity is that of SCP. SCP specializes in
the production of crushed stone, concrete blocks and concrete slabs. This
contractor has a modern electrically operated and fully automatic 60 ton
per hour capacity crushing plant. The production capacity fully meets
demand. In addition, there are small contractors engaged in more labor
oriented type of work such as retaining walls, headwalls, seawalls, paved
ditches and footpath repair.
E. Maintenance, Strengthening and Rehabilitation
4.11      The present organization of LTD has the advantage of reducing
overhead cost and avoiding retention of surplus manpower, which is common
in most highway organizations which operate force accounts, and inefficient
use of materials and equipment.  However, carrying out maintenance work by
contract still requires a few qualified highway staff to plan and program
maintenance work. It also requires specifying quality standards for each
activity and the quality of supervision has to be of high caliber.
Specifications and contract documents need to be detailed, complete and
clear to avoid problems which might arise between LTD and contractors.
Unfortunately, this is not achieved. The budget appropriation of SR 2.6
million was increased to SR 5.7 million in 1983, and decreased to SR 4.0 in
1984; this low allocation, (see Annex 1.5), coupled with poor management
and deferred maintenance, failed to provide adequate levels of
maintenance. Maintenance by contract should be encouraged and supported
since in the long run the system will provide better results towards
achieving acceptable levels of road maintenance.
4.12      In the program period from 1985 to 1988, requirements for the
existing road network are estimated at SR 75.85 million out of which SR
24.3 million is for road maintenance, including LTD's administrative
expenditures (an increase of 50% over 1984) and SR 51.55 for road
strengthening/rehabilitation, technical assistance and training. This
maintenance allocation would cover annual periodic maintenance for about 28
km of paved and 20 km of improved earth road. The level of the maintenance
effort is based on the review of the detailed inventory and field
inspection of about 80% of the roads. Reduced maintenance, due to the
rehabilitation of the 52.7 km (35% of paved roads), is taken into account
in determining the maintenance workload.



- 15 -
F. Road Maintenance, Strengthening and Rehabilitation Program (1985-88)
4.13      The 1982-86 NDP makes a provision for construction, improvement,
rehabilitation and integrated efforts to introduce adequate maintenance for
roads. The NDP estimates the investment required for roads at SR 152.5
million. The allocation consists of (a) SR 69.0 million for construction
of an east coast offshore road from Victoria to the airport, (b) SR 22.5
million for new roads construction mostly to potential agricultural areas,
and (c) SR 61.0 million for existing roads rehabilitation and maintenance.
The plan has received modest multilateral and bilateral financial
assistance, amounting to SR 15.0 million during 1983-84 period for existing
roads upgrading, strengthening and periodic maintenance from Abu Dhabi,
OPEC and the USA. The east coast offshore road construction and new roads
to potential agricultural areas have not been realized up to now, primarily
due to low priority of these roads. From the studies undertaken since the
plan was initiated and discussions during appraisal, Government has
recognized that the priority of maintenance, strengthening and improvement
of the existing roads exceeds that of new construction for a long period to
come. In line with the Government's agreed priority to protect the
investment made on existing roads, the 1985-88 (four years) road
maintenance and rehabilitation program was developed and comprises: (see
Map IBRD 18259)
(a)  rehabilitation on 52.7 km of main roads on Mahe, including
drainage structures and masonry components of the roads;
(b)  resealing of 112 km of paved roads;
Cc)  pit-run select material resurfacing of 80 km of improved earth
roads;
-d)  consultancy services for supervision of civil works and develop-
ment of a maintenance management system and quality control
capability;
(e)  training abroad of at least five LTD staff on road maintenance
and materials testing (Annex 5.6);
(f)  provision of a materials testing laboratory;
tg)  provision for annual periodic and routine maintenance for the 152
km paved and 105 km improved earth roads.
4.14      The cost for the proposed rehabilitation, and maintenance
program, administrative expenditures, technical assistance and training
abroad is estimated at SR 75.85 million (Annex 4.3), of which SR 41.12
million (57%) is for rehabilitation. The size of this investment is
considered reasonable.  The allocation of SR 41.12 million for 52.7 km of



- 16 -
strengthening/rehabilitation amounts to an equivalent average of
US$107,000/km, which is an acceptable cost, considering that existing
pavement would only require levelling course and thin layer hot mix asphalt
overlays. An annual length of 28 km resealing work is included in the
program at SR 80,400/km totalling SR 9.0 million, and 20 km select material
resurfacing of improved earth roads at SR 33,500/km totalling SR 2.68
million over the program period. The resealing program would be adequate,
since 52.7 km (35%) of the paved roads would be strengthened/rehabilitated
during the program period. Routine maintenance per km per year expenditure
is estimated at an average of SR 8,700 for paved roads and SR 4,690 for
improved eartb roads. The allocation for routine maintenance, although it
appears to be rather high compared with the strengthening/rehabilitation
and resealing program, would be needed for the repair and maintenance of
the extensive masonry structures which occur on all of the existing paved
roads.
4.15      The administrative budget for LTD in its functions related to
roads is estimated at SR 1.10 million a year, which is 6% of the total
program cost, or 12.5% of the maintenance expenditure and is comparatively
lower than most developing countries' highway organizations, thus justify-
ing the organizational management adopted in the Seychelles in the road
subsector.
4.16      The cost of the program is summarized in Annex 4.3.  The Govern-
ment would be financing 63.2% of the strengthening/rehabilitation,
administrative and recurrent maintenance expenditure. Bank financing would
be 60% of the rehabilitation cost, or 36.8% of the total program cost.
Bilateral financing forthcoming for material testing laboratory equipment
and a detailed engineering study for roads to be rehabilitated are not
included in the program cost, since such financing is expected to be on a
grant basis and totally disbursed before actual start of the implementation
of the program.



- 17 -
V. The Project
A. Project Objectives and Composition
5.01      The primary objective of this transport project is to improve the
capacity and quality of key parts of the transport system. The project
also focuses on greater financial autonomy and the institutional needs of
the agencies involved. Thus, there are two separate project components for
the commercial port and the road network on Mahe island to be considered:
Commercial port:
To provide adequate capacity for handling the anticipated growth
of containerized cargo, petroleum products and LPG for at least ten years,
the project includes the dredging of the entrance channel and ship turning
basin, the rehabilitation of all of the port cargo handling areas and the
construction of a products discharge terminal. The project will also
ensure the establishment of a more realistic tariff structure through
evaluation of the actual costs of providing the services supplied;
Road component:
To strengthen the maintenance management system and road materi-
als testing capability of LTD through the provision of consultant's ser-
vices including on-the-job training of LTD's staff for the implementation
of a system to attain an adequate level of maintenance. The existing road
network will be improved through the strengthening/rehabilitation of
deteriorated sections of the roads to provide an adequate standard for road
users and ensure reduced vehicle operating costs.
5.02      The scope of the commercial port project component has been de-
rived from the feasibility studies carried out by consultants (see Annex
8) and financed by the Bank under the Project Preparation Facility followed
by detailed engineering carried out by consultants financed by the
Norwegian Export Council (NEC). The feasibility study was issued in April
1982. Consultants commenced work on the detailed engineering in September
1983 and issued a comprehensive report on the proposed project with
detailed estimates of civil works costs in March 1984. The costs presented
in this report are based on this work. The scope of the road
rehabilitation component has been derived from the work of the LTD staff
assisted by consultants for the detailed engineering and preparation of
estimates and tender documents.
B. Project Description
5.03      The commercial port component will comprise: (See Map No. IBRD
18260).



- 18 -
a)   The dredging of parts of the port entrance channel and turning
basin
i) Dredging of parts of the existing entrance channel to a depth
of not less than 12.5m below chart datum to provide a new
minimum width of 225m.
ii)  Dredging of the turning basin off the existing berths and
future berth extensions to a depth of not less than 12.5im to
enable vessels to be turned easily under all weather condi-
tions without hazard.
iii)  The material resulting from this work - 500,000 cubic metres
of coral materials - will be placed ashore adjacent to the
commercial port area for future port expansion and light in-
dustrial development. The formation of rock fill bunds and
the slope protection required is included as part of the
dredging work.
b) Resurfacing, port workshops and services
i)   The laying of about 7,OCO sq.m of rectangular concrete block
paving and about 12,000 sq.m of asphalt paving to provide
modern access, handling and storage areas for both container
traffic and general cargo.
ii)   The construction of a new port workshop including some new
equipment.
iii)   The services associated with (i) and (ii), i.e. drainage
works, electrical works including improved floodlighting and
reefer outlets, etc.
c) Reconstruction of part of the existing berths
i)   The existing berths contain a 'set-back' in the berth face
line. This will be filled in using steel piles and a con-
crete deck as per the original structure.
ii)   Part of the concrete deck structure of the berths, particu-
larly the beams, has deteriorated and will be rehabilitated.
d) The construction of a petroleum/cement products discharge
terminal
i)   At appraisal it had been agreed to provide a minimum cost
facility which would have consisted of a simple dolphin berth
with a central manifold structure. However, following
receipt of the bids for the civil works it appeared that it
would be possible to extend the existing type of quay
construction for only a small increase in cost over the
dolphin berth. The Government requested the AfDB who are
financing it to change the concept since this would
effectively increase the capacity of the general port when
the bulk terminal was not in use. The AfDB agreed to the
proposal.



- 19 -
e) Consulting services
i) feasibility study (financed under the Project Preparation
Facility)
ii) Site supervision team for the civil works.
iii) Studies of new accounting and financial systems for PMSD.
5.04      The road rehabilitation and maintenance management system compo-
nent wiil comprise: (See Map No. IBRD 18259).
a)   Consulting services
i) the establishment of a maintenance management system and road
materials testing unit through the appointment of a suitable
firm of consultants (Annex 5.4)
ii) for project supervision.
b)   Road strengthening/rehabilitation by contract
Patching, leveling, hot mix overlay and civil works
strengthening/rehabilitation of culverts, bridges, seawalls and
other associated items on 13 short sections of existing paved
roads on the island of Mahe totalling 52.7 km will be carried out
in the four year programme as follows:
i) FY 85 - Three sections; 11.8 km total
ii) FY 86 - Three sections; 11.9 km total
Mi) FY 87 - Four sections; 15.2 km total
iv) FY 88 - Three sections; 13.8 km total
c) Overseas training of LTD's staff
i)   The overseas training of four of LTD's road superintendents
and one civil engineer in road maintenance planning,
programming, costing and quality control (Annex 5.6).
C. Technical Evaluation
5.05      The principal considerations taken into account in the technical
evaluation of the project were:
i)  the dredging work for the commercial poLt improvements and
for the fishing port development (financed by other donors)
will be undertaken as a single contract. The site investiga-
tion for the dredging works included a detailed hydrographic
survey and a programme of borings and laboratory testing
which is considered adequate. The results show that the
materials to be dredged consist of:



- 20 -
Very hard to hard massive coral       5%
Medium hard massive coral            10%
Dense or soft cemented coral        30%
Loose coral, coral sands, silts    55%
The work is considered to be suitable for a cutter-suction
dredge of about 2,000 tons displacement with at least 900 kw
on the cutter and 4,500 kw on the main pump;
ii) the provision of adequate bunds to retain the dredged
material and to avoid excessive volumes of fine material to
be dispersed in the open coastal reef areas which could
damage coral structures.
iiij -:he provision of adequate slope protection for the more
exposed parts of the lands being reclaimed. In general, the
slope protection will take the form of plastic filter cloths
and quarried rock protection;
iv) the problems of turning vessels within the inner port basin
during the NW and SE monsoon seasons with the use of the port
tug;
v) the possible use of a conventional buoy mooring system for
discharging petroleum vessels in lieu of providing a shore
discharge terminal. This solution, although possible, was
abandoned in view of the increased operating costs due to
slow discharge rates, vessel demurrage costs, increased main-
tenance costs and the inability to discharge LPG in bulk.
vi) the type of concrete block paving to be provided in the com-
mercial port areas for container stacking and handling and
also for general cargo storage;
vii) the draft requirements for the entrance channels and the port
turning basin. The figure finally selected is based primari-
ly on the needs of the petroleum vessels discharging in the
port.
D. Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
5.06      The total project costs (excluding the fishing port development)
are estimated at about US$16.7 million equivalent including contingencies.
Foreign exchange costs are estimated at about US$12.9 million equivalent or
about 77% of total project costs. Details of the cost estimates are
summarized below:



- 21 -
SEYCHELLES TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
% of
Local Foreign Total    Local Foreign Total    Base
-million SR's-          -   million US$ -       Cost
A.  Road Rehabilitation
Civil works                       11.5   17.3   28.8       1.6   2.4    4.0       29%
Engineering and supervision        0.7    1.5    2.2       0.1   0.2    0.3       3%
Training program                   0.1    0.6    0.7       0.0   0.1    0.1       1%
Technical assistance               0.2    1.3    1.5       0.0   0.2    0.2       2Z
Subtotal                          12.5   20.7   33.2       1.7   2.9    4.6      35%
B.  Commercial Port
Dredging and reclamat.on           0.5    9.8   10.3       0.1   1.3    1.4      10%
Petroleum discharge facility       5.2   20.8   26.0       0.7   2.8    3.5      27%
Resurfacing and workshops          2.6   10.4   13.0       0.4   1.4    1.8      14%
Berth repairs                      0.6    2.4    3.0       0.1   0.3    0.4       3Z
Feasibility study, engineering   0.0    8.1    8.1         0.0   1.1    1.1       8%
and supervision
Financial management               0.0    0.7    0.7       0.0   0.1    0.1       1%
studies
Subtotal                           8.9   52.2   61.1       1.3   7.0    8.3      63%
C.  Project Coordinator Engineer              1.5    1.5       0.0   0.2    0.2       2%
BASE COST                             21.4   74.4   95.8       3.0  10.1   13.1    100%
Physical contingeTLcies            2.1    7.4    9.5       0.3   1.0    1.3
Price contingencies                3.9   13.4   17.3       0.5   1.8    2.3
Total contingencies                6.0   20.8   26.8       0.8   2.8    3.6
TOTAL PROJECT COST                27.4   95.2  122.6       3.8  12.9   16.7



- 22 -
5.07      The commercial port civil works and dredging costs are derived
from the preliminary evaluation of the tenders received on the 12th
November 1984. The project seemed to attract many contractors from a wide
range of countries and the bidding response was high. Generally the lowest
tenders were lower than the consultants estimates had been for the dredging
but a little higher in the case of the civil works. Provision for
contingencies has been included (a) physical variation in dredging at 20%;
general civil works 8% and paving works at 15Z; (b) annual price escalation
on foreign and local costs at 3.5% for 1984; 8.0% for 1985; and 9.0% for
1986 and 1987.
5.08      The cost estimates for the road rehabilitation works have been
provided through LTD who were assisted by engineering consultants in their
preparation. They are considered to be realistic estimates of the costs of
the works proposed at September 1984 prices. A physical price contingency
of 10% has been included. Annual price escalation is based on the same
rates as for the commercial port.
5.09      The Government held a co-financers meeting for the commercial
port, road rehabilitation and fishing port developments toward the end of
the appraisal mission period which was attended by AfDB, KF, BADEA,
Belgium, UK and USA. At this meeting the financing of the complete project
was assured, and the partitioning of the various project components among
the co-financers was made on the basis of the consultants' estimates of
cost. The Government invited the Bank to jointly finance with AfDB the
project investments in the commercial port, while the road rehabilitation
component would be supported by the Bank. The whole of the investment in
the fishing port development will be financed jointly by KF, BADEA and an
on--going AfDB programme. Norway, through tha NEC, will continue to finance
the consultant for civil works supervision ard carrying out detailed
engineering for the road components and finaicial studies. A summary of
the financing plan for the proposed Bank transport project is given below:



- 23 -
FINANCING PLAN
Local    Foreign    Total
million US$
A. ROAD REHABILITATION
Bank                                         0.0         3.9      3.9
Government                                   2.3         0.0      2.3
2.3        3.9      6.2
B. COMMERCIAL PORT
AfDB                                         0.0         5.8      5.8
Norway                                       0.0         0.9      0.9
Bank                                         0.0         2.1      2.1
Government                                   1.5         0.0      1.5
1.5        8.8     10.3
C. Project Coordinator
Bank                                         0.0         0.2      0.2
Total Project Costs                          3.8        12.9     16.7
E. Procurement and Disbursement
5.10      Contracts for the dredging and commercial port civil works will
be awarded on the basis of International competitive tendering and the pre-
qualification of tenderers in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. The
dredging work for the commercial port, fishing port, approach channel and
turning circle was tendered as a single contract. The Bank will finance
only the aspects applicable to the commercial port derived from the
detailed bills of quantities. Mobilization and demobilization costs will
be divided in the ratio of fishing port costs to commercial port costs.
The road rehabilitation civil works (estimated to total US$5.2 million)
will be carried out through local competitive tendering since (i) the
nature and size of the works are unlikely to attract foreign contractors;
and (ii) the local construction capacity is adequate in both size and
quality to carry out the project without difficulty. To increase
efficiency and improve cost effectiveness, the work will be packaged into
elements of pavement structures, crushed stone production and haulage to
enable tenderers to employ their particular specialization and expertise
(see table on Procurement Methods, Annex 5.3).



- 24 -
5.11      Consultants for the detailed engineering, ICB tender procedures
and for supervision of the civil works for the commercial port and the
preparation of detailed cost estimates for the road rehabilitation
components have been retained by the Government and are being financed by
Norway on a grant basis. These consultants and their terms of reference
are acceptable to the Bank. Consultants for the studies and institution
building components will be retained in accordance with Bank guidelines
with price being considered in evaluating proposals.
5.12      The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed as follows:
95X of total expenditures on port civil works
60% of total expenditures on roads civil works
80% of total expenditures on consulting services
100% of overseas training, studies and technical assistance
costs.
5.13      Annex 5.1 provides the estimated schedule of disbursements based
on the above proposals and the implementation program (Annex 5.2). As the
execution of the project is expected to be completed by the end of December
1987, the proposed closing date for the project is June 1988. The proposed
disbursement schedule is not based on typical profiles for the region and
sector in view of the advanced state of preparation, Government's commit-
ment towards this project and the relatively simple nature of the project
works.  Also a revolving fund will established.  In a Special Account an
allocation of loan funds of US$500,000 will be made to finance items such
as payments to small contractors.
5.14      The port civil works contracts will be divided into quay
construction and paving works and services and also split between the
fishing and commercial ports. Tenderers were advised that they could
tender for one or any combination of the lots and also that they could
submit priced variations. This facilitates the split among the various
co-financers as well as seeking the lowest possible tenders. In the
preparation of the tender documents care has been taken to ensure that the
fishing and commercial ports are kept as fully operational as possible
during the implementation of the project.
F. Project Implementation
5.15      Overall implementation of the proposed project will be the
responsibility of the MPER. However, MPER will rely on the services of
consultants for the supervision of the civil works and dredging. These
consultants have been responsible for the detailed engineering and
preparation for ICB and will continue through construction to be the MPER's
lead consultants. They are financed by the NEC. For the road
strengthening/rehabilitation component, the LTD will be responsible
assisted by consultants for civil works supervision and for the



- 25 -
establishment of a maintenance management system. The studies to be
undertaken for the commercial port and the consultants, technical
assistance and training programme for the LTD will be provided through
consultants to be recruited under the proposed project.
5.16      The MPER have set up a small unit within the ministry, headed by
a civil engineer, to be responsible for project management. He will be
supported by an experienced project manager to be recruited and financed
under the project; his terms of reference and qualifications were agreed at
negotiations (Annex 5.7).
5.17      Implementation of the complete project is expected to be comr-
pleted by end-December 1988. For the port component, the dredging work
will be the first item of physical implementation and excluding
mobilization this work is expected to be completed in four months. During
execution of the project the Government shall consult with the Bank before
any investment in excess of the equivalent of $4.0 million is made in the
facilities of the Port of Victoria on the economic viability of any such
investment.
5.18      For the road rehabilitation component, implementation has been
spread from FY 1985 to 1988 mainly to reduce traffic restrictions. In ad-
dition, annual priorities will be based on the actual conditions of the
different sections of road. The technical assistance to LTD consists of 55
man months to be spread over a period of four years. This is made up of 36
man months for civil works supervision and 19 man months in the first two
years for the setting up of the maintenance management system and on-the-
job training of LTD's staff and also for accounting, costing and materials
testing specialists to be provided (TOR - Annex 5.4).
G. Project Monitoring
5.19      For purposes of monitoring the project during implementation the
following specific items were reviewed with the MPER during negotiations
and included as part of the quarterly reports required (Annex 5.5):
i)  progress of civil works with cost data;
ii) progress with the recruitment and work of consultants for
technical assistance, training and studies;
iii) PMSD's financial performance (operating ratios, cash flow re-
quirements and overall operations);
iv) LTD's institution building progress, training, road mainte-
nance management system and overall performance;
v)  UNCTAD system port performance data for the commercial port
(berth occupancy, waiting time, productivity, equipment
availability);
vi) ULC's financial performance;



- 26 -
5.20      The Government, through MPER, will be asked to prepare a project
completion report within six months of the closing date of the project.
This was agreed at negotiations.
H. Environmental Impact
5.21      The major concern of this project with regard to the environment
is the dredging works and the resulting impact on the coral formations in
and around the port entrance channel and turning basin. The risk
associated with this type of work is that dense clouds of suspended fine
particle matter resulting from the dredging and, more particularly, the
reclamation work will obscure the coral from essential light and lead to
destruction.  However, in this case, the dredging and reclamation
operations are only expected to last for about four months and careful
precautions are built into the tender documents concerning the control and
formation of the bunds to retain the dredged material and the discharge of
the run-off water. Furthermore, recent experience with the previous
dredging and reclamation works undertaken in the port and also at the
airport has shown that little, if any, permanent damage to the coral
occurred. Thus this potential problem is not considered to be serious.
5.22      The increase in vessel bunkering activities as a result of the
development of the fishery sector increases the likelihood of a fuel spil-
lage occurring but since the vessels use white oils and the port has equip-
ment to combat fuel spills this is not considered to be a problem.
5.23      The construction of the new inter-island transport quay removes a
present environmental hazard from the fishing port. At present, with the
inter-island traffic of goods, live anlmals and passengers passing through
the fishing port, there is a serious potential problem of fish contamina-
tion. Similarly, the construction under the overall program of a berth for
reefer vessels in the fishing port avoids the need to transfer frozen fish
by truck from the fishing port to the commercial port for export thus
increasing the quality and reducing the risk of spoilage.
5.24      The petroleum products discharge terminal included in the project
will enable LPG to be imported in bulk as against the importation of filled
gas cylinders at present. The impact of bulk LPG Imports will be to reduce
the price of LPG to the general public making it competitive with kerosene
for cooking and lighting and avoiding the hazardous handling of large num-
bers of gas cylinders on the quayside.
I. Institution-building
5.25      As indicated earlier (para. 4.il-4.12) both technical assistance
and training will be provided, particularly for the management of the road
subsector. In addition, studies for new accounting and financial systems
for the port subsector (PMSD) have been provided for (para. 7.04). With
this assistance, it is expected that key areas of weakness in an otherwise
reasonably well-managed sector will significantly improve. This will
enhance the effects of the infrastructure improvements proceeding
concurrently.



- 27 -
VI.  EOONOKIC EVALUATION
A. General
6.01      The proposed project covers investment in the commercial port and
road rehabilitation.
B. Commercial Port
6.02      As a result of a decline in tourism after a very rapid develop-
ment in the 1970s port traffic has levelled off at 170,000-190,000 tons
in the last five years compared to about 120,000 tons in the 1973-1977
period. Thus with continued containerization the port currently does not
have a serious capac'ty constraint even though the present deepwater berth
can only accommodate one large ship at a time. As result of the con-
siderable increase in petroleum imports for re-export as bunker fuel, par-
ticularly for fishing vessels, the need to accommodate a mix of larger
ships in the port will become more pressing. A new bulk petroleum products
discharge terminal would significantly reduce costs of imported fuel and
make bunkering more competitive for foreign ships. Further
containerization will also need some limited investment in the port as well
as some dredging to allow safe handling of relatively long
container-ships. Berth occupancy and need for depth of water cannot easily
be separated in a multipurpose port between dry cargo and bulk oil. The
benefits of the port improvements have therefore been combined for
different types of cargo in the commercial port of Victoria.
6.03      For the commercial port a separation needs to be made of the
benefits of improvements to the immediate user and those which accrue
directly to the Seychelles economy. For the user i.e. ship or cargo owner,
the direct effects of proposed port improvements are a reduction in ship's
waiting times, safer and more rapid docking of larger and more cost
effective ships, more rapid turn-around of both ships and cargo, and a
reduction of some of the cargo losses due to improved cargo handling. All
these factors eventually result in reduced import costs and more
competitive exports. Concerning direct effects on the Seychelles economy
some will derive from a direct reduction of freight charges. A reduction
in the cost of petroleum and LPG imports are in this category, since a
surcharge for 'second port discharge' can be avoided or, as in case of LPG,
imports in bulk would be possible. More details concerning the evaluated
benefits are given in Annex 6.1.
6.04      For ship waiting times, it is assumed that half the savings to
the shipowner would be passed on to the Seychelles. For bulk cargoes a
reduction of time in port normally entitles the shipper to a reduction of
half the daily rate. For other cargo a similar effect is achieved by
freight surcharges for a congested port. Because of the very competitive
nature of international shipping these responses are almost immediate. The
effects of savings by larger ships for dry cargo and through further
containerization are slower and more complex.



- 28 -
C. Road Rehabilitation
6.05      The island of Mahe has a relatively dense road network, much of
which is paved or with some form of surface treatment. This is needed
because of the high rainfall on the island. A most urgent priority is the
rehabilitation of this network.  As part of a continuing plan for this work
the government has identified works for the next four-year period of which
52.7 km over 13 sections have been proposed for Bank financing. Spreading
the works over three-four years is required to avoid excessive traffic
disruption. The main advantage to the Seychellois economy is the reduction
in vehicle operating costs and excessive road maintenance caused by
presently deteriorated road surfaces. The vehicle maintenance costs and
wear of tires are the primary areas affected by the road rehabilitation,
much of which will also have a direct effect on imports of spare parts.
D. Economic Returns and Sensitivity Analysis
6.06      For the commercial port the main benefits derive from savings in
import costs for petroleum and LPG and from a reduction in ships' waiting
times (Annex 6.1). For the road rehabilitation the principal quantified
benefits are a reduction in vehicle operating costs and road maintenance
costs. No time or savings due to 8 reduction in accidents have been
included. The road improvement will clearly result in a significant
accident reduction but a direct cause and effect relationship cannot be
established for specific road sections.  This, however, means that the
returns for this part of the project are conservatively estimated. Neither
the port nor the road parts of the project are expected to generate any
traffic simply because of the project. Adjustments for indirect taxes and
duties have been made and for unskilled labor in port operations financial
costs have been reduced by 50%. These adjustments have very limited impact
on the cost and benefit estimates of the project.
6.07      For the Victoria commercial port investment the best estimate
economic return was 15% and for the road rehabilitation 23%. For specific
road sections the returns vary from 13% to 47% primarily depending on
traffic density. The details for the port project are shown in Annex 6.2
and for the road sections in Annex 6.3. Sensitivity tests have also been
carried out (Annex 6.4) showing for the project components the ERR remains
above the opportunity cost of capital (12%) in almost all cases. First
year returns are also satisfactory. The overall return for the
Bank-financed project is 18Z.



- 29 -
E. Beneficiaries
6.08      For the commercial port the immediate beneficiaries are the ship-
and cargo-owners. A transfer from ship-owners to the Government will take
place in the form of increased port charges, particularly related to im-
proved deep water access. Ships' waiting time savings will normally be re-
flected in lower freight rates and/or in the form of so-called dispatch
moneyl/ at half the rate of ships demurrage charges. The Government
through its ownership of a substantial vehicle fleet will also benefit
through reduced fuel import costs.
6.09      Concerning the road improvements the Government will also benefit
through future reduction in road maintenance expense and for vehicle
operating expense reduction because of its ownership of heavy vehicles
(trucks and buses) through WEL and SPTC. Indirectly the tourism industry
will be assisted through the reduction in vehicle costs and accidents. The
major part of vehicle operating cost savings, nevertheless accrues to
private vehicle owners.
F. Risks
6.10      The project has been designed to reduce risks associated with
implementation as much as possible. The Bank-financed project also gives
considerable flexibility for adaptation to changed circumstances. Since
the port already is capable of receiving most ships, a change in the dredg-
ing program, if required, would have limited adverse effects. Similarly
the road rehabilitation which is spread over a four-year time span can
easily be adapted without serious loss of benefits. Local costs financing
is reasonably well assured through internal tax flow in the case of the
port and for the roads by local currency payments from the U.S. Government
for the satellite station. No particular technical problems are foreseen
other than usual risks associated with a dredging contract in a remote
location. Recent world-wide experience indicates that this industry at
present has a surplus capacity.
6.11      The port project is planned to proceed concurrently with the
development of the fishing port. In the unlikely event the fishing port
project does not proceed as anticipated the effects on the commercial port
would be relatively limited. Increased ship delays would improve the
viability of additional fuel berth construction. A possible reduction of
demand for bunker fuel for fishing boats would reduce the benefits related
to fuel imports. The net effect of these offsetting results is difficult
to judge but should fall within the sensitivity tests carried out.
l/Compensation from shipowner to shipper for more rapid loading and
discharging of ships.



- 30 -
VII. FINCUIAL EVALUITION
A. Operating Performance
Port of Victoria
7.01      The PMSD's operating statements for 1979-83 are presented in
Annexes 7.1 - 7.4 and 7.9 and su-marized below:
Table 7.1 - PMSD - Operating Statements
1979      1980      1981       1982      1983
-- ------thousand SR's---------
Port Revenue                 14,984    18,553    10,744      9,410     9,962
Port Expenses                10,852    12,928      7,855     8,164     7,539
Operating Result              4,132     5,625      2,889     1,246     2,423
Depreciation                  3,258     3,676      3,703     3,813     4,402
Net Operating Result            874     1,949       (814)   (2,567)   (1,979)
Working Ratio                 72.4%     69.7%      73.1%     86.8%     75.7%
Operating Ratio               94.2%     89.52    107.6Z    127.3%    119.9%
7.02      Because PMSD is part of Government, it only accounts for cash
receipts and expenditures and it does not match revenues and expenses on an
accrual basis as is the practice for commercial revenue earning entities.
The above operating statements were prepared by the appraisal mission based
on PMSD's accounts and consultant's estimates of current and historical
fixed assets values. These statements show that the port of Victoria had
operating cash surpluses from 1979 through 1983, though operating results
deteriorated in absolute as well as relative terms over the five-year
period. The operating result decreased from SR4.1 million in 1979 to SR2.4
million in 1983, while the working ratio increased from 72% in 1979 to 76%
in 1983. If estimated depreciation charges are added to operating
expenses, the deterioration is yet more apparent. A net operating result
of SRO.9 million and operating ratio of 94% in 1979 gradually deteriorated
into a loss of SR2.0 million and a 120% operating ratio in 1983. In 1979,
the port earned a net cash surplus exceeding depreciation by about 27%. In
1983, net cash surplus was about 45% lower than depreciation.
7.03      In 1981, the port had a net operating loss of SR 0.8 million as
compared with a positive net operating result of SR 1.9 million in 1980.
There are essentially two reasons for this change. First and foremost ULC,
which was nationalized in 1980, took over from PMSD the collection of cer-
tain freight related charges without adequately compensating PMSD for the



- 31 -
use of port facilities. Second, there was a drop in traffic and number of
ships calling at Port Victoria due to the domestic and international econo-
mic slowdown.
7.04      This development points out two weaknesses in PMSD management,
which is otherwise efficient and cost effective: the lack of analytical
cost accounting and information systems enabling management to establish
the real cost of each port service, and inadequate Government pricing
policies which do not allow PMSD to determine the level and structure of
port charges and adjust them periodically according to objective
criteria. The Department of Transport sets port tariffs and charges in
consultation with the Treasury, while ULC's charges are set by its Board of
Directors. Government recognizes the need to introduce adequate port
costing and pricing systems, strengthen PMSD financial management, and
train further its accounting staff. Government agreed to employ
consultants to assist PMSD to carry out this task (para. 7.27). At
negotiations the Government informed the Bank that they had proposed the
consultants to carry out the study financed through the NEC grant. The
terms of reference (Annex 7.16) have been agreed with the Government.
ULC
7.05      ULC's annual income statements for 1978-1985 are presented in
Annex 7.5 and key operating ratios in Annex 7.6. An operating summary is
shown below:



- 32 -
Table 7.2 - ULC - Operating Summary
(thousand SR's)
1978 1/   1979    1980    1982 2/   1983       1984     1985
----        ----audited                        -est. budget-
Revenues                   2,053   11,676   14,173   19,024   17,662   22,750   22,703
Expenses 3/                1,668    8,224   10,045   12,023   11,729   16,075   14,952
Gross Profit                 385    3,452    4,128    7,001    5,933    6,675    7,751
Management fees                                 341    1,363       365       74       200
Auditors and Directors                          265        71      144      145       150
Operating Profit             385    3,452    3,522    5,567    5,424    6,456    7,401
Interest                                                  51        15                  6
Other Income (Expense)                          103       29      (125)     305       200
Net Income before tax        385    3,452    3,625    5,545    5,284    6,761    7,595
Income Tax                   160    1,250    1,493    1,890    1,747    2,878    2,855
Net Income after tax         225    2,202    2,132    3,655    3,537    3,883    4,740
Dividends                              540    3,418    3,000    2,900    2,000    2,900
Ratios:
Operating Profit Margin   18.8%    29.6%    24.9%    29.3%    30.7%    28.4%    32.6%
Return on Equity            6.0%    48.1%    42.7Z    74.7%    63.8%    57.1%    54.7Z
Return to Government        4.3%    39.1%   105.1%   127.8%    90.5%    72.8%    68.7%
1I Three months to December 31st
2/ 15 months to March 31st
_/ Includes depreciation
7.06      With its demonstrated ability to generate 25+ to 30+ profit for
each rupee it bills its customers, ULC has proved to be an excellent in-
vestment for its shareholder, the Government, which nationalized it in
1980. In fact, taking into account dividends, taxes, and management fees
but excluding upstream loans to ULC's parent of about SR3.8 million, the
Government's investment in ULC has paid back over four times in four years
as shown in the above ratio -Return to Government. ULC's profits are suf-
ficiently high to enable it to pay additional charges to the port with lit-
tle or no need to increase its customer charges. The following table shows
that, if ULC paid additional charges to enable PMSD to recover fully
depreciation expenses, ULC's operating profit margin would still be satis-
factory:



- 33 -
Table 7.3 - Adjustment in ULC Operating Profit Resulting from
Additional Port Charges
1982 1/     1983        1984
-----thousiia-SR' s--- -
Revenues                                      19,024      17,662       22,750
Reported Operating Profit                      5,567       5,424        6,456
Additional Port Charges                        1,347       2,668        2,331
Adjusted Operating Profit                      4,220       2,756        4,125
Reported Operating Profit Margin               29.3Z       30.7%        28.4%
Adjusted Operating Profit Margin               22.2X       15.6%        18.1%
1/ 15 months
7.07      Although the problem discussed above involves transfer pricing
between two Government institutions and does not affect consolidated
Government receipts from port users, its correct solution has practical im-
plications in two areas. First, if underpricing of port services to ULC
became more pronounced than it is now, ULC could undercharge its customers
and the Government might not fully recover the cost of port services.
Second and, most important, the false perception of windfall profits at ULC
might mislead the Government.
Consolidated Port Operations
7.08      Consolidated operating statements of PMSD and ULC are presented
in Annex 7.7 and 7.9 and summarized below.
Table 7.4 - PMSD-ULC- Consolidated Operating Summary
(thousand SR's)
1979      1980      1981       1982      1983
Revenues                      28,786    34,398    28,171    26,461    31,440
Working Expenses              21,219    25,006    18,869    18,605    21,752
Operating Result               7,567     9,392      9,302     7,856      9,688
Depreciation                   3,258     4,083      4,393     4,574      5,177
Net Result                     4,309     5,309      4,909     3,282      4,511
Working Ratio                  73.71     72.7%      67.0%     70.3%     69.2%
Operating Ratio                85.0%     84.6%      82.6%     87.6%     85.7%
Return on Net Assets            7.4%      8.5%       7.4%      4.6%       5.9%



- 34 -
7.09      The above summary shows a remarkable stability of consolidated
earnings of the Port and ULC from SR4.3 million in 1979 to SR4.5 million in
1983. Consolidated revenues rose 19% to SR34.4 million in 1980, largely as
a result of increased tariffs. They deteriorated in 1981 and 1982 because
of the economic recession and lover tourism inflow; and recovered in 1983
to the second highest level in the five-year period, reflecting more
aggressive pricing of ULC services despite a low rate (2.1%) of local
'nflation. The port and ULC controlled their costs effectively. Their
combined working ratio actually improved from 73.7% in 1979 to 69.2% in
1983. Combined return on net assets averaged 6.8%. Consolidated results
were quite stable. While these returns are more satisfactory than those
shown for the port alone, there is room for improvement. Government's long
term policy objective is to correct the imbalance between the relative
level of port and ULC revenue and to improve overall returns on revalued
net assets to about 10-14% as the new facilities under the project come on
stream enabling PMSD and ULC to provide better service to port users.
B. Financial Condition
Port of Victoria
7.10      As explained above, PMSD does not prepare balance sheets because
it follows Government accounting procedures unlike parastatal companies
which follow the same accounting practices as private companies. PMSD's
operating statements, however, distinguish between accrued and collected
income and between expenditures and commitments. Furthermore, the consult-
ants, who assisted the Government in preparing this project, have produced
a list of Port assets with their historical and current replacement value
(Annex 7.8). With this information, it has been possible to prepare an
estimated cash flow (Annex 7.9) and a pro-forma balance sheet at December
31, 1984 (Annex 7.10). Highlights of these estimates are presented below.
Table 7.5 - Port of Victoria - Pro-forma Balance Sheet
at December 31, 1984
(thousand SR's)
1984
Current Assets                                 1,398
Net Fixed Assets                              79,501
Total Assets                                  80,899
Current Liabilities                              855
Capital                                       80,044
Total Liabilities and Equity                  80,899
1980      1981       1982       1983
Net Cash to (from) Treasury            (2,593)    2,770    (6,117)   (3,187)



- 35 -
7.11      The above table shows that, taking into account capital invest-
ments, changes in market value of the port assets, and currency realign-
ments, the Seychelles Treasury has had a cumulative cash flow deficit of
about SR9.5 million in 1980-83. It owns assets valued at about SR 80
million free and clear of debt, but these valuable assets should generate
more cash. The assistance in accounting and financial management systems
in this project (para. 7.04) would allow PMSD to improve this situation.
ULC
7.12      ULC's balance sheets and funds statements for fiscal 1979 through
1985 are presented in Annexes 7.6, 7.11 - 7.13 and summarized below.
Table 7.6 - ULC Balance Sheets
(thousand SR's)
1979 1/ 1980 I/ 1982 2/ 1983 2/ 1984 2/ 1985 2/
Current Assets          NA       4,664    6,975    4,571    8,351    7,473
Net Fixed Assets         NA      1,670    2,892    2,848    2,950    3,404
Affiliates                         125      549    2,707    3,804    3,804
Total Assets             NA      6,459   10,416   10,126   15,105   14,681
Current Liabilities     NA       1,892    3,963    3,563    7,363    5,099
Loan                                      1,231       704
Equity Capital          5,425    4,567    5,222    5,859    7,742    9V582
Total Liabilities and
Equity                   NA      6,459   10,416   10,126   15,105   14,681
Cash Flow from
Operations             3,452    4,032    6,408    6,068    7,534    8,309
Ratios:
Quick Ratio                    1.79     1.51      1.06     1.04     1.27
Current Ratio                  2.46     1.76      1.28     1.13     1.47
Debt to Equity                  OX      19X       11Z      0        0%
1/ December 31st
2/ March 31st
7.13      ULC shows a very strong cash flow but liquidity, though
satisfactory, has been reduced by high dividends, upstream financing of
ULC's parent Seychelles National Investment Corporation (para. 3.16) and



- 36 -
lately slow receivables from other parastatal companies. Accounts
receivable at the end of fiscal 1984 were an estimated SR5.9 million or 26%
of sales, up from 11% at the end of fiscal 1983. Capitalization is strong
and the funds borrowed at the time of acquisition have been repaid.
Liquidity is expected to improve as the Government will take corrective
measures aimed to regulate cash transactions between ULC and its affiliates
(para. 7.27).
C. Financial Objectives
7.14      As discussed in the preceeding paragraphs, PMSD and ULC are
operating the port in a reasonably efficient way. Government's first
objective is to ensure that efficient operations continue. The second
objective is that the level and structure of the charges for the port and
ULC services allow the Government to recover all operating and capital
costs and earn a reasonable return on investment. The third objective is
to maintain a strong capitalization and adequate liquidity. This project
will help the Government achieve all three objectives. It will improve the
port's capacity to handle the anticipated growth of containerized cargo.
It will introduce financial and management information systems which will
enable PMSD to control costs further and to establish and periodically
revise a cost based tariff system. This will be accomplished with minimal
changes to the existing institutional and management set-up.  Finally,
protective financial covenants will be negotiated with the Government to
ensure adequate returns and prudent financial management (paras.
7.27-7.29).
D. Financial Forecasts - Assumptions
7.15      Financial forecasts have been prepared for the port and ULC.
Detailed assumptions for the forecasts are given in Annex 7.14. Essential-
ly, the forecasting assumptions are based on actual financial performance
coefficients, projected traffic and inflation, and the financial objectives
discussed above. No attempt has been made to revise the structure of port
charges or to allocate incremental charges to specific port services, be-
cause this will be done with the assistance of consultants when the costing
system has been completed. Overall revenues, however, have been projected
to gradually achieve a balance between satisfactory recovery of incremental
investment and operating costs and a reasonable overall return on revenues
and on revalued fixed assets.
E. Projected Operations
Port of Victoria
7.16      Projected operating statements of PMSD for 1984 through 1993 are
given in Annex 7.1. Projections of revenues are shown in Annex 7.2, and
expenses, in Annexes 7.3 - 7.4 and 7.9. Summary operating statements are
shown below:



- 37 -
Table 7.7 - PMSD - Projected Operating Summary
(thousand SR's)
1984     1985     1986      1987      1988
Existing Revenues             11,652    12,944   14,183   15,724   17,701
ULC Incremental Charges                  2,251    2,294    2,343    4,208
Project Related Charges                  1,314    4,467    7,533    8,760
Total Revenue                 11,652    16,509   20,944   25,600   30,669
Working Expenses               8,554     9,530   10,297   11,323   12,364
Operating Result               .3,098    6,979   10,647   14,277   18,305
Depreciation                   4,847     5,234    5,705    6,219    6,778
Net Operating Result          (1,749)    1,745    4,942    8,058   11,257
Interest Expense                         1,314    4,467    7,533    8,760
Net Income                    (1,749)      431       475      525    2,767
Ratios:
Working Ratio                73.4%     57.7%    49.2%    44.2%    40.3%
Operating Ratio             115.0%     89.4%    76.4%    68.5%    62.4%
Return on Net Assets         -2.2%      1.82      3.7%     4.8Z     6.2%
7.17      The above table shows that, by increasing PMSD charges to ULC to
cover fully depreciation expenses, and by increasing overall revenues by
50% in real terms between 1985 and 1989, the Port of Victoria will break-
even on an accrual basis between 1985 and 1987. The return on net revalued
fixed assets will gradually increase from 1.8% in 1985 to 6.2% in 1989. It
is projected to increase further to 8% by 1993. It should also be noted
that net income is shown after deducting interest calculated at 11% p.a. on
a loan covering the entire amount of project expenditures (para. 7.24).
This loan will only be an accounting convention because PMSD is part of the
Goverrment and cannot legally borrow from it. It is important, however,
that PMSD, as a separate accounting unit established under the project,
account for this loan for cost recovery purposes and to set adequate tariff
levels.



- 38 -
ULC
7.18      ULC's projected income statements for fiscal 1985-1994 are
presented in Annex 7.5 - 7.6 and summarized below:
Table 7.8 - ULC - Projected Income Highlights
(thousand SR's)
1986      1987       1988      1989      1990
Revenues                  25,072    28,278    33,087    38,974    43,047
Operating Profit           6,977      8,446    10,572    12,530    14,431
Net Income after tax       4,489     5,418      6,758      7,994     9,194
Operating Profit Margin    27.8       29.9       32.0      32.1       33.5
Net Profit Margin           17.9       19.2      20.4       20.5      21.4
The above table shows that, even after deducting incremental port
charges discussed above (para 7.06) and adjusting revenues and expenses by
projected inflation and traffic growth rates, ULC's operations would be
profitable.
PMSD and ULC Consolidated
7.19      Projected consolidated operations for 1984-1993 are presented in
Annex 7.7 and 7.9 and summarized below:
Table 7.9 - PMSD-ULC - Consolidated Summary Operating Statements
(thousand SR's)
1984      1985       1986      1987      1988
Revenues                  34,367    40,868    48,153    57,082    68,570
Expenses                  23,058    24,599    26,911    29,936    33,556
Result                    11,309    16,269    21,242    27,147    35,014
Depreciation               5,575     6,043      6,603     7,197      7,833
Interest                             1,314      4,467     7,533      8,760
Net Income                 5,734     8,912    10,172    12,417    18,421
Working Ratio              67.1%      60.2%     55.9%     52.4%      48.9%
Operating Ratio            83.3%     75.0%      69.6%     65.1%      60.4%
Return on Net
Assets                   7.1%      10.2%     10.6%     11.6%      14.3%



- 39 -
7.20      As a result of gradual real tariff increases from 1985 through
1989 (para. 7.01) the consolidated working and operating ratios would im-
prove to about 47Z and 58Z respectively by 1989. Return on assets will
gradually increase to about 10%-14Z.
F. Projected Funds Statements
Port of Victoria
7.21      During project construction, PMSD will be a net taker of funds
from the Government Treasury, but a positive net cash flow from PMSD to the
Treasury will resume in 1988 and will increase gradually thereafter. A
summary cash flow is shown below, details in Annex 7.9. It should be noted
that both items listed below under debt service and cash to (from) Treasury
are fund flows to the Treasury.
Table 7.10 -    - Projected Cash Flw
(thcxraxds SR's)
1985  1.986   1987  1988   L989  1990  191   1M2   1993
Cash flow frcm
operations     6,979  10,647 14,276 18,305 22,035 23,361 24,772 26,263 27,845
Plnt Invesnmts 32,764  33,033 22,415  6,145  8,941  4,109  6,905  1,872  1,350
Debt Servioe    1.314   4,467  7,533  8,760 13,091 12,507 11,923 1,339 10,755
Net Cash to (from)
Treasury     (27,099) (26,853)(15,672) 3,400  3  6,745  5,941 13,052 15,740
ULC
7.22      ULC will continue to have strong cash generating capacity.  Cash
flow from operations is projected to about double from SR8.0 million in
fiscal 1986 to SR16.0 million in 1990. After providing for working capital
increases, plant renewal, taxes, and paying 60% of its net income in divi-
dends, it will still generate a cash surplus in excess of SR 1 million an-
nually, assuming no further upstream financing to its parent, SNIC (para
3.16). Cash flow highlights are shown below, and details in Annex 7.13.
Table 7.11 - ULC - Projected Cash Flow
(thousand SR's)
1986      1987       1988      1989      1990
Cash Flow from Operations       8,033      9,597    11,827    13,883   15,869
Operational Uses                6,760      7,905     9,890    11,596   14,137
Cash Surplus                    1,273      1,692     1,937      2,287    1,732



- 40 -
G. Projected Financial Condition
Port of Victoria
7.23      Projected balance sheets for 19R4-93 are presented in Annex 7.10
and a summary is given below.
Table 7.12 - PMSD - Condensed Projected Balance Sheets
(thousand SR's)
1985      1986      1987       1988      1989
Current Assets                 1,981     2,513      3,072     3,680     4,236
Net Fixed Assets             114,886   153,772   182,534   191V129   204,572
Total Assets                 116,867   156,285   185,606   194,809   208,808
Current Liabilities              953     1,030      1,132     6,152      6,242
Long Term Debt                23,700    56,880    79,000    73,733    68,467
Equity Capital                92,214    98,375   105,474   114,924   134,100
Liabilities and Capital      116,867   156,285   185,606   194,809   208,808
Debt to Equity Ratio             20%       37%        43X       39%        342
7.24      Although, technically, PMSD will not borrow from the Government,
total costs of the port component of the project will be accounted for by
FMSD as term loan of SR69 million to be disbursed in 1985-87, repaid in 12
equal annual installments beginning July 1989, and bearing an interest rate
of (12)Z p.a. (para. 7.17). In 1987, the loan would cause PMSD to have a
peak debt to equity of 43%, gradually tapering off as the loan is repaid
and retained earnings build up. No liquidity test would be relevant since
PDSD will contini'  to pay all cash generated into the Seychelles Treasury.
As discussed abo,e (para. 7.21), after project construction, PMSD will
generate a positive cash flow for the Treasury.
ULC
7.25      Profitable projected operations and a strong cash flow will
further strengthen ULC's financial condition, provided a reasonable divi-
dend policy is implemented and cash is not diverted to other parastatals
(para 7.29). ULC is not expected to need to borrow short or long term
funds. Projected balance sheets and funds statements for fiscal 1986
through 1994 are presented in Annexes 7.6, 7.11 and 7.13 and summarized
below.



- 41 -
Table 7.13 - ULC - Projected Balance Sheets
(thousand SR's)
1986      1987      1988       1989     1990
Current Assets             8,969    10,116    11,836    13,942   15,399
Net Fixed Assets           3,067     3,343      3,777     4,038    5,742
Other                      5,076     6,768      8,705    10,993   12,725
Total Assets              17,112    20,227    24,318    28,973   33,866
Current Liabilities        5,735     6,682      8,070     9,527   10,743
Equity Capital            11,377    13,545    16,248    19,446   23,123
Liabilities-Capital       17,112    20,227    24,318    28,973   33,866
Quick Ratio                 1.33      1.29       1.25      1.25     1.22
Current Ratio               1.56      1.51       1.47      1.46     1.43
Working Capital            3,234     3,434      3,766     4,415    4,656
H. Financial Rate of Return
7.26      The financial rate of return on project investments was calcu-
lated at 12% in constant terms, 20% in current terms. Details are shown in
Annex 7.15, the Government's project-related cash flow. Only project
incremental revenues and expenses were included in the analysis.
Incremental charges to ULC, and traffic and inflation related overall
revenue increases were excluded from the analysis. This financial rate of
return is satisfactory and consistent with the objective of achieving a
long term target return on port net assets revalued annually of about
10-14%.
I. Financial Covenants
7.27      Under the project, PMSD will introduce accounting, financial and
management information systems appropriate for a revenue earning entity.
Consultants financed through the project will assist PMSD to organize it-
self as an autonomous accounting unit within the Department of Transport.
Draft terms of reference (Annex 7.16) for the consultants have been pre-
pared by the mission and submitted to the Government at its request. Work
is expected be completed by June 1985. When the consultants have completed
this assignment, PMSD will produce balance sheets, funds statements and
analytical cost data for each service provlded, as well as operating
statements according to generally accepted auditing procedures. PMSD's
annual financial statements beginning in 1985 will be certified by



- 42 -
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. ULC's annual financial
statements are audited by a qualified independent accounting firm
acceptable to the Bank. Regarding the road rehabilitation component,
project related accounts will be maintained by the accounts section of the
Land Transport Division of the Department of Transport (para. 5.17). These
accounts will be audited by the Director of Audit or other independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank. All the above audit reports will be
submitted to the Bank within nine months of the end of the fiscal year.
Assurances to this effect will be sought at negotiations.
7.28      Assurances were also provided at negotiations that the new port
tariff system to be developed by December 31, 1985, with the assistance of
consultants under the project, will be acceptable to the Bank. The new
tariff system will include provisions for additional port charges to ULC,
real tariff increases to recover incremental project costs including
interest on a loan at terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, and
finally criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank for revising tariffs
periodically, at least once a year. The introduction of this tariff system
will enable PMSD to have a return on net assets revalued annually of at
least 3% in 1986; 4%, in 1987; 5%, in 1988; and 6%, in 1989.
7.29      At negotiations, the Government further agreed that (a) it will
cause ULC to maintain at all times a current ratio of at least 1.5:1; (b)
it will only permit ULC to lend to other parastatals short term at
prevailing market rates and (c) it will cause all Government agencies and
parastatals to pay their bills from ULC within 90 days of,the invoice date.



- 43 -
VIII. Agreements Reached alnd Recainendation
8.01      The following agreements were reached during negotiations:
a)  For the Commercial Port Component
i)  the Government will employ consultants to improve their financial
management on conditions acceptable to the Bank (5.03(e));
ii)  the design and facilities for a petroleum products discharge ter-
minal to be built adjacent to the existing berths (5.03(d));
iii)  Government would consult with the Bank on the economic viability
of any new investment in the facilities of the Port of Victoria
in excess of US$4.0 million equivalent (5.17).
iv)  the programme of tariff increases necessary to ensure that the
investments provided under the project are adequately covered
(7.28);
v) audited financial statements of PMSD and ULC will be submitted to
the Bank within nine months of the end of each fiscal year
(7.27); and
vi)  Government will regulate ULC's liquidity and loans to other
Government agencies and parastatals (7.29).
b)  For the Road Rehabilitation Component
i)  Government would provide recommended annual funds for road main-
tenance and its share of participation in the road rehabilitation
program would be made available as detailed in (4.15 and Annex
4.3.);
ii)  starting in FY 1985, assisted by consultants, LTD would develop
an annual work program for periodic and routine maintenance which
will include appropriate cycles and frequency of maintenance
activities and applicable unit costs per maintenance activity
including overhead costs (4.12);
iii)  audited financial statements of LTD  will be submitted to the
Bank within nine months of the end of each fiscal year (7.27).
c)  Generally
(i)  a revolving fund will be established (5.13);
(ii)  the appointment of a project coordinator to assist the MPER with
project implementation (5.16); and
(iii)  the preparation of a PCR within six months of the final closing
date of the project (5.20).
8.02      The proposed project is suitable for a loan to the Republic of
the Seychelles in the amount of US$6.2 million equivalent on standard IBRD
terms.



- 44 -
Annex 1.1
SEYCHELLES
Transport Project
Gross Domestic Product 1977-1981
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981
(Rupees milliaon1)
GDP by Industrial Origin
Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing         45.2  50.0  58.8  64.4  62.3
Mining, Manufacturing and Handicrafts     27.7  37.5  49.9  70.2  84.6
Electricity and Water                      4.3    4.9    4.0    2.1   11.3
Building and Construction                 36.2  39.7   67.9  75.0  68.0
Transport, Distribution and
Communications 1/                      194.3  242.2  321.4  394.9  379.0
Hotels and Restaurants                    44.3  61.3  87.8  80.2  72.1
Finance and Business Services             56.2  61.1   79.3  87.8  81.6
Government Services                       71.3  82.7  114.6  142.3  171.0
Other Services                            13.6  15.6  21.9  24.1  28.1
Gross Domestic Product at
Current Market Prices                  493.1  595.0  805.6  941.0  958.0
Less  Net factor income from abroad       20.2  21.7  14.2   8.9    7.6
Gross National Product of
Market Prices                          472.9  573.3  791.4  932.1  951.3
Less net indirect taxes                   56.8  79.0  115.5  152.9  168.9
Less Depreciation                         26.4  36.5  35.2  45.0  54.2
Net National Product at
Factor Cost (National Income)          389.7  457.8  640.7  734.2  728.2
1/ Includes import duties.
Source: Central Bank, Statistics Division.
March 1984.



- 45 -
Annex 1.2
SEYCHELLES
Transport Project
Foreign Trade 1977-1983
Year                        1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
- ~~(Rpees mifllion,
Imports CIF                349.7  402.1  534.8  631.4  589.0  641.3  594.1
Exports                     24.4   24.7   30.9   32.9   27.5   20.3   25.2
(of which):
copra                     14.5   16.1   19.9   17.0   17.0    8.8   11.4
cinnamon                   3.2    1.8    1.8    2.2    1.8    3.0    3.2
fish                       3.1    3.6    6.1    9.6    4.4    7.3    8.2
Re-exports                  60.4   80.7  107.7  102.3   80.9   79.8  111.6
(of which)
petroleum                 35.0   45.5   70.0   56.3   76.4   72.0   99.0
to ships and aircraft
Tourism                    195    243    245    331    289    222    233
Income
Source: Central Bank, Statistics Division
March 1984



- 46 -
Annex 1.3
SEYCHELLES
Transport Project
Road Vehicle Fleet 1976-1983
Year               1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983
Private cars              2549  2500  2624  2509  2782  2916  2904  2846
Taxis                      180   143   157   137   123   114    86   113
Self-drive cars            626   632   694   336   396   292   404   282
Buses                      189   117   118   113   142   143   117   123
Commercial vehicles        788   586   613   595   690   774   838   840
Motorcycles                281   242   197   144   134   135   133   174
Total                     4583  4220  4403  3834  4267  4374  4382  4378
Source: Department of Transport
March 1984



- 47 -
Annex 1.4
SEYCHELLES
Transport Project
RegionaL Distribution of Boats February 1982
Small wooden boats  Fibreglass boats  Whalers |Schooners   Total
District      Without eng. Total                     I         l           I
Greater
Victoria             5         29           17             23       40 1/      109
Mahe
North               13         30           35              3        -          68
Mahe
East                 5         29           14              5        -          48
Mahe
West                 -         20           14              1        -          35
Mahe
South               14         67           17             16        -         100
Praslin             25         75           12              1        3          91
La Digue             -          7            3              4        5          19
Silhouette 2/        3          8            4              -        -          12
Outer 3/
Island;             -          10           8               7        -          25
Total          65       275          124             60        48         507
Source: NORPLAN Survey
Notes: 1/ One longline vessel included.
Z/ Number of boats given by the management of Silhouette.
3/ Source: Island Development Company Ltd.
March 1984



- 48 -
Annex 1.5
SEYCHELLES
Transport Project
Transport Sector Revenue & Expenditure
Rupees (millions)
1982          1983           1984
Actual        Actual         Budget
Revenue
Road tax and driving licences 1/           3.7            3.3            3.3
Fishing licences                           8.2            5.8           25.0
Port operating revenue                     7.4            9.2           12.6
Expenditures Recurrent
Road maintenance                           2.6            5.7            4.0
Transport operation                        0.2            0.3            0.6
Port services                              3.9            3.4           3.7
Airport services                          13.2           12.1           12.9
Capital
Roads                                      1.8            7.0           n/a
1/ This does not include fuel taxes or customs duties.
2/ Covered by separate revenues.
Source: Seychelles Government Estimates
Treasury Department
April 1984.



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
SEYCHELLES
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
Fisheries Sector Overview



-50 -
ANNEX 2
SEYCHELLES                         Page i
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
FISHERIES SECTOR OVERVIEW
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND ISSUES .........................           ii & iii
I.  INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND ...................          1
II.  ORGANIZATION AND POLICY .......................          1
III.  FISH RESOURCES .....**....... * *  .........             4
IV.  FISHING INDUSTRY *000050**000S*......00000....           8
V.  FISHING PORT DEVELOPMENT ......................    19
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION BENEFITS *................    21
APPENDIX 1 .......*.*..,***..................          23
APPENDIX 2 *0S00SS*o0000S*.................            24
APPENDIX 3 .................. ........0.........    25



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
SEYCHELLES                        Page ii
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
Fisheries Sector Overview
SUMMARY AND ISSUES
SUMMARY
Local stocks of demersal fish can be harvested at about 2 times
their present levels of about 5000 tons with little increase in fishing
investment but some increase in improved incentive systems, gear, and
management and a few new vessels (para. 4.06).
Excellent opportunities exist to develop a live bait
pole-and-line fishery for yellowfin and skipjack tuna with a good tuna
resource base and abundant supplies of live bait. The development of this
fishery would require and provide major justification for the proposed
fishing port facilities (para. 4.27 - 4.34).
The licensing arrangements to capture fees for services and
related activities for up to 50 foreign flag large tuna purse-seine vessels
provide what might be a relatively short-term benefit to the Seychelles and
an opportunity to learn more about the nature and extent of Seychellois
tuna resources (para. 2.07 - 2.11).
Careful review of various GOS proposed developments for the
fishing port shows them to have acceptable rates of return (para. 6.01) and
to be based on reasonable assumptions.
Issues: It has been proposed that the Seychelles Fishery
Authority (SFA) should have responsibility for all aspects of fisheries
development except marketing of fish. Fish marketing would be centralized
under the Seychelles Marketing Board (para. 2.04). It is the view of the
mission that this arrangement would not prove to be satisfactory. Fish
marketing is a highly sophisticated marketing ftnction because of the
rapidity with which fish spoils, markets fluctuate rapidity and markets are
highly sensitive to supply and demand fluctuations on a world-wide basis.
Separating the function of marketing from other SFA activities places the
responsibility for managing the costs of production in one agency and the
returns from production in another, a situation which has consistently
failed in other similar circumstances. It has also been proposed that
fishing license fees and other fisheries receipts would go directly to the
national treasury which in turn would allocate on an annual basis a line
budget to SFA for its operations. This arrangement is likely to prove
unworkable as it will lead to a stagnant and inflexible agency without
incentives to manage costs and benefits because costs and benefits would
not be accounted for in a single management structure.



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
Page iii
It is also essential that highly skilled, and therefore well
paid professional staff be recruited to fill the chief expatriate post in
SFA. The incumbent should be capable of bringing to the Seychelles
expertise which is not now available in the country for the development and
management of a rapidly changing and complex sectoral development program
(Para. 2.06).
Recommendations. It is recommended that the relevant
co-financers of the fishing port be made aware of Bank's views about these
issues prior to finalizing their agreement to finance the fishing port.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
SEYCHELLES
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
Fisheries Sector
I. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
1.01       This Annex will present an overview of the fisheries situation
in the Seychelles at the present and identify potentials for the
development of the sector with particular emphasis on important policy
issues and possible constraints. Several studies of the Seychelles
fisheries have been made including FAO/ADB Mission Report, March 1983,
Report No. 23/83 AF-SEY-2; NORPLAN, Seychelles Fisheries Feasibility Study,
December 1982 in 2 volumes; NORPLAN, East Coast Project, February 1984 in
Draft; Fisheries Development Ltd (U.K.); Fisheries Development in
Seychelles, December 1978.   Readers desiring more information on other
perspectives may wish to consult these studies.
Background
1.02       Of a gross domestic product at market prices of Rs 958.9 million
in 1981 agriculture, forestry and fishing accounted for Rs 62.3
milllion. The growth in the contribution of fishing to GDP at current
prices was rapid from 1976 to 1978, but has been slower in more recent
years.
1.03       The value of fish exports developed from Rs 3.1 million in 1977
(12.9% of total) to Rs 8.2 million in 1983 (32.4% of total). During the
years 1977-80 fish imports ranged from Rs 538,000 to Rs 903,000
constituting from 0.11 to 0.25% of the total imports. The bulk of
population growth since 1960 has been on Mahe, mostly migration from other
islands. Employment growth between 1971 and 1977 has been concentrated
mainly in tourism and related sectors at the expense of other sectors.
Government estimates indicate an employment growth in the fishery sector
from 626 in 1971 to 1100 in 1980/81. There are good indications that the
fishery sector has an ageing manpower base and the fact that 50% of the
fishermen are self-employed underlines the need for facilities to encourage
local productivity and recruitment.
II. ORGANIZATION AND POLICY
a. Organization
2.01       From a market economy, the fisheries sector evolved into a
situation (in 1981) in which parastatal organizations had control of most,
but not all, of production and marketing. The results of this approach
were disappointing and in 1983 the Seychelles Fishing Authority (SFA), a
statutory body, was established. In late 1983 and early 1984 fishery
policy was reviewed at the highest level of Government and now (March 1984'
SFA is in the process of staffing and full activation to carry out and
monitor policy and development in the sector.



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
Overall Organization
2.02       The SPA organization is shown in Appendix 1.  As SFA becomes
fully operational, some changes in this structure may occur. If marketing
is included as an SFA responsibility (see para. 2.06) it would become a
fourth function under "Operations Management". Some of the
responsibilities under -Administration and Finance' may be shifted to
"Operations Management".
Management, Staffing Technical Assistance and Training Needs.
2.03       The Chairman of SFA was appointed with effect from October
1,1983. At the time of his appointment he was the Chief Executive of Works
Enterprise Ltd. and prior to that he had been Principal Secretary in two
Ministries. The Chairman plans initially to fill the posts of 'Operations
Management" and Administration and Finance" with expatriates. Assistance
with the latter has already been requested of Belgium and recruitment for
the former has been started, but a specific source of support has not yet
been identified. According to the Chairman, it is planned that the other
posts will be filled by transfers from existing organizations (e.g.,
the fishery scientist now with FIDECO) or otherwise recruited locally.
However, the document prepared for the Co-Financing Meeting calls for Sr
500,000 for "Training Abroad" and Sr 13.5 million for -Technical
Assistance". A notable gap in the "Training Abroad" component is the
absence of any provision for training fishery scientists. SFA will have
one fishery biologist (now with FIDECO) and one resource manager (now with
the Ministry of National Development). SFA will have long term need for at
least two more individuals highly competent in the field of fishery
science/fishery management. In order to bring technical judgements to
critical overall management requirements in the sector. Training should be
provided abroad and will take anywhere from one to three years, depending
upon the backgrounds of the individuals selected. Care should be taken in
the selection of the training site or institution so that the training
received is relevant to the problems of the Seychelles.
2.04       In addition the rapid injection of a significant element of
foreign fishing by tuna purse-seiners (See para. 2.07) raises several
unresolved issues. They include: (1) how much foreign tuna fishing can be
allowed without endangering the resources, (2) will the development of
local tuna fishing capability suffer because of fishing by the
foreign fleet, (3) will SFA be allowed to handle marketing of (a) all tuna
and (b) all other non-tuna exports and (4) will SFA be allowed to collect
all license fees and port charges directly and pass the surplus, if any, of
income over operating costs to the Treasury rather than have all fees and
charges to directly to Treasury with SFA dependent for operating funds upon
annual appropriations or allotments.
2.05       Some of the technical issues can only be resolved on the basis
of a careful monitoring of catch and effort statistics. However, this
pre-supposes a mechanism to collect accurate catch and effort data from
foreign vessels. Fishing vessels of these types, foreign or not are
notoriously unwilling to voluntarily collect, and much more so, to release
information which is propriatary and vital to individual financial



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
performance not only for past operations but, because of the need for
temporal and spacial as well as quantitative (catch) and qualitative
(species composition) data, for future operations as well. The
establishment of working systems to deal with these issues is extremely
time-consuming and difficult.
2.06       On the matter of SFA organization and marketing arrangements,
the missions views are clearly (i) that SFA requires highly experienced and
skilled expatriate assistance in its formative stages; (ii) SFA cannot
carry out effectively its tasks of developing a nationally based tuna
fishing effort if it does not have direct responsibility for the export
marketing of fish, and does not receive licence fees, port fees, and
marketing surpluses as direct elements of its corporate accounts.
b. Fisheries Agreements
Seychelles' Agreements with Other Countries
2.07       There are currently three agreements covering the operations of
purse-seiners as follows:
Country               Number of seiners           Total number
March 84             seiners allowable
ECC (France)                18                         28
Spain                        1                         18
Ivory Coast                  0                          5
2.08       Copies of these agreements, as well as an English summary of
those prepared in the Ministry of Planning and External Relations are in
the Project File.
2.09       In connection with these agreements, it should be realized that
this Indian Ocean purse-seine fishery will develop regardless of what
happens in the Seychelles. If it is not based in Victoria, it will be
based in Port Louis, Mombasa, Antsiranana or Galle. Even if it is based in
Victoria, most of the catch eventually will be made outside of the
Seychelles' EEZ. On both counts, the Seychelles Government is powerless to
prevent the development of this fishery, although it may be able to
influence the course of events if the fishery is based in Victoria. Thus,
the Government has appraised the situation pragmatically and decided to try
to obtain what economic benefits it can from the development.
2.10       The agreement with Spain provides for the formation of a joint
venture which will in 1984 operate two pole-and-line vessels and more
subsequently (see para. 4.27). Provision for technology transfer is made
by the use of Seychellois in the crews.



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
2.11       In addition, long line vessels licensing has been handled on an
individual boat basis, there are on the average about 40-45 long-line
fishing vessels fishing in the Seychelles including one GOS owned vessel.
c. Policy
2.12       It is GOS policy for the fisheries sector to develop the local
fishing industry consistent with available resources. In this connection,
Government intends to stimulate incentives and efficiency in the local
hook-and-line fleet and to develop both through joint ventures and local
investment the creation of a live bait pole-and-line tuna fleet.
2.13       GOS also places high priority on establishing a sound resource
management policy and in order to gain financial benefits from and
ascertain the physical extent of the open ocean surface tuna resources near
the Seychelles, it will issue licenses to bilaterally sanctioned tuna
fishing vessels or fishing companies.
III. FISH RESOURCES
3.01       All the important fish resources are found in the marine
environment.  Marine resources are classified into demersal fish (bot-tom
associated species such as groupers, snappers, lobsters, etc.) and pelagic
fish (surface or mid-water associated species such as scad, mackerel,
sardine, tuna, etc.). Together almost 900 species are reported from the
area but, only a few of them are of commercial importance.
Geography
3.02       The Republic of Seychelles consists of 92 islands within an
exclusive economic zone (EEZ) of some 450,000 square miles in the Western
Indian Ocean between 3 10'E - 560 10'E (Map 18511). The Seychelles lies
in the trade wind belt and has four distinct seasons. Most of the EEZ
covers water depths of 1,000 - 5,000 meters, while shelf areas with depths
less than 200 meters constitute about 14,000 square miles, mainly in the
north east part of the zone.
3.03       The Seychelles lies in the border zone between the North and
South Equatorial currents.  The influence of each current varies throughout
the year. Along the southern and eastern edges of the Mahe plateau,
upwelling has been shown by the presence of cold sub-surface water, rich in
nutrients and supporting plankton blooms. These water masses rise to the
level of the plateau edge and flaw into the deeper parts of the Mahe
plateau in the south and account for much of the productivity in the area.
The Mahe plateau, Amirante plateau, and the Fortune Bank are the most
important geological features of the Seychelles from a fisheries view
point.
3.04       Productive areas for demersal fish are:  The Mahe plateau,
11,280 square miles supports a central group of granitic islands of which
Mahe is the main island in the Seychelles. The plateau rises rapidly from



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
depths of over 1,000 m. The central area has depths of 50 - 65 a with
coral and granitic outcrops forming small banks; The Amirante plateau
1,242 square miles contains several small islands; and the shallow Fortune
Bank 450 square miles plus about 1,000 square miles of other banks form all
available bottom fishing areas.
A. Demersal Fish
3.05       Available data indicates that the total stock of demersal fish
on the Mahe plateau amounts to about 50,000 tons plus about 10,000 tons
from other grounds. Most of the demersal species of commprcial interest
are slow growing, grow to a large size, and have low rates of natural
mortality. Therefore, the overall potential from harvesting these stocks
is only about 15X of the total stock or about 9,000 - 10,000 tons and since
not all of these species are of commercial importance the practical
harvest is more likely to be in the range of 6,000 - 9,000 tons from all
grounds. Somewhat more than half of total potential is now being caught by
existing gear.
3.06       A variety of species make ;.p the most important part of the
demersal catch, red snapper, groupers, sea-bass, and bream are the most
important.
3.07       These fishes are now caught by hand lines or traps, the choice
being made more or less depending on the nature of the bottom. There is at
present no commercial trawl fishery. Most of the trawlable area is located
on the Mahe plateau. Experimental trawling has proven possible on some of
the other bank areas such as the Amirante plateau and the Fortune Bank, but
the possible yield from these areas would be low.
3.08      The composition of the trawl catches shows that the dominant
families are: Snappers, Seabreams, Emperors, Scavengers, Groupers,
Rock-cods and Goatfishes. Among the commercially most important species
are the Emperor red snapper (Bourgeois) Lutjanus sebae and the Blood
snapper (Bordemar) Lutjanus sanguineus.
3.09       Given the standing stock on the sandy ground on the Mahe plateau
it would be expected that the maximum sustainable yield per year would be
roughly 7,500 tons. According to Tarbit (1979), about 1,000 tons of the
estimated maximum sustainable yield would probably be Lutjanus sebae
(Bourgeois) which is one of the most important species in the existing
handline fishery. Therefore trawl gear would directly compete with
existing hook-and-line and trap gear used by the small scale fishermen.
3.10       As bottom trawling would destroy part of the sea-bed, especially
the corals, and in addition represents an activity which has not been shown
to be economically justifiable bottom-trawling has been prohibited by GOS.
At this time this wise decision should be fully supported.



- 58 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6
B. Pelagic Fish
3.11       The stocks of pelagic fish in the Seychelles are only beginning
to be harvested. But, it is from this group of fish that major future
developments in the industry must take place.
Small Pelagics
3.12       A number of species are important, among the small pelagics, the
round scad Decapterus Maruadsi, sometimes called the mackerel-scad, and the
anchovy Engraulis japonicus, are the most important, but Sardines
(Sardinella), and mackerel (Rastrelliger, Auxis), are also noteable.
3.13       These species are everywhere subject to considerable
fluctuations in seasonal and year to year abundance. Available estimates
made from data collected by research vessels are only available for the
area over the Mahe plateau. But best estimates, suggest that the standing
stock of small pelagics mainly Decapterus are about 125,000 - 150,000
tons. This level of stock might support a sizeable fishery of the order of
about 50,000 tons. But, while Decapterus constitutes the larger part of
the estimated pelagic stock, it is not marketable as human food. However,
the Decapterus will be the most important live bait fish in the future
surface live-bait tuna pole-and-line fishery.
3.14       Other small and medium sized pelagics like mackerel, sardines,
etc. form part of the present domestic catch, and some have been taken as
inshore bait for tuna fishing. The mackerels do not appear to present
significant opportunities for expanding catch above the 300-400 tons which
are presently caught, because of their low market value in the domestic
market. Inshore stocks of bait, sardines, etc. are presently caught in
shore seine fisheries. The size of these inshore stocks is not known but
in similar environments they are mostly of limited size but standing stocks
of 1,000 - 2,000 tons would not be unusual. The projected demand for
inshore bait of about 250 tons would be small (see para. 4.31).
Large Pelagics
3.15       Among the valuable large pelagic species the most important are
the yellowfin and skipjack tunas. The big-eye tuna and bill-fishes as well
as large yellowfin tuna have been fished by sub-surface longline gear for
many years. This longline fishery and future fisheries based on surface
gear such as live-bait pole-and-line, trolling and purse-seine fishing do
not generally exploit the same age group of fish and therefore overlap
little when stock size is considered.
Tuna Resources:
3.16       Maximum Sustained Yield (MSY) Estimates.  It is impossible at
this time to estimate precisely the potential of the yellowfin and skipjack
tuna resources in the Seychelles Archipelago of the Indian Ocean. In fact,



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7
the only way to do this, is to encourage the fishery to develop through a
series of increasing effort levels, while collecting catch and effort
statistics and other relevant information. Given the data, it will then be
possible to estimate MSY's for each species.
3.17       In the meantime, however, it is possible to make order of
magnitude judgments about the Seychelles based on other areas. The Eastern
Atlantic (West African) fishery for yellowfin and skipjack, is located
primarily in the Gulf of Guinea. This fishery is roughly comparable to
that of the Seychelles. The area involved is approximately the same as
that in the Indian Ocean.
3.18       The Eastern Atlantic fishery started in about 1955 and has
increased steadily in both catch and effort levels. By 1980, there were
almost 100 purse seiners and 280 pole and line boats fishing tuna there.
The annual catch of yellowfin has been in excess of 100,000 MT for over ten
years. The MSY is estimated to be 110,000-120,000 MT. Purse seiners
account for about 80 percent of the catch, pole and line boats about 15
percent. Catch per effort has declined recently because of
over-capitalization of effort, through increases in numbers and sizes of
boats and through increases in the effectiveness of existing boats as well.
3.19       The annual catch of skipjack in the Eastern Atlantic has varied
widely, because of availability changes, ranging from almost 50,000 MT to
120,000 MT. Thus, estimates of MSY are difficult to make, but MSY is
believed to be substantially greater than present catch levels.
3.20       Types of Fishing Effort.  Changes in the fleet composition in
the Eastern Atlantic from 1964 to 1981 for combined data for the vessels of
France, Ivory Coast, Senegal and Morocco, show an increase in the effort
deployed in large (400-700-1,000 net ton) purse-seine vessels from 5 to 34
and a decline in the number of smaller (25-40-90 net ton) pole-and-line
vessels from 74 to 26.
3.21       With respect to the pole and line fishery, it is obvious that
fish once caught by a purse seiner are no longer potentially available to a
pole-and-line boat. But pole-and-line fisheries and purse-seiner fisheries
for yellowfin and skipjack have co-existed in a number of global fishing
areas. There is no reason to expect that they could not do so in the
Seychelles.
3.22       There has been some concern expressed about the development of
the purse-seine fishery in the Seychelles with respect to possible effects
on (1) the tuna stocks and (2) the planned development of the pole-and-line
fishery. When a fishery starts on a virgin stock, catch rates are
initially high. They will decline as the surplus stock is used up. But
even though catch rates decline, total catch will continue to increase with
increasing effort until the level of MSY is reached. If effort is
substantially increased beyond that necessary to produce MSY, both total
catch and catch rates will decline. But there is no reason to be concerned



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
Page 8
about possible effects of the purse seine fishery on the tuna stocks. Long
before there was any possibility of biological damage to the stocks, the
fishery would become uneconomic for the large purse-seiners (as has
happened to some extent in the Eastern Atlantic fishery). However, it is
essential that accurate catch and effort data be collected so that it will
be possible to document, understand and regulate what is taking place in
the fishery and in the resource. The role of SFA in developing its
expertise to cope with this issue is critical.
IV. FISHING INDUSTRY
4.01       Because the Seychelles fishing industry is in a state of rapid
change, it is necessary to distinguish between the local industry until
about 1982, a transition involving a number of foreign initiatives, and the
likely short and long temrh development pattern for the Seychelles
fisheries. These phases (a) existing fisheries (b) transitional fisheries
and (c) development plans 1985 - 1990 are discussed below.
a. Existing Fisheries
4.02       Vessels and Gear.  At present, all the vessels operated by
Seychelles fishermen are small between 12 and 50 feet long. The larger
ones are powered with diesel engines. The main fishing gear used by
Seychelles fishermen are handlines, traps, seines/nets and trolling gear
but diving is also used for capturing octopus, squid and lobster. In
addition the methods used by foreign fishermen working within early
joint-ventures and exploration projects have been trawling, both bottom
trawling and pelagic trawling, trolling, tuna pole-and-line fishing with
live-bait and tuna purse-seining.
4.03       There are about 500 Seychelles fishing vessels of which about
225 are motorized, about 50 of these are larger, about 50 feet long and
capable of making trips of more than 3 - 4 days. Most of the larger boats
are based in Victoria Harbor and around Mahe Island.
Fishermen Population
4.04       About 1200 households are involved in the ownership of boats
and fishing gear and about an equal number of fishermen are estimated to
work more or less full time as fishermen.
Landings
4.05       Landings rose from 2500 tons in 1972 to 5400 tons in 1978 but,
following setting up of a nationalized fishing fleet fell to about 4000
tons in 1980 and possibly somewhat less in 1981.
Fleet Capacity
4.06       The present fleet operations have considerable scope for
improvement both by better management possibly through renewed incentives
and by minor improvements in the use of gear handling and the use of fish



- 61 -
ANNEX 2
Page 9
finding sonar devices. Some estimates suggest that the present fleet could
increase landings to levels of about 7800 tons with only a few additional
boats.
Fish Processing and Marketing
4.07       Fish are mostly landed without ice and sold fresh, frozen whole
or filleted, smoked, salted-dried, and some fish by-products are processed
as animal feed. Domestic demand appears to be about 5,000 tons or about
equal to landings, and growth in landings and demand up to about 8,000 -
9,000 tons from the local fleet appears to be a relatively straightforward
matter of gradual growth in the local fleet coupled with increases in
efficiency of operations.
4.08       Exports.  Exports of high valued fresh and frozen fish caught by
the small scale fleet are small, growing from about 200 tons in 1975 to
about 600 tons in 1980. More recently SEYCOM has been exporting lesser
quantities. The principal market for exports is Reunion. Mauritius has
also been a small but significant importer of Seychelles fish. A number of
other countries have also had small sample consignments.
Fisheries Infrastructure
4.09       At present the industry is in transition from a largely fresh
fish based extensive distribution system to an industry based more on the
use of ice and centralized marketing and distribution.
4.10       There is now available for fish processing about 12 tons of ice
per day, 15 tons of freezing capacity and 750 tons of cold storage
capacity.
4.11       The overall level of supporting infrastructure for fisheries is
inadequate to support continued operations or growth of the industry for
local needs. Fisheries infrastructure is available to support only a part
of the operations of foreign flag vessels mostly tuna purse-seiners or to
provide for the orderly growth of a domestically based pole-and-line tuna
export industry.
4.12       Fishing boat repair facilities.  In Victoria an existing
(privately operated) ship repair facility is, or could be made to be,
adequate for the demands upon it. One more cradle and a new lift, as well
as some minor items and general refurbishing are needed. But, there has
been an impasse with respect to the existing facility in that, on the one
hand, the Government apparently does not want to encourage this private
operation and, on the other hand, the management of the boat yard does not
want to make additional investments without some assurance of being able to
continue to operate. A way out of this impasse has been found as part of
the fishing agreement with Spain in which Spain agrees to supply the
support necessary to bring the facility up to required capability. This
facility will accommodate only the smaller (about 22 m) pole-and-line and
purse-seine vessels. The large purse-seiners now fishing will continue to
have to go elsewhere for dry docking facilities.



- 62 -
ANNEX 2
Page 10
4.13       Fuel.  Fuel supplies are now available only at the comneracial
port. If growth in the domestically based fishery is to occur fuel
supplies must be provided in the fishery port.
b. Transition
4.14       As a result of government initiatives and the need of developed
countries to deploy excess fishing fleet capacity away from some other
fisheries, a number of countries began about 1978-79 to take an interest in
the Seychelles fisheries.
4.15       Some of this interest took the form of government sponsored
fishing trials along the following lines.
Pole-and-Line Tuna Fishing in 1979-80
4.16       At the end of 1979, French bilateral assistance financed fishing
trials (US$ 11 million) with four pole-and-line vessels; they had the
following characteristics: 38 m in length, 1,000 hp engines and crew of 29
persons. At the same time, British bilateral assistance financed the quay
and the cold store (US $ 3 million). After nine months' operation, the
fishing operations were discontinued because of the poor results which
achieved only about 10% of the expected catches. The main problems faced
by this project were inadequate project concept, inappropriate boat design,
poor experience with obtaining bait by traditional methods of fishing for
small pelagic species close inshore, not because the bait was not available
but because the fishing captains did not have the experience needed for
this type of fishing. There were as well reported difficulties with the
foreign company providing the technical assistance.
4.17       Pole-and-Line Operation Carried Out by Spanish Vessels
From July 1981 to March 1982, two Spanish pole-and-line vessels
(of 124 and 120 GRT, with 400 and 420 hp engines, 18 and 16 crew members
respectively) were conducting trial fishing operations from Mahe with
financial assistance from their government (see also para. 4.27 to 4.34)
for the relevance of these trials to future operations). During the
period, 610 tons of tuna were landed. The catch consisted of 418 tons of
yellowfin and 192 tons of skipjack. In the first 6 months between July and
December, 570 tons of the total were landed. The boats averaged 5 days in
port to unload 30 tons of fish. Mechanical problems, inadequate shore,
unloading and freezing facilities contributed to a performance record which
could easily have been much better. For example, in October, one of the
vessels caught 108 tons in 13 fishing days, for an average of 8.3 tons/day.
4.18       The report 1/ of the operation gave two reasons for the poor
performance in the period January - March.  First, "Technical problems to
the boats due to an extended period at sea without being dry-docked and
I/ 1983 Instituto Espanol Oceanografica, Espana.



- 63 -
ANNEX 2
Page 11
properly serviced. The galvanic action on the boats (which is more acute
in tropical waters) has promoted serious problems and the results of this
has been that the boats have not been able to go to sea for extended
periods". Second, -Since February the bait Species that has been used up
to now namely Decapterus macrosoma, seems to have dissappeared from the
Mahe plateau. The boats have had to look for new bait sources such as
mackerel (Rastrelliger kanagurta) big eye mackerel (Selar crumenopthalmus)
and Sardine de France (Sardinella sirm). Those species have been found in
inshore waters on the west coast of Mahe in water deeper than 30 metres.
The above mentioned species have not proved to be as effective for bait as
Decapterus (which was found mostly in the West part of Mahe plateau.)'.
But because Decapterus proved to be such an excellent bait, this should not
be taken as evidence that sardine and small mackerel were not acceptable
bait. In fact the boats spent only a few days at sea, during this three
month period, there were only 11 total days at sea, 5.5 days/boat.
According to one report there were large numbers of fish sighted during
these trips but the schools were more widely dispersed than in the earlier
season. The boats caught 43.7 tons of fish in the 11 days at sea.
4.19       Tuna Live Bait.  The stocks of Decapterus on the Mahe plateau
were regarded by the Spanish captains as an ideal bait for tuna having good
behavioral characteristics and high catch to bait ratio (18:1). The
Decapterus were caught offshore with large purse-seines of about 240 meters
long by 70 meters deep. This gear made it possible to catch bait over the
plateau in depths of 40 - 60 meters. The Spanish boats found relatively
few areas suitable for setting their bait nets because of rough grounds due
to the coral formations. In 1982, offshore bait was available between
about July to January in the areas fished. According to the Spanish
reports, a pole-and-line fishing industry could depend on Decapterus as
bait from about July to January falling back on inshore bait species during
the months when Decapterus might not be available. Several species of
alternative bait such as sardines (Herklosicthys punctatus, Sardinella sirm
and Prameus pinguis) occur. They are found inshore in -relative abundance
January to May. The Spanish vessels used small Indian Mackerel
(Rastrelliger kanagurta) to catch yellowfin in 'substantial- amounts near
Aldabra Is. The use of those species would require good management and
experience to make them a dependable source of bait but, many similar
live-bait tuna fisheries operate or operated using similar stocks. The
Spanish boats were able to catch enough bait thanks to the particular
skillfulness of the Spanish crew and the extensive use of sonar.
4.20       Vessel Operations.  However, on shore, the operations met
difficulties in handling, freezing and storing the catch; they were also
lacking on-shore services for the crew and supplies of basic products (food
and spare parts). As a result, the number of days at sea was greatly
reduced.
4.21       On the whole the Spanish experience demonstrated the
effectiveness of the pole-and-line fishing technique and the usefulness of
obtaining bait from the offshore stocks of Decapterus as well as from the



- 64 -
ANNEX 2
Page 12
more traditional but smaller stocks of inshore species. But, a variety of
problems associated with Government chartered vessel operations
substantially reduced the number of fishing days available over what would
be expected under regular commercial operations, assuming catch incentives,
adequate unloading facilities, proper maintainance and repair facilities
and equally experienced crews.
Purse-seining Operations
4.22       In 1980, tuna purse-seining was carried out successfully by a
purse-seiner from a Mauritian canning company and two parse-seiners from
France. The purse-seiner from Mauritius was operating under license, and
four purse-seiners from France operated under a special agreement (6
months, December 1982 to June 1983). The Mauritian vessel went to
Mauritius with the catch while the French purse-seiners transferred catche-
to cargo vessels in Victoria for overseas markets. More recently
agreements, primarily involving French vessels, have been entered into
which will allow about 40 large foreign purse-seiners to fish for tuna in
the EEZ of the Seychelles. Transshipment of catches through Victoria is
required by these agreements, and is carried out by the ULC using local
labor and equipment.
c. Development Plans
4.23       The Government strategy with respect to tuna resources is to
make Victoria the main base for tuna fishing in the central Indian Ocean,
to license foreign flag vessels to fish in the Seychelles EEZ and to
capture economic benefits in the form of license fees, trans-shipment
charges, port charges and local purchases. At the same time and more
importantly, the Government plans to develop local tuna fishing, based on
the use of smaller locally built pole-and-line and small purse-seine
boats. In addition, the agreement with Spain provides for the formation of
a joint venture which is starting up by the operation of two pole and line
vessels. Provision for technology transfer is made by the extensive use of
Seychellois in the crews. Purse-seiner licensing has been handled through
agreements with the EEC (in the case of French-seiners), with Spain and
with an Ivory Coast consortium. These agreements initially cover 41
seiners and this total could rise to 51. Longline vessel licensing has
been handled on at individual boat basis.
The Fishery Plan
4.24       There exists a detailed fishery development plan prepared by
NORPLAN consultants, covering the period up to full' development by the
year 1990. This plan calls for (1) upgrading the demersal fleet, (2)
establishment of joint ventures for pole-and-line and purse-seine tuna
fishing (using vessels of about 22 m), (3) development of purely national
pole-and-line and purse-seine tuna fishing, (4) further development of
national longline tuna fishing and (5) development of all the shoreside
infrastructure necessary to these developments. The plan prepared by
NORPLAN did not take into account licensed fishing by foreign flag vessels



- 65 -
Page 13
(mostly tuna purse-seiners), because until recently Government policy did
not favor the use of foreign flag vessels to harvest the tuna resources.
More recent changes in the plan regarding tuna purse-seine fishing by
foreign vessels are outlined in para. 4.34 - 4.37 below.
4.25       In any case the operation of the large tuna purse-seine fleet
does not now depend much upon the improvement of harbor or shore facilities
because many operations may be carried out in the anchorage without
berthing alongside the quay. Tuna and supplies will for the most part be
loaded and unloaded at anchor from ship to ship. However, this operation
alone will soon prove to be a source of congestion in the fishing and
commercial harbor and could require an improvement in some vital facilities
as a minimum.
4.26       The experience of the Spanish pole-and-line boats (see para.
4.16) shows however, how crucial adequate shore facilities would be for the
development of a Seychellois based indigenous tuna fishing industry.
4.27       Tuna Pole-and Line.  The Government plans to develop a tuna
pole-and-line fishery through joint ventures and through direct purchase
and operation of pole-and-line vessels. There is an agreement with Spain
to form a joint venture which will initially operate two pole-and-line
vessels with the likelyhood of subsequently increasing the number of
Spanish boats. The start of operation is dependent upon the completion of
improvements with respect to (1) the slipway and (2) the cold stores/ice
plant, both of which should be accomplished this year. If Government plans
for the development of the tuna live-bait pole-and-line fishing,
materialize and adequate shore facilities are developed, the growth in the
pole-and-line fleet between joint ventures, purchases of second hand boats
and local construction should develop about as shown below.
Projections
Tuna Live-Bait Pole-and-Line Fishing
Year            1            2          3           4          5
No of boats                  2           5           5          4          4
Cummulative
No. of boats 1/              2           7          12         16         20
Annual catch (tons)      1,500       5,250       9,000     12,000     15,000
Average Catch by Species
Yellowfin (ton)          1,050       3,675       6,300      8,400     10,500
Skipjack (ton)             450       1,575      2,700       3,600      4,500
1/ Includes one or two small purse-seine boats.



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
Page 14
4.28       Catch Projections.  Catch projections are based in part on the
experience of the Spanish Government chartered vessels (see para 4.17).
But although the Spanish vessels made good catches when fishing, they did
not operate as would a typical commercial fishing boat. During the period
July - December, the boats operated for a total of 116 days at sea or about
58 days each of which about 41 days were fishing days. In the period
January to March, the boats operated about 5.5 days of which 4 days were
fishing days for each boat. Overall the boats operated for 127 days of
which 89 were fishing days or about 44.5 fishing days per boat. The
average catch per boat per day was 6.9 tons of tuna. Under normal
commercial operations this class of vessel would be expected to operate for
about 220 days a year at sea of which about 153 days would be fishing
days. If the average catch per day of the Spanish boats was projected for
153 days of fishing it would mean that this class of vessel would be
expected to catch 1055 tons of tuna. A more conservative figure of 750
tons is assumed here which projects a catch rate of about 4.9 tons per
day. These projections are in line with experience elsewhere for example;
the Japanese distant water pole-and-line fleet, fishing only slightly
larger vessels between 1972-1978 in the Western Pacific, caught 25,000 tons
of skipjack or an average catch of 6.5 tons of fish per boat per day -i.
4.29       Tuna Price Projections.  A weighted average ex-vessel price of
US $ 780 per ton was projected for tuna, 70% yellowfin and 30X skipjack.
These projections are explained in more detail in para. 4.39.
4.3u       Rates of Return for Typical Pole-and-Line Tuna Vessel.  As shown
in Appendix 2, the financial rate of return for a typical tuna live-bait
pole-and-line vessel is about 34%. But the rate of return is highly
sensitive to price and catch rate.
4.31       Live-Bait Requirements.  The experience of the two Spanish boats
with bait was good (see para. 4.19). This experience covering a 10 month
period adequately demonstrated the effectiveness of Decapterus as a
live-bait for tuna.  Bait consisting of offshore Decapterus was available
from July to January. Because the Spanish boats were not fishing before
July, it is not known when Decapterus appears on the fishing grounds, in
any case inshore bait is available all year with peak abundance about
December to April. From experience in other similar fisheries, it is clear
that more fishing boats fishing for bait would reveal more supplies of bait
not less, better methods of capture, and possibly improvements in keeping
the bait although the Spanish experience with this was excellent.
4.32       The bait requirements for the catch of about 15,000 tons of tuna
would be about 750 tons per year of which about 525 tons would be
Decapterus and 225 tons of sardines or other inshore species. These
quantities are trivial in the light of good estimates of the standing
stocks of small pelagics on the Mahe plateau alone of 125,000 - 150,000
tons.
1/ South Pacific Commission Report Number 13, April 1984.



- 67 -
ANNEX 2
Page 15
4.33       Various expressions of concern about live-bait would not appear
to be warranted in the light of the Spanish experience.
4.34       Prospects for tuna live-bait fishing.  Clearly, experience in
the Seychelles demonstrates, as it has elsewhere in the tropical oceans,
that pole-and-line fishing is an effective way to catch tuna. But, there
is even more reason to be optimistic about pole-and-line fishing in the
Seychelles from an economic standpoint. Pole-and-line fishing will be more
profitable than large purse-seining owing to (i) the extremely high costs
of the very large, high-technology purse-seiners, (ii) high interest rates,
(iii) high fuel costs and (iv) the relatiavely low costs of second hand
pole-and-l.Lne boats. There is now a surplus of second-hand pole-and-line
boats primarily because many of them were excluded from their traditional
fishing grounds by the newly-created 200 mile EEZ's.
4.35       Tuna Purse-Seiners.  Operating under agreements with the EEC,
Spain and a consortium of tuna vessel owners from the Ivory Coast a rapid
deployment of tuna purse seine vessels (and other tuna boats) has taken
place. As of March 1984, 19 purse-seine vessels were present. The planned
gradual development of this aspect of the Seychelles fishery has been
overtaken by the pressure generated by good catches of some of the earlier
deployed purse-seine vessels operating from Victoria harbor. But, these
boats in 1982-83 were making their best catches of tuna, at least during
the period, outside the EEZ of the Seychelles.
4.36       NORPLAN estimates of average catches are extremely conservative,
about 2,500 1/ tons/year/vessel and they project that up to 25
purse-seiners would be utilizing Victoria harbor on an annual basis.
However the agreements permit a larger number, up to about 50. Catch rates
must be substantially higher than 2500 ton per year to provide even a
modest financial rate of return on the operation of this class of vessel.
Industry sources indicate that a catch of about 4000-5000 tons per year per
boat is required to break even and that profitability occurs at catch rates
of 6000 to 7000 tons per year depending on interest charges and operating
costs. If 50 vessels were to operate in the area the total harvest of tuna
could be as great or greater than about 325,000 tons or in the order of
magnitude of 1.5 times the tuna fishery in the Eastern Atlantic. No
responsible resources estimates place the tuna resources of the Seychelles
in this magnitude class which suggests that catch per vessel would not
financially support all of the vessels covered by existing agreements.
These considerations suggest that the purse-seine fleet covered by
licensing agreements could disappear from the Seychelles as rapidly as it
appeared.
1/ A catch of 2500 tons would be worth at ex-vessel about US $1.9 million,
the average total depreciated investment of a large (1200 ton) purse-
seiner with helicopter and nets is approximately US $1.25 to 2.0
million/year.



- 68 -
ANNEX 2
Page 16
4.37       While it is not clear how many, and for how long, the up to
about 50 purse-seine vessels, may eventually fish out of the Seychelles it
is clear that a large number of them (20-35) will soon be operating from
Victoria.
4.38       Such a rapid build-up in effort without a concomitant
development of ancillary support infrastructure is bound to create
unforseen problems and congestion, logistical delays and the growth of
ad-hoc services which may have a negative effect on a more structured
development plan.
Fish Marketing
4.39       Tuna Prices.  Tuna prices in March 1984 for fish from the
Seychelles, FOB Victoria, were about US$ 1,000 ton for yellowfin and US$
600 ton for skipjack. World prices have improved in 1984 over somewhat
lower prices which prevailed from 1981-1983 and expectations are that
prices will continue to rise slowly in accordance with a general
improvement in the economies of the developed and some developing
countries.
4.40       The ex-vessel price projections used here (Appendix 2) for
yellowfin of US $ 900 per ton and for skipjack US $ 500 per ton which yield
a weighted average price of US $ 780 per ton are consistant with recent
ex-vessel prices which averaged US $ 940 for yellowfin and US $ 658 for
skipjack 1/, and with C & F prices for yellowfin, Japan, of US $ 1756; and
for Skipjack, Samoa of US $ 902.
4.41       Skiplack Market Trends.  Market prices for skipjack and other
tuna generally followed a strong upward trend between 1970 and 1980. The
average FOB export prices for frozen skipjack from the Western Pacific rose
from about $400/mt in 1970-72 to over $1,100/mt in 1980. By early 1981,
however, the market weakened and prices fell sharply and by mid-1982
skipjack exporters were receiving only about $600/mt FOB for their best
quality export skipjack.
4.42       The decline in the market for skipjack, and to a lesser extent,
yellowfin was principally the result of the steady erosion since 1978 of
consumer demand for canned tuna in the US, the dominant market for all
tuna, especially skipjack and excess supplies of frozen skipjack.
Inventories of canned tuna reached uprecendented levels in 1982 and a
number of major U.S. canneries shut down or reduced their operations.
Similar though less severe trends in Western Europe and Japan also
depressed demand and prices for tuna during the same period.
1/ FAO INFOfish Trade News, 1 June, 1984.



- 69 -
ANNEX 2
Page 17
4.43       Consumer demand in the US has dropped steadily since 1978 for
several reasons. Chicken and pork prices have been very competitive,
causing a switch of consumer preference from tuna to those products.
Additionally, American consumer demand for fish products - once
overwhelmingly dominated by canned tuna -- has broadened to embrace other
fish species and products. Many new convenience foods have been introduced
to American consumers in recent years and this also has cut into canned
tuna demand and consumption.
4.44       Meanwhile, there are continued excess supplies caused by new,
highly efficient skipjack catching methods. Locally-based purse seine
fleets in the Philippines and long-distance fleets based in the US and
Japan have recently become much more proficient at purse seining for
skipjack in the Western Pacific, and the newly-developed tuna purse seine
techniques (using improved methods and floating fish attraction devices)
are spreading rapidly throughout this region. As a consequence, skipjack
production capacity (and cost) is growing rapidly at a time when markets
are already depressed and inventories high. In such circumstances, it is
not likely that skipjack prices will recover to their 1979/80 levels of
over $1,000/mt within the foreseeable future.
4.45       Recent market forecasts indicate that US canned tuna consumption
is not likely to continue its historical rate of increase of 2.3 per cent
per year, but more likely will level off and then remain static. Future
investment and market opportunities in the US are seen being primarily
dependent on the outcome of the ongoing restructuring of the US tuna
industry brought about by the present crisis, and the resulting US policy
towards tuna product imports. Although other world areas may see increases
in tuna consumption, real demand, insofar as total consumption is
concerned, will continue to be controlled by US consumers in the forseeable
future. European markets (except for the U.K.) show a preference for
canned yellowfin and bluefin tuna species and this fact also contributes to
the rather poor outlook for skipjack demand.
4.46       Yellowfin Market Trends.  The demand for yellowfin by foreign
buyers (mainly Italy and Japan) continues firm at prices down about 30 per
cent from 1980 peak levels.
4.47       Production of yellowfin tuna in the past has been largely
dominated by Japanese, Korean and Taiwanese long-distance longline fleets.
This type of fishery has virtually disappeared in recent years due to the
high cost of fuel oil and the difficulty of finding crews. Now most of the
longline vessels remaining active under those flags are equipped with very
low temperature refrigeration systems which allow preservation of
premium-quality fish for the Japanese 'sashimi- market. Canneries in
Japan, Italy and other European countries are also competing for yellowfin
catches thus causing the market to remain fairly strong.
4.48       Due to a more diversified market structure (in terms of both
products and potential buyers) and a relative scarcity of suppliee -- wet-d
yellowfin production expanded only by about 12Z during the past decade



- 70 -
ANNEX 2
Page 18
compared to the 52 per cent expansion in skipjack production. The
continuing decline in the production of larger tuna species by the
traditionally dominant producers (i.e. Japan, Korea and Taiwan) is an
additional factor of importance in forecasting brighter market prospects
for exporters of yellowfin tuna.
4.49       The high proportion of yellowfin (702) in the catch of tuna by
Seychelles based pole-and-line vessels means that a pole-and-line vessel
operating there could be considerably more profitable than one operating on
grounds dominated by a high catch of skipjack. This is a powerful reason
to recommend this fishing technique for the Seychelles.
4.50       Demersal Fish Market Trends.  The inshore catch of demersal fish
handled by the port would consist mainly of species highly regarded by
markets in nearby countries and by other international markets (Europe and
Far East). Export markets for bream, snapper, grouper and seabass are
excellent. New supplies of high quality hook-and-line caught fish of
these species are few. Incremental exports from the port would constitute
less than 1% of total supply and therefore production would have no impact
on international markets for these species. Prices used for financial
projections area based on average prices paid by cold storage operators in
the first quarter of 1983. Demand for the species produced by the inshore
demersal fleet is expected to grow and international prices for these
species are expected to increase in a proportion greater than economic
recovery in the developed economies. Prices used average US $1400/ton FOB
Victoria for hook-and-line caught high quality species; no projections have
been made for other incidental species which might be caught.
Transhipment Arrangements
4.51       Refrigerated cargo vessels of about 2500 DWT are readily
available for the Seychelles. They would call for shipments of as little
as 500 ton but because of the activity of the licensed purse-seiners which
now deliver very large quantities to transhipment vessels such small
quantities would seldom occur.
4.52       Average costs of handling freight and insurance to European
ports are about US $165 per ton.
Resource Conservation and EEZ Surveillance
4.53       There is substantial concern that the activities of so many
seiners could harm the tuna resource. This is not likely in the immediate
future, since economic over-fishing will occur in any case before
biological over-fishing. However, the fishing should be carefully followed
and documented, by the collection and analysis of the appropriate
statistics, from the outset. ORSTOM is, in fact, doing this and FAO is
also involved with the collection of tuna catch statistics in the Indian
Ocean. SFA should have in time its own highly trained fishery biologist
working with ORSTOM personnel on this problem.



- 71 -
ANNEX 2
Page 19
4.54       Should 'over-fishing' occur, the Seychelles plans to establish
catch quotas for their EEZ. Since the tunas are A.gratory and not resident
in the EEZ, this will not be an effective approach. Rather, there is need
for an inter-Governmental body or commission with the authority to manage
tuna fishing on an ocean-wide basis. Commission members should include
both Indian Ocean countries with an interest in the tuna resources and
non-Indian Ocean countries whose nationals are fishing tuna in the Indian
Ocean. While FAO or other institutions would be useful resource bodies for
such a commission, it Is important that the commission itself be an
inter-Governmental body organized independently of any existing body.
4.55       Licensing and the enforcement of regulations require some form
of EEZ surveillance (which no country in the world has been able to manage
on a completely satisfactory basis). Seychelles EEZ surveillance has been
carried out through flights by the Air Wing and surface support, when
needed, supplied by the Navy. In addition, licensed vessels are required
to make periodic radio reports of catch and location and to report each
time they enter or leave the EEZ. This general arrangement will continue,
except that one of the two-man EEZ Surveillance Units will be transferred
to SFA and SFA will, in effect, charter the surveillance flights. Owing to
high costs, it does not seem reasonable to expect any greater level of
effort in this field, although perhaps the statistical effectiveness of the
flights could be improved.
V. FISHING PORT DEVELOPMENT
5.01       The projections for fleet growth and landings are to be found in
Appendix 3. The development of facilities should be carefully phased to
take into account actual developments in the respective elements of the
three fishing fleets. The likelyhood that development would proceed as
planned is that: (i) the local demersal fleet will develop along lines
closely resembling the projected requirements; (ii) the pole-and-line
fleet will develop along lines about the same as those projected although
the development might proceed somewhat more slowly than projected and;
(iii) the long term requirement for the tuna purse-seine fleet are
extremely difficult to project in the light of uncertainties about the
overall magnitude of oceanic tuna resources in the Western Indian Ocean.
As discussed in para. 4.38, the large tuna purse-seine fleet now
contributes to harbor congestion and difficulties with refueling. But,
proposed improvements in the fishing port would make the provision of
services to their vessels much easier. The planned growth in the local
demersal and pole-and-line fleets will require both improved port
facilities and fish receiving, holding, processing and export facilities as
outlined below.
Port Facilities
5.02       NORPLAN consultants have prepared a comprehensive plan for the
development of the fishing port which has been adopted by GOS.1/ A summary
of the proposed (i) reclamation works, (il) sites and services, (iii) fish
receiving and (iv) processing facilities which are recommended on the basis
of the developments outlined in Section 4.C. follows:
1I/ NORPLAN: Ministry of Planning; GOS February, 1984.



- 72 -
ANNEX 2
Page 20
(i)               Dredging and Reclamation, Sea-walls and Quays
(RS'000)
Cost Element                 Foreign      Local         Total
Dredging/reclamation              11,400          600       12,000
New Inter-Island Quay              3,800        2,200        6,000
2 Bunker Piers                     4,900        2,800        7,700
New Tuna Quay                     11,100        6,100       17,200
New Demersal Quay                  2,500        1,300        3,800
Lay-by, Demersal Fleet             1,000          500        1,500
Total                          34,700       13,500       48,200
(ii)                             Sites and Services
Cost Element                 Foreign      Local           Total
Roads - area built up              5,900        3,500        9,400
Drainage                             350          430          780
Water Supply                       1,400        1,300        2,700
Sewerage                             900          550        1,450
Fuel Supply                        1,025        1,075        2,100
Electrical Infrastr.                 770          500        1,270
Niscellaneous                        330          220          500
Total                          10,675       7,575        18,250
(iii)                                 Buildings
Cost Element                          Foreign         Local         Total
Sail loft & Rigging store                  240            200           460
Wood, Paint & GUP workshop                 830            570          1,400
Mech., Elec. & Refrig. Workshop          1,550            550          2,100
Denersal Gear Store.& Maintenance          700            800          1,500
Renovation of sipway ramp & platform       170            110           280
Docking equipment                          740            110            850
Inter Island Cargo Shed                    310            370           680
Gatehouse & Toilets                         100           120           220
Offices rehabilitation                     600          1,000          1,600
Total                                5,240          3,830         9,070



- 73 -
ANNEX 2
Page 21
(iv)      Fish Processing Facilities including Ice Making, Chill Storage,
Freezing, Handling and Cold Storages.
Cost Element                     Foreign            Local           Total
Derersal Fish                    14,000              2,300         16,300
Tuna Fish                        13,700              1,400         15.100
Total                        27,700              3,700         31,400
The total estimated costs are:
Foreign       Local       Total
(i)    Dredging/reclamation/s eawalls /
quays                                34,700        13,500      48,200
(ii)   Service facilities                   10,675          7,575     18,250
(iii)  Buildings/facilities                  5,240         3,830       9,070
(iv)   Processing facilities                27,700          3,700     31,400
(v)    Consultancy Services                  9,225            825     10,050
Grand Total                          87,540        29,430    116,970
VI PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AN) BENEFITS
Economic Analysis
6.01       The fishing port has been considered a composite undertaking
involving harbor works, service facilities and fish processing, ice, and
cold storage plants. On the basis of the costs and benefits of these
constituent investments the estimated rate of return is 17.3%.  Sensitivity
analysis shows that with a 202 benefit reduction, the estimated economic
rate of return is 12.6%.
Risks
6.02       The major risks involve the following:  A failure to provide
knowledgeable management for SFA and the failure to integrate the cost of
production (fishing activities) with the benefits of production
(marketing). A sharp drop in the price of yellowfin tuna or a change in
the catch composition of the domestic fleet which could lead to a decrease
in the proportion of yellowfin tuna would cause a drop in the weighted
average price of landed fish which in turn would adversely affect the
financial rate of return of local tuna vessels.



- 74 -
ANNEX 2
Page 22
Benefits and Justification
6.03       Excellent tuna and bait resources exist in and around the
Seychelles, excellent conditions for the development of a national live
bait pole-and-line tuna fishery exist, and the economic rate of return is
satisfactory. The development of the fishing port and its facilities
should lead to the creation of local employment, generation of foreign
exchange and the development of the local service sector In a number of
related areas. These activities fit well with Bank policy for the
development of the Seychelles which emphasizes diversification and
strengthening of the service sector.



- 75 -
AN1NEX 2 - APPENDIX 1
Page 23
SEYCHELLES
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
Seychelles Fishing Authority
Organization Structure                BOARD OF DIRECTORS
I
GENERAL
MANAGEMENT
OPERATIONS           ADMINISTRATION
MANAGEMENT            AND FINANCE
Personnel Administration
Management planning
Management services
Training & development
Public relations
Accounts
Payments & expenditure contol
Financial systems
Budgets
Information systems
development
Information centre
Internal audit of subsidiaries
|FISHING POT      FISHING OPERATIONS    PROCESSING    |DEVELOPMEN             RESOURCE
|s  I  RESEARCH   |  |MANAGEMENT
Management.      Fishing enterprises.   Processing    Pre-harvest and   Regulations vith
Tariffs.                                   enterprise.   post-harvest.      regards to seasons,
Berth allocation.                                       Flshing methods,   fishing grounds,
Land allocation.                                         gear and equip-   species, minimum
Infrastructures.                                         ment.              standards, etc.
Services.                                               Education &        Records of all fish
training.         landings.
Quality control.  Surveillance of EEZ.
Stock assessment. Fishing Licences,
local and foreign.
Coordination of
private local
fishing fleet and
operations.
tNegotiations of
fishing rights.



- 76 -
A14NEX 2 - APPENDIX 2
Page 24
SEYCHELLES
FIRST TWA4SPORT PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections
Live-Bait Tuna Boat
Sr '000
(LOA - 22 m Hp - 440)
--- Years    --
I.    Cash Inflow                                     1     2-9         10
Gross Sales 1/                           (1) 2,964  3,952      3,952
Borrower's Contribution: 20% of (4) 2/         540   -           -
Loan Amount: 80% of (4)                      2,160   -           -
Total Cash Inflow                     (2) 5,664  3,952      3,952
II.   Cash Outflow
Operating Costs
Wages, Alllowances, Crew Insurance             570    760
Fuel  Lubricants, Grease 3/                  1,190  1,590
Ice 4/                                         210    280
Maintenance                                    135    135
Vessel Insurance                                92     92
Miscellaneous                                  185    250
Interest on Working Capital 5/                  42     42
Total Operating Costs              (3)   2,424  3,149        3,149
Investment Cost                        (4)   2,700    -         (270)
Debt Service 6/                                402    402          -
Total Outflow                       (5)   5,526  3,551       2,879
III.  Net Cash Flow:  (2) - (5)                (6)      38    401       1,073
IV. Financial Benefit-Cost
Benefit (1)                            (7)   2,964  3,952       3,952
Cost (3) + (4)                         (8)   5,124  3,149       2,879
Net Benefit (7) - (8)                  (9)  (2,160)   803       1,073
V. Financial Rate of Return: 34%
I/ First year gross sales are 75% of sales at full development, which
assume annual average live wieght landings of 760 tons 65-70% yellowfin
and 30-35% skipjack. Catch is sold at an average ex-vessel price of Sr
5.27/kg. 153 days of fishing and 57 days for baiting and sailing total
220 operational days. Vessels would make about 17 trips/year.
2/  Borrowers contribution is 20% of investment cost.
3/  Fuel costs Sr 3.7511.  The vessel uses 345,576 1. of fuel-running and
fishing-and 39,930 1. baiting, scouting and resting-for a total of
Sr 1,445,000 plus Sr 145,000 for lube oil and grease.
4/  The vessel uses 700 tons of ice at Sr 400 t.
5/ Interest calculated at 17% of estimated working capital requirements of
about Sr 250,000.
6/  Interest at 11%.



- 77 -
SEYCHELLES                       AM8NEX 2 - APPENDIX 3
Page 25
FIRST TRAISPORT PROJECT
Fisheries Facilities
Projected Vessels (V) 1/ and Landings (L) 2/
........ Years .
Fleet               As of 1984          1           2           3           4            5
Product                   V     L    V     L     V    L      V    L      v     L     V      L
........... tons..........
Local Demersal
Fresh Fish       (a)         500        600         800         950         1000         1400
Frozen Fish      (b)         300        500          700       1000         1340         1930
Smoked and Other (c)         400        400         500         550          560          570
Sub-Total               50   1200  50   1500   50   2000  60   2500   71    2900 100    3900
Tuna Long-Line 3/  (d)   4   2000   8   4000    8   4000  12   6000   16    8000  18    9000
Pole-and-Line
Fresh Fish       Ce)         -           -           -           -            _             _
Frozen Fish      (f)        650        1440        5190        8900        12000       15000
Smoked and Other (g)          50         60          60         100          100          100
Sub-Total               2      700   2   1500    7   5250  12   9000   16   12000  20   18750
Purse-Seine 4/
Fresh Fish       (h)
Frozen Fish      (i)
Smoked and Other (j)
Trans-shipped 5/ (k)      106400     123200      173600      201500       184800   6J 196000
Sub-Total              19  106400  22 123200   26 173600  31 201500   33  184800  35  196000
Total
Increases in shore facility capacities required by (a) (b) (c) (f) are shown in pages 20-21.
L/ Vessels of 30' and larger only.
2/ Victoria harbor only.
3/ Trans-shipped.
4/ See text Para. 4.36.
5/  See text Para. 4.36.   Catch of 5600 tons/year/boat.
6/ It appears unlikely that more than 35 seiners would operate.



ORGANISATION  CHART  PORT AND  MARINE SERVICES  DIVISION
PRESIDENT            wru m
___                                     L~~~~~~~A R Y                                           __FXL __
SECRETARY                     ~~~~~~DPMS  DIRECTOR
HM    HARSOIA MASTER
W&ANIOMARIONE                  ~~~~AHM   ASSISTAT HMM
ES  VSI N                   ~~~~~~MSS   M4ARINE SERVICES SUPERINTENDANT
SER%t1CES I)VISION             ~~MISS  ASSISTANT MS$
I                          ~~~    ~~~~~~TP    TRAINEE PILOT
OPMS                                   SEN MM SENIOR MARINE MECHANIC
PERS        ~~AO    ACCOUNTS OFFICER
r1AE       ,"NAO It'           AAO    ASSISTANT AO
J.);'CZ TOR RT (I ~FEI    
Ep-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
&N9  M                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TUMTE                                                       OU N
A~~~~~~~~IAN
Ii~~~~~~~~TC
121               (II            (1)~~~~~~AT                    'C"OXSWAIN III  1 11 YA(  F
L~~~  (31                                        1CR (1)                          COXS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~[14     STmu  1K
3                II       6~~~~~~CQ  AiSSASTI1
MARINE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CARP~~~~~~~N~~~E~~~i                        (21                   1.           (201~~~~~ECSWRYI  AST(ILEA.IIR.
16)~~~~~~~~~~
SlEiNALMEN  N      AIIOIJNIS ~       ~    ~



- 79 -
Annex 3.2
SEYCHELLES
Transport Project
Port Victoria: Ships Calling, 1979-1983
1979     1980     1981      1982     1983
Ships Calling
General cargo                      90        67      115        92       98
Bulk cargo                         25        18         9       15       14
Naval vessels/auxiliaries          46         8       15        34       26
Fishing                           130        70       87       110      219
Research                           20        22         5        4       15
Cruise ships                        4                 6        10       16
Yachts                             42        38       44        27       47
Other                                8      100       29         3       12
365      332       310      295      447
Net Registered Tonnage
of Cargo Ships ('OOONRT)          369       315      339       336      407
Source: Department of Transport
March 1984



- 80 -
Annex 3.3
SEYCHELLES
Transport Project
Sea Freight, 1979-1983
('000 tons)
1979    1980    1981      1982     1983
Imports - Total                    175.8   172.8   166.0    173.9    163.5
Port Victoria - Total         161.5   172.8   166.0    173.9    163.5
General cargo             86.4    99.3    99.5      99.7      80.7
Bulk cement               11.0    17.8    22.0      18.9      10.4
Bulk oil                  64.1    55.7    44.5      55.3      72.4
Airport - Bulk oil             14.3      -       -         -        -
Exports - Total                      12.9    11.8    13.0       6.2      5.0
Port Victoria - General Cargo  6.4       7.5    11.6       6.2      5.0
Outer islands - Guano           6.5      4.3     1.4      -         -
Transhipment - Total                  2.5     1.7     1.4       3.2     16.8
Fish                       2.5     1.7      1.4      3.2      16.8
Source: Department of Transport
March 1984



- 81 -
Annex 3.4
SEYCHELLES
Transport Project
Project Port Traffic ('000 tons)
General Cargo      Bulk    Marine    Other             Transhipped
Import 1/ Export  Cement    Fuel    Bulk Oil  TOTAL         Fish
1984          87          6       20     37          39.5  189.5          24.3
1985          93         10       20     37.5        41    201.5          31.5
1986          96         10       20     38          42.5  206.5          37.5
1987          99.6       11       20     44.5        44.1  219.2          47.5
1988         103.3       17       20     56          45.8  242.1          42.5
1989         107.2       17       20     58.5        47.4  250.7          42.5
1994         123         17       20     59          55    274            42.5
1999         135         17       20     59          64    295            42.5
2004         147         17       20     59          74.5  317.5          42.5
Source: Consultants, mission estimates.
1/ Freight tons.
May 1984.



- 82 -
Annex 4.1
SEYCHELLES
Transport Project
Road Traffic 1978-1983/84
Average daily traffic
Section                                                1978 1/   1983184
2.  Anse Etoile-Machabee                               100         734
3.  Machabee-Glacis                                    600         951
4.  Glacis-Beau Vallon                                 960        2560
6.  Beau Vallon - Danzilles                            940        2144
12.  Turtle Bay - Anse Royale                          1000        1452
13.  Anse Royale - Anse Forbans                         300         728
14.  Anse Forbans - Anse Gaulettes                      230         400
15.  Anse Gaulettes - Anse   la Mouche                  400         653
16.  Les Canelles Road                                  250         930
18.  La Mis re - Grande Anse                            747        1000
19.  Montagne Posee Road                                250         397
20.  Sans Souci - Forestry Division                     350        1140
21.  Forestry Division - Tea Factory                    110         322
23. Anse   la Mouche - Anse Boileau                     400         576
24.  Anse Boileau - Barbarons Distillery                150         500
25.  Barbarons - Beoliere Clinic                        566        1000
26.  Beoliere - Port Glaud                              246        1000
1/ 12-hour flow.
Source: Department of Transport
March 1984



LAND TRANSPORT DIVISION
LAND TRANSPORT DIRECTOR
SECRE'TARY
TRAFFIC/TRANSFORTATION ENCINeER
I                                              ~~~~~~~I --I . --,
TRAFFIC LANACEHENT                               TRANSPORTATION PLANNING IDESIN) I INL'INKNTATION          ACCOONTS              TESTING, REGISTRATION
_    2 TRAFFIC EINGIEERING ASST.                            NEW  ORKS                        ACCOUNTS OIFICeR              LICENSING SECTION'
(DESIGN)I
SENIOR ASST. SECRETARY                                                                      HAINANANCE
LINIK FUNCTIONSII
SELF HELP                                                   I ACCOUNTS OFFC ER
DIRECTOR LABOR                                                I CASHIER
I                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 CLERiCS
I TRFFIC ENGINEERING ASST.                                  |                                                      (2 DRIVING TEST
(INVESTIGATIONS)                 ROADS ENGINIKRSIPEACE CORPS tNG)                           NOW WITlH      EXAMINERS (I)
TRAFFIC POLICE  (2 VEHICLE TEST
I WORKS SUPERINTENUINT                                              INSPECTORS
I CLERK IOF WORKS
2 TRAFFIC WARDENS                                 SUPERVISOR/TECNNICIAN
I TECHNICAL ASSISTANT                                                                                    W
J1. Ferrari
PRINCIPAL SECRETARY
x



- 84 -
Annex 4.3
SEYCHELLES
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program 1985-88
Cost Estimate
(US$ million)
Program Components                                  Cost and Financing
Govt.     Bank     Total
1. Rehabilitation civil works
- First Year                                  0.41     0.63       1.04
- Second Year                                 0.35     0.52       0.87
- Third Year                                  0.47     0.70       1.17
- Fourth Year                                 0.37     0.55       0.92
Subtotal                                    1.6      2.4        4.00
II.  Road Maintenance
(i) Rese!aling                                  1.23     0.00       1.23
(ii) Resurfacing                                 0.37     0.00       0.37
(iii) Roatine Maintenance                         1.08     0.00       1.08
(iv) Administrative                              0.65     0.00       0.65
Subtotal                                    3.33     0.00       3.33
III.  Consulting Services
(i) Project supervisioc                         0.04     0.26       0.30
(ii) Management system                           0.03     0.17       0.20
Subtotal                                    0.07     0.43       0.50
TV.  Training Overseas                           0.02     0.08       0.10
TOTAL                                        5.02    2.91       7.93
Physical Contingency (1OZ)                        0.50      0.291     0.79
Price Contingency (21%)                           1.05     0.61       1.66
Total Project Cost                          6.57     3.81      10.38
Percent Share                                    63.2     36.8      100.00



- 85 -
Annex 5.1
SEYCHELLES
Appraisal of Transport Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year                              --Disbursement in US$000---
and Quarter Ending:                           During Quarter    Cumulative
March 31, 1985                                       300              300
June 30, 1985                                        400               700
FY 1986
September 30, 1985                                   800            1,500
December 31, 1985                                    800            2,300
March 31, 1986                                       350            2,650
June 30, 1986                                        350            3,000
FY 1987
September 30, 1986                                   350            3,350
December 31, 1986                                    350            3,700
March 31, 1987                                       350            4,050
June 30, 1987                                        350            4,400
FY 1988
September 30, 1987                                   300            4,700
December 30, 1987                                    300             5,000
March 31, 1988                                       300             5,300
June 30, 1988                                        300            5,600
FY 1989
September 30, 1988                                   250            5,850
December 31, 1988                                    250             6,100
March 31, 1989                                       100             6,200
Source: Mission estimates April 1984.



Annex 5.2
Transport oject
Implementation Schedule
Activity                            FY 984    F= 1985                  F= 1966                                F  =987                FY 1988
.__________________ _  J 3-F-tM A-M-J J-A-S O-N-D .1-F-M A-M-J .J-A-S O-N-D J-F-M A-M-J J-A-S O-N-D J-F-M A-H-J J-A-S O-N-D J-F-H  -21-J J-A-S O-N-D
RW rABILTTATION aNr
A. Rehabilitation
-   Tender Docteant Preparation
-   Tekder Period
-  Tender Evaluation
-   Terder Review
-   Tender Award                                                            x                              x                          x
Comstrdcticn Pe                                                          -           -      - -i-d
B.  Training Program
C. Project Supervision
-   Review of Engineering Details
-   Tender evaluation
-   Project supervision
D.  MS Study Period
MOM&L PORr 034
-   Tender period     )
-   Tender evaluation) Civil worke'
- Tender Award )
-   Construction periods:
Dredging chme.el, tunimng baain,
etc.
Resurfacing, workshops, services
Repairs to emdsting berths
Petroleum products tenminal
-   Corsulting services:
Supervision of civil works
Financlnl sttdies



- 87 -
Annex 5.3
SEYCHELLES
Transport Project
Procurement Method
US$ ')00
(of which
Project Element                  ICB  LCB   OTHER  N.A. Total Costs   IBRD)
Dredging and reclamation         2.2                          2.2        1.8
Commercial Port civil works      7.5                          7.0
Commercial port finance study                 0.1             0.1
Road rehabilitation civil works        5.2                    5.7        3.4
Road rehabilitation technical                 0.2             0.2        0.2
assistance
Road rehabilitation training                  0.1             0.1        0.1
programme
Consultants for supervision                          1.4       1.4       0.7
of civil works
9.7   5.2   0.4    1.4      16.7       6.2



- 88 -
Annex 5.4
Page 1
Seychelles
Technical Assistance to the Land Transport Division (LTD)
Draft Terms of Reference
Objectives
The objective of the technical assistance is to carry out the
supervision of the 1985-88 rehabilitation program and to assist LTD in
developing a maintenance management system; to organize a road materials
testing laboratory; and to train counterparts for the above functions.
Scope of the Technical Assistance
The consultant shall provide one qualified senior highway
engineer for 48 man-months with adequate experience in road construction
and maintenance work relevant to Government-operated highway organizations
in developing countries. He should preferably have combined experience in
in the areas of highway management systems development and in construction
and maintenance field oeparations.
Supervision of Road Rehabilitation Projects
The senior highway engineer will be responsible for the
supervision of road rehabilitation projects over a four-year period
(1985-88) and will be team leader of the consultant staff. His duties
shall include:
(i) reviewing and updating detailed engineering documents for the
rehabilitation projects;
(ii) preparing contract and tender documents for the road
rehabilitation projects to be executed under local competitive
bidding;
(iii) participating in the tendering and tender evaluation process;
(iv)  reviewing, discussing and agreeing on a road re.-abilitation work
schedule with contractors;
(v) supervising the execution of the annual road rehabilitation
project which will include, but not bit limited to, the following:
(a)  controlling adherence to the agreed upon work schedule,
including workforce assigned, cashflow estimate, and
production rates;



- 89 -
Annex 5.4
Page 2
(b) control quality of road materials and finished work,
including method of construction on the basis of
specifications established for the rehabilitation work;
(c) inspect and carry out required tests at each stage of
operation and issue certificate of acceptance for each stage
of operation;
(d) measuring quantity of works done; checking and verifying
conformity with detailed engineering design and
specifications;
(e) testing produced and purchased materials and finished work
products at the required frequencies; issuing instructions
to the contractor on the basis of test results to either
proceed or to correct any deficiencies observed;
Cf) review and revise designs and specifications to improve
quality and cost;
Cg) carry out measurement of work done at required frequency and
prepare a monthly payment certificate;
(h) prepare as built engineering details and cost;
Ci) prepare and produce project completion report for each
individual contract and total four year project.
Systems Developing and Training
The senior highway engineer will be responsible for developing
road maintenance management system and coordinating the functions of the
cost accountant and the road materials testing specialists; and will
provide adequate training to counterparts. His duties will include, but
not be limited to, the following:
(i) develop procedure and format for annual road condition survey;
(ii) develop criteria and procedure for establishing road performance
standard for the entire road network system, taking into account
climate, type of road, terrain, ADT and road condition;
(iv) specify and define maintenance activities and set unit
measurements for each maintenance activity, taking into account
that maintenance work would be carried out mostly by contract;
(v) determine, through the above process, the anaual maintenance
workload;



- 90 -
Annex 5.4
Page 3
(vi) develop specifications to provide guidelines for quality control
of maintenance work by contract;
(vii) develop contract document for carrying out maintenance work by
contract;
(viii) develop a system for maintenance activities cost estimate on the
basis of basic cost data of labor, equipment, material and
overhead costs, including profit for contract work;
(ix) develop procedure for supervision of maintenance work by
contract, including preparation of monthly payment certificates;
(x) coordinate functions of the cost accountant and the road
materials testing specialist.
Allocation of Time
The rehabilitation work would be an average of 13 km per year,
totalling 52 km over the period 1985-88. The weather conditions in the
Seychelles would require shutdown of operations in the heavy rainy season,
and intermittent stoppage of operations in the high rainy season. On this
basis, it is estimated that rehabilitation work would be operational for 8
out of 12 months of one fiscal year. The balance of 4 months would be used
for systems development and implementation, and accrued annual leave.
Cost Accounting Specialist
The consultant will employ one professional cost accounting
specialist for four man-months. The cost accountant will be a qualified
professional with adequate experience in cost accounting of road
construction and maintenance works operated by a government agency, and
preferably some experience in cost accounting of maintenance work by
contract. The duties of the cost accounting specialist would include the
following:
(i) review and revise LTD's budget preparation and costing system,
based on the new maintenance management system;
(ii) review the road construction and maintenance cost accounting
system; develop a maintenance cost accounting system for
administrative and civil works operations of LTD, both for the
road infrastructure and other responsibilities of LTD;
(iii) develop a costing and accounting procedure and payment and
receipt account formats;
(iv) develop ledgers for end of fiscal year financial statement
including operational cost, depreciation and appreciation rates
for equipment and fixed assets and properties;



- 91 -
Annex 5.4
Page 4
(v) compile and review labor, material and equipment costs and
contract costs to form the basis for road construction and
maintenance work unit cost per unit measure of road
infrastructure related activities including overhead and profit
margin;
(vi)  develop a guideline manual for budgeting and cost accounting of
-ED's operations on the basis of the above operations;
(vii) recommend, on the basis of workload and complexity of operations,
the establishment of a cost accounting unit for LTD and train
counterparts assigned to the unit.
Road Materials Testing Specialist
The consultant will employ one professional road materials
engineer for three man-months. The materials engineer will be a qualified
professional with adequate experience in road construction and maintenance
materials testing operations relevant to the type and standard of roads in
the country. The duties of the materials engineer will include but not be
limited to the following:
Ci) investigate and specify LTD's road materials testing requirement
based on the magnitude and complexity of the work involved;
(i)  review the recommended list of equipment and tools for LTD's road
materials testing laboratory and suggest type and quantity of
additional equipment tools needed;
(iii) assist in identifying and installing the newly acquired and
additional road materials testing laboratory equipment and tools
of LTD;
(iv)  identify major types of tests to be undertaken by LTD and
development manual for carrying out the different test and
sampling procedures;
(v) develop test result recording formats, specifying the acceptable
specification standards;
(vi)  train selected laboratory staff of LTD, using the established
laboratory equipment.



- 92 -
Annex 5.5
Page 1
Reporting Requirements
1.        Two types of progress reports would be prepared and submitted by
LTD: (1) Rehabilitation project monthly progress reports, and (2) Road
maintenance progress reports.
A. Rehabilitation Progress Reports
2.        For the rehabilitation project implementation period, monthly
progress reports would be prepared and submitted within 15 days after the
end of each month. These reports would indicate progress in implementation
for each month.  The monthly progress reports would contain details as
shown in Annex 5.6 page 2 and would include the information covered below.
Monthly and Quarterly Progress Reports
- Activity bar chart for work schedule and accomplishment and revised
schedule;
- Graphical report of financial schedule, expenditure and revised
schedule;
-  Manpower and equipment list used by the contractor and supervising
consultant;
- Tabulated test results, rainfall data, materials on site, etc.;
- Major design changes and change order showing the related effect on
cost;
- Brief description of problems encountered and actions taken to resolve
the problems.
B. Road Maintenance Progress Report
(a)  Routine Maintetance
3.        For the fiscal year ending June 30, annual progress reports would
be prepared and submitted within one month of the end of the fiscal year.
The report would indicate iu-ementation of the annual maintenance program
and would contain details in Annex 5.6 page 5 and would include the
information covered below.
- Physical and financial targets and accomplishments to-date showing
percent variance between schedule and accomplishment and proposed
physical and financial revised targets for the following year;
- Brief narrative giving reasons for deviations from schedule and
corrective actions;



- 93 -
Annex 5.5
Page 2
- Major technical, financial material and administrative problems
affecting the progress of road maintenance work.
(b) Periodic Maintenance
4.        For resealing of paved roads and resurfacing of improved earth
roads, quarterly progress reports would be prepared and submitted within 15
days of the end of each fiscal year quarter. The report would indicate
implementation of the quarterly periodic maintenance program and would
contain details in Annex 5.6 pages 3 and 4 and would include the
information covered below:
- physical and financial targets and accomplishment to-date shoving
percent variance between schedule and accomplishment and proposed
physical and financial revised targets for the following quarter;
- brief narrative giving reasons for deviations from schedule and
corrective actions;
-  major technical, financial, material and administrative problems
affecting the progress of periodic maintenance work.



- 94 -
Annex 5.6
Page 1
SEYCHELLES
Transport Project
Curriculum for Training Abroad
Duration of Training in Weeks
Trainee
Training Subject                   Location               1    2    3   4   5
1. Introduction to the organization             Office/field          1    1    1   1
2. Road construction & maintenance              Classroom             2    2    2   2
a) New road construction project            Field                 1    1    1   1
b) Overlay construction project                -                  1    1    1   1
c) Gravel road upgrading to bitumen                               1    1    1   1
d) Labor intensive construction                                   1    1    1   1
e) Resealing project                                              1    1    1   1
f) Regravelling project                                           1    1    1   1
g) Routine maintenance                                            3    3    3   1
3. Maintenance work planning, programming       Classroom             2    2    2   1
and budgeting                               participation         1    1    1   1
4. Road materials, selection, sampling,         Classroom             1    1    1   2
testing and production                      Laboratory            1    1    1   5
5.  Supervision of maintenance by contract 1                                            6
6. Finance
a) Cost estimate                            Classroom             1    1    1   1
b) Cost accounting                          Classroom             1    1    1   1
c) Assessment of training program           Office                1    1    1   1
Total weeks per trainee                                          20   20   20  22   6
1/ Road construction and maintenance by contract, training for a graduate civil engineer
with about 4 years experience in road construction and maintenance.



goad Relabiltatiaon
Subprolect Hunthil ProRrUe. Report
Cnlit ry.                                                   l'roject Namoe  ___                                     Conntrjuct No., 
Agciney z_                                                  Contractor_                                             SupurvIs oio I_
I, t isllc t.LkIgl1: _     _         kF lnanced by                                           _        __and                                   _          r
R      ulth   diiu;   __ __                                 Coiitract Awount_                                        TInm  ulaiiai&di _
('CoImipletu     dael _' _ _     _      _                         Revtuid Amoulnt I               _                 Work ditollaO         I
Rvylaudl itLte:                                                    Payment thia period.                              Varidllice t:         X
Ihte Rellorilng:_                                                 Total Payments
PhYalIca                             Pitianclal                        Ad ilatmant    .
Tlie Period   T  date    _           This Period    To-date    2 ,      Pyal- I Acce- Flnn           A.
Activitles               Unit                                 Varl-                                  _IVa-  cal     lner-  chat.
T      A      T      A    ance       T      A      T      A   ance   Target   tlon  Target    . I l
.,     ,  I                            I-----'1--- =-- ---1-  1-  -I- -=                                                                                                        '
~~-.- - - - - - - -I- ----- -  --
..eucr   _PLIon of Work_
ILtitic probilur.:
., -
_   I   - -I=  =-I    =--=                                                   -I    ---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Periodic Road Resealing Project
Monthly Progress Report
Reporting period:                           Project name:                            Contractor:_
Reported by:        _                       Signature:                       Total Length:
Date stared:                                Completion date: _ __
Initial Cost:                    *          Revised Cost:
Physlcal                     Financilal       Adjustment
This Period   To-date               To-date   I,a-i Physi- Finan-
Activities               Unit                           Vari-          Expen- Var-   cal    cial
T     A      T     A   ance % Budget diture ance %   -          -
1.  Patchilng & Levelling      m2
2.  Base correction            m2
3.  Side Ditches               L.M.
4.  Seal Coat                  km
5.  Others
Reason for Variance:
Adjustment Remark:
Key: T - Target, A - Actual



Periodic Improved Earth Road Resurfacing
Monthly Progress Report
Name of Pro.ject:                                            Reporting period:
Length of project:                                         . Reported bys_
Date of start:                                               Completion date:
Financed by:                        _   _   and by
Contractor:                                     Supervisor:
Activities i                                 Physical                        Financial             Adlustment
Unit  This Period   To-date   Vari-    To-date        Vari-  Physi- Finan- X In-
ance X         Expen- ance %  cal    cial  crease
T     A     T      A           Budget diture                          P   F
1. Shoulder & ditch shaping
2.  Material production hattling,
processing and placing.
3.  Signs and markings & finishing
work
Total
Reason for variation:
Adluatment remark:
T = Target, A i Actual, P - Physical, F - Financial
OQ>



Routine Road Haintenasces
Quarterly Progreass Report
RelitinEtlsg Purlud,l                                               Reported by:                                                                    Signture:
Totdal Pjav,l Houi  k _-.                                             Earth Roads k_ 
Co ng rawr wa
AL I Iv I I I.pi                               Physical                                     Financial                                          Adljusmelnt
Unit     This Period          Tn-date        Variance               To-date                 Variance
T          A        T       A                      BudIget     Expenditure            I             Targut           Budlgul
1.  PIdrching 12
2.  Sput rebi.a11ng             *2
3.  Spot redurfacing            .3
4.  Grading surface             km
5. Shoulder & side
ditches                     km
6.  Culvert cleaning            No.
7.  Culvert repair              Wo.
S.  TLreaS A  Bush clearing    km
9.  Sligns a .rkilngs           L.S.
Ill. Repalr cof masonry
II  rust ure_
II t lter.r
h.
C.                                            _                        _____._..___
d.
Ruaona foir Variance:
I1.Iiw1nwdint:
Key:  I   ' rarge,; A   Actual; L.S.   Lump Suo; No.    Humher                                                                                                                         09  0
s



- 99 -
Annex 5.7
Page I
SEYCHELLES: Proposed Transport Project
Assistance to Ministry of Planning
East Coast Project Coordinator
Terms of Reference
Background:
The Government of the Seychelles have applied for loans from
the World Bank, the Kuwait Fund, BADEA and the African Development Bank
towards the cost of the East Coast Project. This project includes dredging
works, reclamation, extension to the commercial port, a major extension to
the fishing port, an inter-island terminal and the rehabilitation of about
40km of the roads on the island of Mahe.
It is anticipated that the civil works will commence early in
the second quarter of 1985 and will continue for two years in the case of
the port and for three or four years in the case of the road
rehabilitation. Tenders for the port civil works and dredging have already
been received and are in the process of being evaluated.
Project Implementation:
The project is being implemented by the Ministry of Planning
through a special unit set up specifically for the purpose. The unit
basically consists of a civil engineer with two junior assistants. The
civil engineer will not be employed full time on this project and it is
proposed to appoint a project coordinator to work with him and to provide
guidance on all aspects of the project's implementation.
Project coordinator:
General requirements
The coordinator should preferably be a fully qualified civil
engineer with some maritime and highway experience if
possible. He must have had at least fifteen years of
experience in major civil works projects with recent managerial
positions, possess a university degree from a recognized
university and preferably professional qualifications. He must
be fully competent in the english and/or french language -
written and spoken.
Experience in project management is essential. Previous
experience of working with various international aid agencies,
international competitive bidding, the FIDIC and other forms of
contract, and with developing countries is considered
important.



- 100 -
Annex 5.7
Page 2
The task
The coordinator will lead the project unit set up in the
Ministry of Planning for the following:
(i) to act as a liaison between the various financing agencies
associated with the project and the project unit in respect of
the reporting needs and withdrawal procedures of these
agencies.
(ii) to prepare such reports and other documents associated with the
progress and costs of the project as the financing agencies may
require.
(iii) to prepare withdrawal applications and the processing of the
contractors and consultants claims and the maintenance of a
detailed cash flow statement.
(iv) to manage the various consultants and technical assistants
appointed under the project.
(v) to provide advice from time to time on technical and managerial
aspects of the project implementation.



- 101 -
Annex 6.1
Page 1
SEYCHELLES
Transport Project
Economic Estimates - Assumptions
A. Road Rehabilitation
The costs are the economic cost of rehabilitation year 1 followed
by resurfacing again in year 7, based on LTD estimates.  Benefits are the
reduced cost of annual road maintenance and reduced vehicle operating costs,
(VOC) as follows:
VOC       Rupees/Kilometer
cars and         Medium
light carriers      goods        Motorcycles
Before resurfacing                 1.84             2.48             .37
After resurfacing                  1.63             2.10             .34
Proportion of traffic                .91             .07             .02
The VOC savings have been multiplied by the traffic (Annex 4.1)
and length of the different road sections.
B. Victoria Commercial Port
Economic Costs
The investment costs have been estimated as follows after
adjustment for physical contingencies and indirect taxes.
Financial cost          Economic cost
Million Rupees
Dredging and                           10.300                  10.170
reclamation
Petroleum                              26.000                  23.090
discharge facility
Resurfacing and                        13.000                  11.550
workshops
Berth repairs                           3.000                   2.660
Engineering supervision                 5.700                   4.690
Financial and                             700                     570
project management
58.700                 52.730



- 102 -
Annex 6.1
Page 2
Benefits
The reduction in ship waiting times are based on a daily cost of
73,000 Rupees of which 50X accures to Seychelles and the following ship
days:
Without            With              Days
Ship delay days                 project           project            Saved
1987-88                           73                10                63
1989-90                           95                14                81
1991-92                          123                15               108
1993-94                          148                15               133
1995-96                         189                 20               169
1997-98                         206                 21               185
1999-2000                       242                 22               220
2001-2002                        261                30               231
2003-2004                        268                30               238
Savings for LPG imported in bulk compared to bottles.
US$137,000 per year in 1987 (Rupees 1,000,000) growing at 1O0
until 1993 and 5% thereafter.
Savings for petroleum imports
US$3.0/ton (Rupees 21.9) each year in 1987 this would amount to
88600 tons x 21.9 = 1940340 Rupees.
Savingg in dry cargo: 0.2% (on average value of US$500/ton) reduction from
a 0.8% present loss for general cargo due to improved cargo handling and
security savings for 1987:  99600 tons x 7.3 = 727080 Rupees.



- 103 -
Annex 6.2
SEYCHELLES
Transport Project
Costs and Benefits for Victoria Commercial Port
Rupees ('000)
Savings
Ship                for     Savings
waiting  Savings  Petroleum for dry  Total          Net
Costs  times   for LPG   Imports   cargo  Benefits   Stream
1985          17200        -         -         -       -           -  -17200
1986         29000         -         -         -       -           -   29000
1987          6530    2300       1000     1940      727        5967     -563
1988           750    2300       1100     2229      755        6384     5634
1989           750    2957       1211     2319      783        7270     6520
1990           750    2957       1331     2353      805        7446     6696
1991            750    3942      1464     2388      828        8622     7872
1992           750    3942       1610     2424      850       8826      8076
1993           750    4855       1771     2460      873        9959     9209
1994           750    4855       1860     2497      898      10110      9360
1995            750    6169      1953     2534      915       11571    10821
1996           750    6169       2051     2572      932       11724    10974
1997           750    6753       2153     2611      950       12467    11717
1998            750    6753      2261     2650      968       12633    11883
1999            750    8030      2374     2694      986       14084    13334
2000            750    8030      2493     2738    1003        14264    13514
2001            750    8432      2617     2784    1020        14853    14103
2002            750    8432      2749     2829    1038        15048    14298
2003            750    8687      2886     2876    1056        15505    14755
2004            750    8687      3030     2923    1073        15713    14963
2005         21092                                                     21092
Source:  Consultants, Ilission estimates.
December 1984



Armec 6.3
Tranpor Project
Costs and Benefits for Road PAabilitation, Ruems ('000)
Road Section        12        16        18         6        13        23         3        4        20        25        14        15        26
-aes ('0)
Year
1985            -2910    -183D    -2710           -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
1986              602       403       484    -1640    -2660    -1940            -         -         -         -         -         -         -
1987              614       409       493       755       560       336    -2740    -2420    -1950    -1310             -         -         -
1988              623       412       500       773       568       342       517      1100       699       421    -2500    -2700    -1460
1989              639       422       509       788       575       342       528      1129       713       429       412       437       39D
1990              645       422       511       805       578       347       536      1154       727       435       416       446       389
1991              300        29       138       816       579       347       546      1182       738       440       418       450       395
1992              697       460       554       670       149         1       544      1204       751       439       423       459       402
1993              714       469       565       876       627       379       168       897       752       186       425       460       400
1994              732       478       575       897       637       386       595      1289       353       478       -48        46       156
1995              743       489       587       916       646       387       608      1324       810       488       453       502       442
1996              763       501       592       937       651       393       619      1355       827       496       459       513       452
1997              784       513       607       952       654       395       631      1389       844       503       462       519       460
1998                -         -         -       972       663       504       632      1417       859       504       468       53D       469
1999                               -         -         - _  _         _       638      1448       876       513       471      .533       469
2000                -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -       479       537       480
Source: Department of Tranusprt, MIsuion estlmates.
Deccnber 1984



- 105 -
Annex 6.4
SEYCHELLES
Transport Project
Economic Returns and Sensitivity Tests
No
Best  Traffic  Benefits  Costs  Benefits - 10%  First Year
Estiuate  Growth    -20Z      +10%    Costs +10Z       Return
Road
Rehabilitation
Section 12         18      16       13       16          13            18
16         19     17        14       17         14             20
18         15     12        10       13         10             16
6         47     43       38        43         39             41
13         18     16        13       16         13             19
23         13     10         9       11           9            15
3         16     14        11       14         12             17
4         47     42        37       42         38             41
20         36     32        28       32         29             32
25         31     28        24       28         25             29
14         13     11         9       11          9             15
15         14     12         9       12         10             14
26         25     22        19       22          19            23
Victoria           15       -       12       13          11            10
Port



- 106 -                                                                   #nA   .1
SEYCHELLES FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
PFM   Ib rating Statb_ts
-(thuesaud  sR  -
1979    19S    1951    192    193    1934    19          190s    1937    19n3    3999      990    19m1    1992    19m
actual                                                       ,rnjct
Vessel Related Does                 3,511   3,t64   3,576   3,09    3,90    4,137   5,345   5,956   6,634   7,385   7,939   3,416   8,920   9,456  10,023
Freight Related Chargs              8,952  11,351   4,349    4,765   3,796   4,907   5,53    5,979   6,140   7,046   3,223   H,657   9,161   9,697  10,219
Rentas                                609     775     96m      312    312       629     679     739      gD      78      944   1,000   1,060   1,124   1,191
ather Retne                         2.012   2,550   1,953    1,234   1,966   1,231    1,394   1,506   1,044   1,M       1,921   2,042   2,164   2,294   2,432
LtC incrmuatal OCarges                                                                2,251   2,294   2,343   4,208   4,490   4,799   5,093   5,370   5,170
Project Related Charges                                                               1,314   4,467   7,533   B,700  11,771  12,477  13,225  14,019  14,B60
Total Part Revenue               14,994   10,553  10,744   9,410   9,962   11,62   16,509  20,944  25,000  30,669  35,351   37,390  39,614  41,960  44,445
Perscnuel                           3,036   3,232   3,25    3,200   3,149   3,437   3,932   4,231    4,672   4,974   5,347   5,6E   6,000   6,369   6,751
materials and Supplies              2,394   2,m2   2,661   2,703   2,691   2,944   3,179   3,465   3,777   4,117   4,426   4,691   4*,          5,271   5,507
Tranpartation and Services          5,632   7,174   1,952   2,261   1,695   2,174   2,419   2,541   2,074    3,273   3,493   3,670   3,B11   4,057   4,212
Total Port E ienses              10,952  12,929   7,955    3,114   7,539   9,554   9,530  10,297  11,323   1314   13,2    14,029  14,B42  15,697  16,600
Operating Result                    4,132   5,625   2.09    1,241   2,423   3,099   6,979  10,647  14,276  19,305  22,035  23,3161  24,M    26,263  27,95
Depreciation                        3,258   3,671   3,703   3,913   4,402   4,947   5,234   5,705   6,219   0,779   7,237   7,724   9,136   8,679   9,200
Net Operating Result                  974   1,949    (9141  (2,5671  (1,9711  31,7491   1,745   4,941   9,057  11,521  14,749  15,637  16,504  17,504   19,646
Shipping Inccme (Loss)                (173   17683    323
Interest Expense                                                                      1,314   4,467   7,533   8,760   8,171   7,512   7,000   6,424   5,U40
Met Income                            957   1,181    (691)  (2,5671  (1,979s   11,7491    431   474     524   2,707   *,572   1,045   9,577  11,111   12,906
14-Bec-04



-  107 -                                                                               b   7.2
SEYCHELLES FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
PIFM   Operating Rnia
-ttlfmmsmd SR'sl-
1979    I9Y0     1991    1982    1903    1964    19B5         193     19B7    I9S       199      1M0    1991    I12         1993
*C~ats!----                                                                  p.j
Part Dues                               79B    1,07;      7S1      71t     al      192    1,09     1,222    1,361    1,515   1,623    1,726    1,93    1,940   2,051
Light Dues                              237      249      226      230      249     302       34      372      414      461      496      523     537      590      626
PFatag,                                 542      50       537      495     662      903      IB7      9S    1,101    1,226    1,319    1,397    1,481    1,570    1,664
TerNe                                 1,255    1,254    1,365    1,109    1,550    3,980    2,977   2,315    2,579    7,B70   3,036    3,271    3,47    3,675   3,b96
Bhrtlinn                                157      199      156      144     191      232        256   275       310      354      390      403     427      453      490
Almgsde Charges                         522      57t      511      406     518       28 6t     4      774      362      959    1,031    1,093    1,139    1,229    1,302
Pspeline                                57j      475      465      447     561      t17      742      99       992      961    1,033    1,095    1,161    1,3;1   1,305
Cargo Handlhng                        6,691    8,913    1,874   2,169    1,591    2,136    2,533    2,B92    3,274    3,941    4,397    4,743   5,126    5,538    5,960
Secrity                               1.558    1.968    2.010    2,149    1,654    2,0B4   2,263    2,341    2,4B5   2,744   2,B03   2,919   2,874   2,2          2,994
Stragr                                  t09      775      866      312     312      620      678      739      B05      87B      9U    1,00      1,060    1,124    1,191
Watering                                571    I,323      877
Passenqr Fees                            iB       49       54      57       58       63       66       75       9l       59       95     101      107      313      120
Swver Licences and Iehgstrat:om         464      355      257      227     217      332      358      391      426      464      49      529      561      594      630
Ferv Sernce                             400      369      410                       429      463      SOS      331      600      643     604      72       769      814
Hiring of ottr Bats                     240       75       63      101      153     138       49      162      377      193      207     220      233      247      262
Miscellammus                            299      S        292      849   1,439      319       44      375      409      446      479     508      SD       371      605
Total Part Revenues                14,994   18,553   10,744   9,410    9.962   13,652   12,944   14,192   13,723   17,701   19,032   20,115  21,306   22,571   23,915
-awzng:
Eargo Hndling                       1,961    1,542    2,025
Passenger Fares                       165      130    I0
2.12e    1,672    2,206
14-Dec-4



- 108-
SEYCHELLES FLST ThANSPORT PROJECE
PM   Ilu.t1q Epm,s
-(thoUs.d SR's)-
1979     19M4     1W I     192     S193       1U4      195     IM       1997    lOU        1919     1990     1S91    12        1993
acdal                                                              -r,jected
Adaimistraticn
Porstu.l                                  62       644      650      655       f30       9       963      94      1,025    1,117    1,201    1,73    3,550    1,431    1,517
f4sce Smli.s                               59       67       71       S5        A1       67       72       73        I5       93      110      104       113     t11       126
Transportatim                              65      1i        37       79        75       82       U        96       103      115      123      U3l       13       147      155
756      m        BOB      7Y9       7S6      83S    1,023    1,115    1,216    1,325    1,425    1,510    1,601    1,6S7    1.799
Triusp1rtaticnt ant PIaiNg:
Pmnme!                                     69       73       75       71        S7       73      179      195      213       114      122      130       137      14i      154
Tranptatimu                                71       77       B0        69       65       71       77       94        91       99      107      113       12J      121      135
140      15D      155      140       132      144      254      279      304       213      229      243      257       273      209
Maine M4imistratim:
PuSel                                     355      451      466      392       421      460      49       541       590      643      U9       733       777      S23       73
offirce S !.W                             287      323      330      317       2Yt      313      343      374       403      444      479      5        537       569      603
Materials                                 112      135      177      203       la       203      219      239      261       2S4      3D5      324       343      364      385
Transportatim                              45      5S        15       so        43       69       74       31       U         96      103      310       114      123      131
639      967    1,039      960       96I    1,049    1,133    1,235    1,346    1,418    1,579    3,672    1,M        1,879    1,992
Caip tt5,420    4,948    1,795    1,944    1,439    1,394    2,117    2,21b    2,516   2,91IZ    3,073    3,224    3,389    3,554    3,731
14-Du-4



1(9                                                          hum~~~~~~ 7.4
-  109 -                                                                             mu   .
SEYC9UXES FIRST TRUISPOftT PROJC
PO   Opratim  Exp.om
-(tIousad  U'r3-
1979    t9aU    1991      132    1993       191      1935    191      19B7    1E8       SSR      1990    399      192    3993
--actl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .24ctu
h1m,n  forward                        7,155    B,B57   3,706    3,74    3,299    3,924    4,52S    4,946   5,3B2   5,1i3    6,304    6,6km      7,619   7,485    7,010
Nwiw  i:
PVrl                                  1,395    1,498    J,m      1,571    1,497    1,634    1,765    1,924    2,097   2,2U    2,457    2,605    2,761   2,927   3,103
Batmials                                815      91S    1,053    1,158    1,177    1,20B   1,381    1,513   1,649    1,797    1,932   2,041    2,171   2,301   2,43
Transportation                           21                       191       35       3S       41      45       49       53       57       61       65       Be      13
2,221    2,419    2,55    2,920   2,709    2,959    3,194   3,482    M795    4,137    4,447   4,714    4,97    5,297   5,614
Enginirm:
Persml                                  555      56      511      521     5m        552      629      685     747      314      375      927      993   1,042    1,105
IPatrials                               911    1,016    1,037     960      9I9   1,071    1,157    1,261    1,374    1,499    1,610   1,707    1,I09    1,919   2,033
Trasprtation                             10      10       15       20       IB       20       21       23      25       27       30       31       33       35      37
1,476    1,592    1,53    1,501    1,532    1,673    1,907    1,969   2,146    2,331   2,515    2,6       2,26    2,99     3,175
Tota Part Espasu                   10,652   12,93    7,855     ,164    7,539    9,554    9,530   10,297   11,323   12,364   13,266   14,029   14,B42  15,697  16,600
Shipping:
Per mel                               1,050    1,025     999
NatWiaIs                              1,093    1,415    1,105
2,143    2,440    2,695
14-4c-4



-110 -                                                                                         5
SEYCHELIES FIRST TRINSPORT  PROJECT
ItC lIcoue Stetueta
1                        _21                    -Ittwusad Rsl-
397     1979    1990    1992       1993    1994      1LM5     19b    197       1999    1999    190        1991    19       3993     994
------auditJ                               ,stated -buiget                                 10rojec  d
Riwiugs                      2,053   11,676   14,173   19,024   17,662   22,750  22,78    25,072   23,278  33,0e7  3B,974  43,047  46,535   50,297   54,322  57,515
Egpenses  3/                  1,ttE    3,224   10,045   12,023   11,729  1,075   14,Y52   15,455   17,114   19,257   21,674   23,5317  25,132   2t,851   2B,6b1  30,119
Additimal Part Charges                                                                     2,262    2,306   2,909    4,291   4,573   4,970    5,155    5,445    5,M
Gross Profit                   315   3,452    4,129    7.001    5,933    6,675    7,751    7,355    8,95B   11,021   13,019   14,957   16,M    11,291   20,19    21,65
Nnagement Fees                                   341    1,363      365       74     200      216      235      257      290      301      319     33B      358      390
Auditors ad  Directors                           265       71      144      145     150      162      177      192      210      226      23      253      269      205
Operating Profit               305   3.452    3,522    5,567    5,424   6,456    7,401    6,977    9,446   10,572   12,530   14,431   15,976   37,690   19,569   20,960
Interest EWense                                            SO       15                t
Btier Inco.e (Expeasel                           103       29     11251    ;05      200      216      235      257    2n0        301      319     338      35S      390
let Income, Wore Tas           185   3,452    3,625    5,545   5,284   6,761    7,595    7,193   9,681   30,929   12,810   14,731   16,294   10,020   19,927  21,340
Incom  Tax                     160    1,250    1.494    1,990    1.747    2,973    2,055    2,704   3,23    4,070    4,915    5,53S    6,125    1,777    7,491    0,022
Net lcKOe after Tax           225    2,202    2,132    3,655   3,537    3,983   4,740    4,489   5,41B    6,758    7,994   9,194   10,169   11,251   12,436   13,318
Divideads                               540    3,411   3,000    2,900    2,000   2,90o    2,693    3,251    4,055    4,797   5,516   6,102    6,751    7,462    7,991
Adjustments                              23    4*2
Retained Earnings              225 I,t9O        (959)    655       637    1,983   1,90    1,796    2,167   2,703    3,198   3,677    4,0t8    4,500    4,975    5,327
=jI     - i   J                    --       -i- 3:USt=   =x2.    m=                      Dint                      2       -S
11 Three months to leceedr 31st      21 15 onths to larch 31st        31 Includes deprKcati0m (bnel 7.131
14-Dec-04



-  111 -                                                                               ne7.
SEYCHELLES FIRST TRAN1SPORT PROJECT
ULC Selected Financial Indicatus
1979     191S 1990         1932     1917 1994         29       196      19       19M      19319    1990    1991      1992    199      1994
--audited              -            estimated -baget
Profitability:
Met Profit "lIagn              11.01    19.9%    13.0;   19.2z    20.0.     17.11    20.91    17.92    19.l   20.UM    20.5M    21.4%    21.9    224l    22.9         23.21
Operating Pruitt Rirgin       I1.9%    29.6?    24.9%    29.3%    30.7%    29.4%    32.61   27.9%    29.9%    32.0t   32.1t   33.5t   34.31   35.2l   36.01  3U.4%
Return r  Equity                b.0    4.II   42.7%    74.7    63.3l    57.1t   54.72    42.0Z   43.52    45.4l   44U.           43.22    40.4U    39.22   36.41   33.9l
Retuirn to *,eroent' _11        4.32    39.1;  10.It  127.S1    90.5X    72.9%    68.71   53.62    54.22    56.31   5W.U4   53.32    49.S2    47.12    44.93    41.7
Liquidi tp:
'uicl Ratio 2/                                   1.79     1.51     1.06     1.04     1.27     1.33     1.29     1.25     1.25     1.22     1.21     1.19     1.1     1.17
Current Rat3o 21                                 2.46     1.7i     1.20     1.13     1.47     1.56     1.51     1.47     1.46     1.43     1.42     1.40     1.39     1.37
Working Capital                                2,771    3,013    1,007      931   2,374    3,234    3,434    3,766    4,415    4,6    4,899    5,132   5,375    5,600
Capitalizatiao:
Debt to Eqaty                   0K         ox      0        19x l     % Ill   Ot        et       m%      0%        Ol       0t       el       a        07       0       0l
_1/ (aNga  ent fees*ket lacme beFore tazl:Eqity
_21 Eacluding cnh surplits
14-Dec-S4



-  112 -                                                                          km  7.7
SEYCHEILES FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
no - ME
Cnslidatui Operating Statmnms
-Itkusaid SR'sl-
1979    190      393W    3I9Z     933    1934    91         1       1937    91       399    1m 90     1       1992    3993
----ctual-                                               ------oj4cLJ
Part gnmmes                         14,984   13,553  10,744   9,410   9,962  11,652  16,509   20,944  25,DO0  30,669  35,301  37,390  39,614  43,940  44,445
ILIC  hnws                          11,676   14,173  15,213  17,051   21,478   22,715  24,359   27,Z3I   31,433  37,901  42,193  45,115  49,297  53,257  57,515
Shipping Reesues                    2,126    1,672   2,205
Case! idated Rewnues              2B,7Bt  34,393  26,171  26,46L  31,440  34,367  40,868   48,13   57,052  41,570   77,492  53,005  9,911   95,217  301,960
PFrt Expees                         130,52   12,923   7,655    9,164   7,539    ,554    9,530  10,297  11,323   12,364   13,266  14,029  14,342   15,697  16,40
LtC Expeass                          6,224   9,639    6,926   10,441  14,213  14,504   15,069  36,615  16,612  21,192  23,120  24,709  26,401  3,202  30,119
Shipping Expenses                  2,43    2,440   2,065
Cmnsulidated Expenses             21,219   25,006   13,668   36,605  21,752  23,058   24,599  26,911  29,936  33,556  36,3S6  39,738  41,243  43,69    46,719
tmsoliiDatd Rsult                   7,567   9,392   9,303   7,656   9,6Ba  11,309  16,269  21,242  27,147  35,014  43,306  44,267  47,669  51,339  55,242
*hpreciatiam                         3,258   4,083   4,394   4,574   5,177   5,575   6,043   6,603   7,137   7,133   3,409   8,913   9,44a  10,015  10,616
Interust Expes                                                                          1,314   4,467   7,533   9,760   3,376   7,592   7,006    6,424   5,140
let Cmsolidated Relt                4,309   5,309   4,909    3,262   4,511   5,733    6,912  10,172  12,417  16,421   24,522  27,762  31,213  34,960  38,796
14-Da    au                 ms..    as .s               s    5      *                .s             m      a    t-a-    s s         ___
24-ec44



9'           InS         gg         - - IS it 
>~~~~~~ "      .-                  
hi a  -  a     hi CR N  CR NB -J   jIn
I  bibbiwibbib.          I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~i   *. 
I-



- 114 -                                                                            Anex 7.9
SEYCEULLES FIRSr TRIISPORT PROJECT
PID Fonb Stateunts
ItEimnd e's)
3979    1990    1991    1992    1983    19S4    19E5    19S         1997    19s      199    1990    1991    3992    1993
Net Dptrating Result                  174   1,949    (814) (2,5673  (1,791   1,7491  3,745   4,941   9,057  11,526   14,748  15,637  26,584  17,584  19,646
Dpreciation                          3,259   3,676   3,10     3,913   4,402   4,847   5,24    5,705   6,219   6,779   7,281   7,724   9,IB9   1,679   9,200
Cash Flet froe Operatins           4,132   5,625   2,BB9    1,246   2,423   3,099   6,979   10,647  14,276  11,305  22,035  23,361  24,772  26,263  27,145
Plant Invst.ents                             8,21U      119   7,363   5,610   3,304   32,764  33,033  22,416   6,145   0,941   4,109   6,905    1,972   1,350
Debt Service                                                                            1,314   4,467   7,533   5,760  13,09s  12,507  11,923  11,339  10,755
let Cnh ato (fral Treasury                  (2,5933   2,770  (6,1171  13,19B71    2061 127,9993 126,8533  135,6721   3,400    2   6,745   5,944  13,052  15,740
Application of Foods                       5,625   2,B99    1,246   2,423   3,09B   6,979  10,647   14,276  19,305  22,035  23,361  24,772  26,263  27,st
Ratio Aalysis
Marking Ratio                        72 .4    69.n 7  73.1?   B6.0?   75.n 7     3.41   57.7?   49.2?   44.2?    0.3?   37.6?    37.5?   37.5s   37.4?   37.3?
Operating Ratio                      94.21   E9.52   107.61  127.3?  119.9?  115.01   B9.41   76.4?   68.5s   62.41   59.2?   sE.22   59.1t   58.1?   sa.0
Return on let Assets                  2.5?    3.2?   -1.3?   -3.? X   -2.7?    -2.2      L.       3.72    4.89    6.2?    7.S.    7.51    7.61    7.5?    9.2?
P1NS and ILC Consolidated:
larking Ratio                        73.7?   22.7?   67.0?   70.3?   69.2?   67.11   69.2?   55.9?   52.4?   40.9?   47.01   46.7?   46.4?   46.3?    45.9?
Owratig Ratio                        Bs .0   B94.6?    Z.6?   RI.6    B5.7n   93.3?   75.0?   69.6?   65.1?   60.4?   51.?E  57.41   57.0e   56.6U   56.21
Return on Net Assets                  7.4?    9.5?    7.4?    4.6?    5.9?    7.1?        9.L2    10.6?    1.6    14.3?   36.12    16.5?   17.11   17.9?   19.1?
I UDt-Ste-



-115 -
SEYCHELLES FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
PIED Pro-forma blance Sheets
Ithousand SR's!
1984     1995     S8b6    1997      1998     1999     1990     19l      1992    I1n
Current Assets                         1,399    1,981    2,513    3,072    3,690    4,236    4,487    4,754    5,035    5,333
Fixed Asets                          123,200  153,004  197,215  237,0B4  258,421 277,903  294,471  312,139  330,860  350,720
ccuulated Depreciation                43,699   39,119   43,443   54,550   67,292   13,231   83,351  89,3m   104,729  121,629
Net Fixed Assets                      79,501  114,886  153,712  192,534  191,129  204,512  211,121  222,786  226,139  229,091
Total Assets                          90,B99  116,867  156,295  195,606  194,909  209,80  215,609  227,540  Z31,174  234,424
3==   ==-=S=  ==r=  *=.= S =s=E=   US===  ====  Snn=  ==--=  t==Ct
Current Liabilities                      955      953    1,030    1,132    6,152    6,242    6,318    6,400    6,495    6,576
Lonq Ter. Debt                                 23,700   56,980   79,000   73,733   6B,417   63,200   57,933   52,667   47,400
Equity Capital                        90,044  9Z,214   99,375  105,474  114,924  134,100  146,089  163,207  1:2,022  190,449
Liabilities and Capital               80,999  116,867  156,295  185,606  194,909  209,90  215,609  227,540  231,174  234,424
-Dec-94



- i16 -                                                                           s  7.11
SEYCHELLES FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
ULC WMiascbeslts
Ithe und SE'sd
1791    199      1930    1972      3983    I9S4     195      1936     197    I9S        199      2990    1991    192       3 9       994
- - dtts--------st etd-sqetsid                                             rotd-t-----------                       --
ASSETS
CaSh                                             m     3,325    3,333    1,720    3,126   3,512    3,961    4,635   5,4U9    1,030    ,5319    7,044    7,60     3,037
Recivables                                     2,403    2,672    1,971   5,926    3,373    4,141    4,171   5,465    6,433    7,110   7,66    3,306    9,973    9,500
invsstry                                       1,233     979      731      705      174    1,316    1,484    1,736   2,045    2,259    2,42    2,6       2,S51    3,013
Carmt  ssts                   31 A      1     4,66     6,976    4,570    3,351    7,473    3,96W   10,116   11,336   13,9"2   135,9   11,647   17,99   19,433  20,575
Cash Suplus                                                                  0        0    3,M      2,94    4,903    7,10    9,920   32,671   36,4   20,7m    27,564
Fiied  sets                                   3,23    5,390   6,482    7,332    8,000    3,640    9,418  10,265   11, 119 12,02    12,750  13,515   14,326   15,115
kcmlated DeprKcstim                            2,153    3,006    3,634    4,332    4,596    5,573    6,075    6,4as   7,151    6,236   6,937    7,354    7,612   10,161
Ret Fixe  Asts                 NA       N     1,673    2,89     2,8    2,950    3,404    3,367    3,34    3,771    4,033    5,742   5,833    6,163    6,714    5,05
Off hiatus                                     125     549   2,737    3,104    3,304    3,304    3,904    3,304    3,904    3,304   3,304    3,3K4    3,34    3,104
Totl Asts                      1 A      111    6,459  10,416   10,126   15,105  14,693   17,112   20,227  24,313  23,973   33,36    3S,942   44,546  50,723   56,968
14-ec-4



-  117 -                                                                        l     7.1
SMYClELLES FLRST TRANSPOrT PYOJECT
IILC NJ cKe %tb
lttmad SR'ul
1976    1979    190q1     1992     19U     f164     195    1931          1     li       16       10      11         12 II3           194
------------aaditsd------- estiated -budg st--r ct -----------
UABILITIES
Poa n ybu    kd r,ls                             290    1,117    1,260   4,237    1,937   2,612    2,952    3,452    4,007    4,492   4,50    5,247   5,60    6,0n1
Imn lwerdraft                                     5                130
DM uvunrt                                         05     456      424      19       307      415     468      549      64       713      770   U33         9       952
Tanut Payae                                    1,493    1,190    1,750   2,B19    2,055    2,704   2,202    4,070    4,915   5,53a   6,125    6,M       7,491   0,022
Cwrut Liablitian              N1A       N      1,A93   3,963    3,563    7,363    5,099    5,135   6,692    9,070   9,5      1,743   11,751   12,657   14,059   14,975
LaM                                                    1,231      704
Paid in Capital              1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,350    1,250    1,350    1,350    1,353    1,350
=b eeOs                      2,160    2,160   2,126    2,160   2,160   2,1U0   2,160   2,130   2,100    2,160    2,100   2,1U9   2,100   2,10    2,100   2,160
btained Earninp                225    1,915    1,057    1,712   2,349   4,232    4,072    7,807   10,035   12,731   15,936   19,013   23,011   29,191   3,150   36,413
qitY                         3,735   5,425   4,507    5,222    5,059   7,742    9,5 l221,377   13,545   16,24    19,44    23,123  27,191   31,691   36,000   41,993
Liabilitis  nd Capital         I A      N A   6,459   10,412  10,126   15,105   14,191   17,112  20,227   24,319   23,9n 33,300   33,942   44,540   50,723  56,969
14--14



-  118 -                             .1s  SI
SEYCNELLES FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
bushriet Projet blated Ash Flo
-Ithbued  Go'sI-
1985    1196      I7       19w3     193       199      19"2     I2       I29      I94       I95      19%      197      IM       199      2000
Projct hlated hymn,                     1,314    4,467    7,533    3,760   12,771   12,477   13,225   14,019   24,810   15,752   16,697   11,695 12,7b1   19,036   21,079   22,344
Werciatimn                                                         2,460    2,645    2,803    2,972    1,250    1,339    3,539    3,752    3,917    4,215    4,468    4,736    5,021
Cash Illf.                              1,314    4,467    7,533   21,220   14,415   15,2K    16,197   17,169   1,1299   19,291   20,449   21,675   22,976   24,355   25,916   27,3U
Capital Ezp.ditures                   23,700   33,210   22,123                                                                                                                (102,7781
Operating Expenditurn                                                790      P9        900      954    1,012    1,072    1,136    1,205    1,277    1,354    1,435    1,521    1,612
Debt Service:
Interest                              700   2,630    5,093    6,235    5,113    5,335    4,801    4,268    3,734    3,2D1    2,667    2,114    1, 60        1,067      533      267
-meitbst Fff                          423       277       97
Aemrtizatten                                                             5,293    5,293    5,293    5,293    5,293    5,293    5,293    5,293    5,293    5,293    5,293    5,293
Cash Outflt                            24,906   31,137   27,310    6,925   12,010   11,520   11,049   10,572   10,099    9,630    9,165    0,703    3,247    7,794    7,347  195,6071
kt lash Flu                           (23,522 131,6701 119,7772   4,295    2,405    3,753    5,149    6,597    3,100    9,661   11,234   12,972  14,729   16,56W   10,469  122,911
Finhcial bte of Return:        12.07  in censtant term
1   19.9?  in current tires I
14-kc-364



-119 -                                      ?uM  7.13
SEYCHELES rIRT RANSPORT PIWECY
ke Feds Statmumts
_ttho,_ sr.t
F F  S                                 19       11       19z      I193    1934     190      13       Iff7     19      199      1990    1991    1992       M3      1994
-mtd          d-  instm  ud  -     t                                 ,  _-
Not Incosw - f' Tax                   3,452   3,125    5,545    5,234    6,76     7,595    7,193   8,11L  10,123   12,310   14,731  16,294   11,921   19,927  21,340
clpruciatim                             Ka       407       33     734      773      714      31l      916      99    1,W4    I,13      1,21    1,219    1.355   1,437
Cash Flom fru lWatins                 3,452   4,02    6,41      1,03     7,534   9,309    3,03      9,597   11,127   13,1    15,9   17,531   19,306  21,212  22,177
Burirft                                   e        5       ()      1n     (in01       0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0       0        o
T1a Lm                                    0       0    1,231      (e5)    1704)      e0       a-       0        0        o                 0       0        0 o
Fim-ang                                   0        5    1,226     (93      1334)      0        0        0       0        O        0        0        0       0        a
Tatal Soai                          3,452   4,037    7,635    5,673    1,700   8,309   9,33    9,597   ,1127   13,3   15,319   17,531   19,331   21,232  22,771
USES F FLN
Irking Capital                          NA      NA O            12,fs ao   753   1,61       317      312    1,219    1,69l 1,332         BP       951    ,023      30
plant                                   NA       NA   2,eu1       740    3n5    1,3          503   1,192    1,432    1,335   2,342    1,277    1,627    1,9K      422)
Tis                                   1,253       e    1,493   1,817    1,750   2,373    2,121   2,704   3,263   4,371    4,u15   5,533    1,123    ,7m          7,491
Divid                                   540   3,418    3,eoo    2,9      2,0ee    2,900   2,U9     3,751    4,055    4,797    5,516   6,102    6,751    7,462   7,991
Iffiliatus                              la       NA        72   2,191    1,322     1101    (1)        (531    I11) e    m7      (MD      t571    C633    4663    153)
rjmtumts _4                           1,6 2      619       (        1       II)            1,273    1,69     1,97    2,23     1,M      3,75S    3,915   4,179   1793
To   Omh                            452    4,037   7,635    5,670   6,790    9,30    3,34    9,57   11,87   13,313   15,9   37,501   19,331   21,232  22,771
11 Fro  1936 mwds balcing factor is task snplus
144-c-64



- 120 -
Annex 7.14
Page 1
SEYCHELLES
Transportation Project
Financial Projections
Assumptions
A. General
1.        Inflation.  Domestic and international inflation rates have been
projected as follows:
1984      1985      1986-88       1989      1990-2000
International     3.5Z       8.0%        9.0%        7.5Z         6.0Z
Domestic          9.2Z       8.0%        9.0%        7.5Z         6.0%
2.        Freight Traffic has been projected as set out in Annex 3.4.
3.        Net Registered Tonnage of Ships calling at Port Victoria has been
projected as follows:
1984      1985         1986       1987      1988-2000
400,000   410,000     420,000    430,000       440,000
B. Port of Victoria
4.        Revenues have been projected as follows:  Vessel related dues,
i.e., port and light dues, pilotage, towage, berthing, and alongside
charges will increase in direct proportion to projected inflation and
registered tonnage of vessels.  The inflation adjusted average revenue per
registered ton for 1979-83 has been used for the base year, 1984. Cargo
related charges, i.e., pipeline, cargo handling, storage, and security
charges will increase in direct proportion of projected inflation and
freight traffic. The inflatioa adjusted average revenue per freight ton
for 1979-83 has been used for 1984. All other revenues will increase by
inflation alone over the average for 1979-83.
5.        Additional Revenue. In addition to the above PMSD will receive
from ULC an additional charge to enable the port to recover fully
depreciation charges. Furthermore, total port revenues will increase 50%
in real terms from 1985 to 1989. The increases will be gradual and will be
equal to interest payments on a loan to PMSD to finance project facilities.
6.        Expenses.  Personnel expenses will increase to provide for two
additional staff fcr finance and accounting and training for all financial
staff. Cargo related expenses will increase in direct proportion to
traffic. In addition to these real increases, all expenses will increase
at the same rate as inflation. Available project related expenses were
calculated at 1% of project investment costs revalued annually.



- 121 -
Annex 7.14
Page 2
7.        Annual depreciation charges were calculated on a straight line
basis according to the schedule of fixed assets shown in Annex 7.8 and
Fixed Assets revalued annually as shown in Annex 7.10.
8.        Current Assets.  No provision was made for cash because cash
receipts will be paid into the Seychelles Treasury as received.
Receivables are equal to one month revenues which is consistent with
experience during 1979-83.
9.        Fixed Assets have been calculated according to the schedule shown
in Annex 7.8, and revalued annually. It was assumed that individual items
would be scrapped at the end of their useful life and replaced at the
estimated current market value.
10.       Current Liabilities.  Accounts payable and accruals were
calculated at 10% of annual operating expenses excluding depreciation.
From 1989 through 2000 they include the current portion of long term debt.
11.       Long Term Debt.  It is assumed that Port project expenditures
would be entirely financed through a term loan. The amount of the loan
will be SR79 million. 30% of the loan proceeds will be drawn down in 1985;
42%, in 1986; and 28%, in 1987. The loan will be repaid in twelve equal
annual installments beginning July 1, 1989. The interest rate will be
11% p.a., which is 10% higher than the Bank lending rate at the time of
loan negotiation.
12.       The Port's fiscal year is the same as Government's.
C. United Lighterage Company Ltd. (ULC)
13.       Revenues have been projected in direct proportion of projected
traffic and inflation using the inflation adjusted 1980-83 average as a
base.
14.       Expenses will increase by a factor equal to the rate of inflation
and 5O0 of traffic growth.
15.       Depreciation charges have been provided annually on a straight
line basis.
16.       Additional Port Charges have been provided as set out in para. 4
above.
17.       Dividends.  A dividend payout ratio of 60X of Net Income after
tax has been assumed from fiscal 1986 onwards.
18.       Working Capital.  Current assets and current liabilities build up
will follow historical patterns and prudent liquidity management
requirements. A consistent dividend policy (para. 17) and no further
upstream financing will enable ULC to achieve these targets.



- 122 -
Annex 7.14
Page 3
19.       Fixed Assets have been revalued annually on the basis of
projected inflation. Individual plant and equipment items have been
scrapped and renewed at replacement value when their useful life is
expected to expire.
20.       A Cash Surplus account has been set up to measure the difference
between estimated cash generation and requirements.
21.       Fiscal Year is April 1 to March 31.



- 123 -
Annex 7.16
Page i
REPUBLIC OF SEYCHELLES
TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
SYSTEI1IS AT THE PORT OF VICTORIA
The Republic of Seychelles has applied for loans from the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) as well as
from other international development institutions to, among other
activities, improve facilities and infrastructure in the Port of Victoria,
in Mahe Island, and to provide technical assistance and training for
institution building to the Port and Marine Services Division (PMSD) of the
Department of Traasport.
1. Scope of Work
Consultants shall be required to make recommendations for
introduction of new accounting and financial systpms or changes to existing
systems taking into account that PMSD is to remain a division of the
Department of Transport, the modest volume of Port traffic, the small labor
force, and its reasonably efficient management and operations to date.
Preliminary consulting work by Consultants NORPLAN (Norway) concerning
asset valuation and tariff structure changes should also be taken into
account.  It is estimated that approximately ten staff-months will be
required to complete this consultancy.
2. Financial Planning, General and Cost Accounting and Management
Information Systems
Consultants shall conduct detailed studies and review of the
financial planning, general and cost accounting and management information
system needs of PMSD and shall, inter alia:
(a) Develop a clear statement of FMSD's objectives in terms of
achieving a satisfactory balance between profitability and public
service, bearing in mind PMSD's financial obligations and its
future growth requirements. The purpose is to establish the
principle that the cost of operating the port is being paid for
by the users, making it possible for PMSD to operate without
Government subsidies.
(b) Analyze and recommend a tariff system based on costing studies so
that resultant revenues will be sufficient to cover all operating
and maintenance cost, and leave a satisfactory balance to cover
debt-service requirements and to make a contribution to future
investments. This would entail monitoring in detail and in depth
the level and structure of tariffs including sensitivity analyses
to determine whether possible revisions to the user charges
structure and/or the creation of other possible forms of revenues
would achieve the stated financial objectives.



- 124 -
Annex 7.17
Page 1
SEYCHELLES TRANSPORTAIION PROJECT
ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT
Government Accounts
1.        Art. 97 of The Constitution established the Office of Director of
Audit, his functions and responsibilities. The Director of Audit, audits
and reports on all Government accounts which are to be kept in such form as
the Director of Audit shall approve. The Director of Audit submits his
report to the Assembly (Parliament) within 12 months of the end of the
financial year. The Constitution also established a Public Accounts
Committee, elected by the Assembly, which considers the Annual Report of
the Director of Audit.
2.        The Director of Audit has a staff of about 20.  A number of the
senior positions are vacant. Despite fairly competitive salaries, the
Director of Audit has been unable to fill the vacancies, and has therefore
requested Presidential approval to recruit two senior accountants from
India. Concurrently, to achieve a long term solution to this problem, the
Government has set up a Management Training School staffed by two
expatriates which would prepare nationals to qualify for membership of the
British Institute of Chartered Accountants.
3.        Despite staffing constraints, the quality of Government audits is
high and the Director of Audit has been able to cope with the workload of
his office. The latest Annual Report of the Director of Audit was issued
in July 1982 for the 1978 accounts. Although the Audit Act of 1972
requires the Accountant General to transmit his accounts and statements
within six months of the end of the fiscal year, the full 1978 accounts
were received by the Director of Audit only by May 1981. Reasons given for
this delay include (i) a change in accounting machines; (ii) staff changes
which caused difficulty in balancing and reconciling the accounts, and
(iii) failure by certain Ministries to supply the Accountant General with
detailed returns of expenditure. The Director of Audit received the 1979
accounts in February 1984 and the audit is currently being carried out.
Continuous delays in the submission of the consolidated Government accounts
are a cause for serious concern. The Accountant General's staff of about
60 should be sufficient to prepare the consolidated accounts efficiently
but, in practice, because the level of skills and experience of junior
staff is low, their productivity suffers. The situation is expected to
improve in a few years as students graduate from the Management Training
School. Growth of private accounting firms should also provide increased
opportunities for on-the-job training of graduates and raise the overall
level of the accounting profession in the Seychelles.



- 125 -
Annex 7.17
Page 2
4.        In addition to an annual audit of all Government accounts, the
Director of Audit also carries out audit inspections of individual
ministries and agencies. The last such audit of the Department of
Transport covered the period February 1981 to July 1983, and was completed
in November 1983. An examination of the audit report revealed that it was
very thorough and that the main points raised were addressed by officials
of the Department of Transport in a satisfactory manner.
Corporate Accounts
5.        Seychelles corporate legislation is generally patterned after the
UK Company Act of 1948. Parastatal companies which now number about 40 and
cover virtually every major sector of the economy are subject to the same
legislation as private companies. Corporations must file annual statutory
reports with the Registrar of Companies within twelve months of the end of
the fiscal year.
6.        The financial statements contained in the statutory report must
be in English and must be audited. Those statements are for the current
year with comparative amounts for the prior year, and include balance
sheets, income statements, and notes. Funds statements are not required,
but they generally are provided. The financial statements must be
presented by the directors at each annual shareholder's meeting. Reports
must be distributed to each shareholder and debenture holder of the
company, and, in addition, if any bearer securities are outstanding, the
financial statements must be published in a daily newspaper. No other
publication requirements exist; however, for a small fee, reports may be
inspected at the Registrar's office. Consolidated financial statements are
required for holding companies. A specific chart of accounts is not
required; however, books must be maintained in such a manner as is
necessary to provide a "true and fair vieww of the state of the company's
affairs and to explain its transactions. No extensions of, or exemptions
from, any requirements are permitted.
7.        In addition to the above requirements, a foreign company must
disclose which assets are physically situated in the Seychelles or are
otherwise subject to Seychelles jurisdiction as well as show separately
liabilities to and claims of foreign and Seychellois nationals. All
corporations, public and private sector, foreign and domestic must file
annual tax returns with the Controller of taxes, normally by April 1, since
the tax-year ends December 31. The audited statutory financial statements
must accompany the returns. No other auditor involvement is required;
however, a certificate must be completed by the tax agent preparing the
return. The controller generally allows tax agents up to July 31 to submit
returns for clients. Extensions are available. Reports are private and
confidential. Only Seychelles source income is subject to income tax. The
returns must be in English. Consolidated or combined statements are not
required. There are no specific record-keeping requirements, and a
specific chart of accounts is not mandated. The Seychelles tax system is
of Australian origin.



- 126 -
Annex 7.17
Page 3
The Accounting Profession
8.        Qualifications of company auditors include membership in a body
of accountants (in or outside Seychelles) recognized by the Registrar, or
authorization by the Registrar to be so appointed, having similar
qualifications or adequate knowledge and experience. There is no specific
list of approved bodies, and the Registrar considers each individual
application. Bank auditors must be approved by the Registrar of Banks.
There are four accounting firms and a few individual practitioners. Only
one of the major international firms is represented in the Seychelles.
Some accounting firms in Kenya and India have clients in the Seychelles
whom they visit periodically.
9.        None of the following persons is qualified for appointment as
auditor of a company; (a) an officer or servant of the company; (b) a
person who is a partner of, or in the employment of, an officer or servant
of the company; (c) a corporate body; or (d) a person who is disqualified
from being appointed a director of any company by an order of the court.
Independence is a particularly delicate issue in a country with a small
population (66,000) and a relatively small professional elite. While there
is no easy solution to this problem, one should be aware of potential
conflicts of interest beyond those listed above.
10.       For every company and bank incorporated in Seychelles, the
shareholders, at each annual meeting, appoint an auditor or auditors to
hold office from the conclusion of that meeting until the conclusion of the
next annual meeting. If at an annual meeting no auditors are appointed or
reappointed, the Registrar of Companies may appoint an auditor to fill the
vacancy. The first auditors of a company may be appointed by the directors
at any time before the first annual meeting. They will hold office until
the conclusion of that meeting. Branches of overseas banks must have the
appointment of an auditor approved by the Registrar of Banks.
11.       There is no authoritative source of auditing standards in
Seychelles. Generally, U.K. standards are followed. The auditor's report
must attest to whether, in his opinion, the financial statements present a
.true and fair view' of the company's affairs. Authoritative sources are
the Companies Act of 1972 and the Banking Act of 1975.



- 127 -
Annex 8
Page 1
SEYCHELLES-
TRANSPORTATION PROJECT
Related Documents and Data available in
Project File
- Constitution of the Republic of Seychelles, Article 97, Director of
Audit - Supplement to Official Gazette, March 26, 1976.
- Seychelles, Ordinance No. 10 of 1972 as amended in 1975 and 1976 to
provide for the appointment, salary, tenure of office, duties and
powers of the Director of Audit.
- Republic of Seychelles, Annual Report of the Director of Audit for the
year 1978.
- Republic of Seychelles, National Development Plan 1982-86.
- Code of Procedure for the Public Accounts Committee, March 17. 1980.
- Audit Inspection of Department of Transport 1981-83, Director of
Audit, November 23, 1983.
- Letter of the Principal Secretary of the Department of Transport to
the Director of Audit dated January 26, 1984.
- Seychelles Fishing Authority Draft Act
June 15, 1984
Government
- Communique on the Seychelles EAST COAST PROJECT co-financing meeting
March 16, 1984
Government
- Accord entre le Gouvernement d'Espagne et de la R publique des
Seychelles concernant la p che maritime.
November 28, 1983.
- Feasibility of a port and reclamation project - The East Coast Project
April 1982
Nine volumes
NEDECO/Arup/ASCON Joint Venture consultants



- 128 -
Annex 8
Page 2
- Seychelles Fisheries - Feasibility Study:
Two Volumes
July 1983
NORPLAN consultants
- East Coast Project, Mahe:
Commercial port: Preliminary Design and Economic Analysis
Annex 1: Accounting, tariffs, organization
Annex 2: Development Plan
NORPLAN consultants
February 1984
Fishing port:     Preliminary Design and Economic Analysis
Annex 1: Development Plan
- Evaluation of the Port Victoria Scheme
June 1981
Judy White and Alan Harding: Ministry of Overseas Development, UK
- Fisheries Development in the Seychelles
Four Volumes
December 1978
Fisheries Development Limited
- East Coast Project, Mahe: Prequalification Documents
June 1984
NORPLAN consultants
- EAST COAST PROJECT, Mahe: Civil Works Tender Documents
July 1984
NORPLAN consultants
- Review of Fishery Infrastructure and Development - Republic of
Seychelles prepared for the World Bank
John C. Marr and Associates
February, 1984
- Seychelles: East Coast Project - Evaluation of Consultancy Services
Hans Lango
Norwegian Ministry of ?oreign Affairs
June 1983



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PROJECT
Sections to be Resurfaced in
1985                                                           North Point                                                           SEYCHELLES
1986
......... ..- 1987
1988                                                         IAAC'HABEE                                           TRANSPORT  PROJECT
-          Main Roads (metalled)                                                                                                               Mahe  Island
Main Roods (unrnetolled)
Minor Roads
----   raocks
Rivers
CoraJl                                                 ,    %,_
oro Plantations
____- -  Noional Park Boundaries                                  -                                                                            ---.
-         Administrative Boundories
DeOVriuu;y                                            '                 I
VrIIoge                     /                      ~~~~~~~~~~S/u Anne Island
-  -   -  International Boundaries                                                                                                      e                     A
STE ANNE/
MARINE t        /
NATIONALS 
>BEAU                    _(  |                               PARK/        'eecon f
'.VALLOt/                                                                                      I
'ET N,                                            <CfBRE  PL
d           M          VICTORIA                                   ROJ,,di         Maj'anne/
PORT                                              Long I_
*    ~~~  ~~                 ,  *.*~~~~   "~~       AREA                                                .
C-~ -    NE               \ '                                   /L>e I               I   S                                                     /
MAAE TERNAPY,                                                                            %
SPECIAL /                                                                                   %                                                                  C...  /sCe, d
RESERVE                                                                                                                                                               1ano  I
MORNE   SEYCHIELLOIS   tiAriONAL   PARK         ~        
<Cach/4/
fERNA Y  Uff              (1 **i
.,~~.)  ' %2,{' ; W ACi,C
PORT-
MARINE NATIOALPA,4
PO RT ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~T
Conception                                                                                                       LA A.'nyme
q0tttlf   CASCADE         *              S vch
d tiaoTahn                                                            TALO               Air'port
TsK  -p hasr ti- Finaned by                                                                                                         Tracking
forpoVio CwWWMi of NW                            T                                                       '.
loaderg  and is exc_,,*    o                                                                                                                                                  ,s      I 
Ven,na use of rhe W-td Bani,
And Vi. Wrnakinial Fhiawe
CCwWabon The de,o .a  bowne
used and Ome bounmn.g siiom                                             Voch.I 



S.    CASCADE            -               ~~~~~~~~~~~internat,onal
ranrJe'Arile /    CR          ~~~~STatellite                                      Airir ort
rho ,r,p hasbeen prepa by                                                                                                                   Stat,Ilane
The WArAd Bank's sIoN zcAusiv,                                                                                                                                                                            5orth fast I
foeo v coawrenceot of fe These I.
resders and rs eAcAusMe ltar the
evertyI ma of The Wotl Baen
end th hrlerr haal Fnsarre
C0rporaton The denomnatons
used end gm brdrides shal                                                   Vochr I
n On rmap do not i4*, on the
part of Th World Fank and he;
hiternaborl France Covporamabo
arny drnent on th legal 9al s1
of nte lrtrtory O an|
enrdots emil or acceptlance of
such boudares
55'15'                       55s30'                         55'
W Sise                                                               -  OI ANSEAU
*1* ~~~~~                     Booby"         Cuneu~~~~~~~~~~w elt                                                                BOILEAU
North Cousin                           P i
South Cousn       Pros/in                  Atne/
NorthI                                             Is/and             LaCoigua I
Si/houefle /                    Matt/MI
Recill       Frigate I
Ste Anne!
MA/HF
Area of             ISlAND                                                                                                               - 
.moin map                                                                                                                                             ------
,  __,- 5,                                                                         4s 4
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
55    I                  .......5  3......                55   Li,
skENbA   45-                       ~~~~~~60'                      75'                                                            
<ENIA  5'                   I                 ~~~~~~~~~~Solomon Is                                                                   -
Area of insetL  r        sp     h                                                                              .TAKAMAKA
Anuranic /s      Are a of inseltnap        Ciaghos Arch                                    f                                                       ou   -'  \ %t1
TIANZANIA                               SEYCHELLES                                 ego                                   N
A Idobra Is                                                    cri
~~ forqubot .Fosquh.,,
( -                      Grotto    Ago/ezo /s C
iComoro    ,
I' ~           ' ,1s    I''', '/,:,           , I                                                                                                                        1
ii)  i .rom1/,n/                        MAURITIUS                         Is.
e\Wr'$9>g-   EJ     dS          j/                   Corgodos Caro jo Shoals
t       ~     MADAGASCAR                              *Radrfrgues /                        (KILOMETERS 0          1          2         3          4          5                                                     
Roun,onM MaEens                                                        S O3
6o'                            75'                                                                                                                                gh.



.                -       ,    -  .t
*-  -'          o    Z -
S    S4
2;,,\,- -._
~~z z
VESSEL
SUPPLY PIERS                                  ~~~~~TURNING
/ K     HARBOUR                              NEW TUNA QUAY 
INTER IA                                       c     '
QUS HAYrUo / _R
I         P O R T                '   - -  TAG                   ELETH-    EXISTIN G   2 3 7 .  BERTH
-                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~ONTAINER           T*A,IS
--  It   (3                ~~~~~~HANDLING AND                  tLI
* '     N '7  V4'
V N.                                QUAY
4%
y                ~~~~~Hodoul s.
- -YACHT
HARBU



IBRD 18260
AUGUSTS NM
SEYCHELLES
TRANSPORT PROJECT
Mahe Island
Project Components-
-     s    Port Facilities
Dredged Area
L \ \ 1 Reclaimed Area
Existing:
APrt Facilities
Port Customs Fences
Roads
l1111] Coral Reefs
%/////^y Dredged Area
C>                                            -1-                               290      Isobaths in Meters
,.,,  0 t                                                   Ip3        2pD        3p30        40        590 S AE3 ERS
- :,- = ;-;SH/ ///  /                                                                                               ,leI
3 -  .5r    '-\  , ';/ "3/ /
-A-= Ot  w7  |  f^Sh CCAG f I s
AS -s A    Pros/ni Is -t
I'%%\  \\                                                                                                                        Fegate /,
5515                  5530                   554S
K- ENYA                                                      75
<  \g                             '                   / /     MoUral           J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sawonols
\L1/                                           Amerontw 11    //              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CA.0.  tr9 
TANZANIA            - -       SEYCHELLES                      Aoug
STow Bts ddl~ eib                                                                   60arauA0 .  I
fo N amwai.e or e                         -      tflIW   Ago/ag. )
atwi u od The VtSait    1                 is
SW VW winuiod Frwe.
CoIpmnd S  ms ,           T1ons/ /hr                          1 MAURITIUS                15-
*-l n.f ,W  a b.d EYet s .                                       C,.gaaCo--oaas Sheaf,
ait tThe SI 7Be aim SW NW I
*i- inlms Faixe CWSara                  " DAGASCAR
\~~~~l alpt s u SIgul cleft                                         I            Rodegus I
L  rURew                      ea is or _  We f il e-  ofb.un   -                         M ou ru U I
tch brunm                               45?                 '  6roO -                  7,



IBRD 18511
40E                   ./50E                                                          6E
ETHIOPIA                                                            SEYCHELLES
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
~  /   SOMALIA                                 - -        NTERNATIONMALOUNDARIES
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H SHoNEYClHEL4LESEXECLUSNE
ECONOMIC AMARITIME ZONE
KENYA       |
_0   1  o  to  4aa e4   o     egDI8G0 IakmM
-                           \
/   e                              \
Pemba                                      I         B              Maui
ID OAr aSt.JoAh(
ZANZIBAR                  _                           D,    S i, -b
Ci  Pew- -0.swch-s aplaw~
<     DaresSftm                                            D-td  "gri Lo 
N        Mafia         (
Alabare           S1 Pm
lo's                                         Ca,mssom,w smaldo         I
t~~~~~~~~ ^                                         '   Fgwjaflr            *Agahg
Niawidia         lissw                      I
0 s                                           I N D IA N'O C EA N
v~~~~~~
4\
0    .Mozwnbmbi
L                                                                     'ia.  CC
leSgntwbn                  ~~~~~~coco' (51.8wnden/
THE MASCARENE
MADAGASCAR                                                   ISLANDS
Th NMfm*
_as
Wwaw.dfl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eUbMah                                                   R~~~~~~~~~~~odrigueGs
c _vw~~ lime _banaw                                                                                                201S-
Mauntius
infd of _tb S.*V
- Reunion
,__2 o                                                  d                                         oWE  60WE
September 1i94






