                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2855



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-57107)



                                       ON A

                              GRANT FROM THE

              GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.5 MILLION

                                      TO THE

              FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA

                                      FOR A

                      SUSTAINABLE ENERGY PROJECT



                               September 26, 2013




Sustainable Development Department
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective March 2013)

                           Currency Unit = US$
                           Euro 1.00 = US$ 1.30
                           US$ 1.00 = Euro 0.77

                             FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 – December 31


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

EA       Energy Agency
EE       Energy Efficiency
ESCO     Energy Service Company
FIRR     Financial Internal Rate of Return
FiT      Feed-in-Tariff
GEF      Global Environment Facility
GEO      Global Environment Objective
GHG      Greenhouse Gas
GoM      Government of Macedonia
GWh      Gigawatt-hour
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results report
ISR      Implementation Status and Results report
kWh      Kilowatt-hour
MBDP     Macedonian Bank for Development and Promotion
M&E      Monitoring & Evaluation
MoE      Ministry of Economy
MoU      Memorandum of Understanding
MWh      Megawatt-hour
NPEEBP   National Plan for Energy Efficiency in Public Buildings
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PV       Photovoltaic
RE       Renewable Energy
SEFF     Sustainable Energy Financing Facility
TA       Technical Assistance
      Vice President:   Laura Tuck
    Country Director:   Ellen Goldstein
     Sector Manager:    Ranjit Lamech
Project Team Leader:    Peter Johansen
   ICR Team Leader:     Peter Johansen
ICR Primary Author:     Stephanie Gil
                                                      FYR of Macedonia
                                                  Sustainable Energy Project



                                                                    CONTENTS 
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                            
Data Sheet 
    A. Basic Information 
    B. Key Dates 
    C. Ratings Summary 
    D. Sector and Theme Codes 
    E. Bank Staff 
    F. Results Framework Analysis 
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs 
    H. Restructuring  
    I.  Disbursement Graph 
                                                                           
    1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ................................................. 1
    2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................... 4
    3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................................  8
    4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .....................................................................  13
    5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................................. 14
    6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................................  16
    7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ...................... 17
    Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................................  18
    Annex 2. Outputs by Component .............................................................................................  19
    Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis                       ................................................................................  21
    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................... 37
    Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results .........................................................................................  38
    Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................................... 45
    Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................................... 46
    Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .................................. 65
    Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................................  66
    Annex 10. List Indicators from Restructuring 1 paper .............................................................. 67
    MAP ........................................................................................................................................... 71

 
A. Basic Information
                          Macedonia, former                                   Sustainable Energy
Country:                                            Project Name:
                          Yugoslav Republic of                                GEF Project
Project ID:               P089656                   L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-57107
ICR Date:                 09/30/2013                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                              MINISTRY OF
Lending Instrument:       SIL                       Borrower:
                                                                              ECONOMY
Original Total
                          USD 5.50M                 Disbursed Amount:         USD 5.46M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:           USD 5.50M
Environmental Category: F                           Global Focal Area: C
Implementing Agencies:
 PIU within the Ministry of Economy
 MBDP
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                   Revised / Actual
     Process                Date                 Process        Original Date
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:           09/28/2004     Effectiveness:                               07/31/2007
                                                                                      06/16/2010
                                                                                      04/03/2012
Appraisal:                07/11/2006     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                      08/28/2012
                                                                                      01/16/2013
Approval:                 12/19/2006     Mid-term Review:        04/15/2010           02/05/2010
                                         Closing:                03/31/2011           03/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                           Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                                   Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                           Ratings
                                                                                   Moderately
Quality at Entry:         Moderately Satisfactory Government:
                                                                                  Unsatisfactory
                                 Moderately         Implementing
Quality of Supervision:                                                       Moderately Satisfactory
                                Unsatisfactory      Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                        Overall Borrower
                          Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                        Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status    Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      18                  18
Energy efficiency in Heat and Power                                    46                  46
Other Renewable Energy                                                 36                  36


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                                         40                  40
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                             20                  20
Other Private Sector Development                                       20                  20
Regulation and competition policy                                      20                  20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Laura Tuck                            Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Ellen A. Goldstein                    Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:            Ranjit J. Lamech                      Charles M. Feinstein
Project Team Leader:       Peter Johansen                        Peter Johansen
ICR Team Leader:           Peter Johansen
ICR Primary Author:        Stephanie Gil
F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The GEO was to reduce GHG emissions on a continuous basis by overcoming barriers to
implementation of energy efficiency and renewable energy.

  The development objective of the project was to develop a sustainable market for EE
and RE by supporting the development of an enabling framework, institutional capacity,
and necessary financing mechanisms. Specifically, the project would:

  - Change the current unfavorable investment and incentive conditions and create an
enabling environment in Macedonia that fosters the development of sustainable energy
utilization (in this context defined as efficient use of energy and use of renewable energy
sources) through providing financial, methodological, informational, and institutional
support;

  - Support a large increase in energy efficiency (EE) investment in Macedonia through
development of a self-sustaining, market-based financing mechanism based on a
principle of commercial co-financing. The project's goal is focused on the development
and implementation of financially profitable EE projects, which can provide sustainable
and increasing reductions in GHG emissions without relying on public subsidy; and

  - Increase the availability of financing for renewable energy (RE) investments,
enterprises and intermediaries through the establishment of a financial facility with a
long-term time horizon, which will provide seed capital for debt co-financing of RE
projects.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications
The GEO and the PDO were not revised, however the GEO, PDO and Intermediate
indicators were amended at Restructuring 1. The indicators below reflect the post-
restructuring 1 indicators and formally revised target values, as agreed with ECA Quality.
Please note that the formally revised target values in Restructuring Paper 1 are annual and
not cumulative as stated in the paper.

(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target      Completion or
                                               documents)          Values       Target Years
                 Introduction of an enabling regulatory and incentive framework for RE-based
Indicator 1 :
                 power and heat production
                                           Delivery of a       As original,
Value                                      comprehensive RE including        Original and target
(quantitative or n/a                       market framework additional       values fully
Qualitative)                               including           wind          achieved
                                           rulebooks,          measurement
                                              guidance,           program and
                                              procedures, FiTs,   focus on
                                              bidding packages    implementatio
                                              for hydropower.     n through a
                                                                  large scale
                                                                  solar PV
                                                                  project
Date achieved      11/27/2006                 03/31/2011          09/30/2012    09/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %           A comprehensive framework was delivered and target was fully achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      Total RE capacity licensed
Value
(quantitative or   0 MW                       10 MW               8.4 MW          111.3 MW
Qualitative)
Date achieved      11/27/2006               03/31/2011          09/30/2012      03/31/2013
Comments           The comprehensive RE framework delivered as part of the Project triggered a
(incl. %           large amount of RE capacity built, under construction and licensed, exceeding
achievement)       target by 1350%.
Indicator 3 :      Expected energy saved from EE, lifetime.
Value
(quantitative or   0 GWh                      109.5 GWh           628.1 GWh       3,740 GWh
Qualitative)
Date achieved      11/27/2006                  03/31/2011        09/30/2012      03/31/2012
Comments           Assuming that 50% of the RE capacity licensed as at project closure is actually
(incl. %           delivered, the lifetime output from the RE plants in operation, under construction
achievement)       and licensed is well above target and reaches 596% of the revised target.
Indicator 4 :      Expected lifetime savings from EE projects financed under the Project
Value
(quantitative or   0 GWh                      193.3 GWh           219.3 GWh       112.0 GWh
Qualitative)
Date achieved      11/27/2006                03/31/2011         09/30/2012      03/31/2013
                   Value achieved reached 49% of revised target due to deeper EE measures (e.g
Comments
                   wall insulation) being implemented in targeted schools and kindergartens rather
(incl. %
                   than solely lowest payback measures. However, implemented measures exceeded
achievement)
                   expected savings.
Indicator 5 :      Value of EE projects financed
Value
(quantitative or   0                          n/a                 US$3,960,000 US$4,245,050
Qualitative)
Date achieved      11/27/2006                 03/31/2011          09/30/2012      03/31/2013
Comments
                   Based on the re-allocation of funds at restructuring 2, the actual value achieved is
(incl. %
                   99% of target (value achieved exceeds first restructuring target by 7%).
achievement)
Indicator 6 :      Reductions in CO2 emissions at national and project levels, lifetime.
Value
                                                                  775,000 tCO2 3,780,924 tCO2
(quantitative or   0 tCO2                     329,594 tCO2/year
                                                                  over lifetime over lifetime
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/27/2006                 03/31/2011          09/30/2012     03/31/2013
Comments
              Due to the large amount of RE capacity licensed, and based on 50% of capacity
(incl. %
              at planning stage being actually delivered, the value achieved is 488% of target.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                               Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                  approval                         Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                                documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :      TA for establishment of FiTs for RE
Value
                                              Establishment of                  Fully achieved at
(quantitative or   n/a                                           Not revised
                                              FiTs for RE                       target years
Qualitative)
Date achieved      11/27/2006                 03/31/2011         09/30/2012     03/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %           Actual value fully achieved at target year.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      MoU between PIU and municipalities signed
Value
(quantitative or   0                          n/a                8              12
Qualitative)
Date achieved      11/27/2006                 09/30/2012         09/30/2012     09/30/2012
Comments
                   More MoU were signed than originally anticipated: actual value exceeded target
(incl. %
                   by 50%.
achievement)
                   Volume of energy audits and S&I contracts signed under the Financial Support
Indicator 3 :
                   for EE in Public Buildings
Value
(quantitative or   0                          n/a                US$2,456,000 US$2,633,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved      11/27/2006                 09/30/2012           09/30/2012       03/31/2013
Comments           Value achieved includes grant component and audit cost for EE retrofits in
(incl. %           Phases 1 and 2, but excludes consultants costs. Value achieved at 99% of
achievement)       restructuring 2 target (7% in excess of restructuring 1 target).
Indicator 4 :      Volume of energy audits and S&I contracts co-financed
Value
(quantitative or   0                          n/a                US$672,000     US$913,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved      11/27/2006                 09/30/2012         09/30/2012     03/31/2013
Comments
                   Value achieved at 92% of restructuring 2 target (36% in excess of restructuring 1
(incl. %
                   target).
achievement)
Indicator 5 :      Volume of loans made from SEFF
Value
                   0                          US$2,500,000       US$1,292,000 US$1,260,000
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved      11/27/2006                  03/31/2011          09/30/2012   03/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %           97% of revised target achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :      Volume of additional co-financing (for SEFF funded projects)
Value
(quantitative or   0                           US$13,250,000       US$4,013,000 US$2,940,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved      11/27/2006                  03/31/2011          09/30/2012   03/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %           Co-financing achieved 73% of revised target.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :      Total financing of RE (for SEFF funded projects)
Value
(quantitative or   0                           US$18,000,000       US$4,157,000 US$3,990,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved      11/27/2006                  03/31/2011          09/30/2012   09/30/2012
Comments
                   RE financing achieved at 97% of revised target, mostly due to financing of large
(incl. %
                   1MW solar plant.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :      Total financing of EE (for SEFF funded projects)
Value
(quantitative or   0                           US$9,100,000        US$1,150,000 US$212,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved      11/27/2006                03/31/2011        09/30/2012      03/31/2013
Comments           Value achieved reached 18% of revised target at Restructuring 1, due to lack of
(incl. %           proactiveness from MBDP. Remaining funds were reallocated to EE retrofit
achievement)       program under restructuring 2.



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
No.                               GEO                            IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     06/19/2007              Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                 0.00
  2     04/07/2008              Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                 0.60
                                                          Moderately
  3     04/07/2009        Moderately Satisfactory                                            0.70
                                                        Unsatisfactory
                               Moderately
  4     03/26/2010                                          Unsatisfactory                   0.70
                             Unsatisfactory
                               Moderately                 Moderately
  5     11/24/2010                                                                           0.70
                             Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory
  6     06/21/2011        Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                 2.11
  7     04/11/2012        Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                 2.96
  8     02/13/2013        Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                 4.77
H. Restructuring (if any)

                         ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                           Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                 Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                   Key Changes Made
              GEO Change GEO      IP       in USD
                                          millions
                                                      Restructuring motivated by lack
                                                      of ownership from EA as
                                                      implementing agency, no
                                                      establishment of ESCO, and
                                                      lack of demand for guarantee
                                                      facility under SEFF fund.

                                                        Key changes included changes
  06/16/2010                 MU      U           0.70
                                                        in Components, in institutional
                                                        arrangements, a new focus on
                                                        implementation, the delivery of
                                                        EE measures through the
                                                        Government's NPEEPB,
                                                        updated PDO indicators,
                                                        reallocation of funds, and
                                                        delayed closing date.
                                                        Re-allocation of funds towards
  04/03/2012                  MS     MS          2.86
                                                        EE programme.
                                                        Closing date extended from Sep
  08/28/2012                  MS     MS          4.17
                                                        2012 to Jan 2013.
                                                        Closing date extended from Jan
  01/16/2013                  MS     MS          4.53
                                                        2013 to Mar 2013.


I. Disbursement Profile




                                                                                           
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal (November 2006)
 
1.        At appraisal, FYR of Macedonia was one of the countries in South East Europe with the fewest
energy resources and with considerable untapped energy conservation potential. The main fossil fuel
resource in FYR of Macedonia consisted of limited deposits of lignite. Lignite-fired plants provided over
70% of total electricity supply, followed by hydropower and imports, likely from lignite plants in
neighboring countries. In order to reduce future dependence on imports, the Government was therefore
interested in introducing Renewable Energy (RE) and Energy Efficiency (EE). FYR of Macedonia had
promising indigenous resources of renewable energy, with the largest potential lying in small hydropower,
at an estimated economic resource of about 150MW or 10% of total capacity. Geothermal, biomass, wind
and solar were other potential sources of renewable energy. Energy intensity, expressed as total primary
energy production divided by GDP, was on a level comparable with that of non-EU neighbors, but much
higher than that of EU countries. This was due to the presence of energy-intensive metal processing
industry; low-efficiency in power generation, supply and consumption; and prevalence of electric
residential heating.

2.       The Government of FYR of Macedonia started developing a framework to tackle the challenging
energy context. In particular, a new Energy Law was adopted by Parliament in May 2006. However,
while the law clearly stated the role of EE and RE, no implementation framework followed.

3.       Furthermore, a number of barriers were likely to hamper investment in sustainable energy,
defined here as EE and RE sources.
Barriers to investment in RE included a lack of incentive framework; a lack of capacity and experience in
renewable energy project development; a lack of access to long-term finance; and non-existing, complex,
and/or lengthy processes for allocation, permitting, licensing and approval of projects.
Barriers to investment in EE included a lack of awareness and confidence in the efficacy of energy
efficiency investments and technologies; a lack of capacity and experience in project development,
installation and monitoring; a banking sector with high risk perception of EE investments.
Financial barriers were significant, particularly as due to the limited experience in project finance, all
lending would be based on the balance sheet of the borrower rather than the merits of the projects.
Institutional barriers included insufficient legislative framework; lack of capacity and accountability
within the Ministry of Economy; and local administrations not allowed to take on debt obligations,
unwilling to commit to multiple-year funding, and lacking project planning and implementing capacity.

4.       The rationale for World Bank involvement in the project was founded on the interest expressed
by the Ministry of Economy in obtaining GEF support for a Sustainable Energy Program, as well as on
the direct continuation of the previous work on an Energy Efficiency Strategy, for which GEF support
was considered a crucial implementation tool. Additionally, the considerable experience the World Bank
had acquired in EE and RE project preparation and implementation in neighboring countries would add
credibility to the GoM’s effort to implement the required policies.

1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators
5.      The Project’s global environment objective was to reduce GHG emissions on a continuous basis
by overcoming barriers to implementation of energy efficiency and renewable energy.

6.      The development objective of the Project was to develop a sustainable market for energy
efficiency and renewable energy, by supporting the development of an enabling framework, institutional



                                                    1
capacity and necessary financing mechanisms. The Project aimed to achieve this development objective
by:
     Changing the unfavorable investment and incentive conditions, and creating and enabling
        environment in FYR of Macedonia that fostered the development of sustainable energy utilization
        through providing financial, methodological, informational and institutional support;
     Supporting a large increase in profitable energy efficiency investment through the development of
        a self-sustaining, market-based financing mechanism;
     Increasing the availability of financing for renewable energy investments, enterprises and
        intermediaries through the establishment of a financial facility with a long-term time horizon,
        which would provide seed capital for debt co-financing of renewable energy projects.

7.       The performance indicators for the global objective were:
        Reductions in GHG emissions at the national and project levels;
        Increased share of “new” renewable energy in national energy supply.
         The performance indicators for the development objective were:
        Introduction of an enabling regulatory and incentive framework for renewable energy, including
         tariff design, sub-laws on grid code, licensing and permitting procedures, stakeholders training;
        Total number of renewable energy projects reaching financial closure as a result of SEFF,
         including the capacity installed (MW) and amount of electricity and heat generated (MWh);
        Total number of energy efficiency projects reaching financing closure as a result of SEFF,
         including amount of energy (kWh) saved annually against baseline.

1.3 Revised GEO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification
8.      The objectives of the project were not revised. However, performance indicators were partially
reviewed at a restructuring in June 2010, as indicated in section 1.7 below, in order to reflect the Project’s
heightened focus on barrier removal rather than construction.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
9.        The main beneficiaries from a RE standpoint would be local industries through increasing source
of activity, incomes and jobs; electricity customers and the GoM through reduced imports and hence
tariffs; the general public through reduced GHG emissions.
          The main beneficiaries from an EE standpoint would include owners and occupants of buildings
retrofitted, through improved comfort levels, reduced sickness and energy cost savings; the EE industry,
including the building industry and energy service companies; local banks and municipalities, and in the
longer term local industries through increase in competitiveness.

1.5 Original Components
10.     The project was financed by a GEF grant of US$5.5m, and consisted of the following 3
components:

Component 1: Market framework (US$1.2million, of which US$1.0million GEF grant)
This component aimed at building capacity in the strategic/ legislative/ institutional arenas, as well as
from a technical and advisory project development and investment standpoint, and at providing financial
support for monitoring, evaluation, information dissemination and project administration.
Institutional capacity building focused on support in designing and implementing renewable energy
policy and secondary legislation; creating the energy sector regulatory framework; and streamlining
processes such as permitting. 



                                                      2
Advisory capacity building concentrated on the development of a sustainable pipeline of potential
projects as a deal flow basis for Component 3 and the creation of a Project Development Advisory
Facility (PDAF) which would provide information and know-how to private developers and equipment
suppliers. The implementing agency for this component was the newly established Energy Agency.

Component 2: Support to utility-based Energy Services Company or ESCO (US$0.8million GEF grant)
This component would support the development and startup of a utility-based ESCO under the umbrella
of the system operator MEPSO, which would be the implementing agency for the component. The
project would provide startup capital for business development and financing of the first deals (on a
revolving fund basis). MEPSO would prepare business and financing plans, and develop contractual and
modeling tools with the support of an ESCO-specialized consultant. The ESCO would help stimulate the
market for energy services by providing turnkey and performance-based contracting for energy efficiency,
and by demonstrating the financial performance of such projects. Early focus would be on energy
upgrades of school buildings, in close coordination with planned support to the educational sector from
the World Bank, the Dutch Government, and USAID.

Component 3: Sustainable Energy Financing Facility (US$6.2million, of which US$3.7million GEF
grant)
The third component would be a financing facility called Sustainable Energy Financing Facility or SEFF.
The SEFF would be housed within the implementing agency MBDP and consist of a loan guarantee
facility and a loan facility, on a co-financing basis with commercial institutions and the MBDP. The
MBDP would co-finance the SEFF with an amount not less than US$2.5million.

11.     The guarantee facility (US$1.2million GEF grant) would focus on energy efficiency projects, and
provide partial credit guarantees covering 50-70% of the principal of the loans made by commercial
banks.

12.     The loan facility (US$2.5million GEF grant) would be applied to both energy efficiency and
renewable energy projects. Loans would likely be structured as subordinated debt in order to attract
additional commercial credit, with tenors adapted to the projects.

1.6 Revised Components
13.     The Project underwent a major restructuring in June 2010 without changes to the Project
objectives, motivated by:
     For the Market Framework component, slow progress and unsatisfactory implementation
        management by the Energy Agency;
     For the ESCO component: non-signature of MoU establishing the ESCO and triggering fund
        disbursement, as well as several barriers relating to the public procurement law and ability of
        municipalities to commit to multi-year investments;
     For the SEFF component: lack of demand for planned guarantee facility and limited operations
        financed using the SEFF credit line (US$163k of the total US$2.5million grant).

14.   While a level 1 restructuring was discussed, it was rightly dismissed as both the GEO and the
PDO remained highly relevant to the Macedonian energy sector strategic priorities.

15.   The Project was restructured with a focus on changing the implementing agency for the Market
Framework component from the Energy Agency to the Ministry of Economy, eliminating the ESCO
component and the guarantee facility, aligning the energy efficiency initiatives to the new Ministry of




                                                   3
Economy-led National Plan for Energy Efficiency in Public Buildings or NPEEPB, and reallocating funds
from the ESCO component and within the SEFF. The restructured 3 components were as follows:
Component 1: Institutional support and technical assistance (US$1.75million)
The component would continue to support for the development of a regulatory and institutional
framework and provide technical assistance for the preparation and implementation of the NPEEPB. The
implementing agency would be a newly created PIU within the Ministry of Economy.
Component 2: Financial support for energy efficiency in public buildings (US$2.2million)
The component would provide grant support for energy efficiency retrofits in public buildings, focusing
on municipal schools and kindergartens. A phased approach would start with 100% grant financing,
followed by 50% co-financing from municipalities, moving towards a sustainable fund to be established
after Project closure. The implementing agency for this component would be the newly created PIU.
Component 3: SEFF credit line for renewable energy and energy efficiency (US$1.55million).
The loan facility would continue with a budget of US$1.5million to be matched by MBDP. Additionally,
an allocation of US$50,000 was proposed for MBDP to develop a project pipeline and undertake
technical due diligence so as to quickly identify and process viable project proposals.
Closure date was also extended by eighteen months to September 2012.

16.      During the second restructuring, In April 2012, US$328,000 was reallocated towards Component
2 to complete Phase 2 energy efficiency retrofits. Additionally, in August 2012 and again in January
2013, the project closing date was extended (to January 31, 2013 and March 30, 2013 respectively) in
order to allow the completion of the Phase 2 energy efficiency retrofits.

1.7 Other significant changes
17.      The performance indicators were revised in June 2010 in order to clarify their definition and
reflect the Project’s heightened focus on barrier removal and lifetime impact of RE/ EE projects.
At project development objective level, indicators were revised from “capacity installed”, “electricity
produced” and “electricity saved” to “capacity licensed”, “expected electricity generation” and “expected
electricity saved” (see Annex 10).
At global objective level, indicators were revised so that the reduced GHG emissions are monitored
against expected project lifetime reduction rather than actual annual reduction, in order to capture the
impact of the investments becoming operational after the closing date of the Grant.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of background analysis
18.      The Project preparation was adequate and prepared the ground to meeting the dual ambition of
the Project to develop a framework to support EE/ RE and to implement effective EE/ RE measures. In
particular, the Project benefited from (i) the analysis of 13 case studies to assess the market potential for
EE/ RE; (ii) the initial preparation of required legal documentation as well as a preliminary market
analysis for a utility-based ESCO; (iii) the review of alternative financing designs, taking into account the
specificities of the local banking sector1; and (iv) lessons learnt from relevant projects implemented in the
region such as the IFC/GEF-supported Hungary EE Co-Financing Program (HEECP), the Macedonian
GEF Mini-Hydro project, and the utility-based ESCO experience in Croatia and Poland.


1
  The alternatives included the proposed SEFF; an equity investment mechanism; a dedicated credit line 
administered through financial intermediaries; and the housing of the SEFF in either a program unit within a Bank 
approved entity or a private bank. 



                                                        4
 
Assessment of project design
19.     At appraisal, in November 2006, the development objectives of the Project were relevant and in
line with the Energy Efficiency Strategy endorsed by the GoM in order to increase RE/ EE investments in
the economy. The Project components were well designed with regards to their purpose, building blocks,
and integration of lessons learnt from prior relevant projects. In particular, the Project took measured risks,
informed by the experience in Croatia and Poland, in choosing innovative market mechanisms and
concepts for increasing EE investments through risk mitigation instruments and performance contracting.
However, the Project was also characterized by a high degree of complexity given the scale of investment
anticipated. Each of the three components was to be implemented by a separate institution, each with
limited capacity and / or experience in the RE and EE arenas. In particular, 2 key implementing agencies
(the Energy Agency and the ESCO) were not fully established, staffed or resourced at the time of the
PAD. Additionally, the Project was to interface with a large number of potential partners, including
USAID and the European Commission’s European Agency for Reconstruction. Finally, the scope
encompassed a broad spectrum of RE projects and EE measures, although the PAD does mention an early
focus of EE measures on the education sector.

The Project timescale was therefore ambitious given the complexity of the Project.

20.     At restructuring, in June 2010, the design of the RE framework was updated to take into account
the results delivered thus far and with emphasis on the NPEEPB implementation, while also addressing
issues of Project complexity and weak implementation capacity. The EE program was narrowed down to
focus on municipal schools and kindergartens, which as a group represent over 50% of electricity and
heat consumption in public buildings. Additional resources for technical assistance were allocated to all
Components to enable successful implementation through capacity build-up and support for pipeline
development, technical due diligence, preparation and delivery of EE/ RE projects. The institutional
arrangements were greatly simplified with the elimination of the ESCO component and the unused SEFF
guarantee facility, and the setup of a new PIU replacing the Energy Agency as overall implementing
agency, with adequate resources and capability.

21.      While addressing most of the issues encountered pre-restructuring, the new Project lacked some
of the original thinking in terms of establishing long term, sustainable capacity for developing EE projects
in Macedonia.

Adequacy of client commitment at entry
22.      At the time of appraisal, the Project benefited from the endorsement of the MoE, which had
originally expressed interest in obtaining GEF support for a Sustainable Energy Program in a letter to the
World Bank dated March 25, 2004. The GoM had passed a law establishing an EA which would take over
responsibilities from the Department of Energy in the MoE, and an EA Management Board and
temporary Director had been appointed, confirming the GoM’s commitment to building capacity.

Assessment of risks
23.     The project was correctly assigned a substantial risk rating. In particular, the risks that (i)
Government’s commitment to streamlining state/local decision-making would fail over time; (ii) power
sector restructuring would be slow; (iii) MEPSO would not stay committed to developing the ESCO
concept; and (iv) the EA would fail to be established in time for the project to start or is under-funded,
were correctly assigned a substantial risk rating. However, the lack of demand for guarantees offered
under the SEFF was not identified as a risk, and was addressed through the project restructuring.
Additionally, the potential for delays and risk to timescales of the project was not fully recognized and
assessed. 



                                                      5
2.2 Implementation
Implementation of Component 1
24.     The original Component 1 (Market Framework) was successful in creating a comprehensive
framework and engaging all stakeholders to enable the development of RE in Macedonia, albeit with
delays against planned timescales. Rulebooks, guidance and procedures for electricity generation from RE
sources were established and accompanied by the introduction of FiTs. Support was also provided to
developing hydropower bidding packages, leading to concession contracts being signed for 6.4 MW of
capacity currently in operations and 8.3 MW under construction. The main factors affecting the
implementation of the component in terms of timescales included the lack of resources allocated by the
Government to the EA; however the team provided strong, effective and sustained TA to deliver the
expected outcomes.
The restructured Component 1 focused on RE projects implementation, in particular through a wind
measurement program designed to feed into the pipeline of RE projects under Component 3.
The PIU provided adequate resources and accountability, and benefited from extensive TA support.

Implementation of Component 2
25.     The original Component 2 (ESCO) did not succeed in implementing a national, sustainable, large
scale EE program. No activities were initiated as part of this Component, primarily due to (i) a reduced
commitment from the implementing agency and the Government; (ii) the complex ESCO setup, founded
on a joint venture between 2 partners with limited experience in the sector; and (iii) barriers such as
provisions in the Law on Public Procurement (e.g. municipalities not being allowed to take on debt)
making it impractical to operate on an ESCO model to channel funds to public sector EE projects.
The restructured Component 2 successfully focused on implementing EE measures in municipal schools
and kindergartens, and benefited from extensive technical assistance and strong alignment with the
NPEEPB. Additionally, the Project supported the MoE in assessing alternative designs for a sustainable
funding mechanism and implementing agency for the NPEEPB. Delays in implementation were primarily
driven by some municipalities delaying contract signatures and raising concerns over the availability of
budget for committed co-financed EE retrofits, and complex MoE decision making processes.

Implementation of Component 3
26.     Under the original Component 3, three years into the 4.5-year project, only 2 operations totaling
US$163,000 had been financed. Factors affecting implementation were mostly driven by a lack of
ownership from MBDP, slow EA procedures and lack of technical assistance beyond the pipeline of
projects developed at appraisal stage. Additionally, no interest had been expressed in the guarantee
component of the SEFF due to the absence of market for this product, although an initial market analysis
completed at appraisal stage was more favorable, the proposal of guarantees was considered a good
practice as part of EE programs within the Bank at appraisal stage, and the GEF also encouraged the
proposal of guarantee instruments as part of their grants to EE programs.

27.     The restructured Component 3 addressed these issues through implementing systematic and
extensive technical assistance for project identification, due diligence, etc., and eliminating the guarantee
component. As a consequence, SEFF disbursement 4 years into the project reached $1.4 million, mostly
focused on the financing of a large 1MW solar PV plant.

28.     In the light of reduced commitment from a number of implementing agencies, and limited
resources made available by the Government, the Bank demonstrated its commitment to delivering the
highly relevant GEO and PDO through flexible implementation. One area of improvement could have
been a much shorter restructuring process, which took almost 1.5 years to finalize.

29.     The achievement of the GEO and Implementation Progress were rated as moderately
unsatisfactory in 2009 and unsatisfactory in 2010, prior to the restructuring.


                                                     6
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
30.     M&E design: The Project included adequate outcome indicators for the development and global
environment objectives, as well as for the intermediate results M&E. Targets were defined for Project end,
and an annual trajectory was also proposed as part of Annex 3 of the PAD. One potential area of
improvement for the design of the outcome indicators could have been a shorter periodicity for
monitoring and reporting, in particular during the first 2 years of the project, so as to identify and address
blocking points sooner rather than later. The original GEO indicators focused on RE capacity and EE
measures delivered by the Project, without fully taking into account the more global impact of the
comprehensive RE and EE framework delivered by the Project. Accordingly, the GEO indicators were
amended at the June 2010 restructuring to reflect the heightened focus on barrier removal to EE and RE,
and account for the RE capacity and EE measures enabled by the Project.

31.     M&E Implementation: According to the project ISRs, before the June 2010 restructuring, only 4
out of 6 outcome indicators, and 3 out of 12 intermediate results indicators were reported on a regular
basis. Additionally, one outcome indicators’ definition was inconsistent with the Project definition. These
issues were fully addressed post-restructuring, with all relevant data adequately collected and reported.

32.      M&E Utilization: The outcome and intermediate results indicators were used to identify
underperforming components and sub-components and the need to restructure the Project. Post-
restructuring, the indicators were used to re-allocate funds dynamically where most appropriate, anticipate
potential delays in completion of EE activities and identify potential liquidity issues.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
33.      Safeguards: The overall safeguard compliance was rated as Satisfactory throughout the project.
The Project was subject to the following Safeguard Policies: Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP
4.01), Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) and Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50).
The Project Environment category rating was assessed as FI due to the exact nature of EE/RE projects not
being known at the time of the PAD. An Environmental Management Framework Document (EMFD)
was prepared, which (i) described the screening procedures to be applied by the financial intermediary,
(ii) specified the procedures to be undertaken before support can be granted to a project, and (iii) included
the requirement to prepare project specific Environmental Management Plans (EMP) which would require
Bank approval. A Resettlement Policy Framework was prepared, which described the screening
mechanisms to be applied to projects involving municipalities, so as to ensure compliance with national
law. As the International Waterways safeguard was triggered, notification was sent to the riparians and no
objections were received.

34.    No major safeguard issues were encountered during Project implementation, and during an
environment safeguards review end 2012, the EMPs were found to be implemented properly.

35.      Financial Management: The financial management of the Project was consistently rated as
Satisfactory except in 2010, when it was rated as Moderately Satisfactory.
The overall financial management risk for the project was rated as Moderate, with the overall EA-related
risk rated as Substantial. The MEPSO-related risks on accounting policies and procedures, information
systems, and internal audit respectively rated as Substantial, Substantial and High, and addressed
accordingly. The restructuring eliminated some of these issues, with the financial arrangements at the
MoE and MBDP deemed acceptable to the Bank for staffing, budgeting and planning, information
systems, accounting and reporting, internal control procedures, external auditing and fund flows.  
 
36.      Procurement: The procurement arrangements were consistently rated as Satisfactory throughout
the Project. Procurement capacity had been adequately built within the EA ahead of the pre-restructuring
phase of the project, and transferred to the MoE PIU after the 2010 restructuring, under simplified


                                                      7
procurement arrangements. The only procurement issues encountered were related to delays, in particular
at contract signature for EE projects with municipalities, and the December 2012 mission confirmed that
the performance of project procurement by the implementation team was satisfactory.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
37.      The Project successfully addressed the main barriers to RE projects in Macedonia by establishing
a comprehensive framework, engaging all stakeholders, and demonstrating implementation through a
large solar Photo-Voltaic (PV) project. As a result, a larger than expected 110 MW of small hydropower,
small solar PV and wind capacity had been licensed by Project closure, laying the foundations for future
RE development. About 60 MW of the licensed projects are now built or under construction and more RE
initiatives are expected especially following the recent increase of FiT for biomass energy. On the EE
front, the Project’s ambition to set up a national, sustainable, large scale EE program was not fully met.
The municipal schools and kindergartens retrofits did raise awareness, demonstrated the viability of EE
measures and created a market for EE in the public sector. However, the restructured Project lacked a
clear path of transition toward a sustainable strong EE implementing agency. Additionally, while the
NPEEPB represents a key opportunity for ensuring the continuity of EE initiatives in Macedonia, its
implementation is still some way off and the nascent EE market could face a financing gap. This could be
mitigated by a pro-active approach from MBDP, which despite having developed the capability and
experience to finance private EE projects through the SEFF, has yet to finance a project with the reflow of
funds from the SEFF on-lending (more than US$1.2 million).

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

38.     Global Environment Objective and Project Development Objective: The GEO and PDO remain
highly relevant to Macedonia’s priorities in the energy sector. The Strategy for Energy Development in
the Republic of Macedonia until 2030 stresses the need to address the renewable energy potential of the
country in order to reduce dependency on imported fuels and meet the EU targets, and recognizes the
opportunity of energy efficiency measures, in particular in buildings and household appliances. In a
context of progressive closure of the ageing lignite power plants and increasing demand, the GEO and the
PDO will continue to be relevant to the Greener Growth pillar of the Country Partnership Strategy.

39.     Design and Implementation: After restructuring, the Project remains relevant to the energy sector
RE needs and public sector EE potential. Specifically, the MoE is currently engaging with the Bank to
develop a sustainably funded NPEEPB, building on the Project success, with a scope extended to all other
municipal and state buildings including the health sector. The initial Project design issues such as (i)
inadequacy of the EA as implementing agency, (ii) lack of readiness for an ESCO business model, (iii)
lack of interest in a guarantee instrument to encourage private investment in EE measures and (iv)
complexity were addressed during implementation of the project. Post-restructuring, a possible area of
improvement could have consisted of focusing more on developing an institution outside the MoE that
could be implementing agency for EE measures beyond public buildings, within the scope of Component
1 or 2.

3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
 
40.     The achievement of the GEO is assessed based on the three equally important and cross-
supporting outcomes as defined at Project approval. The foundational Outcome 1 requires indeed



                                                    8
adequate corresponding financing mechanisms for both EE (Outcome 2) and RE (Outcome 3) in order to
become effective.

41.      Outcome 1: Change the current unfavorable investment and incentive conditions and create an
enabling environment in Macedonia that fosters the development of sustainable energy utilization through
providing financial, methodological, informational and institutional support. The outcome was achieved
with very minor to no shortcomings. The Project successfully supported the development of a
comprehensive institutional framework to incentivize the development of sustainable energy, including
FiTs, preparation of rulebooks on certificates of origin, procedures for land and resources use and
acquisition, bidding packages for hydropower and a licensing framework.

42.     Additionally, the Project provided extensive methodological support to all stakeholders, thereby
building the capacity to deliver RE/ EE projects in the MoE, the MBDP and other commercial banks
involved in the Project.

43.     Information dissemination focused on communication of the EE benefits gained at the schools
and kindergartens targeted during the first phase of the restructured Project. The dissemination was
successful in raising awareness and securing the co-financing for the Phase 2 projects as well as creating
momentum for the NPEEPB.

44.      The financial support for the Project initiatives was also adequate and well-targeted after the
restructuring, with 99% of funds being disbursed or committed at project closure.
Institutional support. The Project financed a successful wind measurement program that already has
created one year time series of high quality data on the wind resource available in FYR Macedonia and
established an institutional framework for collecting and analyzing wind data. This will be a key to
developing the country’s wind potential through attracting potential wind developers. Furthermore,
through technical assistance on a framework for wind power investments, an RE grid integration study,
interpretation of wind measurement results and initial discussions with the state-owned utility ELEM the
Project supported the concept for the country’s first wind farm in Bogdanci (37 MW under construction
and an additional 8 MW planned) financed by KFW.

45.      Additionally, through the FiTs framework, the development of hydropower bidding packages for
the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Water, and the establishment of a licensing process with the
help of IFC acting as a private sector sounding board, the Project enabled the licensing of 58 MW of new
small hydropower plants and about 8.5 MW of new solar PV plants, mostly financed through the private
sector.

46.     Finally, a 1MW solar plant was pioneered and partly financed by the project.
The total added RE capacity in Macedonia enabled by the Project reaches about 110MW, the majority of
which is already under construction. This is well in excess of the modest 8.4MW licensed capacity target
anticipated at restructuring, and demonstrates the success of the Project in establishing a favorable
investment and incentive environment for sustainable energy in FYR Macedonia.

47.      Outcome 2: Support a large increase in EE investment in Macedonia through the development of
a self-sustaining, market-based financing mechanism based on a principle of commercial co-financing.
There were significant shortcomings in the Project’s achievement of the outcome. On the positive side,
the Project enabled the delivery of EE retrofits in over 40 institutions, mostly municipal schools and
kindergartens, through a targeted and phased program supported by extensive TA. The impact was
substantial as the education sector represented about 50% of energy demand in public buildings, which in
turn represented 10 to 20% of total energy demand in Macedonia. The lifetime savings achieved were
below original target, due to a conscious choice to implement deep EE measures (e.g. wall insulation,


                                                    9
window replacement, etc.) as opposed to cherry-picking the shortest payback retrofits, and due to a need
to deliver adequate comfort levels in schools and kindergartens. However, the EE retrofits implemented
performed well, with an actual average payback shorter than that estimated at audit stage. While the first
of the two EE financing phases focused on grant financing, the second phase of the EE retrofits was
founded on a 50% grant and 50% co-financing approach. The second phase confirmed the demand for EE
in the public sector, demonstrated the viability of co-financing and paved the way towards fully loan-
financed projects. The Project therefore triggered an initial market for EE which can be measured by the
demand for more EE retrofits from municipalities (for instance, as part of the Bank’s MSIP project).
Additionally, the Project sowed the seeds of a sustainable financing mechanism supported by an enduring
agency through the planned National Program for Energy Efficiency in Public Buildings (NPEEPB),
which the MoE is currently preparing. Finally, the Project also demonstrated the value of a procurement
process based on competitive bidding and performance contracting, which could become the basis for
future EE contracting in the MoE and the marketplace. Given the difficulty in implementing a first-of-a-
kind EE program, the overwhelmingly positive response from both Client and beneficiaries and the
perspectives for further extension of the implemented measures through the NPEEPB, the achievements
of the Project are significant.

48.     However, the Project did not lead to the establishment of a sustainable EE implementing agency,
and only delivered the first building blocks for a sustainable market-based financing mechanism. The
Bank provided significant support to MoE in developing a detailed program plan supported by an
assessment of sustainable financing options for the NPEEPB, which was submitted to the GoM for
adoption in June 2013. The GoM has asked for additional explanations on alternative financial
mechanisms and is expected to continue with the adoption procedures. On the private side, despite
substantial training and TA support, the MBDP has lacked pro-activity in financing EE projects through
the SEFF.

49.      Overall, outcome 2 was not fully met, although some significant awareness was raised, the
viability of co-financing was demonstrated and implementation progress was accomplished in a context
of difficult implementation.

50.     Outcome 3: Increase the availability of financing for RE investments to enterprises and
intermediaries through the establishment of a financial facility with a long-term horizon, which will
provide seed capital for debt co-financing of RE projects. The outcome was achieved with moderate
shortcomings.

51.      The Project SEFF credit line provided first-of-a-kind financing tailored to meet the need of RE
projects through a subordinated loan structure, longer tenors and a grace period on principal
repayment. Additionally, the Project provided extensive TA and training support to participating banks so
as to increase capacity and awareness in implementing loan transactions for RE projects, which should
support the financing of at least part of the licensed renewable capacity. As a result, the SEFF loan facility
financed two solar PV plants, including the first large RE project through the 1MW MEGA Solar plant.
This latter project demonstrated the availability of adequate financing to potential investors and
developers, and led to numerous small solar PV and hydropower projects being developed by the private
sector (the large wind farm currently under construction is being developed by state-owned utility ELEM).
The large amount of RE under construction or licensed demonstrates that investors’ confidence in
securing financing on adequate terms has dramatically increased since Project inception. In this sense,
the Project succeeded in creating a market for and increasing the availability of RE financing.

52.     However, when the original SEFF loan facility was expected to fund 5 RE projects, the actual
realized RE projects consisted of only two PV plants, with the large 1MW MEGA Solar absorbing over
90% of the credit line. In this sense, at project closure, the SEFF was yet to demonstrate a wide-ranging


                                                     10
appeal to RE developers. More importantly, the MBDP is also yet to show the needed pro-activity to
sustain the revolving fund in the future: there could be a risk that the SEFF does not finance any further
projects despite  funds being available, market demand being present and institutional capacity having
been built. Additionally, the guarantee products offered by the SEFF failed to achieve traction due to lack
of market demand. While the offering was seen as a good practice by the Bank and the GEF at appraisal
time, a number of projects involving EE measures in the region reached the same result (e.g. Poland,
Croatia).

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Satisfactory

53.     At appraisal, an incremental cost analysis assessed the Project incremental cost for GEF funds
and the resulting incremental reduction in CO2 emissions, against a baseline scenario; additionally, an
economic and financial analysis focused on the ESCO Component and the SEFF Component.
At completion, a financial analysis of the large solar PV plant delivered under SEFF, a benefits-cost
analysis of the EE retrofits and an incremental GEF cost analysis were carried out.

54.      Financial analysis: Based on projections from 2011 and 2012 actual output over a lifetime of 15
years, the 1MW GEF-financed solar plant delivered a FIRR of 13.5% pre-tax and 12.5% post-tax, vs. a
FIRR of 10.4% pre-tax and 9.6% post-tax at feasibility. This is due to the actual output being about 20%
higher than anticipated at feasibility study stage.

55.      Benefits-cost analysis: The actual total value of EE retrofits financed under the Project, under
Components 2 and 3, including loan and equity components, as well as audit and consultant costs, stands
at about US$4.2 million or about 7% higher than the value expected at first restructuring. Additionally,
the expected lifetime savings from the EE retrofits is about 110 GWh, or about 50% of the target at first
restructuring, and about 40% of the target at appraisal. In this sense, the EE retrofits under-delivered
against targets, due to a conscious choice to implement deep EE retrofit measures in the schools and
kindergartens needing them the most, as opposed to cherry-picking the lowest payback measures in a
larger sample of institutions.

56.     However, looking at the detail of the measures implemented in the selected schools and
kindergartens, the Project performed well. This is evidenced by the about 7.5 years average payback time
expected from the retrofits recommended at audit stage, against the (estimated) 6.5 years average payback
time for the retrofits actually implemented. When the payback times are adjusted for the higher
temperatures achieved in the buildings post-retrofit, the (estimated) actual average payback improves to
about 4.5 years.

57.     Incremental cost analysis: GEF only accounts for grants which are passed through to the end-
users on a “one-off” basis. GEF funds participating in debt financing schemes, such as those in the SEFF
loan facility, are not considered incremental costs because they will collect reflow that can be used to
finance future EE/RE opportunities. Based on this classification, the GEF incremental cost increased
substantially from an estimated US$1.855 million at appraisal to US$4.200 million at project completion
as result of the restructuring. In addition to the 1MW solar plant and EE retrofits directly funded, the
Project enabled the licensing of about 110 MW of RE, of which about 10 MW is in operation, about 50
MW is under construction, and about 50 MW is at planning stage. Assuming that 50% of the capacity at
planning stage is actually built, we assumed that the Project catalyzed the delivery of about 85 MW of RE
capacity, which needs to be factored into the incremental cost analysis.

58.    The incremental benefits of the project consisted of the reduction in CO2 emissions enabled by
these RE and EE projects, which amount to about 3.78 million tCO2 over the projects lifetime. The


                                                    11
incremental cost was associated with the development of the market framework, the various TA and
coordination activities, and the investment in RE/ EE projects, through GEF funds for an actual
incremental cost of about US$4.20 million. The analysis therefore indicates that overall Project GEF costs
of CO2 abatement of  US$1.11/tCO2, versus an estimated US$1.08/tCO2 at appraisal. This actual cost is
mostly driven by the RE capacity enabled by the Project.

59.      Overall, the Project efficiency is on target, driven by the significant RE licensed capacity that was
enabled by the comprehensive framework, TA and stakeholder engagement delivered under Component 1.
Additionally, the 1MW solar plant directly GEF-funded by the Project delivered above target FIRR, while
the EE retrofits under-delivered against target but performed well against audit forecast. The Project
efficiency is therefore rated as Satisfactory overall.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

60.       The Project GEO and PDO remain highly relevant to the energy sector in Macedonia.
While the GEO was mostly met through the successful RE framework delivered under the Project, the EE
retrofit activities also played a role in raising awareness of the benefits and stressing the leadership role of
the public sector. The overall GHG emissions reductions achieved are in line with the target.

61.       The June 2010 restructuring successfully turned the Project around, and performance against
PDO indicators was strong by Project closure, except for the already mentioned EE targeted lifetime
savings. The project did provide the required financial, methodological, informational and institutional
support to foster sustainable energy utilization, particularly through the comprehensive framework
delivered for RE. The Project did not fully succeed in supporting a large increase in EE through a
sustainable, market-based financing mechanism. However, by targeting the largest energy consumers in
the public sector in a significant program targeting about 40 schools and kindergarten in over 10
municipalities, the Project made a critical step towards establishing a business case and hence demands
for EE measures. The public sector interest for further EE measures was confirmed both in the post-
retrofit survey and by the MSIP Director within the Macedonian Ministry of Finance. Additionally, while
a sustainable, market-based mechanism wasn’t fully achieved during the Project, the team did deliver and
discuss extensively an options paper considering such mechanisms, and the MoE is currently engaging
with the Bank to reach a conclusion on a sustainable financing mechanism and implementing agency.

62.     The Project succeeded in increasing the availability of financing for RE projects. Although the
SEFF fund is at risk of not being actively managed by the MBDP, the large RE licensed capacity
demonstrates the investors’ confidence in securing financing on acceptable terms, a possible consequence
of the SEFF example setting for commercial banks.

63.     The overall outcome is therefore rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
64.     Macedonian electricity customers would benefit from (i) reduced dependency on costly electricity
imports and (ii) reduced energy consumption in schools and kindergartens, which is charged to customers
through their electricity bills. Additionally, the retrofits in over 40 schools and kindergartens delivered
improved working conditions due to more comfortable indoor temperatures, reduced polluting fumes
from old heating stoves and more aesthetic buildings.
 




                                                      12
(b)Institutional Change/Strengthening
65.     The Project successfully implemented an enduring framework for the development of RE,
supported by adequate capability within the Energy Regulatory Commission of Macedonia and
commercial banks.
The Project also strengthened the EE program management capability within the MoE, as reflected in the
NPEEPB and the ongoing MoE discussions for the establishment of a sustainable financing mechanism
for EE in public buildings. Additionally, the Project contributed to kick-starting an EE services industry
through building confidence in the transparency and fairness of EE public procurement processes. For
instance, the company Konstruktor d.o.o., which built part of the retrofit program, stated that they started
a new EE business line because of the Project.

66.     However, the Project came short of establishing an enduring institution to support the
development of EE measures in Macedonia. Additionally, while the Project built extensive capability
within the MBDP and some commercial banks, more pro-activeness is required to finance private EE
projects.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
Not applicable to the Project.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
67.      A beneficiary survey was conducted by the PIU post-Project completion. Stakeholders from all
12 municipalities involved in the EE retrofits were interviewed using a pre-set questionnaire: 30
principals, 39 teachers and caretakers, 27 students and parents, and 11 mayors. Overall, about 90% of
stakeholders were completely satisfied with the retrofits process and results. While principals were most
satisfied with the energy savings achieved, teachers and students were most satisfied with increased room
temperature, associated health benefits and improved aesthetics of the buildings. A consistent area of
improvement related to avoiding construction during school hours. Mayors consistently expressed high
satisfaction with regards to the impact of the retrofits on the municipality image and stated their interest in
continuing EE initiatives on a loan-financed basis, as well as the newly prominent role of EE in their
priorities. Besides remaining schools and kindergartens, mayors identified hospitals, sport centers, as well
as street lighting as areas of interest.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate overall

68.      Sustainability of RE / EE projects implemented: The generated electricity, reduced CO2
emissions, and energy savings delivered by the individual projects funded under the Project are expected
to be sustained over the lifetime of the RE and EE measures implemented i.e. more than 15 years. The
post-implementation survey conducted by the MoE PIU demonstrated that the payback times for EE
retrofits implemented were lower than the paybacks anticipated for the retrofits recommended at audit
stage. It is unlikely that these outcomes will change over time.

69.      Sustainability of RE incentive framework: The framework demonstrated its effectiveness and
sustainability in attracting RE investments through the previously mentioned small hydropower, solar PV
and wind farms in operations, under construction and at planning stage. To maximize its impact, the
framework will require further parallel institutional improvements to clarify for instance land property
rights, and simplify and streamline further the licensing and permitting processes.

70.      Continuation of EE program: While the Project did create a market for EE retrofits in the public
sector, there is still a gap in terms of a sustainable implementing agency and financing mechanism. The
NPEEPB could address the EE potential in public buildings in a sustainable manner, however full design


                                                      13
and implementation will probably take a few years, potentially creating an EE investment hiatus and
halting the momentum gathered by the Project. Beyond the public sector, there is currently a market and
capacity gap which remains to be addressed, but which could be catalyzed by widespread communication
of the successes achieved in the public buildings sector.
 
71.      Continuation of RE financing: The risk that RE projects cannot continue to be financed under
adequate terms is limited. The SEFF successfully built capacity within commercial banks and
demonstrated the commercial viability of RE projects. The 10 MW of RE in operations, as well as the 50
MW under construction and 50 MW at planning stage, confirm that the Project contributed to creating a
sustainable market for RE financing.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

72.      At appraisal, substantial effort went into Project preparation and design, including the analysis of
RE/ EE case studies, the consideration of a number of alternatives for the fund, and the inclusion of
lessons learnt from relevant projects in the region. All appropriate project aspects were duly completed,
such as technical, financial, economic, institutional and fiduciary arrangements, safeguards policies and
guidelines. However, the project would have also benefited from (i) a more advanced stage in the
establishment of a sustainable EA and ESCO, which would have demonstrated the commitment from the
implementing agencies, (ii) a more focused scope and less complex institutional set-up and (iii) a more
comprehensive assessment of risks inherent to the Project, including potential for implementation delays.
Overall, the Bank’s performance in ensuring quality at entry was moderately satisfactory.
 
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
 
73.      The Bank conducted regular implementation support missions, and key issues were highlighted in
the ISRs which rated the performance of the Project appropriately. The team was adequately staffed, and
benefited from the right expertise, local presence and sufficient resources.
Pre-restructuring, the Bank’s supervision performance started as Moderately Satisfactory and moved
towards Moderately Unsatisfactory as several attempts were made to kick-start the EA and ESCO-driven
Components. Once the decision was made to restructure the Project, over a year passed before
restructuring was finalized; the performance during this protracted decision making process was
Unsatisfactory.
Post-restructuring, the Bank demonstrated proactive supervision and reactiveness, and Satisfactory
performance. This was evidenced by the Project’s fast response to changes of scope as requested by the
client (inclusion of an information campaign on EE gains from the first phase of restructured Component
2, for instance), required re-allocation of funds towards further EE projects, or solutions to Project
liquidity issues due to payments due exceeding the Special Account ceiling.
Overall, the Bank’s quality of supervision is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.
 
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

74.     While the original Project design incorporated best practices from neighboring countries, the
Project preparation would have benefitted from a fully established ESCO and EA, as well as deeper



                                                     14
market analysis to assess the demand for a guarantee instrument. During implementation, post-
restructuring, the Bank showed flexibility to adjust to the needs of the implementing agencies and
provided ample TA to support capacity building. A direct consequence is the success of the RE
framework, which catalyzed the licensing of about 110MW of wind, small hydropower and solar plants,
and enabled to deliver strongly against the GEO. The overall performance of the Bank is rated
Moderately Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

75.       Before restructuring, the Government’s performance directly impacted on the EA’s ability to
fulfill its role as an implementing agency. In particular, the Government could have taken more
ownership over fulfilling essential basics such as timely nomination of a Director, adequate allocation of
staff, and suitable allocation of resources including office premises. Additionally, other ongoing issues
such as lack of communication between the MoE and the EA, lack of clarity over respective
accountability (e.g. tendering of concessions for small hydropower plants), absence of follow-up on
actions required from the MoE, further demonstrated the lowered commitment to the Project. While an
institutional framework for incentivizing investments in RE was successfully set up, it suffered from
significant delays in implementation.
Post-restructuring, the Government’s commitment to the Project proved much stronger through the
NPEEPB and the quick set-up of an adequately resourced PIU within the MoE, which enabled the
delivery of EE measures in over 40 schools and kindergartens. However, complex decision making
procedures contributed to further delaying the Project. For instance, significant delays were incurred at
the time of finalizing the selection of municipalities for the second phase of the EE program as well as
when required to sign contracts for the supply and installation of wind measurement equipment, which
could have led to the cancellation of the grant elements of the fund.

76.     Delayed decision making on the next stages of the NPEEPB may also impact on the momentum
generated by the Project for implementation of further EE measures in the public sector. Additionally,
essential measures towards simplifying the licensing, permitting and land ownership issues/ process for
RE projects remain to be undertaken. However, the Government’s capacity building and increased
commitment to RE and EE were clearly demonstrated over the lifecycle of the Project.
Overall, the Government’s performance is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

77.      Pre-restructuring, the EA failed to deliver the required outcomes from the Project, mostly due to
inadequate resources being provided by the Government. Post-restructuring, the new PIU established
within the MoE served as an effective and flexible implementation agency which quickly came up to
speed with the Project to deliver the restructured Components 1 and 2 of the Project with the support of
extensive technical assistance from the Bank including training, construction supervision, and overall
project implementation and management. Through the PIU, the long-delayed wind measurement program
was implemented, a RE grid integration study was completed as well as rulebooks to support FiTs for
combined heat and power and RE plants. Under the EE Component, the PIU led the energy audits in
public buildings, and overall satisfactorily managed the implementation of EE projects. One area of
improvement could have been more proactive communication of delays in the project, including the 1
year delay in contract signature from one of the municipalities, leading to a last-minute cancellation of the
related projects and reallocation of funds. More pro-activeness could also have been shown in areas



                                                     15
immediately related to the project beyond implementation of the defined scope, such as earlier
identification of opportunity for an EE information campaign.

78.     The SEFF was successfully established and the MBDP built strong relationships with four
commercial banks. However, in the three first years of the Project, while the financing facility under the
MBDP was fully operational, only two projects totaling US$163,000 had been financed over its credit
line. While the need for  technical assistance in the identification and preparation of projects for
investment was one driver and was subsequently addressed, the MBDP could have demonstrated more
pro-activeness in using the allocated funds to stimulate demand for commercial RE/ EE projects.
Overall, the implementing agencies’ performance is rated as moderately satisfactory.
 
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
79.     Based on the above and the overall outcome rating of the Project, the overall Borrower
performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
80.     The main lessons for the Project are summarized below:
     RE sector development can be successfully achieved through establishing a comprehensive
        framework including (i) developing all relevant policy, legislation, incentive scheme, rulebooks,
        land acquisition procedures, bidding packages, licensing processes; (ii) engaging with all relevant
        stakeholders such as Regulator, MoE, MBDP, EA; and (iii) demonstrating implementation
        through a project such as the 1MW solar PV plant delivered under the SEFF.
     Delivering an EE program takes time and requires flexibility. However, significant measurable
        results can be achieved in a first-of-a-kind EE initiative in the public sector, through a strong
        implementation unit backed by extensive training and TA. Actually seeing the tangible results of
        such initiative through implementation at a significant scale (e.g. about 40 schools and
        kindergartens in over 10 municipalities) is a powerful driver for further EE initiatives, as can be
        evidenced by the newly dominant importance of EE on municipalities’ agendas. A final step
        ensuring success in the long run would consist of establishing a sustainable financing mechanism
        such as the one currently discussed between the Bank and the MoE for the NPEEPB.
     Based on the GEF’s expectations from EE projects, including e.g. guarantee products, a
        standalone GEF grant may not be a flexible enough instrument for Bank EE projects. A more
        effective approach could involve a blend of GEF grant and Bank loan, or a planned approach
        whereby a Bank loan would be activated one to two years into the project.
     Looking back at the lessons learnt reflected in the Project design at appraisal stage, the
        guarantee instrument proposed as part of the SEFF based on the success from the IFC/GEF-
        supported Hungary EE Co-Financing Program failed to attract interest not only in the Project, but
        also in other EE initiatives such as the Poland Energy Efficiency project. The market’s interest in
        guarantee instruments to support EE programs therefore needs to be reconsidered in future EE
        projects. The other main lesson learnt discussed at appraisal considers the advantages of an ESCO
        model and recognizes that some trial and error, flexibility, and additional time may be required
        during implementation. The experience of the Project shows that this lessons stands, and that in
        the case of FYR Macedonia, may apply to a period following a successful implementation of
        measures in the public sector.




                                                    16
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

81.      The Bank concurs with the lessons learnt highlighted in the implementing agencies ICRs,
including (i) the value of consistent strong TA to support the implementing agencies; (ii) the impact of
promotional activities in raising interest in EE/ RE investments; and (iii) the determining role of
transparent selection criteria to select municipalities eligible for the EE retrofits, and of a fair competitive
contractor procurement process. However, it is questionable whether the 2 RE projects financed through
the SEFF over 6 years “prove the strong interest in RE investment” in Macedonia as stated by the MBDP
(the number of projects licensed is a much stronger indicator). Additionally, no mention is made of the
future of the SEFF.
Similarly, a PIU within the MOE may not be “the most appropriate arrangement for implementation of
EE projects” in terms of sustainability, as suggested by the MoE, and the alternative setups discussed as
part of the NPEEPB are better fit for purpose.

(b) Cofinanciers
82. Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
83. Not applicable.




                                                      17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing  

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent) 

 
                                Appraisal estimate   Actual/ Latest estimate Percentage of Appraisal
Component
                                       US$                     US$                       %
Component 1: Market 
Framework and Institutional         $1,000,000             $1,065,249                  107%
support and TA
Component 2: Utility‐based 
                                    $800,000                   $0                       0%
ESCO
Component 2: EE in public 
                                       $0                  $3,120,052                   n/a
buildings
Component 3: SEFF loan RE           $2,000,000             $1,196,000                  60%
Component 3: SEFF loan EE            $500,000               $63,700                    13%
Component 3: SEFF 
                                    $1,200,000                 $0                       0%
guarantee  EE                                                                                                

(b) Financing 
 
                                Appraisal estimate   Actual/ Latest estimate Percentage  of Appraisal
Source of funds
                                       US$                     US$                     %
GEF                                $5,500,000              $5,460,000                 99%
Financial intermediaries and 
                                   $26,500,000            $3,851,966                   15%
private investors                                                                                        




                                                     18
Annex 2. Outputs by Component  
 
Component  1:  Market  Framework  at  Appraisal,  Institutional  Support  and  Technical  Assistance  at 
Restructuring 
The  Component  delivered  a  comprehensive  framework  to  enable  RE  investment,  including  rulebooks, 
guidance  and  procedures  for  electricity  generation  from  RE  sources,  the  introduction  of  FiTs,  and  the 
development of hydropower bidding packages. 
The restructured Component focused on implementation. It continued  to support the development of a 
regulatory  and  institutional  framework  for  RE  and  delivered  new  activities  such  as  technical  assistance 
on  a  framework  for  wind  power  investments,  an  RE  grid  integration  study,  interpretation  of  wind 
measurement results and initial discussions with the state‐owned utility, ELEM, eventually leading to the 
licensing  of  about  45  MW  of  new  wind  capacity,  37  MW  of  which  are  under  construction  at  Bogdanci 
and financed by KfW. 
Additionally,  the  restructured  Component  provided  extensive  support  to  build  capacity  within  the  MoE 
PIU  for  the  preparation  and  implementation  of  EE  retrofits  at  schools  and  kindergartens,  during  energy 
audit stage, construction supervision, commissioning and post‐retrofit audits. Beyond the delivery of the 
EE retrofits program funded under GEF, the Project also provided extensive technical assistance with the 
preparation  and  implementation  of  a  National  Program  for  EE  in  Public  Buildings  or  NPEEPB,  and  with 
proposals  for  a  sustainable  financing  mechanism.  The  Government  has  yet  to  decide  the  way  forward 
for the NPEEBP in terms of financing mechanism, institutional setup and actual program of EE  measures 
to implement in public buildings. 
 
Component  2:  Utility‐based  ESCO  at  Appraisal,  and  Financial  Support  for  EE  in  Public  Buildings  at 
Restructuring 
While the ESCO never materialized, the restructured Component successfully delivered deep EE retrofits 
in  over  40  schools  and  kindergartens.  These  included  wide‐ranging  measures  including  replacement  of 
lighting  with  more  efficient  bulbs,  boiler  retrofits  from  wood‐fired  to  pellet‐fired,  wall  insulation  and 
replacement  of  doors  and  windows.  The  delivered  measures  not  only  over‐performed  the  measures 
recommended at audit stage in terms of economics  and payback  time,  they also allowed for elimination 
of under‐heating and wood stove fumes, with associated health benefits. 
Beyond  the  results  achieved  at  the  schools  and  kindergartens  benefiting  from  the  retrofits,  the 
Component  contributed  to  increased  awareness  of  EE  benefits  among  municipalities,  leading  to  an 
increased  demand  for  EE  and  a  much  more  prominent  place  of  EE  on  the  municipalities’  agendas.  This 
can  be  evidenced  from  the  higher  demand  for  EE  investments  from  municipalities  as  part  of  the  MSIP 
program. 
Additionally, the Component also contributed to creating a market for EE. The transparent procurement 
process  followed  throughout  the  Project  encouraged  contractors  to  bid,  leading  to  both  the  budding  of 
a new industry and price discovery of EE measures. 
 
Component 3: Sustainable Energy Financing Facility for RE and EE 
Market demand for the Guarantee component of the SEFF never materialized, and fewer RE/ EE projects 
than  anticipated  were  funded,  however,  the  SEFF  proved  a  key  demonstration  tool  to  finance  first‐of‐a‐
kind renewable projects in Macedonia.  
The  SEFF  financed  a  small  EE  private  project  at  a  hotel  and  a  small  solar  PV  plant,  and  more  importantly 
the large MEGA Solar 1 MW solar PV plant. 
 



                                                            19
Additionally,  the  Component  provided  extensive  technical  assistance  support  to  the  MBDP  and  on‐
lending partner banks to build capacity for RE projects pipeline development and due diligence. The fact 
that  about  110  MW  of  RE  capacity  has  been  licensed  by  Project  completion,  including  about  10  MW  in 
operation  and  about  50  MW  under  construction,  demonstrated  that  the  Component  successfully 
contributed to lowering the financial barriers to RE investment in Macedonia. 




                                                        20
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis  
 
This  annex  comprises  four  sections.   Section  I  is  a  benefit‐cost  analysis  of  the  Energy  Efficiency  (EE)  for 
public  buildings  component  funded  in  part  by  GEF  grant.   Section  II  is  a  financial  analysis  of  the  Mega 
Solar Plant financed by the Sustainable Energy Financing Facility (SEFF) under the Project.  Section III is a 
lifecycle impact assessment of the renewable energy (RE) capacities catalyzed  by the institution support 
and  technical  assistance  efforts  funded  by  the  Project.    Section  IV  is  an  incremental  cost  analysis  to 
assess  the  Project’s  global  impact  on  CO2  emissions  reduction  and  the  incremental  cost  associated  with 
that  impact  as  a  result  of  both  direct  and  indirect  GEF  interventions.    In  each  section,  the  analytical 
outputs  are  compared  against  relevant  benchmarks  established  either  at  appraisal,  or  by  feasibility 
studies, or by energy audits carried out before the implementation of the component.   
 
     I.        EE for Public Buildings 
                
This component provided grant support for EE retrofits in public buildings, focusing on municipal schools 
and  kindergartens.  The  implementation  of  this  component  was  carried  out  in  two  phases,  with  Phase  I 
fully  funded  by  GEF  grant,  followed  by  Phase  II  half  financed  by  the  grant,  and  half  by  the  municipal 
budget.    At  project  completion,  a  cost‐benefit  analysis  was  carried  out  to  assess  the  impact  of  the  EE 
measures financed by the project.  The outputs of the assessment were compared against the estimates 
by the energy audits carried out before the implementation of the EE retrofits.  
 
Costs and Benefits  
The  costs  of  the  project  are  the  up‐front  investment  costs.   Based  on  the  responses  to  the  stakeholder 
survey  (Annex  5),  the  primary  benefits  of  the  project  are  i)  improved  comfort  due  to  higher  indoor 
temperature  during  the  heating  season,  and  ii)  energy  and  cost  savings.   Other  mentioned  however  less 
quantifiable  benefits  include  i)  health  benefits  associated  with  lower  incidences  of  cold  and  respiratory 
illness; and ii) overall aesthetic boost to the buildings’ ambience.   
 
Energy Audits  
Before  the  implementation  of  the  EE  retrofits,  38  energy  audits  were  carried  out,  based  on  which,  140 
individual  EE  measures  were  recommended  to  the  participating  institutions.    The  recommended 
measures belonged  to 9 general  categories such as installation of thermostatic valves or roof insulation.  
In  some  cases,  the  same  category  of  measure  was  recommended  twice,  even  thrice,  for  different 
structures  from  the  same  institution.    The  payback  period  was  calculated  based  on  the  estimated 
investments  of a measure, divided by the expected  dollar amount in energy savings it would yield on an 
annual basis.   
 
Based  on  the  energy  audits,  the  9  types  of  EE  measures  had  average  payback  periods,  ranging  from  as 
short as 1.27 years for simple thermostatic valve installations to 7‐9 years for building exterior insulation 
and  window/door  replacements.    The  average  payback  estimated  for  all  measures  recommended  at 
audit stage was 7.6 years.  Several findings came out of this assessment::  
      The  EE  measures  with  short  payback  periods  tend  to  be  only  applicable  to  a  small  subset  of 
          institutions;  
      Window/door  replacement  and  building  exterior  insulation  are  the  most  commonly  applicable 
          EE measures although they tend to have longer payback periods;  
      Due  to  the  differences  in  scale  and  pre‐conditions  of  the  structures  examined,  the  payback 
          period of the same type of EE measure may vary, evident from the sizable standard deviation of 
          the average estimated paybacks.  


                                                           21
 
Table  A3‐1  provides  a  summary  of  the  estimated  payback  periods  of  the  EE  measures  proposed  to  the 
39 institutions audited.   
 
Table A3‐1 Individual EE Measure Payback Period Estimates Based on the Energy Audits 
                                                                      Average  Standard 
                      EE Measure                          Number  Payback  Deviation 
                                                                       (years)         (years)  
   Installation of thermostatic valve                         8            1.4           6.1  
   Stove replacement                                          3            3.8           5.5  
   Radiator cover replacement                                 6            4.1           3.1  
   New control ‐ district heating                             2            4.6           1.0  
   Roof insulation                                            21           5.4           7.0  
   Lighting                                                   14           6.1           5.2  
   Boiler improvements                                        5            6.6          41.2  
   Exterior wall insolation                                   31           7.4          15.7  
   Window and door replacements                               36           8.6          12.7  
   Miscellaneous                                              5            9.8          26.4  
   Central heating                                            9            n.a.          n.a.  
   All Measures                                              140           7.6          12.8  
 
 
Benefit‐Cost Analysis at Project Completion  
 
Source Data and Format 
A  large  dataset  on  the  participating  institutions  was  collected  at  the  project  completion  to  allow  more 
precise estimates of the project impact.   
 
       Energy  consumption  data  was  based  on  the  actual  reported  amount  in  the  energy  bill  and/or 
            fuel  purchase  receipts.   Prior  to  project  implementation,  energy  audits  were  carried  out  on  all 
            participating  institution,  during  which  3  heating‐season  worth  of  energy  consumption  data  was 
            collected,  allowing  for  more  precise  estimates  of  the  consumption  level  before  project 
            implementation.  Phase 1 has been completed for nearly 2 years.  All participating institutions in 
            the  phase  have  a  full‐year  (2  half  heating  seasons)  of  energy  consumption  data.   Phase  2  was 
            only  recently  completed.    Most  participating  institutions  in  the  phase  have  at  most  a  few 
            months of energy consumption data; 
             
       Heating degree days (HDDs) vary across municipalities and the time period measured.  Data on 
            the number of HDDs in a standard year in each municipality was collected from a public source.  
            The  specific  number  of  HDDs  for  the  consumption  periods  measured  was  collected  during  the 
            energy audits and/or post‐program monitoring by the PIU; 
           
       Incidence  of  under‐heating  in  attempt  to  conserve  fuels  is  prevalent  among  institutions  using 
            firewood  and/or  oil  fuels.  Thus,  the  post‐program  survey  had  collected  data  on  the  severity  of 
            under‐heating.    
           




                                                          22
Table A3‐2 provides a summary of the “raw data” collected for the calculation of thermal energy savings 
resulted from the project.   
 
Heating  Data  Normalization  to  ensure  the  estimated  annual  energy  savings  resulted  from  the  project 
interventions  are  representative  of  the  saving  amount  in  any  given  year  during  the  project  lifecycle,  the 
energy  consumption  data  in  the  “raw  dataset”  would  need  to  be  normalized  to  taken  into  accounts  the 
idiosyncratic  variations  in  the  consumption  data,  such  as  i)  unique  temperature  conditions  during  the 
measured  periods;  ii)  different  utilization  levels  of  the  building  facility;  and  iii)  different  comfort 
(temperature) levels before and after  project implementation.  The following  normalization process was 
therefore followed to arrive at the final estimate of an average annual energy saving amount:  
 
     Energy savings adjusted for utilization levels (e*).  For the project dataset, this adjustment had 
         been carried out in the field with more general estimates of facility utilization levels  
                                                   ∗
                                                                               
                                                        utilization%
 
        Energy saving in a standard year (∆e*) adjusted for heating degree days (HDD)  
                                  ∗                                       ∗
                         ∗
                              	                         	     	       	                       	    	
                     ∆                                            	                                     
 
        All  institutions  participating  in  the  EE  retrofitting  program  have  reported  indoor  temperature 
         improvements  (between  1‐5  degrees)  after  project  implementation  (see  Annex  5).    Among 
         institutions  using  firewood  and/or  oil  fuels,  the  temperature  difference  is  primarily  due  to 
         deliberate  under‐heating  in  the  past  in  order  to  save  costs  on  fuel.  For  institutions  with  district 
         heating,  the  difference  is  due  to  better  insulation  after  project  implementation.    Therefore, 
         energy  saving  in  a  standard  year  adjusted  for  room  temperature  differences  and  under‐heating 
         (∆E ∗  is calculated as  
          
                              	 ∗                        	    	 	 ∗                           	     	
                      ∆ ∗                      ∗
                                                                  	                                   
 
                   ∗
        where           is the equivalent number of heating degree days if the average room 
        temperature during the period before the project implementation was the same as that after.   
         
Table A3‐2 and A3‐3 provide summaries of the thermal energy consumption data before and after the 
normalization process described above.   
 
 
 
 




                                                            23
Table A3‐2 “Raw” Data on Thermal Energy Consumption before and after retrofits 
                                   Actual         Fuel Used          HDD                                Before                                            After
                                                                                                                                                                                    Construction
              Phase I            Investment                        Standard
                                                                                                                                                                                     Completion
                                   (USD)                             Year       Consumption     Expenditure                  Reported     Consumption    Expenditure
                                               Before     After                                                  HDD                                                       HDD
                                                                                   (kwh)          (USD)                    Underheating      (kwh)          (USD)

D.Cara - Bogovinje                    61,797 Firewood     Pellet        2,662        560,943          17,897       7,986       high             50,000             3,190    2,662    12/17/2011

11 Oktomvri - Bogovinje               66,311 Firewood     Pellet        2,662        381,345          11,333       7,986       high             32,500             1,932    2,662    12/17/2011

S.Bajrami - Bogovinje                 82,104 Firewood     Pellet        2,662        583,011          16,621       7,986     medium             55,000             1,518    2,662    12/17/2011

S.Pindzur-Ces.Obl.                    81,718 Firewood     Pellet        2,271       1,277,841         37,562       6,813       high            101,107             5,889    2,271    12/31/2011

S.Pindzur Sokolarci - Ces.Obl.        18,887       Firewood             2,271        617,013          17,925       6,813       high             49,500             1,438    2,271    12/31/2011

K.Ohridski - Ces.Obl.                 80,549 Firewood     Pellet        2,271        736,086          21,161       6,813       high             91,100             5,238    2,271    12/31/2011

D.Daskalov-Kavad.                     36,639       Firewood             2,303       1,281,951         37,923       6,909     medium            192,200             5,282    2,303    1/23/2012

Gaberot - Kavadarci                   35,500       Firewood             2,303        584,196          17,299       6,909     medium             84,800             2,511    2,303    1/23/2012

T.Velkov-Kavad.                       78,524 Firewood     Pellet        2,303       1,660,479         55,908       6,909       high            172,880            11,642    2,303    1/23/2012

F.Konica - Zajas                      76,052 Firewood     Pellet        2,662        659,328          57,948       7,986     medium             95,000            16,699    2,662    12/17/2011

F.Konica(podracno) - Zajas            94,931 Firewood     Pellet        2,662        471,534          20,146       7,986     medium             31,200             1,778    2,662    12/17/2011

R.Rusiti - Zajas                      63,684 Firewood     Pellet        2,662        311,889          10,602       7,986     medium             34,700             2,359    2,662    12/17/2011

P.Zografski - K.Voda                 116,634    District heating        2,536       1,510,314        289,399       7,608       low             119,469            22,266    2,536    1/13/2012

Peperutka-K.Voda                     116,136     Light Fuel Oil         2,536       2,206,989        251,814       7,608     medium            479,592            54,721    2,536    1/13/2012

Sinolicka-K.Voda                      45,827    District heating        2,536        339,684          62,484       7,608       low              46,330             8,522    2,536    1/13/2012

Sinolichka-G.Baba                     85,532     Light Fuel Oil         2,536        733,485          83,627       7,608     medium            218,000            24,634    2,536     1/6/2012

Sonce-G.Baba                         166,983     Light Fuel Oil         2,536       1,655,136        189,682       7,608     medium            376,960            43,200    2,536     1/6/2012

Soncogled-G.Baba                      90,248    District heating        2,536       1,142,604        206,651       7,608       low             149,719            27,078    2,536     1/6/2012

               Phase I             1,398,056                          44,910      16,713,828      1,405,982      134,730                     2,380,057       239,897       44,910




                                   Actual         Fuel Used          HDD                                Before                                            After
                                                                                                                                                                                    Construction
          Phase II               Investment                        Standard
                                                                                                                                                                                     Completion
                                   (USD)                             Year       Consumption     Expenditure                  Reported     Consumption    Expenditure
                                               Before     After                                                  HDD                                                       HDD
                                                                                   (kwh)          (USD)                    Underheating      (kwh)          (USD)

J.Sandandski-Chair                    82,137    District heating        2,536       2,563,515        494,835       7,608       low             408,795            78,910    1,525    12/12/2012

Lirija Cair                          301,439     Light Fuel Oil         2,536       2,641,086        301,910       7,608     medium            391,189            44,718    1,845    11/16/2012

V, Glavinov - Cair                   116,972     Light Fuel Oil         2,536       1,814,136        205,824       7,608     medium            119,069            12,704      910    1/31/2013

N,Vapcarov                           333,468     Light Fuel Oil         2,536       2,560,800        289,370       7,608       high            202,709            22,906      910    1/31/2013

Snezana Cair                          87,042    District heating        2,536       1,319,442        249,941       7,608       low             143,673            27,216    1,845    11/16/2012

Pashko Vasa, Ciflik - Zhelino          7,482       Firewood             2,536        262,890           7,790       7,608       high             27,420              120     1,525    12/12/2012

Pashko Vasa - Zelino                   8,231       Firewood             2,536        732,903          22,676       7,608       high             86,905             2,689    1,525    12/12/2012

G.Delcev - Konce                      91,063       Firewood             2,388        919,347          30,334       7,164       high            106,919             3,528    1,857    11/15/2012

Bratstvo, Konjari - Petrovec          26,212 Firewood     Pellet        2,536         98,040           4,654       7,608     medium              3,146              299       996    1/24/2013

Bratstvo, Susica - Petrovec           27,364 Firewood     Pellet        2,536         84,759           2,981       7,608     medium              2,441              172       996    1/24/2013

JBT - Valandovo                       58,146     Light Fuel Oil         2,364        609,558          70,497       7,092     medium              9,641             1,115      185    3/30/2013

G.Delcev - Pirava, Valandovo          40,405     Light Fuel Oil         2,364        218,880          25,049       7,092     medium              5,011              573       185    3/30/2013

G.Delcev - Valandovo                 110,008     Light Fuel Oil         2,364        791,379          90,686       7,092     medium             12,924             1,481      185    3/30/2013

7mi septemvri - Pehcevo               34,874     Light Fuel Oil         2,932        398,490          45,754       8,796     medium             27,930             3,207      910    1/31/2013

Vanco Kitanov - Pehcevo              106,690       Firewood             2,932        949,887          32,563       8,796     medium             72,384             2,481      910    1/31/2013

unaudited
KG Detelinka                          52,635     Light Fuel Oil         2,303        400,125          45,214       6,909     medium             26,878             3,037      910    1/31/2013

HS Dobri Daskalov - Kavadarci         66,849       Firewood             2,303        988,506         101,802       6,909     medium             75,962             7,823      910    1/31/2013

KG Snezana                            24,493     Light Fuel Oil         2,303        400,125          45,214       6,909     medium             30,986             3,501      910    1/31/2013

PS Goce Delcev                        89,524     Light Fuel Oil         2,303       1,047,600        118,379       6,909     medium             84,850             9,588      910    1/31/2013

K.Spandov - Kavadarci                 87,967     Light Fuel Oil         2,303        911,412         102,990       6,909     medium             83,558             9,442      910    1/31/2013

               Phase II            1,753,001                          49,683      19,712,880      2,288,466      149,049                     1,922,389       235,510       20,860


              Phase I + II         3,151,057                          94,593      34,221,159      3,780,187      282,882                     3,044,793       347,393       38,350




                                                                                        24
Table A3‐3 Data Normalization and Savings Calculation for Heating‐Related EE Investments  
                                                                Energy Savings                         Cost Savings                              Energy Savings                              Cost Savings
                                           Actual        (before adj. for underheating)        (before adj. for underheating)             (after adj. for underheating)              (after adj. for underheating)
                      Phase I            Investment
                                           (USD)         Before     After                   Before     After                             Before     After                        Before      After
                                                                                    %                             %       Payback                                    %                                 %       Payback
                                                       (kWh/HDD) (kWh/HDD)                 ($/HDD)   ($/HDD)                           (kWh/HDD) (kWh/HDD)                      ($/HDD)    ($/HDD)

    1   D.Cara - Bogovinje                    61,797         70.24         18.78     73%      2.24       1.20       47%     22.26           92.90         18.78           80%       2.96       1.20      60%         13.15
    2   11 Oktomvri - Bogovinje               66,311         47.75         12.21     74%      1.42       0.73       49%     35.92           63.16         12.21           81%       1.88       0.73      61%         21.64
    3   S.Bajrami - Bogovinje                 82,104         73.00         20.66     72%      2.08       0.57       73%     20.41           87.18         20.66           76%       2.49       0.57      77%         16.10
    4   S.Pindzur-Ces.Obl.                    81,718        187.56         44.52     76%      5.51       2.59       53%     12.32          248.06         44.52           82%       7.29       2.59      64%          7.66
    5   S.Pindzur Sokolarci - Ces.Obl.        18,887         90.56         21.80     76%      2.63       0.63       76%         4.16       119.78         21.80           82%       3.48       0.63      82%          2.92
    6   K.Ohridski - Ces.Obl.                 80,549        108.04         40.11     63%      3.11       2.31       26%     44.36          142.89         40.11           72%       4.11       2.31      44%         19.69
    7   D.Daskalov-Kavad.                     36,639        185.55         83.46     55%      5.49       2.29       58%         4.98       221.58         83.46           62%       6.55       2.29      65%          3.73
    8   Gaberot - Kavadarci                   35,500         84.56         36.82     56%      2.50       1.09       56%     10.91          100.97         36.82           64%       2.99       1.09      64%          8.11
    9   T.Velkov-Kavad.                       78,524        240.34         75.07     69%      8.09       5.05       38%     11.23          317.86         75.07           76%      10.70       5.05      53%          6.04
    10 F.Konica - Zajas                       76,052         82.56         35.69     57%      7.26       6.27       14%     29.06           98.59         35.69           64%       8.67       6.27      28%         11.94
    11 F.Konica(podracno) - Zajas             94,931         59.05         11.72     80%      2.52       0.67       74%     19.23           70.51         11.72           83%       3.01       0.67      78%         15.21
    12 R.Rusiti - Zajas                       63,684         39.05         13.04     67%      1.33       0.89       33%     54.21           46.64         13.04           72%       1.59       0.89      44%         34.22
    13 P.Zografski - K.Voda                  116,634        198.52         47.11     76%     38.04       8.78       77%         1.57       216.08         47.11           78%      41.41       8.78      79%          1.41
    14 Peperutka-K.Voda                      116,136        290.09        189.11     35%     33.10      21.58       35%         3.97       346.42        189.11           45%      39.53      21.58      45%          2.55
    15 Sinolicka-K.Voda                       45,827         44.65         18.27     59%      8.21       3.36       59%         3.72        48.60         18.27           62%       8.94       3.36      62%          3.24
    16 Sinolichka-G.Baba                      85,532         96.41         85.96     11%     10.99       9.71       12%     26.38          115.13         85.96           25%      13.13       9.71      26%          9.88
    17 Sonce-G.Baba                          166,983        217.55        148.64     32%     24.93      17.03       32%         8.34       259.80        148.64           43%      29.77      17.03      43%          5.17
    18 Soncogled-G.Baba                       90,248        150.18         59.04     61%     27.16      10.68       61%         2.16       163.48         59.04           64%      29.57      10.68      64%          1.88

                       Phase I             1,398,056      125.87          53.44     58%      10.37      5.30      49%           6.15      153.31         53.44        65%         12.11       5.30      56%          4.57


                                                                Energy Savings                         Cost Savings                              Energy Savings                              Cost Savings
                                           Actual        (before adj. for underheating)        (before adj. for underheating)             (after adj. for underheating)              (after adj. for underheating)
                  Phase II               Investment
                                           (USD)         Before     After                   Before     After                             Before     After                        Before      After
                                                                                    %                             %       Payback                                    %                                 %       Payback
                                                       (kWh/HDD) (kWh/HDD)                 ($/HDD)   ($/HDD)                           (kWh/HDD) (kWh/HDD)                      ($/HDD)    ($/HDD)

    1   J.Sandandski-Chair                    82,137        336.95        268.03     20%     65.04      51.74       20%         2.43       366.77        268.03           27%      70.80      51.74      27%          1.70
    2   Lirija Cair                          301,439        347.15        212.03     39%     39.68      24.24       39%         7.70       414.55        212.03           49%      47.39      24.24      49%          5.13
    3   V, Glavinov - Cair                   116,972        238.45        130.85     45%     27.05      13.96       48%         3.52       284.75        130.85           54%      32.31      13.96      57%          2.51
    4   N,Vapcarov                           333,468        336.59        222.76     34%     38.04      25.17       34%     10.22          445.17        222.76           50%      50.30      25.17      50%          5.23
    5   Snezana Cair                          87,042        173.43         77.87     55%     32.85      14.75       55%         1.90       188.78         77.87           59%      35.76      14.75      59%          1.63
    6   Pashko Vasa, Ciflik - Zhelino          7,482         34.55         17.98     48%      1.02       0.08       92%         3.12        45.70         17.98           61%       1.35       0.08      94%          2.31
    7   Pashko Vasa - Zelino                   8,231         96.33         56.98     41%      2.98       1.76       41%         2.67       127.41         56.98           55%       3.94       1.76      55%          1.49
    8   G.Delcev - Konce                      91,063        128.33         57.57     55%      4.23       1.90       55%     16.33          169.73         57.57           66%       5.60       1.90      66%         10.30
    9   Bratstvo, Konjari - Petrovec          26,212         12.89          3.16     75%      0.61       0.30       51%     33.13           15.39          3.16           79%       0.73       0.30      59%         23.99
    10 Bratstvo, Susica - Petrovec            27,364         11.14          2.45     78%      0.39       0.17       56%     49.16           13.30          2.45           82%       0.47       0.17      63%         36.51
    11 JBT - Valandovo                        58,146         85.95         52.25     39%      9.94       6.04       39%         6.31       102.64         52.25           49%      11.87       6.04      49%          4.22
    12 G.Delcev - Pirava, Valandovo           40,405         30.86         27.16     12%      3.53       3.11       12%     40.30           36.86         27.16           26%       4.22       3.11      26%         15.40
    13 G.Delcev - Valandovo                  110,008        111.59         70.05     37%     12.79       8.03       37%         9.78       133.26         70.05           47%      15.27       8.03      47%          6.42
    14 7mi septemvri - Pehcevo                34,874         45.30         30.69     32%      5.20       3.52       32%         7.09        54.10         30.69           43%       6.21       3.52      43%          4.43
    15 Vanco Kitanov - Pehcevo               106,690        107.99         79.54     26%      3.70       2.73       26%     37.31          128.96         79.54           38%       4.42       2.73      38%         21.48
        unaudited
    17 KG Detelinka                           52,635         57.91         29.53     49%      6.54       3.34       49%         7.13        69.16         29.53           57%       7.81       3.34      57%          5.10
    18 HS Dobri Daskalov - Kavadarci          66,849        143.08         83.46     42%     14.73       8.59       42%         4.73       170.86         83.46           51%      17.60       8.59      51%          3.22
    19 KG Snezana                             24,493         57.91         34.04     41%      6.54       3.85       41%         3.94        69.16         34.04           51%       7.81       3.85      51%          2.68
    20 PS Goce Delcev                         89,524        151.63         93.22     39%     17.13      10.53       39%         5.89       181.07         93.22           49%      20.46      10.53      49%          3.92
    21 K.Spandov - Kavadarci                  87,967        131.92         91.80     30%     14.91      10.37       30%         8.43       157.53         91.80           42%      17.80      10.37      42%          5.14
                       Phase II            1,753,001      132.00          82.07     38%      15.35      9.71      37%           6.26      158.76         82.07        48%         18.11       9.71      46%          4.20


                      Phase I + II         3,151,057      129.10          68.51     47%      12.99      7.62      41%           6.21      156.18         68.51        56%         15.27       7.62      50%          4.36
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                




                                                                                                       25
Table 3A‐4 provides a summary of the thermal energy and cost savings realized, and the investment payback 
periods  by  the  participating  institutions  using  different  fuel  types.  Before  the  impact  of  under‐heating  was 
adjusted  for,  the  participating  institutions  have  achieved,  on  average,  47%  savings  on  their  thermal  energy 
consumption  as  a  result  of  the  EE  measures  implemented.   After  the  impact  of  under‐heating  was  adjusted 
for, the average energy savings is around 56%.    
 
In  general,  institutions  using  district  heating  have  realized  the  greatest  amount  of  cost  savings  and  the 
shortest  payback  periods.    Although  institutions  with  firewood‐based  heating  have  seen  the  greatest 
percentage  of  energy  savings  (69%),  the  cost  savings  realized  is  somewhat  less  (57%)  because  out  of  the  19 
institutions  with  wood‐fired  stoves/boilers,  11  switched  to  higher  efficiency,  lower  emissions  but  more 
costly pellet fuel.   
 
Table 3A‐4 Summary of Thermal Energy Savings and Payback Periods  
                                                   Before Under heating                   After Under heating 
                                                         Adjustment                             Adjustment 
                             Investment 
                                                   kWh        Cost  Payback               kWh         Cost  Payback 
                                 (US$) 
                                               Savings      Saving         Period      Savings  Saving  Period 
                                                    (%)         (%)          (yrs)           (%)        (%)     (yrs) 
Phase I                       1,398,056         58%           49%          6.15          65%          56%         4.57 
     Firewood                  776,696          67%           45%         16.19          74%          56%        10.30 
     Light Fuel Oil            368,651          30%           30%          7.02          41%          41%         4.26 
     District heating          252,709          68%           69%          1.97          71%          71%         1.75 
Phase II                      1,753,001         38%           37%          6.26          48%          46%         4.20 
     Firewood                  333,891          43%           48%         10.20          54%          59%         6.76 
     Light Fuel Oil           1,249,931         23%           23%         12.10          36%          36%         6.42 
     District heating          169,179          36%           36%          1.91          41%          41%         1.53 
Phase I & II                  3,151,057         47%           41%          6.21          56%          50%         4.36 
     Firewood                 1,110,587         62%           46%         13.81          69%          57%         8.92 
     Light Fuel Oil           1,618,582         20%           21%         12.64          34%          34%         6.37 
      District heating          421,888          56%          56%             1.72         60%         60%         1.49 
 
Results of the BCA analysis – thermal measure payback period  
 
At  project  completion,  the  payback  period  for  the  EE  public  building  retrofit  component  was  estimated  at 
6.2  years  before  under‐heating  adjustment,  and  4.4  years  after  under‐heating  adjustment,  compared  with 
an average of 7.5 years estimated by the energy audits.   
 
Electricity Savings Resulted from Investments in Light Improvements 
Due  to  the  generally  high  awareness  of  the  benefits  of  lighting  related  EE  improvements,  most  institutions 
had  invested  in  this  area  with  or  without  GEF  grant.   Of  the  39  institutions  audited,  14  institutions  financed 
lighting  improvements  with  full  or  partial  GEF  grants.    To  avoid  over‐claiming  the  overall  impact  of  the 
project,  this  analysis  used  the  investment  estimates  by  the  energy  audits,  instead  of  the  amount  actually 
financed  by  the  project,  to  calculate  the  payback  period  at  project  completion.    After  this  necessary 
adjustment,  the  average  payback  period  for  lighting  related  EE  measures  undertaken  under  the  project  was 


                                                              26
around  6  years.   Institutions  in  Phase  1  have  seen  realized  substantially  shorter  payback  periods  (3.5  years) 
compared with those in Phase 2 (7.5 years). 
Table 3A‐5 Savings Calculation for Lighting‐Related EE Investments 
                                          Investment             Savings               Payback
                                              [$]        [kWh/yr]        [$/yr]         [year]
     1   D.Cara - Bogovinje                      3,425        4,548             837      4.09
     2   11 Oktomvri - Bogovinje                  878         2,119            414       2.12
     4   S.Pindzur-Ces.Obl.                     5,095         6,150          1,290       3.95
     5   S.Pindzur Sokolarci - Ces.Obl.          2,055        2,480            622       3.30
     6   K.Ohridski - Ces.Obl.                   4,196        1,314            803       5.23
     7   D.Daskalov-Kavad.                       1,070        2,584            459       2.33
     8   Gaberot - Kavadarci                     1,285        3,101            596       2.15
    10   F.Konica - Zajas                        2,787       31,155            931       2.99
                     Phase I                  20,792         53,451          5,953       3.49

                                          Investment            Savings                Payback
                                              [$]        [kWh/yr]       [$/yr]          [year]
     1   J.Sandandski-Chair                      2,290       10,626         2,100        1.09
     2   Lirija Cair                            38,810       13,962         3,650        10.63
     3   V, Glavinov - Cair                    29,800        15,391         3,050        9.77
     5   Snezana Cair                              620        1,562            200       3.10
    15   Vanco Kitanov - Pehcevo                   810        2,981            590       1.37
                     Phase II                 72,330         44,522          9,590       7.54


                    Phase I + II              93,122         97,973         15,543       5.99
                                                                                                    
 
 
         II.   Sustainable Energy Financing Facility  
                
A  financial  analysis  was  carried  out  to  assess  the  financial  internal  rate  of  return  (FIRR)  on  the  MEGA  Solar 
Plant.   
 
The MEGA Solar Plant was commissioned in August 2011 with an installed capacity of 1 MW.  It was the first 
renewable  energy  project  under  a  feed‐in‐tariff  scheme  in  Macedonia.    The  agreed  feed‐in‐tariff  was  41 
euro  cents  per  kWh,  nearly  more  than  three  times  the  current  feed‐in‐tariff  (12  euro  cents  per  kWh)  for 
solar  plants  of  a  similar  scale.   The  total  upfront  investment  was  3.07  million  euros.   A  feasibility  study  was 
carried out and projected an average annual output of 1,277MWh from the plant.  The actual annual output 
turned  out  higher  at  around  1,500MWh.      Table  A3‐6  provides  a  summary  of  the  key  parameters  of  the 
MEGA  Solar  Plant  based  on  the  Feasibility  Study  and  actual  output  levels  from  its  first  17  months  of 
operations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


                                                               27
  Table A3‐6 Annual Performance Parameters of the MEGA Solar Plant  
                                                                 Output  
                                                       Feasibility Study               Installed 
           Tariff               Irrid/day   Efficiency      (kWh/kWp        Income     Capacity            Actual output              Standard Year
  (Euro  c/kWh)      Month (kWh/m2/day)            (%)        installed)     (Euro)      (MWp)                   (MWh)
                                                                                                            2011       2012        (MWh) (Million Euro)
              41          jan         2.7       75%                  63         26                                        83                83                 33.8
              41          feb         3.4       75%                  79         32                                        84                84                 34.4
              41         mar          4.3       75%                 100         41                                       139             139                 57.2
                                                                                                                                          
              41          apr         5.4       75%                 122         50                                       120             120                 49.3
                                                                                                                                          
              41         may          5.8       75%                 135         55                                       157             157                 64.2
                                                                                                                                          
              41          jun         6.3       75%                 142         58                                       189             189                 77.7
                                                                                                                                          
              41           jul        6.5       75%                 151         62                                       188             188                 77.1
                                                                                                                                          
              41          aug         6.4       75%                 149         61                            154
                                                                                                                         172             163                 66.9
                                                                                                                                          
              41          sep         5.7       75%                 128         53                            143
                                                                                                                         139             141                 57.7
                                                                                                                                          
              41          oct         4.4       75%                 102         42                            113
                                                                                                                         124             119                 48.7
                                                                                                                                          
              41          nov         3.0       75%                  68         28                               81       59                70                 28.8
              41          dec         1.7       75%                  40         16                               49       45                47                 19.3
                    Full year                                     1,277        524          1.00                541    1,499          1,500               615.1  
 
 
The financial analysis indicate that based on its actual output level, the investment on the MEGA Solar Plant 
will yield a pre‐tax FIRR of 13.5% compared with 10.4% and an after tax FIRR of 12.5% compared with a pre‐
tax FIRR of 10.4 and an after‐tax FIRR of 9.6% based on the projected output level in the Feasibility Study. 
(see Table A3‐8 for detailed analysis.) 
 
         Table A3‐7: FIRR of MEGA Solar Plant 
                                  Based on Feasibility Study              Actual 
         Pre‐tax                            10.4%                         13.5% 
         After tax                           9.6%                         12.5% 
 
 




                                                                     28
                                                                                                  Table A3‐8 Financial Analysis – 1 MW Solar Plant 
1 MW Solar PV Plant - Financial Analysis
                                    Unit            2010                2011              2012              2013            2014               2105               2016               2017                2018               2019               2020                    2021                2022               2023               2024               2025
 Investment                     thousand euro          (3,070)
 Sales                              MWh                                        541          1,499          1,500         1,485          1,470         1,456          1,441           1,427         1,413          1,398         1,384          1,371          1,357          1,343          1,330 
 Revenue                        thousand euro                                  222             615             615            609             603            597             591              585            579             573            568             562             556             551             545 
 Expenses                       thousand euro
    O&M                         thousand euro                                  (54)            (54)            (54)            (54)            (54)            (54)            (54)             (54)            (54)            (54)            (54)            (54)            (54)            (54)            (54)
    Depreciation                thousand euro                                  (55)        (154)        (154)        (154)        (154)        (154)        (154)                                             (154)        (154)        (154)        (154)        (154)        (154)        (154)        (154)
    Interest on new LTL         thousand euro             (155)          (155)          (138)          (120)          (103)            (86)            (69)            (52)             (34)            (17)               ‐              ‐                                                  ‐                  ‐                  ‐                  ‐
 Profit before tax              thousand euro             (155)            (42)           270             287            298             309            321             332              343            354             366            360             354             349             343             338 
 Income tax @  10%              thousand euro                   ‐                  ‐                (7)            (29)            (30)            (31)            (32)            (33)             (34)            (35)            (37)            (36)            (35)            (35)            (34)            (34)
 Tax carry‐over                 thousand euro                 15                20                 ‐                  ‐                  ‐                  ‐                  ‐                  ‐                   ‐                  ‐                  ‐                  ‐                  ‐                  ‐                  ‐                  ‐  
 Net profit                     thousand euro             (155)            (42)           262             258            268             278            288             298              309            319             329            324             319             314             309             304 


 Financial  flow ‐ before tax                                    (3,070)            
                                                                                   168                    561
                                                                                                                            561
                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                              555               549
                                                                                                                                                                                   543
                                                                                                                                                                                                     537
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       531               525
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           519
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              513
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                508               502
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    497
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      491
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
 Financial  flow ‐ after  tax                                    (3,070)            
                                                                                   168                    553
                                                                                                                            532
                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                                              525               518
                                                                                                                                                                                   511
                                                                                                                                                                                                     504
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       497               490
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           483
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              477
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                472               467
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    462
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      457
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       

 FIRR ‐ Before Tax                                               13.5%
 FIRR ‐ After  Tax                                               12.5%




                                                                                                                                                               29
       III.           Licensed Renewable Energy  

A projection was carried out to estimate the lifetime output of the licensed RE capacities
associated with the project intervention in Macedonia to date. The analysis conservatively
assumed only 50% of the licensed RE capacity that are not currently under construction will be
actually constructed. The assessment suggested that a total of 3.9 GWh of power will be
generated over the lifetime of the 111.9 MW licensed RE capacity in Macedonia to date, among
which 2.4 GWh will come from small hydro, 1.3 GWh from wind and 0.2 GWh from solar.

Table 3A –8 Licensed RE Capacity in Operations, under Construction or in the Pipeline
                               Licensed Renewable Capacity (MW) 3                            Generation (GWh)
                 Capacity       In         Under       Planned                In         Under       Planned
                 Factor2      Operatio   constructio   Capacit
                                                                  Tota
                                                                            Operatin   constructio   Capacit
                                                                                                               Annua    Lifecycl
                                                                   l                                               l           e
                                n4           n            y                    g           n            y
    Wind              30%                    36.8          8.2    45.0         -          80.6         9         89.6     1,344
    Small
                      40%          6.4         8.3        43.2    57.9        27.9        36.5        94.6       159      2,385
    Hydro
    Solar             20%          3.8         4.6           -        8.4     5.6         6.8           -        12.5       187
                                                                  111.
              Total               10.2       49.7         51.4                33.6       123.9        103.6     261.1     3,916
                                                                    8


 
     IV.        Incremental Cost Analysis 
 
GEF  allocation.  While  the  overall  GEF  contribution  remained  unchanged  at  US$  5.5  million,  its 
allocation  across  various  project  components  has  changed  substantially  due  the  subsequent 
project  restructurings:  (i)  the  original  market  framework  component  was  replaced  by  a  more 
general  category  of  institution  support  and  technical  assistance  with  increased  allocation  from 
US$1  million  at  appraisal  to  US$1.75  million  at  project  completion;  ii)  the  Sustainable  Energy 
Financing  Facility  (SEFF)  was  scaled  down  considerably.    Its  loan  component  with  a  planned 
allocation  of  US$2.5  million  (US$2  million  and  US$  0.5  million  on  RE  and  EE  respectively)  was 
scaled  down  to  $1.2  million  (US$1  million  and  US$0.2  million  RE  and  EE).   The  guarantee  facility 
for  EE  was  cancelled.   The  remaining  funds  were  reallocated  to  finance  a  new  component  on  EE 
in  public  buildings;  iii)  the  utility‐based  ESCO  with  a  planned  allocation  of  $0.8  million  was 
cancelled  with  the  remaining  fund  also  allocated  to  EE  in  public  buildings;  iv)  a  new  component 
on  EE  in  public  buildings  was  created  and  became  the  largest  component  of  the  program  with 
US$2.55 million in total allocated funds.   
 
The  baseline  investment  level  was  not  reassessed  at  the  project  completion  because  the 
analysis focused primarily on assessing the incremental impacts of the GEF project.   
 
GEF  incremental  costs  only accounts for grants that passed through to the end‐users on a “one‐
off”  basis.    GEF  funds  participating  in  debt  financing  schemes,  such  as  those  in  the  SEFF  loan 
facility, are not considered incremental costs because they collecting reflows that can be used to 



2
   Source: MANU 
3
   Source: ERC 2012 Annual Report  
4
   Source: Table VI.2, ERC 2012 Annual Report


                                                                 33
finance  future  EE/RE  opportunities.  Based  on  this  classification,  the  total  incremental  cost  to 
GEF  was  estimated  at  around  US$1.855  million  at  appraisal,  including  i)  an  estimated 
US$555,000  in  losses  on  bad  loans  associated  with  the  guarantee  facility;  and  ii)  US$1.3  million 
non‐refundable  cost  to  GEF  under  the  Market  Framework  component  and  the  twinning 
arrangement  in  the  ESCO  component.   At  project  completion,  the  total  incremental  cost  to  GEF 
went  up  substantially  to  US$4.2  million,  including  US$1.08  for  institution  support  and  technical 
assistance  and  US$3.12  million  for  EE  in  public  buildings.    Table  A3‐1  provides  a  detailed 
breakdown  of  the  GEF  fund  allocation  and  associated  incremental  costs  at  project  appraisal  and 
completion: 
 
    Table A3‐1 Allocation and Incremental Costs of the GEF Activities (US$) 
                                                                          Appraisal                   Completion 
                       Component 
                                                             Allocation        Incremental     Allocation         Incremental  
    Market Framework                                           1,000,000          1,000,000                                     
    Institution Support & Technical Assistance                                                 1,080,249             1,080,249 
    Utility‐Based ESCO                                           800,000            300,000                                     
    EE in Public Buildings                                                                     3,120,052             3,120,052 
    SEFF Loan Renewable Energy                                 2,000,000                       1,196,000                        
    SEFF Loan Energy Efficiency                                  500,000                           63,700                       
    SEFF Guarantee Energy Efficiency                           1,200,000            555,000              ‐                      
    Total                                                      5,500,000          1,855,000    5,460,000             4,200,300 

Global Benefits The project contributes to the reduction of CO2 emissions globally.  At appraisal, 
the  lifecycle  GEF  CO2  emissions  avoided  were  estimated  for  both  the  baseline  scenario  and  for 
the  Project,  resulting  in  an  estimate  of  the  net  global  benefit  of  the  project.    At  project 
completion,  only  the  Project  GEF  lifecycle  emissions  were  estimated.   To  be  consistent  with  the 
appraisal,  the  lifecycle  for  both  EE/RE  projects  were  assumed  to  be  15  years  although  the 
project life‐cycle for larger scale RE projects tends to longer, in the range of 20 years.   
 
Methodology 
The  following  methodology  was  applied  for  estimating  the  lifecycle  CO2  abatement  resulting 
from  the  GEF  investments  from  the  project  at  completion.    To  be  consistent  with  the 
methodology  applied  at  appraisal,  life‐cycle  CO2  abatement  was  estimated  as  the  simple 
summation of annual abatement amounts without discounting.   
      For EE investments, life‐cycle emission reduction 

                           	         	             ∗              	             

            
          For Mega Solar Plant, life‐cycle emission reduction 
                     	             	          	          	                         	       	 ∗	               	           
 
          For RE investments licensed under the Feed‐in‐Tariff regime, life‐cycle emission 
           reduction 

                   Electricity	Output      ∗            	              



                                                       34
        Emission factors for heating vary according to the type of fuel used.  To be consistent 
         with the appraisal, the emission factor for grid‐based electricity generation is assumed 
         at 1.0 tCO2/MWh.  Table A3‐2 provides a summary of the emission factors for heating 
         with different fuel/ energy sources   
                                        Table A3‐2 Emission Factors 
              Fuel Type                                              Conversion Factor 
              Heating                                                 
                – Residual fuel oil5                                     0.270 tCO2/MWh 
                – Biomass (firewood and pellet)6                         0.039 tCO2/MWh 
                – District heating7                                      0.260 tCO2/MWh 
              Electricity Generation                                     1.000 tCO2/MWh 
 
Results of the Incremental Cost Analysis  
The  GEF  investment  contributed  to  substantial  CO2  emissions  reduction,  both  through  direct 
GEF  grant  contribution  to  finance  EE  and  RE  projects  in  the  public  and  private  sectors,  and 
through the mechanisms developed under the catalyzing RE development in Macedonia.   
 
The  Project  directly  GEF‐funded  components  contributed  to  a  total  of  40,477  tons  of  CO2 
emissions  reduction  through  the  lifetime  of  the  project.    The  incremental  cost  to  GEF  to  fund 
those  investments  was  US$3.74  million,  translating  to  an  incremental  CO2  abatement  cost  of 
US$77.08 per tCO2.   
 
Assuming  that  50%  of  the  RE  capacity  licensed  is  actually  built,  the  global  benefits  directly 
attributed to and catalyzed by the Project are 3,740,446 tCO2 emissions avoided, compared with 
1,743,243  tCO2  estimated  at  appraisal.  The  total  incremental  cost  of  the  project  was  US$4.20 
million  at  project  completion  compared  with  US$1,885,000  at  appraisal,  translating  to  an 
incremental  CO2  abatement  cost  of  US$  1.11  per  tCO2  at  project  completion,  on  par  with  the 
estimate  of  US$1.08  at  appraisal.  The  Table  A3‐3  provides  a  summary  of  the  results  of  the 
incremental cost analysis.   
 
 
 
 




5
    Source:  “2012  Guidelines  to  Defra  /  DECC’s  GHG  Conversion  Factors  for  Company  Reporting: 
Methodology  Paper  for  Emission  Factors”,  Department  for  Environment,  Food  and  Rural  Affairs, 
www.defra.gov.uk 
6
   Source: PIU based on reported Macedonia country average.   
The  emission  factor  was  estimated  based  on  firewood  usage.   No  estimates  were  made  for  pellet‐based 
heating.    However,  based  on  a  paper  (source:  “Emission  of  PCDDF,  PCB,  and  HCB  from  Combustion  of 
Firewood  and  Pellets  in  Residential  Stoves  and  Boilers,  published  in  Environmental  Science  Technology 
2006,  40,  4968‐4975),  the  CO2  emission  factor  of  pellet‐based  heating  is  on  par  with  that  of  firewood‐
based heating.  
7
   Ibid


                                                         35
         Table A3‐3: Summary of Results of the Incremental Cost Analysis 
                                                  Appraisal Completion 
    Incremental cost (US$)                                               
    –        Project directly funded                          3,120,052 
    –        Licensed RE                                      1,080,249 
                            Total                1,885,000    4,200,300 
    Lifecycle CO2 Abatement (tCO2)                                         
    –        Project directly funded                             40,477 
    –        Licensed RE                                      3,740,446 
                            Total                1,743,243    3,780,924 
    Increment cost / CO2 abatement (US$/tCO2)                              
    –        Project specific                                      77.08  
    –        Licensed RE                                             0.28  
                            Total                     1.08           1.11 

 




                                        36
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes  

(a) Task Team members 
            Names                                Title                Unit        Responsibility/ Specialty
Lending 
 Peter Johansen                           Sr. Energy Specialist      ECSEG              Team Leader
 Zarko Bogoev                              Operations Officer        ECSEG               Economist 
 Anders Halldin                         Environment Specialist       ECSEG           Environment Spec
 Satoshi Ishihara                    Social Development Specialist   ECSEG              Social Dev’t. 
 James Sayle Moose                             Consultant            ECSEG            Energy Specialist
 Rick Renner                                   Consultant            ECSEG            Energy Specialist
 Jennifer M. Ngaine                        Program Assistant         ECSIE                      
   
Supervision/ICR 
 Zarko Bogoev                          Operations Officer            ECSEG               Economist 
 Husam Beides                            Energy Specialist           ECSEG            Energy Specialist
 Mustafa Zafir Hussain                   Energy Specialist           ECSEG            Energy Specialist
 Denis Boskovski                       Operations Officer            ECCMK               Economist 
 Aleksandar Crnomarkovic       Sr Financial Management Specialist    ECSO3         Financial Management
 Denis Colenut                              Consultant               ECSEG                 Energy 
 Karl Gruber                                Consultant               ECSEG                 Energy 
 Angelica A. Fernandes                      Consultant               ECSO2              Procurement
 Surekha Jaddoo                             Consultant               ECSEG              TTL Support 
 Jasneet Singh                       Senior Energy Specialist        ECSEG                 Energy 
 Liljana Sekerinska                    Operations Officer            ECCMK               Economist 
 Rozena Serrano                         Program Assistant            ECSEG                     
 
(b) Staff Time and Cost 
                                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only) 
           Stage of Project Cycle                                           USD Thousands (including travel 
                                                   No. of staff weeks 
                                                                                 and consultant costs) 
Lending                                                                                      
   FY05                                                     1.40                         16.54 
   FY06                                                    13.61                         80.94 
   FY07                                                     6.17                         69.87 
                                      Total:               22.18                        167.35 
Supervision/ICR                                                                              
    FY07                                                    7.32                          2.50 
    FY08                                                   24.77                        141.76 
   FY09                                                    11.55                         73.11 
   FY10                                                    11.49                         88.60 
   FY11                                                    26.96                         90.66 
   FY12                                                    17.23                         92.73 
   FY13                                                    10.53                         53.12 
  
                                      Total:              109.85                         542.48 



                                                         37
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results  
 
A  stakeholder  survey  was  carried  out  in  June  2013  to  assess  the  impact  and  quality  of  the  GEF‐
funded  public  building  energy  efficiency  (EE)  retrofitting  among  41  public  institutions  in  12 
municipalities  in  Macedonia.   The  program  was  carried  out  in  two  phases  during  the  period  of 
2010‐13.    The  participating  institutions  are  public  schools  and  kindergartens  in  those  12 
municipalities.    The  survey  consisted  of  two  questionnaires,  one  targeting  the  end‐users,  i.e., 
principals, teachers, technical staff, and students, from all 41 participating institutions; the other 
targeting the mayors of the 12 municipalities.  The survey interviewed in total 11 mayors and 96 
end‐users  (30  principals,  39  teachers  and  caretakers,  29  students  and  parents)  from  41 
institutions  in  12  municipalities.    During  the  ICR  mission  in  July  2013,  the  task  team  visited  4 
municipalities  and  interviewed  the  local  stakeholders,  including  mayors,  school  principals  and 
contractors.   The  following  is  a  summary  of  the  key  findings  from  the  stakeholder  survey  along 
with supplemental findings from the field visit.  
 
     I.       Executive Summary  
 
 The  overall  response  to  the  GEF‐funded  EE  building  retrofitting  program  is  overwhelmingly 
     positive among all stakeholder segments.   
 While  energy  savings  had  been  used  as  the  main  justification  for  the  program  initially, 
     improved  indoor  temperature  and  comfort  level  are  perceived  as  the  most  important 
     benefit  of  the  program  by  its  end‐users.   The  program  is  also  seen  as  generating  important 
     health and aesthetic benefits.    
 From the perspective of  the municipalities, the program’s impact  has also gone well beyond 
     merely  generating  budget  savings  to  broader  categories.   The  mayors  universally  agree  that 
     most salient positive impacts of the program are on promoting the image of the municipality 
     and generating awareness for the benefits of EE.   
 The qualitative reports from the field visit suggest there is an important attitude shift among 
     the  stakeholders  toward  the  importance  of  EE.   In  particular,  while  EE  was  very  low  on  the 
     municipal agenda before, it has rose to one of the top priorities in the municipal agenda.  All 
     mayors  interviewed  indicated  that  they  will  certainly  continue  the  EE  efforts  in  their 
     municipalities.   
 With  respect  to  project  implementation,  the  feedback  was  generally  positive.   The  PIU  was 
     perceived  to  have  performed  an  especially  satisfactory  role  in  overall  project  management 
     and bringing technical expertise to the local contractors.   
 One  criticism  was  regarding  the  construction  timing  that,  in  some  cases,  coincided  with 
     school’s  winter  semester  and  caused  some  disruptions  to  the  classes.    To  minimize  these 
     disruptions, a recommendation is to schedule the retrofits during school summer and winter 
     breaks.   

    II.       Summary of Findings 
 
The  survey  responses  suggest  that  the  building  retrofits  had  a  positive  impact  for  the  benefiting 
municipalities.  The  majority  of  the  respondents  (around  90%)  answered  that  they  are 
completely satisfied with the primary and secondary benefits of the energy efficiency retrofits in 
the  selected  schools  and  kindergartens.  Different  groups  of  respondents  have  prioritized 
different  project  benefits.  While  energy  savings  is  the  most  important  benefit  for  the  mayors  or 



                                                      38
school/kindergarten principals, the increased indoor temperature and the improved educational 
environment are among the top benefits for the direct beneficiaries ‐ teachers and students.  
 
 Regarding  the  secondary  benefits  of  the  project,  a  large  majority  of  the  end‐users  considered 
 that  the  building  retrofits  were  substantially  beneficial  for  improving  the  health  of  the  students 
 and  decreasing  the  absentee  days.  This  was  in  particular  the  case  in  schools  using  wood‐fired 
 stoves  for  heating,  such  as  those  in  Bogovinje,  Zajas,  Cheshinovo‐Obleshevo,  Konche,  Zhelino, 
 Pehchevo  and  Kavadarci.  In  these  schools  the  installation  of  efficient  pellet‐fired  stoves  or  new 
 central  heating  systems  has  led  to  significant  reduction  of  smoke  and  elimination  of  indoor 
 pollution  and  increase  of  the  low  room  temperature  by  four  to  five  degrees  from  the  pre‐
 retrofit  level.  The  teachers  and  students  were  satisfied  that  by  having  warm  and  clean 
 classrooms, the lost time of sick students and the costs of health treatments will be reduced. 
  
Satisfaction among program end‐users  
 
The  results  of  the  survey  show  that  the  project  brought  important  benefits  to  the  end‐users  in 
the retrofitted schools and kindergartens. Besides reconstructing the building, the retrofits have 
significantly  improved  the  working  and  study  environment:  increased  the  classroom 
temperature,  eliminated  the  indoor  pollution,  and  led  to  significant  energy  savings  and  lower 
energy bills.  
 
                            The Most Important Benefit of the EE Retrofit
                                      (among all respondents)

                              1%

                      17%
                                                       Better Indoor temperature in winter
                                           36%
                                                       Lower heating bills

                18%                                    Elimination of indoor pollution

                                                       Improvement to building aethetics and physical condition

                                                       Other
                              28%
                                                                                                                     
 
A breakdown in different groups of respondents (principals, teachers/caretakers, 
students/parents) gives the following results of the prioritization of different benefits among 
them: 
 




                                                      39
                        Perceived Benefits of the Project among End‐User Segments 
              Principals                       Teachers/ Caretakers                Students/Parents

      Better Indoor                           Better Indoor                     Better Indoor
      temperature
                                    34%                               35%                                     44%
                                              temperature                       temperature

  Lower heating bills               31%   Lower heating bills     28%       Lower heating bills         23%

         Building                           Reduced indoor                    Reduced indoor
       rehabilitation
                              18%                               19%                                    18%
                                               pollution                         pollution

     Reduced indoor                              Building                          Building
        pollution
                              17%                               17%                                    16%
                                               rehabilitation                    rehabilitation

               Other     0%                            Other                             Other    0%

                                                                                                                     
Comments from program end‐users 
 
      Increased Comfort Level due to higher indoor temperature in winter  
Building retrofits were particularly beneficial in schools and kindergartens with severe 
underheating in winter. Before the retrofits, the old wood‐fired stoves were unable to maintain 
the necessary comfort level during winter months, when the indoor temperatures often drop 
below 15˚C. According to the testimonies of students, having well heated classrooms was only a 
dream for them. They had to sit with their coats on, and could not concentrate on learning. 
Moreover, they were often absent from school, either because it was cold to follow classes, or 
because they were getting sick.    
The building retrofits helped to improve the overall learning environment and helped eliminate 
the health hazards, which is as significant as savings from energy bills. One year after the 
implementation of the EE measures, students and teachers are happy with the warm classrooms 
and the improved learning environment. The replacement of the wood stoves with more 
efficient pellet‐fired stoves or a central heating system increased the indoor air temperature to 
20˚C. Hence, the number of absentee days has significantly dropped. The students say that now 
they are eager to go to school even on the coldest winter days because the classrooms are 
warm. 
      
      Lower heating bills 
One third of the end‐users stated that the decreased energy costs, i.e., lower heat bills, is one of 
the most important benefits of the EE retrofits.  According to the comparative energy data 
before and after the EE measures, the energy savings in the retrofitted schools and 
kindergartens are significant, reaching up to 75‐80% of the pre‐retrofit level. Prior to the 
retrofits, many buildings experienced high energy losses due to their poor conditions, 
particularly during the heating season. After the retrofits – installation of new EE heating system 
and change of the fuel type, thermal insulation and replacement of windows – the amount of 
energy consumption was reduced to a great extent. Calculated on an annual basis, the heat bills 
have been lowered, in some cases to as low as 20% of the pre‐retrofit costs.   
 
 
 



                                                         40
     Health benefits due to reduction in indoor pollution and reduced sickness  
According  to  the  survey,  the  elimination  of  smoke  in  the  classrooms  is  the  most  important 
benefit  for  schools  that  used  to  have  individual  wood  stoves  for  heating.  Before  the  retrofits, 
nineteen  schools  (half  of  the  total  number  of  retrofitted  buildings),  in  seven  rural  and  urban 
municipalities, were heated by individual, highly inefficient and polluting wood stoves. The toxic 
fumes  produced  from  these  woodstoves  were  causing  respiratory  issues,  coughs,  headaches, 
and  eye  and  throat  irritation.  Moreover,  the  smoke  contains  different  chemical  compounds, 
many  of  which  are  harmful  and  potentially  carcinogenic.  According  to  the  teachers,  the 
replacement  of  the  old  wood  stoves  with  more  efficient  and  less  emitting  heating  systems  has 
helped  to  eliminate  the  health  hazards  caused  from  the  indoor  pollution  and  to  improve  the 
working  conditions.  They  stated  that  due  to  the  higher  efficiency,  cleaner  combustion  and 
improved exhaustion of the new stoves, the release of smoke and harmful air pollutants into the 
classrooms  has  been  virtually  eliminated.  The  students  are  equally  satisfied  that  the  bad  smell 
and irritating smoke are no longer their everyday reality at school. 
  
     Aesthetic of the building  
Another  important  benefit  of  the  buildings  retrofits  is  the  improved  aesthetic  of  the  building. 
Many  of  the  schools/kindergartens  were  built  almost  half  a  century  ago  and  had  never  been 
upgraded before the retrofit, which led to decline in the enrollment over the years. According to 
the  school  principals  and  the  mayors,  the  newly  constructed  buildings  are  better  looking  and 
more  inviting  for  new  students,  because  they  can  offer  a  better  framework  for  educational 
activities  than  before.  This  is  very  important  for  increasing  the  rate  of  enrollment,  especially  in 
the  rural  areas,  where  the  experience  in  the  past  has  shown  that  it  is  difficult  to  attract  new 
students  without  new  and  well‐functioning  infrastructure.  Moreover,  parents  have  stated  that 
after  the  rehabilitation  and  the  reconstruction,  the  comfort  and  the  aesthetics  of  the  schools 
and kindergartens have improved and they are happy to send their children to study there.  
 
Benefits for the municipalities 
 
The  project  had  a  positive  impact  on  the  benefiting  municipalities.  The  mayors  of  the 
municipalities  stated  they  were  very  satisfied  with  the  results  of  the  building  retrofits  the 
project had financed. 
 
                                                 Satisfaction
                                       Overall satifaction                                    4.00

                   Perceived satifaction from the parents                                     4.00

                      With the performance of MoE PIU                                         4.00

            With implementation schedule & timeliness                                  3.82

             With the employment opportunities created                    3.36
                                                                                                  
Note:  Satisfaction  scale:  4–Completely  satisfied;  3–Somewhat  satisfied;  2–Neither  satisfied  nor 
dissatisfied; 1– Somewhat dissatisfied; 0–Dissatisfied  
 
 


                                                       41
                                       Project Impact Assessment

                           On image of the municaplity                               4.00

                      On showcasing the benefits of EE                               4.00

                      On schools' physical environment                              3.82

                                      On budget savings                          3.27
                                                                                                  
Note:  Impact  scale:  4–To  a  very  large  extent;  3–To  a  large  extent;  2–To  some  impact;  1–  Not 
much impact; 0–No impact 
            
Only  two  mayors  expressed  some  dissatisfaction  with  project  implementation,  one  with  respect 
to  retrofitting  only  part  of  a  building,  and  the  other  to  the  oil‐fired  boilers  left  unreplaced  in 
some schools.  
 
Comments from the mayors 
 
      Improved image of the municipality  
The  improved  image  of  the  municipality  is  considered  as  an  important  benefit  of  the  project. 
Investing  in  EE  in  schools  and  kindergartens  has  helped  the  local  authorities  to  show  their 
residents  and  the  rest  of  the  country  that  first,  they  are  working  for  the  benefit  of  the  people 
living  in  the  municipality,  and  second,  they  are  dedicated  to  the  implementation  of  sustainable 
development  policies.  Moreover,  the  project  has  indirectly  helped  revitalize  the  rural  regions 
that have long felt neglected by the Government. 
 
      Changing attitude toward EE  
The  survey  also  demonstrated  that  the  EE  project  itself  has  helped  generate  awareness  about 
the  benefits  of  energy  efficiency.  Through  the  project,  the  municipal  leadership  came  to  the 
realization  that  public  sector  EE  projects  could  serve  as  i)  a  catalyst  for  overall  public  sector 
investment,  and  ii)  a  vehicle  for  generating  positive  PR.    The  building  retrofits  results,  such  as 
the  realized  savings,  the  local  employment  and  the  image  of  the  municipality,  made  the 
investment  highly  justified  among  the  mayors,  and  encouraged  a  general  attitude  change 
regarding  EE  –  once  a  neglected  item.  The  mayors  were  more  convinced  to  recognize  the  full 
benefits  of  EE  projects,  and  to  bring  EE  as  one  of  the  top  priorities  on  the  municipal  agenda, 
which is a step forward to reaching general support for and promotion of EE on a country level.  
The  successful  implementation  of  the  building  retrofits  financed  by  the  project  is  an  important 
benefit  for  further  development  of  EE  project  throughout  the  country.  The  satisfaction  with  the 
project  results  has  increased  the  interest  of  the  mayors  to  support  new  EE  programs.  Even 
though  some  of  the  mayors  are  more  interested  in  grant  supported  projects,  almost  all  mayors 
expressed willingness to support future EE programs through credit financing and provided TA.  
Moreover,  due  to  the  implementation  of  the  project,  the  general  public  in  the  municipality  has 
also become more aware of the benefits of EE. As the mayors have explained, several public and 
private  institutions  have  taken  initiatives  to  implement  some  EE  measures  using  their  own 
funds.  
 
      Aesthetics of the buildings 



                                                       42
The  mayors  were  satisfied  with  the  improvements  of  the  physical  state  of  the  renovated 
buildings  –  new  roof  and  new  façade,  new  PVC  windows  and  doors.  The  improved  aesthetic  of 
the  schools  and  kindergartens  for  the  mayors  is  a  visible  sign  that  the  municipality  cares  about 
the younger generations and signals commitment to development of the education sector.  
           
      Budgetary and energy savings 
Energy  and  financial  savings  are  important  in  terms  of  re‐using  the  financial  savings  for  other 
purposes.  All  interviewed  mayors  were  particularly  satisfied  with  the  energy  savings  that  the 
project  demonstrated.  All  mayors  said  that  the  project  increased  the  budgetary  savings  to  a 
large  extent.  Only  months  after  the  retrofits  were  implemented,  schools  realized  substantial 
savings  from  their  energy  bills.  One  year  after  the  implementation  of  the  retrofits,  even  the 
schools/kindergartens  that  reported  high    under  heating  and  subsequently  high  energy  costs 
before  the  retrofits,  have  also  reached  substantial  energy  savings,  close  to  or  even  higher  than 
those with medium under heating before the retrofits.   
 
      Local employment  
The  large  majority  of  mayors  are  satisfied  with  the  opportunities  for  local  employment  that  the 
project  has  created.  In  every  municipality,  at  least  one  local  company  was  sub‐contracted  for 
the  implementation  of  EE  measures,  allowing  a  total  of  around  350  workers  to  be  employed 
during  the  implementation  phase.  Furthermore,  the  local  economies  benefited  also  from  the 
usage  of  locally  produced  materials,  such  as  plasterboards,  adhesive  plaster,  high  efficiency 
windows and thermal insulation. Eight out of eleven mayors responded that they are completely 
satisfied with the employment opportunities created by the project. In all municipalities, at least 
one  local  subcontractor  was  hired  for  the  construction  works.  Moreover,  locally  produced 
products were used across the country, such as windows produced in Kavadarci. 
 
      Future opportunities 
All  mayors  interviewed  responded  with  certainty  that  they  would  continue  the  building  retrofit 
efforts in their municipality.   
 
Besides  measuring  the  satisfaction  level  of  the  direct  benefits  of  the  project,  the  survey  also 
demonstrated  that  the  project  benefits  improved  the  image  of  the  municipality.  The  positive 
results  have  generated  higher  interest  in  EE  by  the  municipal  governments.  On  the  basis  of  the 
experience  with  the  building  retrofits  financed  by  the  project,  the  mayors  identified  future 
priority areas for building retrofits in their municipality, including mostly public buildings:  
           schools and kindergartens, 
           hospitals,  
           sport centers,  
           theaters and museums. 
 Several among them expressed interest to invest in EE projects in alternative areas: 
           street lighting,  
           centralized energy supply system using solar panels (PV),  
           large consumers (residential buildings),  
           large private consumers.  
           
Project Implementation 
 



                                                      43
The  interviewed  beneficiaries  of  the  project  were  satisfied  with  project  implementation. 
According  to  their  responses  to  the  survey:  i)  the  MoE  PIU  was  supportive  and  professional 
throughout  the  project;  ii)  the  construction  process  was  timely  and  well  managed;  and  iii) 
training for operating newly installed systems was sufficient and tailor‐made.  
Regarding  the  lessons  learned  from  the  project  implementation,  the  survey  results  show  that 
the  building  retrofits  were  implemented  in  a  reasonable  timeframe  and  in  a  rather  successful 
way.  The  beneficiaries  have  been  satisfied  with  the  overall  management  of  the  project  and  the 
provided engineering and managerial expertise. They appreciated the proactive approach by the 
Project  Implementation  Unit,  within  the  Ministry  of  Economy,  which  helped  coordinate  the 
entire  process  responsibly  and  diligently,  while  providing  training  and  building  capacity  on  the 
local level.  
 
Besides  the  positive  aspects  of  implementation  of  EE  retrofits,  several  activities  were  identified 
as areas for improvement when implementing EE projects in the future:  
      Better scheduling of EE measures implementation  
The bulk of the construction works of the project took place during the winter break, sometimes 
even during school hours. In order to avoid disruption of the teaching, as well as to save energy, 
in  the  future,  the  building  retrofits  should  be  implemented  during  summer  breaks,  when  the 
weather is better, and the available period for construction works is longer.    
      Better  coordinated  cooperation  between  the  stakeholders  (municipality‐institution‐
          construction company) 
The  poor  institutional  capacity  for  management  of  EE  projects  on  the  local  level  was  considered 
one  of  the  main  shortcomings  in  the  implementation  of  the  project.  Because  of  limited  number 
of  contact  persons  for  the  project,  the  construction  companies  had  difficulty  communicating 
about  the  technical,  organizational  and  financial  aspects  of  the  retrofits  with  the  municipality 
and  the  schools.  A  lesson  for  future  implementation  of  similar  projects  is  to  have  professional 
and dedicated project management teams lead the project implementation at the local level.  
 
The  beneficiaries  have  also  identified  several  areas  where  the  implementation  of  the  building 
retrofits should be improved:  
      Better scheduling of EE measures implementation  
In  order  to  avoid  construction  works  disrupting  the  teaching,  as  well  as  to  save  energy,  the 
building retrofits should be implemented during the summer breaks, when the weather is better, 
and the available period for construction works is longer. 
      Better  coordinated  cooperation  between  the  stakeholders  (municipality‐institution‐
          construction company)   
In  order  to  better  communicate  the  technical,  organizational  and  financial  aspects  of  the 
retrofits  between  the  construction  company  and  the  institutions,  the  municipalities  should 
improve  the  project  management,  and  establish  a  professional  team  that  would  lead  and 
manage diligently the project activities. 
      Better dissemination of the know‐how for operation of the new techniques  
In  order  to  improve  comfort,  resulting  usually  from  the  inadequate  room  heating,  the 
dissemination  of  know‐how  for  operation  of  the  new  techniques  should  reach  the  final 
beneficiaries i.e. the teachers, at the level necessary for their daily work and for maintenance of 
the comfort in the buildings. 




                                                     44
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results  
Not applicable. 
 

  

 
 




                                           45
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR 
(a) MBDP ICR 

Component III: Sustainable Energy Financing Facility (SEFF) – Credit line for RE/EE 
 
General information 
A  separate  Agreement  for  establishing  a  Sustainable  Energy  Financing  Facility  (SEFF)  was  signed 
by  the  International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and  Development  (IBRD,  hereinafter:  "the  World 
Bank")  and  the  Macedonian  Bank  for  Development  Promotion  (MBDP)  on  February  26,  2007. 
This  Component  was  aimed  at  facilitating  private  sector  investments  in  renewable  energy 
(photovoltaic, hydro, biomass, etc.) and energy efficiency projects. As per the Agreement a Loan 
facility and Guarantee facility were established as follows: 
                                                                               In million US$ 
                                   Loan facility         Guarantee facility            Total 
          MBDP                                    2.5                                            2.5 
          World Bank                              2.5                     1.2                    3.7 
          Total                                   5.0                     1.2                    6.2 
 
This component was restructured twice:  
 
1. First,  on  June  29,  2010  due  to  the  smaller‐than‐anticipated  market  response  and  the  little 
     interest, the SEFF guarantee facility was discontinued and the funds originally provided were 
     reallocated  for  activities  in  the  first  two  components.  With  the  aim  of  intensifying  the 
     identification  and  development  of  commercially  viable  project  proposals,  a  technical 
     assistance  in  the  amount  of  US$50,000  was  also  envisaged  in  this  component.  The  total 
     amount allocated to the EE/RE Credit Line after this restructuring equaled US$ 1.5 million.  
2. Secondly,  on  April  13,  2012,  with  the  aim  of  re‐allocating  the  unused  funds  to  increase  the 
     funds  for  the  co‐financing  of  energy  efficiency  retrofits  in  public  buildings  with  the 
     municipalities.   
  
The  Credit  Line  was  de  facto  managed  with  found  on‐lending  banks 8  that  MBDP  signed 
Framework Agreements with. 
 
Loans realized 
 
MBDP,  in  close  cooperation  of  the  on‐lending  banks,  approved  three  loans,  of  which  two  loans 
were  intended  for  renewable  energy  and  one  loan  for  energy  efficiency.  The  financing  of  the 
projects is shown in the table below, in more details.  
 
Types of loans: 
 
 




8) Komercijalna banka AD Skopje, Ohridska banka AD Ohrid, HALK banka AD Skopje, UNI banka AD Skopje




                                                         46
                                     terms                   Project amount             Financing structure 
1.Energy efficiency          Up to 6 years                  max. 500.000 US$           10% own equity 
                                                                                       30% on‐lending bank 
                                                                                       30% MBDP 
                                                                                       30% World Bank 
2.Renewable energy           Up to 10 years with           max. 4.000.000 US$          10% own equity 
                             max.3 years grace                                         30% on‐lending bank 
                             period included                                           30% MBDP 
                                                                                       30% World Bank 
     
The loans were nominated in EUR with counter value in MKD, the interest rate for the loan users 
was  defined  by  the  on‐lending  banks,  and  the  average  rate  was  6.5%p.a.  The  interest  rate  for 
MBPD part is 3% p.a.  
                                                                                                               in EUR 
     Final beneficiaries                    On‐lending bank                 MBDP          World         Total loan 
                                                                             part         Bank         (MBDP+WB) 
                                                                                           part 
1.SIETO‐Skopje                       Komercijalna banka Skopje                5.000        5.000                10.000
2.Hotel GRANIT‐Ohrid                 Ohridska banka Ohrid                    49.010       49.010                98.020
3.MEGA SOLAR‐Skopje                  Ohridska banka Ohrid                   915.000 915.000                 1.830.000
                                     Total                                  969.010 969.010                 1.938.020
 
 
1. SIETO Skopje (RE project) 
The  company  is  situated  in  village  Kadino,  near  the  entrance  to  Skopje.  The  project  related  to  a 
small solar power plant on an area of 1.200m2. The project was financed in March 2009, through 
Komercijalna  banka  AD  Skopje  and  the  loan  was  approved  with  a  maturity  of  up  to  5  years  (2 
years grace period included). However the loan was prematurely terminated in the same year. 
     
2. Hotel GRANIT‐Ohrid (EE project) 
The  loan  was  realized  through  Ohridska  banka  AD  Ohrid  for  energy  efficiency  for  Hotel  GRANIT 
located  on  the  shores  of  Lake  Ohrid.  The  hotel  is  situated  5km  from  the  city  of  Ohrid,  with  a  4 
star  category  with  over  100  rooms,  3  conference  rooms,  fitness  club  etc.  The  investment  itself 
was  used  for  replacement  of  the  old  and  installation  of  energy  efficient  heating  and  cooling,  as 
well  as  lighting  of  the  hotel  that  will  significantly  reduce  the  costs  of  operating  of  the  hotel.  The 
loan in total amount of 98.020 EUR was granted October 2009, with maturity up to 3 years. 
 
3. MEGA SOLAR‐Skopje (RE project) 
MEGA  SOLAR  is  a  company  situated  in  Skopje.  The  investment  project  represented  a 
photovoltaic  power  plant  with  a  capacity  of  1  MW,  located  in  a  non‐populated  area  near  the 
Macedonian‐Greece border (village Germijan in the Municiplaity of Novaci) on an area of 18.516 
m2. A loan of EUR 1.830.000 was approved in 2010 (MBDP‐50% and World Bank‐50% part), with 
maturity  of  up  to  10  years  and  a  grace  period  of  1  year  included.  The  last  payment  date  of  this 
loan is 31.03.2021. 
 




                                                         47
                                      year            Principal (in EUR) 
                                      2011                    ‐ 
                                      2012                         152,500
                                      2013                         203,333
                                      2014                         203,333
                                      2015                         203,333
                                      2016                         203,333
                                      2017                         203,333
                                      2018                         203,333
                                      2019                         203,333
                                      2020                         203,333
                                      2021                          50,833
                                      total                      1,830,000
 
 
MBDP performance 
 
For  the  purposes  of  implementing  the  Grant  Agreement  with  the  World  Bank  and  for  managing 
the  EE/  RE  Credit  Line,  MBDP  assigned  a  Fund  manager  and  a  Financial  specialist,  created  a 
Designated account for the transfer of funds (as well as counter denar account), and maintained 
separate accounting and financial data. 
 
For  the  promotion  of  the  credit  line,  MBDP  held  presentations  on  various  occasions  such  as 
seminars,  conferences,  meetings,  events,  exhibitions  and  etc.  As  a  result  of  this,  MBDP  was 
contacted  by  numerous  potential  clients  who  were  mainly  interested  in  investments  in 
renewable  energy,  especially  in  photovoltaic  power  plants.  Some  national  and  international 
institutions also showed interest in MBDP's activities in RE and EE (EBRD, KfW etc). 
 
These  activities  supported  the  development  of  an  appropriate  knowledge  and  environment  for 
investing  in  renewable  energy.  At  the  beginning  of  the  Project,  the  interest  and  familiarity  with 
the  possibilities  of  investing  in  renewable  energy,  in  particular  the  SEFF  was  low.  MBDP's 
information  activities  (commercials,  ads,  leaflets,  seminars  etc.)  contributed  to  a  significant 
increase of the understanding and interest in investing in renewable energy.  
 
From the experience gained through the contacts with the clients, it can be concluded that even 
though  the  feed‐in  tariff  was  decreased,  the  interest  in  RE,  particularly  in  photovoltaic  power 
plants  remained  high.  In  addition,  the  common  difficulties  many  of  the  clients  faced  in  the 
development of RE project were related to the obtaining of licenses.  
 
Some  of  the  clients  also  noted  problems  with  startup  capital  in  order  to  finalize  their  projects 
and  lack  of  collateral  when  applying  for  loans  in  the  commercial  banks.  It  should  be  noted  that 
the  global  financial  crisis  that  broke  out  during  the  implementation  of  the  Project  made 
significant impact to  the lending activities of the banks in Macedonia, resulting  in more rigorous 
procedures  and  criteria  for  the  clients  applying  for  loans  in  the  banks.  Considering  that  MBDP 
and  the  on‐lending  banks  manager  to  finance  RE  projects  from  the  SEFF  proves  the  strong  the 
interest for the RE investments. 
 



                                                      48
On  an  operational  level,  in  any  further  projects  or  cooperation  with  the  World  Bank,  the  MBDP 
suggests  the  usage  of  EURO,  to  which  the  Macedonian  Denar  is  pegged,  in  order  to  simplify  the 
project management. 
 
World Bank performance 
 
During the SEFF project implementation, MBDP had a close cooperation with the representative 
of  the  World  Bank.  This  cooperation  was  noted  in  few  areas‐implementation  of  the  project 
(selection of on‐lending banks, obtaining World Bank's No objection to the investment projects), 
financing of the projects and on‐site visits and technical support from the World Bank.  
 
The  representatives  of  the  World  Bank  provided  assistance,  knowledge  and  support  whenever 
required  to  define  the  best  solutions  for  any  situation.  The  World  Bank's  technical  assistance  in 
the  EE  and  RE  projects  was  essential  to  MBDP,  since  it  does  not  have  proper  in‐house  expertise 
in these areas.  


                                      




                                                      49
(b) MoE PIU ICR 

                   GEF SUSTAINABLE ENERGY PROJECT
                              (TF 057 107)




               Implementation Completion and Results Report

  for the implementation period starting on September 6, 2010 through
                           January 31, 2013




Prepared by:       Trajce Andreevski
                   Project Manager, Project Implementation Unit
                   Ministry of Economy




                                   January 31, 2013



                                          50
List of acronyms 
 
BoQ           =     Bill of quantities  

GEF           =     Global Environment Facility 

Grant         =     Global  Environment  Facility  Trust  Fund  Grant  Agreement  for  the 
Agreement           implementation  of  the  Sustainable  Energy  Project  between  the  Republic  of 
                    Macedonia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 
                    signed on February 26, 2007 and amended subsequently 

MoE           =     Ministry of Economy  

MoF           =     Ministry of Finance  

NO            =     No objection 

NPEEPB        =     National Program for Energy Efficiency in Public Buildings  

KG            =     Kindergarten  

PS            =     Primary School 

PIU           =     Project Implementation Unit 

ToR           =     Terms of reference  

WBI           =     World Bank Institute  

 
 
 
 
 
                                   




                                                51
(i)  Assessment  of  the  operation’s  objective,  design,  implementation,  and  operational 
experience; 
 
The  Project  has  been  supported  by  a  Grant  from  the  Global  Environment  Facility  (GEF)  in  the 
amount  of  US$5.5  million,  through  the  International  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and  Development 
(IBRD,  hereinafter:  "the  World  Bank")  that  acted  as  the  Implementing  Agency  of  the  GEF.  The 
Project's  development  objective  consisted  in  the  development  of  a  sustainable  market  for 
energy efficiency (EE) and  renewable energy (RE) by supporting  the development of an enabling 
framework, institutional capacity, and necessary financing mechanisms. 
 
The Project has been structured in the following three components9:  
1. Institutional Support, Technical Support and Project Management;  
           Project management 
           Preparation of technical documentation 
           Preparation of strategic documents 
           Wind development program  
           Information dissemination  
2. Financial Support for EE in Public Buildings; 
           Phase 1: Grant financing  
           Phase 2: Co‐financing  
3. Sustainable Energy Financing Facility (SEFF) – Credit line for RE/EE. 
 
The simplicity of the Project's structure contributed largely to the overall success of the Project.  
 
The Project was restructured twice:  
3. First,  on  June  29,  2010  due  to  the  insufficient  implementation  progress  and  a  smaller‐than‐
     anticipated  market  response.  As  a  result  of  this  restructuring,  the  Project's  components 
     were  re‐defined,  and  the  Project  was  transferred  from  the  Energy  Agency  to  the  Ministry  of 
     Economy, and 
4. Secondly,  on  April  13,  2012,  with  the  aim  of  re‐allocating  the  unused  funds  from  the  3rd 
     component  to  the  2nd  Component  to  be  utilized  for  the  co‐financing  of  energy  efficiency 
     retrofits  in  public  buildings  with  the  municipalities.  Along  with  this  restructuring,  the  Grant 
     Agreement  was  also  amended  to  increase  the  Authorized  Allocation  from  US$  200.000  to 
     $800.000,  which  was  supposed  to  improve  the  Project's  liquidity  and  allow  more  dynamic 
     payments.   
 
The Project's closing date was postponed three times:  
1. From  March  31, 2011 to September 30, 2012 to allow the implementation of all activities  of 
     the restructured Project,  
2. From September 30, 2012 to January 31, 2013, to allow a greater degree of utilization of the 
     Grant funds and to finalize all construction works pertaining to Phase 2, and  
3. From January 31, 2013 to March 30, 2013, to anticipate the delays of the construction works 
     in the winter period.  


9) This is following the Project restructuring in June 2010




                                                              52
 
The  Project  was  de  facto  implemented  by  a  Project  Implementation  Unit  (PIU),  hosted  at  the 
Ministry  of  Economy.  The  PIU  was  composed  of  a  Project  Manager,  Senior  Energy  Efficiency 
Technical  Expert,  Financial  Expert,  Junior  Expert  and  a  Junior  Technical  Expert.  The  PIU 
consultants  were  selected  and  hired  in  a  competitive  procedure,  following  the  World  Bank's 
procurement  guidelines  (selection  of  individual  consultants).  The  Project  Manager,  the  Senior 
Energy  Efficiency  Technical  Expert,  Financial  Expert,  Junior  Expert  represented  the  core  of  the 
PIU and were hired  throughout  the duration of  the Project; whereas the Junior  Technical Expert 
and  a  Project  Assistant  were  hired  in  November  and  December  2011,  respectively,  and 
represented part‐time positions.  
 
The  PIU  and  its  members  proved  to  be  essential  to  the  successful  implementation  of  activities 
and to the overall effectiveness of the Project.  
 
The  work  of  the  PIU  was  directed  by  a  Project  Coordinator,  appointed  by  the  Minister  of 
Economy.  The  Project  had  two  Coordinators,  a  State  Advisor  on  Energy  and  Mining  that  was 
replaced  with  the  replacement  of  the  Minister  in  mid‐2011  by  a  trusted  member  of  the 
Minister's  cabinet.  The  Project  Coordinator's  position  was  critical  in  the  decision‐making  on  the 
side  of  the  Ministry  of  Economy,  since  he/she  ensured  close  communication  with  the  Minister 
and  his  support  to  the  PIU  operations.  Nevertheless,  the  Minister's  intervention  was  required  in 
several occasions to speed‐up the decision making and the implementation of the activities.  
 
The  procurement  of  goods,  consultant  services  and  works  was  carried  out  by  a  Permanent 
Evaluation Committee, composed of the Project Coordinator, the PIU Manager and an employee 
in  the  MoE's  Energy  Department;  each  member  had  an  appropriate  deputy.  The  Permanent 
Evaluation  Committee  was  responsible  on  behalf  of  the  Ministry  of  Economy,  for  all 
procurements  in  accordance  with  the  World  Bank's  procurement  rules  throughout  the  Project's 
duration.  Its  continuous  communication  and  consultation  with  the  World  Bank  was  a  key 
element for the success of its operations.  
 
(ii)  Assessment  of  the  outcome  of  the  operation  against  the  agreed  objectives,  updated 
performance indicators for the project; 
 
The PIU was generally successful in the implementation of the Project activities. However, there 
were  significant  delays  vis‐à‐vis  the  planned  and  agreed  target  dates,  which  were  mostly  due  to 
the  complex  decision‐making  procedures  in  the  MoE,  prolonged  correspondence  and 
consultation  with  the  World  Bank  during  the  procurements,  and  the  early  parliamentary 
elections in 2011.  
 
The  following  sub‐sections  elaborate  on  the  implementation  of  the  Project  activities  and 
achievement of the agreed objectives.  
 
Component I: Institutional Support, Technical Support and Project Management;  
 
Preparation of technical documentation 
Four  consultant  companies  were  separately  selected  and  hired  to  conduct  energy  audits  that 
identified  the  most  sustainable  energy  efficiency  measures  to  be  implemented,  and  to  prepare 



                                                     53
the  technical  specifications  for  the  materials  and  equipment  to  be  installed.  Considering  the 
scope  of  works,  it  was  decided  to  select  and  hire  two  consultant  companies  for  each  of  the 
Phases;  thus,  each  consultant  company  had  to  audit  a  package  of  around  nine  buildings.  The 
technical specifications and the Bills of quantities (BoQs) prepared by the consultants were used 
by  the  PIU  to  prepare  the  bidding  documentation  for  each  package.  These  companies  were  also 
obliged  to  supervise  the  construction  works,  which  ensured  stronger  integrity  between  the 
project design and supervision aspects.  
 
A  separate  licensed  company  was  selected  to  ensure  the  mandatory  revision  of  the  project 
design  documentation  for  all  buildings  encompassed  in  both  Phases  1  and  2.  This  company  also 
provided the Adjudicator for all construction contracts.  
 
A  Senior  Energy  Efficiency  Advisor  was  competitively  selected  and  hired  to  assist  the  PIU  in  the 
preparation  of  the  bidding  documents  and  monitoring  the  implementation  of  works  and 
commissioning.  
 
Preparation of strategic documents 
The  National  Program  for  Energy  Efficiency  in  Public  Buildings  (NPEEPB)  was  of  particular 
interest to the Project. It was also one of the main reasons for the major Project restructuring in 
2010  since  the  Government  expressed  interest  to  pursue  an  ambitious  6‐year  program  for 
energy  efficiency  in  public  buildings.  The  NPEEPB  is  not  mandated  by  any  law,  but  its 
implementation  will  greatly  contribute  to  the  achievement  of  Macedonia's  strategic  targets,  set 
forth  in  the  National  Energy  Strategy,  National  Energy  Efficiency  Strategy  and  the  appropriate 
Action Plans. Moreover, the implementation of an NPEEPB would achieve multiple benefits:  
 Savings  in  energy,  which  would  in  turn  have  positive  effects  on  Macedonia's  lagging 
     competitiveness and would improve the security of energy supply,  
 Financial savings, releasing funds for other purposes with greater developmental impact,  
 Reduction in greenhouse gases,  
 Improvement  of  comfort  and  working  conditions  in  the  public  buildings;  this  has  indirect 
     effect to the quality of education, public health and overall work productivity,  
 Create  local  employment,  as  many  energy  efficiency  measures  rely  on  locally  produced 
     equipment and materials and are labor intensive.  
 
The  World  Bank  provided  significant  support  to  the  PIU/  Ministry  of  Economy  in  preparing  the 
Terms of reference for the assignment, which basically consisted in determining:  
 The  investment  needs  for  the  public  buildings  retrofits  (schools,  kindergartens,  hospitals, 
     administrative  buildings  and  other  social  care  buildings)  with  the  aim  of  achieving 
     sustainable energy and financial savings,  
 The eligible energy efficiency measures,  
 The financing sources and mechanisms,  
 The implementation arrangements and mechanisms, and 
 The timeline for implementing the Program.  
 
A consortium of consultant companies was competitively selected to implement the assignment 
and  prepare  the  NPEEPB  document,  which  needs  to  be  approved  and  adopted  by  the 
Government.  The  consultants  did  not  submit  a  fully  satisfactory  document,  which,  in  particular, 
failed  to  adequately  explore  and  elaborate  the  financing  and  implementation  mechanisms. 



                                                      54
These  aspects  were  further  developed  by  consultants  of  the  World  Bank  Institute  (WBI).  They 
proposed  three  financing  and  implementation  mechanisms  for  the  NPEEPB:  (i)  an  EE  Fund, 
which  is  supposed  to  lend  to  municipalities,  but  also  offer  Energy  Service  Agreements  to  the 
institutions that are unable to borrow, (ii), a Credit line for EE, or (iii) a specific project structure, 
tentatively  hosted  at  the  Ministry  of  Finance.  The  PIU/  Ministry  of  Economy  adequately 
synthesized  the  contributions  of  all  consultants  into  one  single  NPEEPB  document  and 
submitted it to the Government for approval and adoption.   
 
The  financing  and  implementation  of  the  NPEEPB  is  expected  to  be  one  of  the  major  areas  of 
cooperation in the energy portfolio between the Government of the Republic of Macedonia and 
the World Bank in the next six years.  
 
The  Implementation  Program  of  the  Energy  Strategy  for  the  2013‐2017  period  was  also  of 
particular  interest  to  the  Ministry  of  Economy.  The  Macedonian  Academy  of  Sciences  and  Arts 
(MANU)  was  competitively  selected  to  implement  the  assignment.  MANU  prepared  the 
document  in  a  transparent  manner  and  in  continuous  consultation  with  the  competent 
institutions  and  the  relevant  stakeholders  in  the  energy  sector.  The  Implementation  Program 
determines  all  activities  and  measures  that  contribute  to  the  realization  of  the  National  Energy 
Strategy and to the achievement of the strategic commitments and targets in the energy sector, 
including  the  adoption  of  legislative  and  regulatory  acts,  determining  the  priority  investments, 
implementation  of  programs  and  specific  projects  and  measures,  as  well  as  promotional 
activities.  
 
Wind development program  
Five  sites10 were  selected  for  installation  of  wind  measurement  equipment,  based  on  a  study 
prepared  by  a  competitively  selected  consultant  company  that  identified  the  most  sustainable 
sites  for  wind  power  plants  development.  The  PIU  updated  the  technical  specifications  for  the 
wind  measurement  equipment  that  was  procured  from  a  U.S.‐based  supplier,  which  was 
competitively  selected  by  the  Energy  Agency.  The  PIU  also  collected  all  documents  and  permits 
required  for  the  installation  of  the  wind  measurement  equipment.  All  five  measurement  masts 
were  installed  on  the  sites  in  August  2012;  they  immediately  started  emitting  signals  on  the 
wind power potential.  
 
The  Faculty  of  Electrical  Engineering  and  Information  Technologies  (FEIT)  was  selected  to 
prepare  (i)  instructions  for  the  use  of  the  wind  measurement  equipment,  (ii)  specifications  for 
the  reporting  format  and  the  content  of  analysis  of  wind  energy  potential  for  each 
measurement site, (iii)  database design  for each  measurement site and database manual,  (iv) to 
host  and  manage  the  wind  power  potential  database,  (v)  to  assist  the  installation  and 
commissioning  of  the  wind  measurement  equipment,  and  (vi)  to  prepare  a  three‐year 
maintenance plan.  
 
The preliminary results of the wind measurement suggest sustainability and profitability of wind 
power  plants  development  on  all  five  locations.  This  is  the  first  systematic  wind  potential 



10) The sites are located in the municipalities of Staro Nagoricane, Sopishte, Berovo, Sveti Nikole and Mogila




                                                                 55
analysis  and  measurement  in  Macedonia,  and  therefore,  it  is  of  fundamental  value  for  the 
future development of wind power plants.  
  
In  addition,  a  study  on  the  integration  of  wind  power  plants  in  the  Macedonian  transmission 
system was prepared by a  consultant company, which was competitively selected by the Energy 
Agency.  The  Macedonian  power  transmission  system  and  market  operator  (MEPSO)  was  the 
direct beneficiary of this study. The study contained:  
 Analyses of the data related to the Macedonian electricity system,  
 Comparison  of  the  Macedonian  Grid  Rules  for  power  transmission  with  the  relevant  grid 
     rules  of  the  countries  in  the  region  and  the  EU,  as  well  as  recommendations  for 
     modifications of the Grid Rules for effective integration of wind power plants,  
 Methodology for determining the maximum level of integration of wind power plants,  
 Training program for the personnel of MEPSO, power plants, Energy Regulatory Commission, 
     Energy  Agency  and  other  stakeholders  on  the  conditions  and  modalities  for  integrating  and 
     managing wind power plants.  
 
This  study  has  been  essential  for  the  prospective  development  of  wind  power  plants  and  their 
integration  in  the  power  transmission  system.  It  is  significant  from  a  technical  and  regulatory 
standpoint, but also from policy‐making and investment standpoints.   
 
Information dissemination  
The information and promotional activities consisted in:  
          The  development  of  a  documentary  film  and  a  TV  spot  on  the  benefits  of  energy 
              efficiency  retrofits  of  public  buildings;  it  was  based  on  the  energy  efficiency 
              measures implemented in Phase 1,   
          Flyers,  which  showcased  the  measures  and  results  achieved  in  each  of  the  18  public 
              buildings (schools and kindergartens) retrofitted in Phase 1,  
          Brochures  presenting  all  activities  and  achievements  of  the  Project  in  the 
              implementation  of  energy  efficiency  measures  in  public  buildings,  as  well  as  the 
              benefits of it,   
          A municipal workshop and a conference on energy efficiency.  
 
The  Ministry  of  Economy  reckons  that  the  information  and  promotional  activities  could  have 
been  better  planned  and  implemented  in  order  to  achieve  better  promotion  of  the  Project's 
results and the benefits of energy efficiency in public buildings.  
               

Component II: Financial Support for EE in Public Buildings; 
 
The  implementation  of  energy  efficiency  measures  in  public  buildings  (schools  and 
kindergartens)  was  the  Project's  main  focus.  18  buildings  (13  schools  and  5  kindergartens)  in  six 
municipalities11 were  retrofitted  on  grant  financing  arrangement  in  Phase  1  for  a  total  of 
65,695,415 Macedonian  denars (approximately 1.46 million US  dollars). 23  buildings (17 schools 



11) Three buildings per municipality




                                                      56
and  6  kindergartens)  were  retrofitted  on  a  co‐financing  arrangement  (50:50)  with  seven 
municipalities  in  Phase  2  for  a  total  of  111,410,278  Macedonian  denars  (approximately  2,48  US 
dollars).  
 
The following energy efficiency measures were implemented in Phase 1: 
1. Façade thermal insulation, 
2. Replacement of windows, 
3. Replacement of external doors,  
4. Roof thermal insulation, 
5. Floor thermal insulation,  
6. Improvement/Installation of central heating system, 
7. Installation of freestanding burning wood stoves,  
8. Replacement of incandescent lights bulbs with CFL lights, 
9. Improvement of radiator heat emission. 

The table below provides an overview of the EE measures implemented in each building in 
Phase 1.  
 
Municipality/         Measur Measur Measur Measur Measur Measur Measur Measur                                 Measur
institution           e 1       e 2    e 3      e 4      e 5     e 6       e 7      e 8                       e 9 
Bogovinje                                                                                                      
PS Sabedin Bajrami                                                                                       
PS Dervish Cara                                                                                          
(v.Palchishte) 
PS 11 Oktomvri                                                                                          
(v.Novo Selo) 
Contractor: AK Invest  
Gazi Baba                                                                                                      
KG Sonchogled                                                                                            
KG Sonce                                                                                                  
KG Sinolichka                                                                                             
Contractor: Bazdak Inzenering  
Zajas                                                                                                          
PS Redjo Rushit                                                                                           
Zajazi (v.Zajas) 
PS Faik Konica                                                                                            
(v.Greshnica) 
PS Faik Konica                                                                                            
(v.Bachishta) 
Contractor: Perparimi  
Ceshinovo‐                                                                                                     
Obleshevo  
PS Stasho Pindzur                                                                                          
(v.Cheshinovo) 
PS Stasho Pindzur                                                                                         
(v.Sokolarci) 


                                                   57
PS Kliment                                                                                      
Ohrdiski  
(v.Obleshevo) 
Contractor: Simak Inzenering  
Kisela Voda                                                                                         
KG Sinolichka                                                                                  
PS Partenie                                                                                       
Zografski  
KG Peperutka                                                                                  
Contractor: Konstruktor dooel. 
Kavadarci                                                                                           
PS Dobri Daskalov                                                                              
PS Tosho Velkov                                                                                  
Pepeto  
PS Dimkata                                                                                     
Angelov Gaberot 
(V.Sopot) 
Contractor: Konstruktor Renata doo.  
               
The table below provides an overview on the invested amount, energy and financial savings, 
payback period and reductions in CO2 emissions for each building retrofitted in Phase 1.  
Municipality/        Invested       Invested       Savings       Savings        Savings      Reductions 
institution          amount (in  amount (in  (in MWh)            (in MKD)       (in US$)     In CO2          
                     MKD)           US$)12                                                   (kg of CO2) 
Bogovinje             11,027,020        245,045            320       619,700         13,250                     
                                                                                                   15,246 
PS Sabedin Bajrami      3,061,997        68,044            111       233,700          5,000          4,346 
PS Dervish Cara         3,790,480        84,233            113       200,000          4,250          6,552 
(v.Palchishte) 
PS 11 Oktomvri          4,174,543        92,768              95       186,000         4,000          4,738
(v.Novo Selo) 
Gazi Baba             15,792,046        350,934            513   2,722,000           57,550       123,135   
KG Sonchogled           4,151,400        92,253            160       854,000         18,200        38,387 
KG Sonce                7,693,276       170,962            225   1,200,000           25,150        53,920 
KG Sinolichka           3,947,370        87,719            128       668,000         14,200        30,828 
Zajas                 10,966,339        243,696            342   1,241,400           26,300        34,402   
PS Redjo Rushit         2,929,423        65,098              69       411,400         8,700          2,501 
Zajazi (v.Zajas) 
PS Faik Konica          3,670,075        81,557            150       660,000         14,000        27,078 
(v.Greshnica) 
PS Faik Konica          4,366,841        97,041            124       170,000          3,600          4,823 
(v.Bachishta) 
Ceshinovo‐              8,205,924                          588   1,231,000           26,100        32,716   


12) Based on a MKD-US$ exchange rate of 1:45




                                                 58
Obleshevo                               182,354 
PS Stasho Pindzur      3,696,707                          279         510,000      10,800    18,850 
(v.Cheshinovo)                           82,149 
PS Stasho Pindzur        857,084                          150         288,000       6,100     7,048 
(v.Sokolarci)                            19,046 
PS Kliment             3,652,134                          159         433,000       9,200     6,818 
Ohrdiski                                 81,159 
(v.Obleshevo) 
Kisela Voda           12,867,011        285,933           433      2,233,300       48,500    107,003
KG Sinolichka          2,111,634         46,925            35         187,000       4,000      8,424 
PS Partenie            5,365,129        119,225           158         846,300      18,000     41,206 
Zografski  
KG Peperutka            5,390,248       119,783           239      1,200,000       26,500    57,373 
Kavadarci               6,837,075       151,936           274      1,776,481       37,966               
                                                                                              15,626  
PS Dobri Daskalov       1,471,984        32,711            117   1,384,481         30,766      8,019 
PS Tosho Velkov         3,612,131        80,270            114       154,000        2,200      4,462 
Pepeto  
PS Dimkata              1,752,960        38,955             42       238,000        5,000     3,145 
Angelov Gaberot 
(V.Sopot) 
TOTAL:                 65,695,415  1,459,898             2,470    9,823,881       209,666    328,128
 
The following energy efficiency measures were implemented in Phase 2: 
1. Façade thermal insulation, 
2. Replacement of windows, 
3. Replacement of external doors,  
4. Roof thermal insulation, 
5. Installation of freestanding burning wood stoves,  
6. Improvement/Installation of central heating system, 
7. Replacement of incandescent lights bulbs with CFL/LED lights, 
8. Installation of domestic hot water solar collectors. 
     

The table below provides an overview of the EE measures implemented in each building in 
Phase 2.  
 
Municipality/        Measure  Measure  Measure  Measure  Measure  Measure  Measure            Measure 
institution          1         2          3         4         5         6          7          8 
Cair                                                                                           
PS Liria                                                                                 
KG Snezana                                                                              
PS VasilGlavinov                                                                         
PS Nikola Vapcarov                                                                         
KG Petar Pan                                                                                  
Contractor: KonstruktorRenata doo.   


                                               59
PS Jane Sandanski                                                   
Zhelino                                                                
PS Pasko Vasa (v.                                                   
Grupcin)  
PS Pasko Vasa                                                        
(v.Ciflik)  
Contractor: Perparimi 
Valandovo                                                              
HS GoceDelcev                                                      
PS Josip Broz Tito                                                
PS GoceDelcev                                                       
(v.Pirava) 
Contractor: KonstruktorRenata doo. 
Konce                                                                  
PS GoceDelcev                                                      
(Konce) 
Contractor :  
KonstruktorRenata doo.) 
Petrovec                                                               
PS                                                                
BratstvoEdinstvo 
(v. GornoKonjari) 
PS                                                                
BratstvoEdinstvo 
(v. Susica) 
Contractor: BonorInzenering/ Drvo Prom  
Pehcevo                                                                
PS VancoKitanov                                                    
KG 7 Septemvri                                                      
Contractor: Perparimi 
Kavadarci                                                              
KG Izvorce                                                            
KG Grozdoberce                                                        
KG Snezana                                                            
PS DAG (v. Vatasa)                                                    
KG Detelinka                                                        
HS DobriDaskalov                                                      
PS                                                                  
KiroSpandzovBrko 
PS GoceDelcev                                                        
Contractor: KonstruktorRenata doo.  
 
                                




                                               60
The table below provides an overview on the invested amount, energy and financial savings, 
payback period and reductions in CO2 emissions for each building retrofitted in Phase 2.  
Municipality/        Invested      Invested      Savings        Savings         Savings     Reductions  
institution          amount (in  amount (in  (in MWh)           (in MKD)        (in US$)    In CO2          
                                       13
                     MKD)          US$)                                                     (kg of CO2) 
Cair                         58,828,285        1,307,295    1,084         8,054,100         178,980      316,618
PS Liria                     20,621,822          458,263      343         2,205,450           49,010      86,169
KG Snezana                    5,890,291          130,895      121         1,021,500           22,700      67,738
PS Vasil Glavinov             8,565,565          190,346      273         1,736,550           38,590      69,802
PS Nikola Vapcarov           18,100,640          402,236                             
PS Jane Sandanski             5,649,967          125,555     347          3,090,600           68,680      92,959
Zhelino                         818,765           18,195     103            130,185             2,893      4,357
PS Pasko Vasa (v.               428,878            9,531      61             74,385             1,653      2,361
Grupcin)  
PS Pasko Vasa                   389,887            8,664       42          55,800               1,240      1,996
(v.Ciflik)  
Valandovo                    13,133,414         291,854      203        1,481,524             18,632      48,672
HS Goce Delcev                7,150,406         158,898       98          714,918               1,587     23,568
PS Josip Broz Tito            3,605,353          80,119       80          585,021             13,000      19,118
PS Goce Delcev                2,377,655          52,837       25          181,585               4,045      5,986
(v.Pirava) 
Konce                         5,508,367         122,408      126          169,650               3,770      6,590
PS Goce Delcev                5,508,367         122,408      126          169,650               3,770      6,590
(Konce) 
Petrovec                      2,908,086          64,624        81          99,900               2,219      5,509
PS Bratstvo Edinstvo          1,422,766          31,617        41          51,673               1,148      3,886
(v. Gorno Konjari) 
PS Bratstvo Edinstvo          1,485,320          33,007        40          48,227               1,071      1,623
(v. Susica) 
Pehcevo                       9,224,021         204,979      151          612,000             13,670      24,497
PS Vanco Kitanov              7,331,020         162,912      109          346,500               7,770     14,216
KG 7 Septemvri                1,893,001          42,067       43          265,500               5,900     10,281
Kavadarci                    20,989,340         466,431                            
KG Izvorce                      618,940          13,754                            
KG Grozdoberce                  796,530          17,701                            
KG Snezana                    1,329,459          29,544                            
PS DAG (v. Vatasa)            2,124,743          47,217                            
KG Detelinka                  2,857,075          63,491                            
HS Dobri Daskalov             3,628,382          80,631                            
PS Kiro Spandzov              4,774,835         106,107                            
Brko 
PS Goce Delcev               4,859,376           107,986                          
TOTAL:                     111,410,278         2,475,786    1,748     10,547,359          220,164        406,243
 




13) Based on a MKD-US$ exchange rate of 1:45




                                                       61
The  criteria  for  selection  of  municipalities,  selection  of  EE  measures  to  be  implemented,  as  well 
as  the  criteria  for  determining  the  ceiling  amounts  for  investing  in  each  municipality  are 
explored in greater detail in Chapter III.  
 
Component III: Sustainable Energy Financing Facility (SEFF) – Credit line for RE/EE. 
 
(iii)  Evaluation  of  the  borrower’s  own  performance  during  the  preparation  and 
implementation  of  the  operation,  with  special  emphasis  on  lessons  learned  that  may  be 
helpful in the future; 
 
The  Project's  procurement  and  disbursement  operations  were  carried  out  in  accordance  with 
the respective World Bank's rules and guidelines.  The PIU had a key role in ensuring compliance 
with the with the World Bank's procurement and disbursement guidelines.  
 
Both  the  Ministry  of  Economy  and  the  World  Bank  were  obliged  to  adhere  to  transparent, 
objective  and  non‐discriminatory  criteria  for  selection  of  municipalities  to  participate  in  the 
Project,  for  selection  of  measures  to  be  implemented  and  for  determining  the  level  of  grant 
funds to be allocated to each municipality. This is important to ensure that the funds are used in 
the  most  effective  and  most  equitable  manner,  as  well  as  to  prevent  any  allegations  of 
corruption  and  political  favoritism.  The  selection  criteria  were  jointly  defined  by  the  Ministry  of 
Economy and the World Bank.  
 
It was decided that the Project should interact with the municipalities for the implementation of 
energy  efficiency  measures  in  public  buildings  because  (i)  the  municipalities  are  responsible  for 
ensuring the functioning and maintenance of public buildings and bearing the costs for it, (ii) the 
municipalities  are  ideal  for  grouping  projects  from  an  organizational,  administrative  and 
territorial  standpoint  and  because  (iii)  the  interaction  with  municipalities  contributes  to  the 
development of their capacity for independent implementation of energy efficiency projects. All 
municipalities were invited to propose a number of buildings14 to be retrofitted, along with data 
on the energy savings potential of the proposed buildings.  
 
The  selection  of  municipalities  to  participate  in  the  grant  financing  (Phase  1)  was  carried  out  in 
accordance with a set of combined criteria, as follows:  
     1. Status  of  decentralization  (20/  100  points):  The  idea  was  to  award  the  maximum  score 
        for  this  criterion  (20  points)  to  the  municipalities  that  were  in  the  least  advanced  stage 
        of  fiscal  decentralization  i.e.  to  allow  greater  chances  to  the  municipalities  that  are  less 
        able to independently implement energy efficiency projects. 
     2. Level  of  preparedness  (25/  100  points),  rated  by  the  availability  of  energy  audits  and 
        other  documentation  for  retrofitting  the  proposed  buildings.  A  maximum  score  for  this 
        criterion  (25  points)  was  awarded  to  the  municipalities  that  had  energy  audits  and/or 
        other  documentation  for  all  three  proposed  buildings.  This  proved  the  interest  of  the 
        municipality  to  independently  implement  energy  efficiency  projects,  from  one  side,  and 
        on the other side, facilitated the work of the PIU and energy auditors.  


14) The municipalities were invited to propose three buildings for Phase 1, and at least two buildings in Phase 2




                                                                  62
    3. Energy  savings  potential  (55/  100  points),  was  the  heaviest  weighted  criterion  since 
       energy  savings  were  the  main  objective  of  the  retrofits.  This  criterion  distinct  the 
       projects  that  had  strong  energy  efficiency  dimension  from  those  that  represented 
       simple  structural  interventions.  The  energy  savings  potential  was  calculated  as  the  total 
       annual energy consumption (in MWh) divided by the total heated area of the building.  
 
The  energy  efficiency  measures  to  be  implemented  were  proposed  and  developed  by 
independent  energy  auditors  that  were  competitively  selected  and  hired  by  the  Ministry  of 
Economy.  The  proposed  measures  were  ranked  by  their  estimated  payback  period.  The  shorter 
the  payback  period,  the  greater  the  energy  savings  potential  and  hence,  the  higher 
implementation priority.  
 
The  amount  of  grant  funds  allocated  to  each  municipality  in  Phase  1  was  based  on  an  energy 
consumption  ratio,  which  was  calculated  as  a  quotient  from  the  available  investment  amount 
divided by the total energy consumption of all municipalities (in MWh). This approach proved to 
equitably  reflect  on  the  other  parameters  as  well,  such  are  the  municipalities'  size,  size  of 
buildings, number of pupils etc.  
 
The  selection  of  municipalities  to  participate  in  Phase  2  (co‐financing)  was  carried  out  on  the 
basis  of  the  municipalities'  committed  amounts  for  co‐financing.  Nevertheless,  with  the  aim  of 
ensuring  functional  equality  between  the  municipalities  with  big  and  small  budgets,  the 
committed  amounts  were  expressed  and  ranked  by  their  absolute  value  and  relative  value 
(expressed  as  percentage  of  their  2010  budget).  Furthermore,  it  was  decided  to  cap  the 
municipal  commitments at 250.000 US  dollars and to allocate equal total amounts to  co‐finance 
the  energy  efficiency  retrofits  with  the  municipalities  selected  under  each  criterion  (absolute/ 
relative value).  
 
These  criteria  were  clearly  defined  in  the  call  for  expressions  of  interest  that  was  submitted  to 
all municipalities.  
 
The Ministry of Economy believes that these criteria largely contributed to the overall success of 
the Project, to the elimination of allegations of misuse of public funds and that the same criteria 
may be used in similar contexts of using public funds for energy efficiency projects. 
 
 
(iv)  Evaluation  of  the  performance  of  the  Bank,  any  co‐financiers,  or  of  other  partners  during 
the  preparation  and  implementation  of  the  operation,  including  the  effectiveness  of  their 
relationships, with special emphasis on lessons learned 
 
(v)  Description  of  the  proposed  arrangements  for  future  operation  of  the  project, 
sustainability of investments.  
 
The Ministry of Economy reckons that, under the present state of development of the Ministry's 
proper  capacity,  a  specially  established  Project  Implementation  Unit  is  the  most  appropriate 
arrangement for implementation of projects.   
The  position  of  Project  Coordinator,  as  foreseen  and  exercised  under  this  project,  may  be  re‐
defined.  The  Project  Coordinator  may  replace  the  Project  Manager,  or  the  function  of  a  Project 
Coordinator should be exercised directly by the Minister.  


                                                      63
 
The  Minister  should  be  more  involved  in  the  definition  and  planning  of  project  activities,  and 
should  be  informed  of  the  project's  progress  in  a  more  regular  manner.  The  Minister  should 
ensure effectiveness of the PIU's operations and quick decision making.  
 
The  solution  of  co‐signing  of  payment  orders  with  the  Project  Manager,  or  between  the  Project 
Coordinator  and  the  Project  Manager,  as  alternative  to  the  Minister's  signature,  should  be 
maintained  because  it  relieves  the  Minister  from  signing  too  many  minor  payment  orders  and 
balances  his  exposure,  increasing  the  accountability  of  the  Project  Coordinator/  Project 
Manager.    The  alternative  co‐signing  of  payment  orders  has  additional  advantage  of 
streamlining the payments.  

 

 
 




                                                    64
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders  
Not applicable. 

  

 
 




                                           65
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents  
 
    Project Appraisal Document 
    Restructuring papers 
    Aide Memoires 
    Implementation Status and Results report 
    Financial Monitoring reports 
    Official correspondence 
    Law on Energy, Republic of Macedonia, 2007 
    First National Energy Efficiency Action Plan 2010‐2018, Republic of Macedonia, 2010 
    Financing options for the National Program for Energy Efficiency in Public Buildings 
       (NPEEPB) in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, 2012‐2018, World Bank 
       Institute, 2012 
    Strategy for energy development in the Republic of Macedonia until 2030, Ministry of 
       Economy, 2010 
    Strategy for utilization of renewable energy sources in the Republic of Macedonia until 
       2020, Ministry of Economy, 2010 

                                




                                             66
Annex 10. List of indicators from Restructuring 1 paper  
 




                                                                  




                                                            67
      




68
      




69
              
 
     




        70
            THE CITY OF SKOPJE                            Skopje serves as the     21°E                                                                            To       22°E                                                                                    23°E
                                                          Municipality Capital                                                                                     Nis
                                       SUTO
                                                             for each of these
                                                                                                To
                                                                                                       KOSOVO                                                                                                      This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.

                                      ORIZARI BUTEL
                                                               Municipalities.
                                                                                          Pristina                                                                          SERBIA                                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                             GJORCE                     GAZI                                                                                                                                                       Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                             PETROV                     BABA                                                                                                                                                       endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                           FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF

                   SARAJ              KARPOSH
                                                                  CHAIR
                                                                                                                                                                   Pelinci
                                                                                                                                                                   Pelinci
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MACED ONIA
                                                   SKOPJE           AERODROM                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                Staro                                                                   Pernik
                                                 KISELA
                                      CENTAR     VODA
                                                                                                                                                                Nagorichane Rankovce
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kriva
                                                                                                                                Lipkovo
                                                                                   Vratnica                       Chucher-
                                                                                                                  Sandevo                          Kumanovo
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Palanka                                 BULGARIA                                           SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .
                                                                                 Tearce                                                                                                        Kratovo                Mts
                                                                                                                                                                                                             o v s k e Makedonska
                                                                                                     Jegunovce                                                                                                                                                                                          MUNICIPALITY CAPITALS*
                                                                                                                                   Arachinovo                                                   Osog                       Kamenica
                                                                          Tetovo                                   SKOPJE                                                                                                                                                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL
            42°N                                                                                                                                                                               Probistip                                          Delcevo                    To    42°N
                                                                                            Zheino                                     Ilinden
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Blagoevgrad




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ca
                                                               Bogovinje                                                                                                                                                           i                                                                    THE CITY OF SKOPJE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ni
                                                                                    Brvenica                Sopiste                        Petrovec                                                                              ga
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kocani           Bre
                                                                                                                                                               Sveti                     Obleshevo                                                                                                      RIVERS
                                                                                                              Studenichani                                                                                                Vinica
                                                                                                                                                              Nikole                   (Cheshinovo)




                                                                                                                                       Va
                                                                                                                    Zelenikovo




                                                                                                                                          rda
                                                                            Vrapchishte                                                                                                                                Zrnovci                                                                          MAIN ROADS
                                                Mt. Korab                                                                                                                          Karbinci




                                                                                                                                          r
                                                (2,753 m)
                                                                              Gostivar                                                                                Lozovo                                                                          Pehcevo                                           RAILROADS

                                                                                                                                                Veles                                       Stip                      Malesevske Mts.                           Berovo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                               Chaska
                                              Rostusha                                                                                                                                                                   Radovis
                                              (Mavrovo &         Zajas
                                                                      Oslomej                                                                               Gradsko
                   ALBANIA




                                              Rostusha)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    *In most cases, the names of the municipalities
                                                                                 Makedonski
                                         Debar            Kicevo                                                                                            Rosoman                                                                                                                        are identical to their capitals. Where they
                                                                                 Brod                                                                                                                              Konche                  Vasilevo                                        differ, the municipality is shown in green italic.
                                           Centar      Drugovo                                                                                                          Negotino
                                                                            Vraneshtica
                                           Zupa                                                                                                                                                                           Strumica                 Bosilovo
                                                             Plasnica                                                        Dolneni                           Kavadarci                             Demir Kapija
                                           Cr




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Novo
                                              ni




                                                                                                           Krusevo                                                                                                                                        Selo                     To
                                                D ri




                                                                                                                                   Prilep                                                                                                                                        Petrich
                                                    m




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Valandovo
                                                                      Belchishta Sopotnica                  Krivogashtani
                                                                      (Debarca)                                                                                                                                         Star Dojran
                                                Vevcani                                                                                                                                                                     (Dojran)
                                                                                    Demir Hisar                                                        na                                                                                               Lake
                      To                                                                                                                          Cr                                                               Bogdanci
                   Elbasan              Struga                                                                                                                                                                                                          Dojran
                                                                                                                                                                        .
                                                                                                                                                                   tn
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Gevgelija
                                                                    Ohrid                                             Mogila                                   M
                                                                                      Resen
                                                          Lake                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FYR
                                                                                                                                                        e




                                                                                                                                                                                         GREECE                                                                                                                       MACEDONIA
                                                                                                                                                   z




                                                                                                                             Novaci
                                                          Ohrid                                          Bitola
                                                                                                                                                id




            41°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  41°N
                                                                              Lake
                                                                                                                                            N




                                                                             Prespa                      Medzitlija                                                         0      10          20        30 Kilometers




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 33438R2
                                                                                                                                                                            0      5      10        15     20 Miles
JULY 2009




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                           To                                                                                                                                                                                    Thessaloniki
                                                          Korçë                                                To
                                                                                                            Kozáni                                                          22°E                                                                                         23°E
