DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
FILE           COPY                   Report No. P-1214-TR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE-
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
CARONI LIMITED
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF TRINIDAD ANb TOBAGO
FOR A
SUGAR PROJECT
March' 27, 1973
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
Until Dec. 1971:          TT$1.00 = uS$0.50 or US$1.00 = TT$2.00
From Dec. 1971
until July 3, 1972:       TT$1.00 = uS$0.54 or US$1.00 = US$1.84
Since July 3, 1972:       The TT$ was allowed to float in line
with the b sterling.  As of February 15, 1973:
TT$1 .00 = US$0-51 or US$1 .00 = TT$1.96
The exchange rate used in the Appraisal Report is US$1.00 = TT$1.95,
which represents the average rate prevailing at the time of appraisal
in August, 1972.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO CARONI LTD. WITH THE GUARANTEE OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
FOR A SUGAR PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan to
Caroni Limited, with the guarantee of Trinidad and Tobago, for the equivalent
of $12.0 million to help finance a project for reestablishing Caroni Limited
as a viable sugar producer. The lcan would have a term of 15 years, including
five years of grace, with interest at 7-1/4 percent per annum. The Government
of Trinidad and Tobago would charge Caroni a guarantee fee of one percent per
annum on the outstanding amount of the Bank loan, bringing the cost of the loan
to Caroni to 8-1/4 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        An economic report entitled "Report on Employmex.t in Trinidad and
Tobago" ( 53-TR   ), was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 2
1973. The report was based on the findings on an economic mission which visited
the country last April/May; before finalization, its conclusions were discussed
with the Government in December 1972 and, subsequently, at a Board Economic
Seminar held on March 1, 1973.  A summary of Country Basic Data is attached as
Annex 1.
Recent Economic Developments
3.        The economy of Trinidad and Tobago is tied closely to the fortunes of
petroleum output and refining; these account for about one-fifth of GNP, about
two-thirds of merchandise exports, and close to one-fourthi of central government
revenues. Following a period of rapid growth in the 1950s, and again from 1965
through 1968, petroleum production declined by approximately 30 percent over the
next three years. The:exhaustion of traditional producing areas brought pro-
duction down from 65 million barrels in 1967 to 47 million in 1971.  This decline
in petroleum production was accompanied by weaknesses in other export sectors,
especially in agricultural exports such as sugar and coffee, and in fertilizers.
The traditional agricultural sector has faced slowly growing and unstable export
markets as well as formidable domestic problems; the contribution of agriculture
to GDP has on the whole declined from 11.9 percent in 1960 to 7.2 percent in
1971. Tourism was also seriously affected by the disorders which occurred in
the spring of 1970. These trends were only partially offset by the continuing
growth of the manufacturing industry, whose contribution Lo GDP has increased
from 13 percent to 18 percent between 1960 and 1971. The growth of manufacturing
has been stimulated by the establishment of the Caribbean Free Trade Association
(CARIFTA); in the last five years, exports of manufactured goods to CARIFTA
countries doubled from TT$18 million to TT$36 million, accounting for roughly
50 percent of the overall increase in manufactured exports. As a whole, however,



GNP rose slowly and for the decade of the 1 960s achieved an annual average in-
crease of only 4 percent, or about 2 percent per capita. In more recent times,
real GNP growth is estimated to have fallen below population growth. This was
accompanied by domestic price increases of about 11 percent during 1972.
4.        The slow growth of output, increases in the labor force, a deficient
educational system, and the steady emigration of skilled personnel have all com-
bined to create a persistent problem of unemployment in the country. The popu-
lation of Trinidad and Tobago increased at an annual rate of 3 percent in the
first half of the 1960s; thereafter, its growth rate declined as a result of
emigration and of a lower natural growth rate. Despite limited increases in the
labor force, howeveir, the country's economy failed to generate sufficient new
employment opportunities; the recorded increase in employment in 1965-71 was
only 1.2 percent per annum.  With the growth of employment ioughly matching that
of the labor force, the unemployment situation has changed little over the past
five to eight years; about 14 percent of the labor force were counted as unemployed
in the mid-1°60s, and about 13 percent in 1971. Apart from the obvious link
between poverty and unemployment, with the social pressures that this implies, a
continuing high rate of unemployment becomes more striking irf the case of a
country with the per capita GNP of Trinidad and Tobago ($925). At the same time,
intensive unionization and high wages prevailing in the petroleum sector make
the problem   more intractable.   The unemployment question is therefore central
to Trinidad's orderly development, and was a major contributing factor to the
disorders of 1970.
5.        The public sector in Trinidad and Tobago expanded considerably during
the 1960s, reflecting its growing influence on the economy. As a share of GDP,
the overall public expenditures increased from 21 to 28 percent over the period
1960-71. The disturbances of 1970 gave a sharper edge to the Government's concern
with the unemployment problem and both public fixed investment and current ex-
penditures were stepped up. A functional breakdown of the central government's
current expenditure shows that by far the largest proportion is now spent on
social services; the service of the country's social infrastructure accounts for
41 percent of total current expenditures as against 35 percent in 1965. A similar
development is evident in public investment expenditures. The share of public
investment in GDP in 1969 was about 4 percent; in an effort to remedy unemploy-
ment and reduce social unrest, capital expenditures were increased by one-half in
1970. A further increase of nearly 20 percent was effected in 1971.
6.        The financial position of the public sector until 1970 was generally
sound; current surplus and capital revenue of the central government covered the
current deficits of the rest of the public sector, and financed the major propor-
tion of overall public investment in 1965-70. Under the twin pressures of a
decline in oil production and an increase in public expenditures, the fiscal
situation, however, began to deteriorate in 1970. ExcePt for the introduction of
an employment levy, no important new revenue measures were taken in 1970 or 1971.
As a result, there were overall deficits of TT$48 million in 1970 and TT$104
million in 1 971, and the public sector was forced to borrow much more than in
previous years in order to finance its increased expenditures.



-3 -
7.        The Government's strategy in 1970-71 appears to have been designed with
a view to bridging a gap until rising petroleum production leads to a strengthening
of fiscal revenues and of overall activity. An important new oilfield off the
east coast of the country came into production at the beginning of 1972. Overall
petroleum production increased by about 20 percent in 1972 over 1971, and further
expansion is expected in 1973 and subsequent years.   Indications of a quickening
pace of activity in the private sector, after the setback of 1970, and the uptuni
in petroleum production enabled the Government to plan for a reduction in the
overall deficit in 1972. Tax and royalty rates for existing and new petroleum
production, while still appreciably below the levels now prevailing in other
petroleum exporting countries, have been increased, other tax measures introduced,
and improvements effected in incomes tax administration; as a result, current
revenue in 1972 was expected to rise by about 28 percent over 1971, with propor-
tionately smaller increases in current and capit;al expenditures. An overall
deficit of about TT$30-$40 million was to be covered by non-inflationary borrow-
ing at home and abroad. The latest though as yet incomplete information received
by us, however, points to a larger overall deficit and heavier foreign and do-
mestic borrowing in 1972 than previously anticipated.
8.        Growth prospects for the medium-term appear to be favorable.   At the
planned rate of extraction of the new oil findings, the output of domestic crLde
oil from all sources could rise to about 90 million barrels a year in 1978, or
close to double the 1971 volume. A new desulphurization plant is under con-
struction, and, if a scheme for producing liquefied natural gas for shipment
to the U.S, materializes as scheduled, this would be operating at about two-
thirds capacity by the end of 1978. The liquefied natural gas scheme is being
developed by the Government jointly with private U.S. companies. Some progress
is reported to have been made in organizing financing for the scheme; its imple-
mentation will no doubt depend upon the global arrangements which the U.S. is
presently contemplating in respect of its natural gas requirements. The success-
ful exploitation of these new petroleum and natural gas resources would provide
the economy with a powerful growth stimnulus. The contribution of this sector
to exports is expected to double, and royalty and tax payments, in current prices,
to rise from TT$70 million in 1971 to about TT$200 million in 1978.   With petro-
leum and natural gas providing the major propellant, the annual growth rate of
GDP is projected to rise by some 6-7 percent annually in real terms over 1971-78,
from 3.5 percent annually in the preceding six years.
9.        Increased resource availability will permit the Government to further
enlarge the role of the public sector in the economy. Savings in the public
sector are projected to rise from the present 2.1 percent of GDP to 4 percent;
the National Insurance Scheme, introduced in April 1972, will become an important
source of additional public sector savings. It was the conclusion of our recent
economic mission that an annual growth in real public expenditure of 9 percent
a year is feasible between 1972 and 1978, with public sector savings financing
about half of public investment as against 31 percent in 1965-71. The Govern-
ment's third 5-year plan for 1969-73 was of relatively modest proportions, with
emphasis on social services, transportation, and agriculture. The disorders of
1970, and the increased concern over unemployment have, however, resulted in
substantial quantitative as well as qualitative changes in plan execution. Dev-
elopment expenditures realized in 1969-71 equaled 75 percent of the total expenditures



originally planned for 5 years; actual investment was directed into special
works programs and projects that could be quickly implemented. The overriding
objective of these expenditures appears to have been, however, to provide short-
run employment rather than increased output of certain industries, in acquiring
a more active role in the economy in an attempt to preserve jobs in firms which
were threatened by closure, and to broaden the Government's political base.
10.       On the basis of its discussions with the Government, our recent economic
mission has outlined an investment program for 1972-78 designed to remove the
worst bottlenecks in the economy, and to generate longer-term employment. This
program emphasizes investment in transport and housing and related services, the
reform of the educational system, and the development of agriculture, industry,
and tourism by a combination of modest public expenditures, incentives, and
promotional measures. The economic mission has also put together an employment
policy package whose components and implications were discussed with and gene-
rally concurred in by the Government in late December. In broad terms, our policy
proposals are intended to correct factor price distortions in the economy which
inhibit a higher demand for labor, raise the capacity of the non-petroleum sect-
or to generate increased output and employment, and alter the volume and quality
of labor supply to better match Trinidad and Tobago's requirements. A major
constraint facing Trinidad and Tobago is the limited capacity of the public sect-
or to plan and implement viable programs, aggravated by a tendency to over-
centralization of decision-making in the Government. To carry out the Government's
ambitious investment program, therefore, it will be necessary to strengthen pro-
ject planning and implementation. Finally, pragmatic policies by the Government
will need to be continued to further encourage private investment, both domestic
and foreign. The Government has recently issued a 'White Paper on Public
Participation in Industrial and Commercial Activities", which indicates in some
detail the rationale for increased state participation in direct economic acti-
vity, and the limits to which such participation is likely to extend. While the
Government's recent actions should help to dispel the uncertainty surrounding
private investment, the development of the private sector remains crucial to the
country's overall objectives.
11.       The precise impact 6f the Government's revised investment program  and
our economic mission's policy proposals on employment growth are difficult to
project. It would be, however, reasonable to expect that their vigorous imple-
mentation could probably raise the annual rate of job creation by an additional
2,000-4,000 a year over and above what might be expected in the Government's pre-
vious policy framework. At the same time, provided the basic structural defi-
ciencies of the economy can be overcome and output growth of about 7 percent a
year is attained, the unemployment ratio could decline from the present 13 per-
cent to between 6 and 9 percent by 1978. Such a reduction in unemployment
would naturally also mean an alleviation of poverty and easing of social pressures.
External Assistance: and Creditworthiness
12.       From 1968' through 1971, Trinidad's balance of payments was characterized
by progressively widening deficits on current account, offset by heavy capital
receipts. The deterioration in the current account performance was due mainly
to the weakening of the balance of trade. The trade surplus of $35 million in
1968 had by 1971 turned into a deficit of $125 million. The balance of payments
prospects in the medium-term will be strongly influenced by petroleum and petroleum-
related developments. The completion of the petroleum expansion and liquefied



natural gas schemas coald lead, by 1978, to a doubling of the country's level of
net foreign exchange earnings attributable to the petrolaum industry. A potential
for growth also exists for agricultural exports; and the exports of manufactures,
which have benefited  from CARIFTA agreements, can be expected to continue to
grow.
13.       Due to sluggish public sector investment daring most of the 1960s, ex-
ternal capital flows to the public sector have been relatively modest. On a
disbursement basis they amnounted to $73.8 million in 1965-71. As against this,
the inflows of net private investment capital in the same period totaled $387
million, most of it in 1970-71 when new petroleum production facilities were
established. Official loan comnnitmen-ts over the period 1967-71 are sumrmarized
below:
IBPD  IDB   U.S.   Canada  U.K. Others   Totals
(US$ millions, net of cancellations)
Transport                            8.6                 0.3     3.4           12.3
Power and comrmanications            2.0        19.6      1.Q                  23J
Education                             9.                                       9c. I
Health                               3.0                  0.5
Water and sewerage                         7.6                                  7. 
Housing and urban development             4,3                                   4.3
Agric-lture                           5.0  3.6            2.0    2.3           12.9
Industry and touri-sm                                     1.2                   1.2
Xining                                            2.0                           2.0
Others                                    1.0            2.8     7.2    10.0   21 .0
Total                               28.0 16.5    21.6     8.7   12.9    10.0   97.9
IL.       Trinidad's requirements of official capital in the mediumn-tern are ex-
pected to be substantial; recent acceleration of public investment has already
resulted in increased conmitments from multilateral and bilateral soulrces. The
external public debt of the country is, however, low by in-ternatioral standards,
and is not likely to pose any serious przoblens in the foreseeable future. Its
external public debt at, tbe and of 1971 equaled 11.2 percent of' GDP; substantial
increases in borrowing projected for 1972-76 'will result in to-tal extemnal debt
increasing tc over 23 percent of GDP, and of debt service ratio rising from the
present b.3 percent to 6.4 percent. Trinidad and Tobago illay be therefore regarded
as creditworthy for substantial borrowing on conventional termas.



-6-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TRINUMAD AND TOBAGO
Introduction
15.       The Bank made its first loan to the colony of Trinidad and Tobago in
1961; this loan of $21.4 million assisted in financing the development of
electric power and was guaranteed by the United Kingdom. Since the country's
independence in 1962, Bank lending has totaled $39.3 million, more than half
of it concentrated in the development of power and education. The remainder
has gone into highway construction, family planning, the development of an
agricultural settlement, and a DFC project. A loan of $9.3 million for the
second education project was signed on October 25, 1972, and became effective
on February 15, 1973. A summary statement of Bank loans to Trinidad and
Tobago and notes regarding the progress of projects in execution as of
January 31, 1973, are attached as Annex II.
Past Bank Lending
16.       Bank lending in the past has been aimed at overcoming infrastructure
bottlenecks through electric power and highway development, the creation of
productive employment opportunities in agriculture and industry, and the longer-
term resolution of the unemployment problem through the support of educational
reform and family planning. In almost all projects financed by the Bank, it
has provided substantial assistance in project preparation, and technical
assistance elements were built into most of the loans extended. The two power
projects ($21.4 million, 1962; $2.0 million, 1969) helped finance a power
development program and have since been completed. The principal physical
objectives of the Bank's loans were achieved, although idth some cost overruns.
At the same time, the Bank played a crucial role in achieving institutional
improvements.  The Crown Lands development and settlement project ($5.0 million;
1967) was marked by physical development that was slower than anticipated, and
the closing date had to be extended by about 18 months. The major problem
associated with the project was the management of credit which was not
effectively brought under control until 1970; nonetheless the project has proved
most useful as a basis for further agricultural development.
17.       The highway project ($8.6 million; 1967) is part of the Government's
plans to improve the route between Port-of-Spain, the capital, and San Fernando,
the second largest city. Feasibility studies and detailed engineering for other
highway sections are also included in the project. However, project execution
has been delayed and some cost overruns are anticipated. The eccnomic rate of
return of the project has, however, not been seriously affected. The two educa-
tion projects ($9.4 million, 1969; $9.3 million, 1973) are meant to support the
Government's 15-year plan for education development, whose objective is to
improve the relevance and efficiency of the education system. Bank assistance
has so far been provided for the first two phases of the plan. After an initial
delay of about seven months, progress on the first education project has been good,
and disbursements on the second project are expected to commence shortly. The
Bank loan for family planning ($3.0 million; 1971) is intended to enhance the
effectiveness of the Government's ongoing program of population planning and control



- 7 -
initiated in 1967. The Bank project would provide for the design, construction
and equipment of medical and training facilities; a technical assistance component
is intended to overcome institutional disabilities which haa adversely affected
the Government's efforts in the past. After initial delay, the project is now
picking up momentum and, when completed, is expected to contribute to reduction
in the natural rate of population growth, with beneficial effects on-labor force
pressures. The DFC loan ($2.0 million; 1972) has been instrumental in the estab-
lishment of the Trinidad and Tobago Development Finance Company Limited. The loan
funds are intended for investment in industrial and tourism enterprises. The
commitments of the Bank loan are behind schedule, but with the arrival recently
of an adviser experienced in project appraisal, the capacity of TTIFC's staff to
appraise projects should be considerably improved., and the project is expected
to be back on schedule by mid-1 973.  TT'fF  plans to play an important role in
promoting industry and tourism through its investment program.
Future Direction of Bank Lending
18.        In addition to providing capital assistance for the Government's pro-
gram, the main justification for Bank lending is linked to Trinidad and Tobago's
heavy dependence on foreign technical assistance for the preparation and execution
of a viable investment program. Through our lending program, we have been pursu-
ing major institution-building objectives in critical areas of the economy in
addition to increasing output and employment. In line with the Government's
priorities and our own assessment of the country's requirements, our lending will
be concentrated in the future in agricultural development, highway construction
and maintenance, and education.
19.        In the agricultural sector, our lending will strengthen the traditional
exports and promote such import substitution as is still possible. In addition
to the loan now before you, we have planned two other loans for rural develop-
ment/land settlement projects designed to continue the program initiated under
the Crown Lands project. Both projects will promote agricultural diversification
and improve production of livestock and crops. Our lending in both agriculture
and industry (paragraph below) will test the adequacy of Government policies
and incentives for diversification in these sectors. The first rural development/
land settlement project, to be located in Tobago and the northeastern and south-
western parts of Trinidad, is presently being icientified. If implemented, it
will bring unused Crown Lands under cultivation; it will also improve agricultural
production in suitable areas already being cultivated by strengthening infra-
structure, credit extension, and marketing services, and improve in-shore fishing.
A loan for a port improvement project in Port-of-Spain was negotiated in May 1972,
but is awaiting Board presentation until the Port Authority and the Government
have submitted a tariff increase application to the Public Utilities Conmission (PUC)
in order to try to achieve a financially self-contained port organization by 197h/75.
;0.        Despite its relatively high wage levels Trinidad has some advantages
for developing industrial exports especially to the protected CARIF'TA market.
The Government is already encouraging the development of manufacturing industries
through a variety of incentives, and financing is being provided by the Industrial
Development Corporation and the Development Finance Company (DFC).   In the DFC,



Trinidad has a satisfactory institution for channeling medium-and-long-term
credits into productive enterprises. We are proposing loans for manufacturing
and tourism as follow-up operations to the DFC loan made in 1972.   A loan for
teleconmmunications would finance the improvement and expansion of the telephone
system, and help bring about required institutional improvements. The Trinidad
and Tobago Telephone Company, which has lately been taken over by the Government,
has prepared a five-year development program; this has been reviewed in the Bank,
and we believe that the program could stand considerable improvement and cost
reduction. The project which we would finance would assist in reformulating the
development program, in its financing, and in improving the company's management
and operations which have been unsatisfactory in the past.
21.       The country's transportation system has not kept pace with the require-
ments of a growing economy; as a result, production and distribution costs are
higher than they need be. Future Bank loans for highways would follow-up on our
previous lending and help the Government in dealing with specific and well-
identified bot-tlenecks.  Through these loans, we would aLso aim at obtaining
improvements in highway maintenance organization and methods, and at the adoption
of a program for improved maintenance. Feasibility studies of the need for up-
grading and extending certain sections of the Southern highway are being financed
as part of the Bank's first road project ; funds from the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) are also available for a feasibility study for a major
road project east of Port-of-Spain. Decisions on our proposed highwav loan will
await completion of these studies. We have also included a "sites and services"
project in our lending program.   The Government has already undertaken a sub-
stantial effort to provide the local population of Port-of-Spain with better
quality housing. The institutional structure is, however, unduly fragnented,
and a small program of self-help housing was discontinued a few years ago. We
would hope to get the Port-of-Spain self-help program going again, and to assist
in the formulation of a proper approach to urban planning and development.
22.      lie are aware that important areas of Trinidad and Tfobago's development
have a regional aspect. The harmonization of fiscal incentives to industry, the
rationalization of agricultural production and marketing, the development of
tourism, and exchange rate policies, all emphasize the substantial interdependence
of the economies of the Caribbean countries. We are pl anning a study of the
salient aspects of the Caribbean economies and their interdependencies later in
1973 so as to determine the possibilities of coordinated regional development
in selected fields, and the policy actions that individual countries might use-
fully take.
PART III - SUGAR AND THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR IN TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
23.       Agriculture, with sugar, cocoa, citrus, coffee and coconuts as the
principal crops, has failed to make much headway in the last two decades. In
1971, agriculture contributed only 7 percent to GDP, and food products only 15
percent to the total export value.    This lack of pr tress has several reasons,



- 9 -
including: (i) a badly structured industry (ii) inadequate marketing, credit,
and extension facilities; (iii) fragmentation of holdings; (iv) much part-time
farming; (v) a poor social image; and (vi) for the most part, heavy soils of
indifferent natural fertility. Only 35 percent of the land, or 44510,0 acres,
is available for agriculture.  The remaining 65 percent is either fcrest (45
percent), urban areas (8 percent), swamp (2 percent), or abandoned tree crops
and secondary woodland (10 percent).  Furthernore, about 100,000 acres of the
available land is either in shifting cultivation or semi-derelict tree crops;
as a result, only-25 percent of the land area is effectively under cultivation.
Nevertheless, agriculture is important to Trinidad and Tobago for its impact on
the countr-y's balance of payments and beoause agriculture provides employment for
about 22 percent of its labor force.
24.       Sugar contributed over 2C percent of Trinidad and Tobago's non-paeroleum
exports and about 60 percent of the 1971 food export value. There is, in the
agricultural sector, no alternative crop with comparable export outlets, nor one
which could replace sugar as a source of foreign exchange. Land presently under
cane could in theory grow other crops, but this switclh would require considerable
expenditures and many new skills. Diversification into corn, banana, and coco-
nuts has been unsuccessful so far. A long-ternm but only partial alternative
might ba beef production, but at present this has not been proven profitable, and
there are a variety of technical constraints.
25.       Sugarcane has been grown in Trinidad and Tobago for 350 years, and has
played an important part in the development of the islands.  It was initially
grown on a large nu-mber of privately owned estates, each with its own mill, but
through amalgamation over the years both the number of estates and of factories
has dwindled drasticallys there are only two large and four smaller sugar mills
today, as against 300 small mills which operated in 1890. Presently, sugarcane
occupies a third of the cultivated land and emplcys almost half of the agricu)ltur-
al labor force. However, t.he industry has been unprofitable for most of the last
decade, largely due tc rising ccsts, and static or declining output. As a result.
-iLOh of '.te plant anid euipre!nt is in need -f replacement, and administrati-ve and
technical operations in need of review.
2o.       Only three sugar companies are actually in opera-tion in Trinidad at pre-
sent: Caroni Limited; Orange Grove National Company Lim-ited; and Forres Park
Lim'ited. The first of these is dominated by the Government, the second is wholly
owned by the Government, and only the third is still in private hands. Of the
three companies, Caroni is by far the largest; through its majority holding in
Caroni and its complete ownership of Orange Grove, the Government controls 96
percent of the sugar industryr. All three companies both grow cane and process it
in their own f'actories.  In addition to the companies, however, there are some
10,000 independent cane farmers who supply cane to the various factories, col-
lectively accounting for about 40 percent of all cane grown in the country. Their
importance has increased steadily. Individual acreages vary from 2 to 200 acres;
many farmers work only part-time; and the majority are tenants, mos-tly f7or small
private landlords. Fragmentation is a problem, and little attention has been
paid to providing adequate extension and credit facilities; apart from buying their



- 10 -
cane and provicing a little seasonal credit, the three companies have furnished
no service to the fa mers.  However, conditions have improved markedly following
the Government's assuming control of Caroni in 1970.
27.       Over the last ten years, production of estate cane has been static -
averaging 1.5 million tons annually - whereas production of farmers' cane increased
steadily from 0.7 to 0.9 million tons. The area under estate cane at present is
approximately 58,500 acres (Caroni, 87 percent; Orange Grove, 8 percent; and
Forres park, 5 percent) while the area under farmers' cane is estimated to be in
the order of 54,000 acres. National cane yields have averaged 28.5 tons/acre
during the last 20 years. Over the same period the conversion rate for cane into
sugar was 10.2; this figure, however, deteriorated from an average of 9.9 tons
in 1952-61 to 10.6 tons in 1962-71, suggesting a decline in efficiency. Sugar
production reached its peak with about 250,000 tons in 1965; since then, output
has declined, and in 1971 amounted to about 213,000 tons (of which caroni produced
91 percent, Orange Grove 5 percent, and Forres Park 4 percent).
28.       Trinidad's sugar has five outlets: the local market, other Caribbean
islands, the United Kingdom, the United States,and Canada.  Local consumption,
including sugar used for industrial purpcses, presently amounts to about 42,000
tons annually. The local quota is legally a first charge on sugar production;
it.s price was kept static for many years, but substantial price increases have
been recently permitted.  Within the Caribbean Free Tlrade Association, Trinidad
has been given a share of 10,000 tons. Traditionally, the U.K. has taken the
bulk of the islands' exports in the form of raw sugar under the terms of the
Commonwealth Sugar Agreement; Trinidad's present share is 132,000 tons, of which
Caroni is allotted 89 percent, but the country has not been able to meet the
quota every year. Following the Cuban crisis, the U.S. market too has been
opened to Trinidad. Its share of the quota varies annually; in 1971, it was
20,000 tons, of which Caroni was allotted 92 percent.  While the U.S. does not
provide a major outlet in terms of tonnage, the price paid for raw sugar makes
it a more lucrative market than the others. Trinidad:s share of the Canadian
market is 28,000 tons, of which Caroni's allocation is 89 percent. Marketing
arrangements have been relatively stable since the introduction of the Common-
wealth Sugar Agreement and, more recently, the International Sugar Agreement.
290.      Four institutions represent various interests in the sugar industry.
The West Indian Sugar Association (WISA) is a regional body set up in 1942 to
administer the sugar quotas granted to Jamaica, Barbados, Guyana, and Trinidad
under the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement, the Internat-ional Sugar Agreement, and
the United States Sugar Act. The Sugar Manufacturers' Association represents the
manufacturers, and serves as a link between WISA and the local industry; the
Trinidad Island Wide Cane Farmers Association serves the interest of the individual
cane farmers; and the Sugar Industry Control Board was established by the Govern-
ment in 1966, primarily to serve as a go-between for manufacturers and cane farmers.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
30.       The Project was appraised in the field in August 1972. Negotiations for



the proposed loan were held in washington in January of this year. The Govern-
ment was represented by Messrs. F. Rampersad, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of
Finance, T. Lee, lawyer, Attorney-General's Office,and R. Dumas, Minister-
Counsellor of the Trinidad and Tobago Embassy; the Borrower was represented by
Messrs. F. Barsotti, Chairman of Caroni Ltd, G. Maingot, Managing Director, and
G. Tuke, Financial Controller.
31.       A report entitled "Trinidad and Tobago; Caroni Sugar Project (No. 48a-TR,
dated March 26, 1973)" is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
The main features of the loan and the project are summarized in Annex III.
The Borrower
32.       The proposed Bank loan would be made to Caroni Limited with a Govern-
ment guarantee. Caroni was formerly a subsidiary of Tate and Lyle Ltd., a
company registered in the United Kingdom, but a majority holding of 51 percent
of the equity was purchased by the Trinidaa and Tobago Government in August
1970. Tate and Lyle still retain 32 percent of the equity, the balance being
held by numerous small private shareholders. The Caroni Board has been
restructured with five members appointed by the Government and four by Tate
and Lyle. To reflect the Government's desire to identify organized labor and
the cane farmers with policy decisions, three of its representatives are drawn
from labor organizations, the other two being civil servants. The Board does
not function smoothly; some of its members represent conflicting interests and,
lacking wide commercial experience, do not always consider issues from a com-
mercial viewpoint.  However, a small but powerful Executive Committee of the
Board, capable of taking decisions without constant reference to the main Board,
is being reactivated. Its current members are the Chairman, the Managing Director,
and a Government nominee of wide commercial experience.
33.       Cane is processed by Caroni in four factories capable of producing
approximately 250,000 tons of sugar annually. These four factories, which are
very different from each other in design, capacity,and age, are located at
woodford Lodge (capacity 25,000 tons), Brechin Castle (115,000 tons), Ste.
Madeleine (100,000 tons), and Reform (15,000 tons). In addition, there is a
new sugar refinery at Ste. Madeleine with a refining capacity of ten tons
per hour and a distillery producing rum, whisky, and raw alcohol. Each
contains a miscellany of equipment that has been modified and replaced over the
years.
34.       In terms of the acreage cultivated and its levels of production and
employment, the importance of Caroni for the Trinidadian economy is very consider-
able. The Company controls 90 percent of the sugar industry in the country, is
the largest single enterprise other than the oil companies, and is the biggest
employer of labor apart from the Government itself.   It owns 72,000 acres of
land, of which it has some 51,000 acres directly in cane with another 9,000
rented to individual farmers. Sugar production has varied from 180,000 to
213,000 tons annually. About 2L ,000 people depend directly on Caroni for a
living, including 13,500 employees and around 8,500 cane farmers. with their
families and others who cater for and service the Company employees and farmers,
about 150,000 persons - or one-seventh of the island's population - are
financially dependent on the Company.



- 12 -
35.       Caroni's profits have fluctuated during the last decade, with modest
profits in 196h, 1965, 1967,and 1969, and losses in the other years.   These
losses have been such that the Company's financial position has become unsound,
its liquidity threatened, and the maintenance of its assets neglected. There
are various reasons for this poor performance; they include a rapid rise in labor
costs, low sugar prices, little increase in production, and indifferent management.
Poor profitability has led to inaciequate investments in factories and field
equipment, in turn leading to poorer performance and higher operating costs.
All in all, the Company has a record of poor industrial relations, outmoded
management attitudes, and inadequate technical performance.
36.       Influenced by wages in the petroleum industry, Caroni's wage rates
have increased by more than 70 percent since 196h; during the same period,
labor productivity has not improved to any marked extent, and the average sugar
price has only increased by 30 percent. Due to revenues from the petroleum
industry,the Government has been able, at the same time, to provide a comprehensive
program of public services to the community. These benefits, together with the
pervasive prejudice against agricultural labor, especially cane cultivating, and
support for the unemployed through extended family ties, collectively explain the
apparent paradox that despite relatively high national unemployment, people do not
want to cut cane. Thus Caroni faces the twin problems of labor becoming both
scarce and more expensive.
Alternative Policies
37.       Under existing fiscal and social policies, there are three possible
approaches to Caronits problems: to abandon the industry, to subsidize labor,
or to both change the structure of the industry and speed up mechanization.
To abandon the industry is neither socially nor economically desirable, in
view of the lack of alternative employment for the resources now used in sugar.
This is true of both labor and land. The land appears to have little alternative
use particularly in the short-run, and in any case the capital required to shift
this land to other cultivation is more than that required to save the sugar
industry. In addition, since the country already has substantial unemployment,
it is unlikely that those unemployed by abandoning the industry would be able
to find alternative employment. The second alternative, that of subsidizing
the average wage in the sugar industry, is excessively costly and unlikely
to improve the efficiency of the industry. The Government, the Company, and
the labor unions involved have rejected this approach in favor of the third
alternative, to make parts of the production process, particularly harvesting,
more capital intensive and, if further study indicates it is desirable, to
increase the importance of the small farming sector. This can only be done
gradually, and explains the importance that is attached in the project to a
detailed study of the Company's land that cannot be mechanized together with
a program of mechanization of those lands that lend themselves to it. The
mechanization program will be implemented over the time period 1973-81; it will
cause no forced redundancies, the gradual reduction in jobs being offset by
natural attrition of the permanent labor force.



- 13 -
The Project
38.       The proposed loan will assist in financing a program of capital
expenditures to improve the efficiency of the Companyts field and factory
operations, and in the study and implementation of better management pro-
cedures, without any material increase in the volume of sugar produced.
It provides for the overhaul and improvement of the Ste. Madeleine,
Brechin Castle, and W4oodford Lodge sugar factories. No capacity increases
are planned at Brechin Castle and Woodford Lodge, but new equipment is
required to keep the factories running and to improve their performance
and reliability.  Ho-wever, at Ste. Madeleine, where cane production presently
exceeds factory capacity, an increase in grinding capacity is planned.
Much of the existing field and transport equipment, being worn and in need
of replacement, would also be renewed, either imnBdiately or gradually over
a five-year period.  Better cultivating equipment would enable faster and
more timely operations and hasten the introductlon of improved cane varieties.
39.       The project includes the conversion of 12,500 acres of flat land
from cambered beds to ridges, enabling the introduction of machine harvest-
ing and more extensive use of mechanical equipment for other operations,
leading to cost savings and improved output.   The majority of Caroni land
in the north, some 24,000 acres, is flat and lends itself to full-scale
mech.anization, unlike the hilly lands of the south. Caroni has already
converted 11,500 acres to mechanized cultivation in the north, and the
project will add another 12,500 acres to this area by 1980/81,
1,0.      It has been assumad, for purposes of project planning, that total
cane production would remain constant around 2.3 million tons over the
period 7973-F1.  it is also assumed that the total acreage of estate cane
will decrease from 51 ,000 acres in 1 973 to 46,7CC in 1 98T, thus allOwing
the Company to remove marginal areas fron culti,vat.cn.  However, this will
be compensated for by a small increase in average cane yields, made
possible by improved cultivation practices and the introduction of new
varieties. Only a marginal increase in raw sugar production is projected,
largely as a result of some improvement in the ratio of cane to sugar
produced. In view of the brighter market prospects for sugar, a case could
be argued for expanding production. This may well be feasible in the long
term. It is, however, felt that the first priority is to improve the
existing operations, and the present project is considered to be the most
appropriate to Caroni's circumstances. The project would have no direct
impact on international sugar trading arrangements, the small increase in
production being absorbed by the local market. The project has the support
of the International Sugar Organization.
41.       Caroni will continue its excellent research work on insect control
and undertake an expanded program under the project of research into new cane
varieties and cultivation techniques. In adaition to research, the project
will provine for three studies by consultants who will take local counterparts
to the extent possible: (i) a hydrological/irrigation survey of north Caroni;
(ii) a study of the possibilities and implications of subdividing the hilly
south Caroni area for occupation by small-scale cane farmers; and (iii) a
study of all aspects of Company operations, including field and factory oper-
ations, cost control and management procedures. The hydrological study would



- 14 -
investigate the drainage requirements of the flat lands being converted from
beds to ridges and would come up with a master drainage plan. The second
study would have wide implications for the future size and structure of
Caroni Ltd; if the hilly lands were allocated to individual farmers, it woUld
cut by half the land cultivated by the Company.   These lands are difficult
to mechanize and not fully suited for cane production under estate style
management. The third study would be done by a small team of outside consultants,
with one of the team members probably staying on to assist in implementing mutually
agreed improvements.  The study is crucial for the updating of the organization
and strengthening the management of Caroni. The study would be initiated not
later than six months after signing the proposed loan and, following its completion,
Caroni would retain a management advisory service, in the first instance for
three years, on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. An expanded training
and personnel development program would also be initiated.   The job descriptions
and qualifications required for the posts of Managing Director, General Manager,
and Financial Controller would be agreed in advance between Caroni and the Bank,
and the appointments would be maue after consultation with the Bank.   In order
to represent all the sugar producing interests in the country more effectively
than the Board of Caroni, the Governywnt would establish, within a year of the
loan becoming effective, either a national sugar authority or a company wiach
would holQ all the Government's shares in sugar companies
Project Cost and Financing
42.       Total project costs are estimated at $2y.1 million, of which the
foreign exchange component would be $18.7 million. Cost estimates have been
prepared on the basis of current prices; the provision for price contingencies is
6 percent per annum. The proposed Bank loan of $12.0 million would cover about
614 percent of the foreign exchange component during the initial development
period of the project. Caroni would finance the balance out of self-generated
funds; it would also pay an additional one percent annually to the Government
for its guarantee for the Bank loan. The cost of the loan to Caroni would be
thus 8-1/4 percent per annum. While this would be below the cost of commercial
borrowing abroad, a higher guarantee fee has not been proposed because of the
nature of this project which straddles both the indust;rial and the agricultural
sectors. Cash flow projections indicate that Caroni would generate sufficient
funds both to repay the Bank loan within 15 years and to finance further
development.
Financial Prospects
43.       The Company has well developed marketing arrangements for a range of
sugar and sugar by-products. Prices are known and established until 1974 under
the terms of the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement, the International Sugar Agreement,
and the U.S. Sugar Act. For project purposes, current prices have been used for
1972/73 and 1973/74, and 1974 prices have been projected for 1975 through 1981.
The average price used for all sugar, both exports and local sales, is approxi-
mately 7.1 cents/lb. This is on the assumption that post 197L prices will show
no decline and the pattern of marketing will not alter significantly. Present
indications are that prices will remain firm, and possibly move higher, as
world consumption is expected to rise faster than world production. A study
recently made in the Bank (Sec. M72-571) projects prices about 10-20 percent
higher than those assumed for this project. Locally consumed sugar prices have
been controlled at unrealistically low levels in the past. They will now be
reviewed every two years and be set on the basis of a formula that will enable



- 15 -
the Company to earn 8 percent rate of return after tax on the pro rata capital
employed to produce sugar for the local market or, alternatively, be based
on the average export price, whichever is the less,
Ut.       With the proposed investment, management reorganization, and introduc-
tion of effective operational controls  it is expected to make Caroni an effec-
tive and profitable enterprise and to ensure that the finances of the Company
will be steadily strengthened in the coming years. Capital assets employed
would increase in value from TT$37 mill-ion in 1972 to TT$70 million in 1962;
working capital would be increasingly financed out of retained earnings, and
sufficient funds generated for future capital requirements.  The financial
rate of return on the proposed incremental investmrent, not taking into account
price contingencies for capital equipment, would be 1 7 percent; with possible
increases in the prices of imported equipment, this return would decline to
10 percent. The financial return on total capital employed would range from
5.3 percent in 1973 to B.3 percent in 1298.
45.       In the interests of sound financial management, a statement of intent
has been obtained from Caroni Limited that it would be the Company's objective
to achieve a rate of return on capital employed of not less than 8 percent
annually from 1975. This is in line with the commercial performance standards
generally expected by the Government from public and quasi-public entities.
In addition, appropriate limitations have been accepted by the Borrower on the
incurrence of debt and on the distribution of dividends.
Procurement
46.       Procurement of factory machinery and field equipment will be by inter-
national competitive bidding, in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for
Procurementt". An exception to this will be small orders of less than US$15,000
in value, subject to a maximum aggregate of US$250,000, where the size of
individual orders is unlikely to attract international bids. In such cases,
quotations would be obtained from at least three suppliers. Certain types of
vehicles are currently assembled in Trinidad, there being four asserbly plants
representing nine international vehicle manufacturers. It is expected that
such local asserbly plants will win orders for vehicles.  Rehabilitation has
already started and equipment totaling US$1.5 million is in the process of
being procured. Procurement procedures have conformed to Bark practices, and
it is proposed that these items be financed retroactively to April 30, 1972,
from the loan.  Items for land formation (US$o.6 million) wil be undertaken
by the C*ipany as the only agency with necessary expertise in Trinidad. Certain
items of administrative equipment totaling US$0.15 million will be procured
locally in small quantities after receiving quotations from at least three
suppliers. Since Caroni is exempt from import duty on equipment and material
i.nported for sugar production, preferences under the Caribbean Free Trade
Association will not be applicable. Estimated annual disbursements of the
loan are given in Annex III of this report.



- 16 -
Justification
47.       By assisting Caroni Limited, the project will contribute significantly
to the rehabilitation of the Trinidad sugar industry.   Improvements in field
and factory equipment, accompanied by an increase in efficiency at all levels,
would help to restore Trinidad's competitive position in world markets. Foreign
exchange earnings from sugar products of at least $25 million would be maintained,
and the project would continue to provide employment for about 11,500 sugar
workers and safeguard the livelihood of 8,500 independent cane farmers.
48.       The economic rate of return must be measured in terms of alternatives
available -- in this case the gradual phasing out of the industry.   when or
how this would occur is difficult to estimate given the existing social anci
political climate. If investment is not made in the very near future, the
entire sugar industry will gradually deteriorate over a 10-year period to a
point of final collapse. The difference between benefits with and without the
project is deemed to be incremental benefits. The economic rate of return
calculated on this basis, excluding price contingencies, is estimated to be
26 percent. This is a conservative estimate: it is unlikely the industry would
survive as long as ten years without any investment being macie. If, however,
price contingencies are included in incremental costs, the rate of return drops
to 20 percent. Sugar prices used for rate of return calculations average USi 7.1/lb
which by present forecasts is considered to be conservative. The rate of return
inclusive of contingencies was therefore tested for sensitivity to sugar price
increases of 10 percent and 20 percent. Such increases would improve the return
to 27 percent and 34 percent respectively. These figures indicate there is
substantial economic justification for the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
49.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Caroni Limited, the
draft Guarantee Agreement between Trinidad and Tobago and the Bank, the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement, and the text of a resolution approving the proposed
loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. The drart
agreements conform to the normal pattern for loans for such agro-industrial
projects.
50.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
51.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Atta chmnents                             by J. Burke Knapp
March 27 , 1 973



1'1ie I o,f 2
C'.O7.RTR  lATA - ITO [U' 1)2 A!1.) TOUAOO
Al',;                      P3PUTATT03                               TADr?t F" 7S T313Y
5w i?.        3.030,0 )02  (mid-1971()                   367 u0)) (mi;1-1?71)                   33,1 -1 ,m
R.-te of Growt,h:  2,3 (from 1.960 to 391i) 1F:phv;e1 723rQe 3                    610 pc 23'o2 s:6bi1  1 el
Uncmplor(yrne0. Re t.e 12.,c,
PPUIA. .^tT.T3'i CIU i7C 6 EThfTST1CO r,,1707                                            lf{.AT.TIl _l?-
Cnwlde i3L3V' r '. pnn1f36                        21i.3                                   Populat.½:: por phynsici;.n         2,722. 
C-nn3e DL-;,x',!i  (   I .023                      6. 8                                   Popil]atioTn pnr hpital bed           192.0
Infant N'_-r-.ti Iy3 (per 3.,10  -11v c tir'Jis)  39. 8 1/
- T.  . -            qllintile            14.0                                     ri ,                                  31 I
hif,lC,31. qll r:tAle      l,8.0                                   % owned i: ea Iolt. 11J'.33 0:'3c;3ll     * 1
.4CCRS.3 10 lpT333fl 3'if"l 1292C 3/                                                     A00036$'3 .i rit !!(''my TCY10'!'
-Ti~iTTf  ,l  -                   98.0                                                                          66.0
rurnl                           92.0
lIlT!ItIf 101i3 2t4-                                                                     ED7C3TJAi:3t7
(>.lor-j^ in *. :.;] - A ol req,iiremnonts        97.9 A9lu ii 3' n                                       -t ' n                 9
P'er can-ita or-otein in,.&k-  (gr: s)            82.5                                   Priraor  t3    rl.  nllt                 , 27
'Secondi. v schol enrcl] h t: '         2B 0
GNP PE3 C,APTT,', i 3 1 ?71  925 tUS$
P00 ls:2.2 17 ' A' n,0o-YrC; TDi I'73                                                     A122r7AI  lT.T  0t GHLRtFH (gz c:* ..  1   )
US $ 2]"          r                      ]96>5               1  5- t°            2 '
G'°P a,f:    trice                                 8             103.0                       . 7
-:mrx z         l- Di:.-en'. t?>n:                                38.9                      2.3 3,                               .3,
G-,:is      , 2  -.i                               2 Xa_ - 3      13.;                     '                                      .1
Ce:--rn--::, A.cnllr-. Bil l:]-e                  -13 *3         .I3. 3                    -2.2               -,2
tYPOr.5-, oCGd,,: t.7   G_ .310                                   7122.         11.7                           3.9                7.7
Tmiporte of 500ad3, ' 3  7.'                       716.1          5 O.                     9.2                 3.5               lo.l
021ri""r, 12- [373[ FORC- A!D
i"PCOUCTT''T't. T'' 17',1
Value Ad led                   lIj .or Force                   V. A. P.e- i½r?'-n'
U'; $ [LKm.     _                    n.        5
Al pir iil t3:re                                   iD3.            7.2             .075         P2o.)                 b. 3-. l
I!ndnI;I;r,r                                       ! 277.2       l,7.8             .3           '                   3, 221.2     13 .O
Serv.ice.                                          399.7         L£.0              .150         110.0               t,r6:.7      ) l7  O
unallo^n.t, .I                                                                      O . . 0 0 8/  _  .' 8/
Tota I/Avn riage                             8d8.           1.00.0            '- 3 -      10 :,C               2,42L '.    10.
GOV'FIC?3¶931'F:  P3111.CC?c)
C,ritral Go.-crnnt,-
T. 7-: dollBri       ,-,. o?r ?'
1971           2 971   193, -7(
C'urrent l      Sceipta                          31i5.8           18.1      16.2
Curr ernt  :-iJiture                             3L9.8            18.3      1l6.9
Curren'. S :i.':t.s                               -4.o            -0.2       1.3
Canijal. EI.l:3'u.wtres                         108.6             5.7       4.2
&E-ternal Aesa.otance (n,et)                      28.2             1.5       0. ;
See footnolen. at end of table.
not available
not applicable



Pan  e  2  a F 2
00010W!.[ InTO - ThYT P! P Am,l   33 IAC}G
t'^>~-~f, (,' -'7   d plif C4            ]96,5      1960?      3S70       1971,      J131"  1 97"   20~'  Ju!iL l ]72 lCJ/
7,_ZiL1iorn TT *Ioip19rsO cyI.Si-anCULri C-:, prid
T'oney a:1c', Q,I<s ,9 c novi             261.9     1401;. 5   i:77-      593.Go       531 .0          57. -
B kCr, ... ii.o ?Pthl c' Sic,crIc I .   .... 31] 3.2  1 3.    b t7. 3   li9.   L     1C3.3 - 
i: -7k Cre, ii to ~rrvafe St:13,8                   26fD. 1    32E6.),   _35q. 8       3-11 -a 8s 
(Pere,!Lnd rc, t or, ITdcx. 1-,:~rrbcrs)
_  _ _                         ___- J  ._._<e.  72  3r:  (1(,J,-'  =  1l}, 1?J  102.6  I^1 219 -2  .
________                       ___e _i---.  - 19^/  1.7  25 03.5             3.             ;3.i
C-;j.; a-r (9rss±                         -17.9      -1,6.t    IJC.O       9 77.0       1 .3           ,7.;
o    rl    o       St: nd rc-l. to  ..tB Sctor 13 27.28  36.3  267.3        9.9         12.9 
Rook! Cr oCi to Private Se,o ,3 21. 2.,                                     5.           1 
fl-I)7                              209        6.        -ct        3.
19>',   197rs                            ^~~~~      ~   ~ 97  LT Us t   . .
(.f Jillioos  U f J .   C
Eq,.: tbr- Lod    (lt  '1:-0j 1290.5      202.6     7          126.1 2i .8 1trol       1 / e'- ?: I 
&'^r>~ c: C '(;fo.i, i  -    " -5i1. 5  - 6;k.5 -71f,.-1         i      'ood t - oe;r    a      ,:37.f  215 .1i
Reso:;r. e       C                         (r .i c i: - 2]  1.7 -11.5  2.7 I  A 1 o rht r  3.  5    1.3 -
To' al            Sr j. l c-  ' -O
T r . (ne1 '6 *             -75.6     -39 72
''-. Tlayif--s         ~~~   ~  ~~~~~~~~12.:5  -1.9 -12         ,,-ii..c r1        -
c;prrtr o CUed" "301          690-ll <O.5  58.1      tt -;.0               -ole                1
L''c              :'-'1.5             .   -66.5     716 1               Pood 0.....     .. PoS  , 37:, 6  13O 1. 59.6  71.0  3L7
:: .-oe--''- (6: IC. -   . 3 '  -2.0      -11.5      8 1       2       . F UtSAll;! -rVerirar 0 LIl .(  1
t    o l l               1   1t
- e. or- v---. .-  3.s  -60 7  *      .....    ............ 6 - 1 T O;v<-75Oi ; .6. ; uXi, S1J 2 '  ai G
;:-i:,            -.i i; - - i wO .........................,   3.C
12.5     -~~~1.9c   1 .2QI/. C)1                   U'   e
- 2. .1       i Cor rc71 -            1
-. 0.
-act>.< -;  fSCOC'S (-)        0.1          7.2      -24.1            I:i2]tS;lFAtSAra1 SII; O VrRnTa8::IS   .,7.
(enc --            61.5         56.7       eri.iO 00181.0
Tote Cttc'cr    -  ha,
C  *    *.    7 0 1                                                                                    Ct      3£..
TT S 1,,,, -l0.5' 15 U                                                  0-itstoLnd-wng; :inbursed     3U2
-  l,,  linciiSbrn-sd         '21.3
F-  1A-- -: '                                5 137 7-                   0utStarrdang i;;1 t-"-iishu-cI  52 S
1^. .> . 5i; -  ,; u'     US$3 _.330-I; \ I5, 1971 2
TV*  I  - ob U,.S  0 ;  51
es 1' 1:>; Cas.-us data. TPn 3S of or ner covers farmro wiftI! 57;' acres endc or"er      3/ SeP'v-ed 0cv 1-UrS
COTS '-I 0 :. ;S::  I . era .66 ,              L/ Url-a.n and rc-a11.  5/ LiC eracr ratre r-'rosa'  e erS to tw 3abor
fc ':aest s-rt !lrken Dreirr, all car gr orth rates ere based rno current roie:.  7/ Tnc1-r" cr  n/I.
6' 1ie-:er 0:.:? . 2rTc,ve  ° / Central ?rnr-::e'.  ennroxriratos closely to general rorerrn-en; i-  l30. pn/-sa' ron-n
d..-;-.           )n., git-i i ;>:-e^: :-->:. (net).  r' .vol  a irrdex.  9/ Net of Crude oil 5p-urtJ. 9/ To  -rc
., . .,.. i-; -. : I;1och  z-' rayon fznto. - /  Net priv..te capita' 1. 2  Refers tD  i;lic debt incl.udi:gc g,:.rntad.
co-c -:0- i. :nd re t o; t'hc publici sec tor.  A/ iaortiration arei inLeresit rsyrs nraants  a Js  '
N ' :\ F:r.~ t.-. JiC Q oil -norts.  L -7c/ltldind all.oceUio:i of S3DRs.  20/ Sioce Juby 'I72, the TTi, i.as c-Ien
.  3 >;. d .o ' I,> .:,ith S-erling.
no'. available
not alpplricale



ANNEX U
Page 1 of2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at January 31, 1973)
US$ million
Amount (less cancella-
Loan                                                                 tions)
Number   Year                 Borrower                Purpose    Bank     Undisbursed
Two Loans fully disbursed                                        23.4         -
h86     1967    Government of Trinidad and Tobago     Agricul-
ture         5.0        0.2
b97     1967    Government of Trinidad and Tobago     Highway      8.6        2.1
564     1969    Government of Trinidad and Tobago     Education   9.4        4.7
743     1971    Government of Trinidad and Tobago     Family
Planning     3.0        3.0
81 9    7972    Trinidad and Tobago Development
Finance Company (guaranteed by
Government of Trinidad and Tobago)    DFC         2.0         2.0
862     1 973   Government of Trinidad and Tobago     Education   9.3        9.3
Total                                             60.7       21.3
Of which has been repaid to Bank                8.2
Total now outstanding                            52.5
Amount sold                   17.0
Of which has been repaid     5.1               71.9
Total now held by Bank                           40.6
Total undisbursed                                            21 .3



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
1/
B.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-
$8.6 Million Loan of June 12, 1967, for Highways (LDi 97-TR)
Project execution was delayed due largely to the poor performance of the
initial consultants who were replaced late in 1969, but also because of delays
by the Ministry of Works with regard to the prequalification of contractors and
the awarding and signing of contracts. Construction works are not expected to be
completed before the end of 1973, and the feasibility studies on the road exten-
sions possibly even later; as a result, the closing date of June 30, 1973 will
have to be postponed a second time. Total project costs are estimated at $19.0
million, of which the foreign exchange componernt will be about $10.0 million,
resulting in a cost overrun totaling $2.0 million.  The Government intends meeting
the cost overruns. Since benefit increases have been approximately parallel to
cost increases, the economic rate of return of the project has not been seriously
affected.
$9.4 Million Loan of October 16, 19,68, for Ed,cation (Ln 56li-TR)
There was an initial delay of about seven months duae to difficulties in the
selection of architectural consultants, and furtiier delays in construction resulting
from labor problems and adverse weather.  Project implemenzation is now progressing
satisfactorily, and completion of construction is e:ipected by the closing date of
December 31, 1973. Project cost overruns are estimated at about $425,000, or two
percent of the total; these cost overrwus will be met by the Government.
$9.3 Million Loan of October 25, 19722 for 'Education (Ln 862-TR)
The Loan Agreement became effective on February 15, 1973.
$3.0 Million Loan of May 28, 1971, for Population Project (Ln 7-3-TR
The loan was declared effective on January 31 , I '72, after contractural
arrangements were completed with the architectural hospital consultants, and an
architeet to head the population section of the project implementation unit was
appointed.  Progress on the non-physical aspects of t'e project fell behind schedule
because of difficulties in recruiting suitably qualffied p0rsonnel.   However, some
progress has recently been achieved.   The evaluatioci advisor has arrived in thle
field, and every effort is being made to ensure that the principal advisor (manage-
ment) and other needed advisors,to be provided by PAHO, are recruited shortly.
$2.0 Million Loan of May 15, 1.973, for a Development Finance Company (Ln 819-TR)
The loan was declared effective on July 3, 1972.  lthough requests for
reimbursement on subloans are expected shortly, none have been so far received.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the progress
of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems which are being
encourntered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They should be read in this
sense, and with the understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced
evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO - CARONI SUGAR PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Caroni Limited
Guarantor:             Trinidad and Tobago
Amounts                US$12.0 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:                 Payable in 15 years including a 5-year period of grace at
74 percent interest per annum.
Project Description:   The project consists of reestablishing over a period of five
years the sugar estate Caroni Limited on a viable basi3,
by means of reequiping its factories, transport fleet, and
harvesting and field equipment; in addition, funds would be
provided fcr completing land preparation prior to the
introduction of mechanical cane harvesting on those cane lands
that lend themselves to full mechanization, and for
undertaking three technical studies designed to improve
operational and administrative efficiency.     The project would
reduce costs and improve efficiency, thus assuring a
satisfactory return to the country's sugar industry, and to
the largest employer of labor apart from the Government itself.
Estimated Cost:        Total project costs for the five-year period 1972/73 through
1976/77, estimated at US$21 .9 million, of which the foreign
exchange component is US$18.7 million (85 percent), are
summarized below:
Foreign
Local        Foreign         Total      Exchange
___~~~~S 00-______                      yan
- -------US$loooG          .-----
Factory Equipment                      706           6,352           7,058         90
Cultivation, Harvesting,
Haulage,and Transport Equipment      806           7,248           8,o054       90
Land Fbrmation                         369             246             61 5        l40
Administrative Equipment                62              92             i54         90
Research, Training and
Technical Studies                    687           1,26o           12,97        60
Total (Before Contingencies)         2,629          15,199          17,828
Contingencies:
Physical (5% flat pa)                  131             760             891
Sub- total                2,76           159             18719
Price (6% compound pa)                 476           2,734           3,210
Total                     3,236          1 8693          21,929         85



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Financing Plan:       The Bank loan of US$1 2.0 million equivalent would finance
about 64 percent of the foreign exchange component during
the initial development period, the balance being provided
by Caroni Limited from self-generated funds.
Estimated                                       US$ million
Disbursements:                FY 1973       FY 1974     FY 1975     FY 1976
1.57           4.3          3           2.4
Procurement
Arrangements:         Factory machinery and field equipment would, subject to
standardization requirements, be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines for Procurement. However, since
rehabilitation has already started, and equipment totaling
U.S.$1.5 million is in the process of being procured in
accordance with Bank practices, it is proposed that these
items be financed retroactively out of the proposed loan.
Items included under land formation totaling u.S.$o.6
million would be undertaker. by Caroni Limited itself;
administrative equipment totaling U.S.$0.15 million,
including laboratory, medical, and training equipment,
would be procured locally in small quantities after
receiving quotations from at least three suppliers.
Consultants:          Funds would be provided under the project to finance
management advisory services and three technical studies,
to be carried out by consultants. Advisors would be
appointed to visit Caroni Limited at regular intervals
to provide its management with technical, financial,
and administrative advice; their purpose would be to
keep management up to date, and to report to the Board
of Directors at half-yearly intervals. The three
studies, to be carried out by consultants, would be:
(i) a hydrological/irrigation survey of North Caroni;
(ii) a study of all aspects of Caroni operations, including
field and factory operations, cost control, and management
procedures; and (iii) a study of the possibilities and
implications of subdividing the hillV company-owned lands
in the South for occupation by small-scale cane farmers.
Rate of Return:       The annual financial return on total capital employed is
estimated to be 5.3 percent in 1972/73 rising to 8.3
percent in 1979/80. The financial rate of return on
incremental investments is 17 percent. In addition,
continued employment would be provided for about 11,500
sugar workers, and the livelihoods of 8,500 independent
cane farmers would be safeguarded.
Appraisal Report:     Report No. 48a-TR, dated March 26, 1973



IBRD 10051
I , BAAMA 15LANDS                                                                                                                                       OCTOBER 1972
)MI       PUERTO RI'1                                                                                                                                   ;  7 I30'-
JAMAICA    .     g .  , S   7   810nchISLANDS
Se TsA  TC4O HE DRAGOV'S MOUTHS  Mnn-rpn pBluR Bosn
v  . t    R3NIDAC7 EMDA             Huevos Ids .\                   -   ;                                           )2                          <
COLOMBIA  -  V     UE                  Aj                                           0\'M                                                           6y
OVA' ,nAnn,nnnn,  oQ t:sp ,o I' V.        Island     Goe ° r     IFlnn d      -           ; | SI.Joseph t   o   l     1
l$ldBblisnd ibotAlbrex ~~~~~~~~~G-ade                    OF 7SP-N ;IC vn|
TRINIDAD & TOBAGO                                                                         Pr\
CARONI SUGAR           PROJECT                                                                                R.fon1
|1 : I AREAS OF LANDS, OWNED & CULTIVATED BY CARONI LTD.                                                                   cm.
AREAS OF LANDS, OWNED BY CARONI LTD, AND RENTED TO FARMERS  Gulf                       7Jn
AREAS OF LANDS, OWNED BY PRIVATE SUGAR CANE FARMERS
0    SUGAR FACTORIES
MAIN ROADS
SECONDARY ROAS D                             r '                   t            ,)
RAILBOADS USED FOR SUGAR CANE TRANSPORiT                                  B-hm
*    AIRPORTS                                                        Pt Li-      C  ,St             Tb.q, 
'SWAMPS
|RIVER,                                                           G.Slo [.                        Bs    -                       B              GNBv
SPN FRNANDO.- -
1 o Z ., . W sS>Sn s 41                                                                                         *                                    x*Z 
,fnt/g ~~~~Fyz.bodd 
C.d                                                     Isl P.,oin,t _



