Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4609 KZ
Loan Agreement
(Syr Darya Control and Northern Aral Sea Phase I Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 22, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4609 KZ
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 22, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through October 6, 1999, (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"BCG" means the Basin Consultative Group to be established by the 
Page  2
Borrower in accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(b)
"CWR" means Committee for Water Resources under the Ministry of Natural 
Resources and Environmental Protection of the Borrower which will carry out the 
Project;
(c)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table 
in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(d)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and works 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(e)
"EMP" means the Environmental Management Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, 
prepared and adopted by the Borrower on February 14, 2001, describing the 
environmental mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures under the Project 
referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(f)
"ICC" means the Inter-ministerial Coordination Committee to be maintained 
by the Borrower in accordance with paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(g)
"IPOE" means the Independent Panel of Experts on Chardara Dam to be 
maintained by the Borrower in accordance with paragraph 7 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;
(h)
"MEMR" means Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources of the Borrower or 
any successor thereto;
(i)
"MET" means Ministry of Economy and Trade of the Borrower or any 
successor thereto;
(j)
"MNREP" means the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental 
Protection of the Borrower or any successor thereto;
(k)
"MOF" means Ministry of Finance of the Borrower or any successor thereto;
(l)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(m)
"PMU" means Project Management Unit within CWR which will have overall 
responsibility for Project preparation, implementation and coordination;
(n)
"PSC" means the Project Steering Committee to be established by the 
Borrower in accordance with paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(o)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the Project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf 
of the Bank on February 1, 2000, and on behalf of the Borrower on February 3, 2000; 
and
(p)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to the CWR.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
sixty-four million five hundred thousand Dollars ($64,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan and in respect of interest and other charges on the Loan and in respect of fee 
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
Page  3
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 2007, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in the amount of one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of the said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Page  4
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through CWR, all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, environmental and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project 
and, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the 
Loan Agreement.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project through CWR in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system, including records and accounts and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
Page  5
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than July 1, 2002, 
or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management 
reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have appointed the auditors 
referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister or Deputy Minister of Finance of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
33 Pobedy Avenue 
473000 Astana
Republic of Kazakhstan
Telex:
264126 (FILIN)
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Page  6
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Astana, Republic of Kazakhstan, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
By /s/ Oraz Jandosov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Johannes F. Linn
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
.
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
 (Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
57,955,000
84%
(2)
Goods
   100,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
84% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3)
Refunding of 
 1,800,000
Amounts due Pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
of this Agreement
(4)
Fee
   645,000
Amount due Pursuant
to Section 2.04 of
this Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
 4,000,000
TOTAL
64,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any 
Page  7
country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods, under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (b) works, under contracts costing less than 
$200,000 equivalent each, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit 
account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the said Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Page  8
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $750,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of US$10,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of a Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the said 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the said 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the said Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the said Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into the said Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the said 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the said 
Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the said Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the 
Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
said Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the said Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Page  9
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into a Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into a Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into a Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the said Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to secure the existence of the Northern 
Aral Sea (NAS) and improve the carrying capacity of Syr Darya river to improve the 
ecological and environmental conditions and biodiversity in the delta and around NAS 
which will lead to improved human and animal health; and (ii) sustain and increase 
agriculture (including livestock) and fish production in the Syr Darya basin.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Rehabilitation of Northern Aral Sea 
Construction of a dike across a channel connecting NAS and Larger Southern Aral 
Sea (LAS) and spillway.
Part B:
Improving the Hydraulic Control of the Syr Darya
Rehabilitation and construction of hydraulic structures including: (i) 
reconstruction of Aklak weir (and related works); (ii) reconstruction of the Aitek and 
Karaozek water control structures and related works; (iii) repairs of Kazalinsk 
headworks and Kzylorda barrage; and (iv) rehabilitation and construction of low height 
dikes along the river and river channel straitening.
Part C:
Rehabilitation of Chardarah Dam
Rehabilitation of Chardara Dam works including the rehabilitation of the Kzylkum 
irrigation outlet, the drainage system, spillway gates, and repairs of spillway 
outlets, chutes, stilling basins and related works, and installation of dam 
instrumentation.
Part D:
Aquatic Resources Restoration and Fisheries Development
(i)
The preparation and implementation of a fisheries development plan; and (ii) 
rehabilitation of existing hatchery facilities at Kamyshbash and at Tastek.
Part E:
Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring and evaluation of project implementation progress, its impact, and 
implementation of the environmental management plan through the provision of services, 
training and acquisition of vehicles and equipment. 
Part F:
Project Management and Institutional Development
Page  10
(i)
Support the operation of PMU, including overall Project management, procurement, 
accounting, auditing, and supervision of construction, and monitoring, evaluation and 
implementation of environmental management plan; and (ii) strengthening the capacity 
of CWR in Project management through the provision of technical assistance and 
training. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
February 15, 2007
1,355,000
August 15, 2007
1,395,000
February 15, 2008
1,440,000
August 15, 2008
1,480,000
February 15, 2009
1,525,000
August 15, 2009
1,570,000
February 15, 2010
1,620,000
August 15, 2010
1,665,000
February 15, 2011
1,715,000
August 15, 2011
1,770,000
February 15, 2012
1,820,000
August 15, 2012
1,875,000
February 15, 2013
1,935,000
August 15, 2013
1,990,000
February 15, 2014
2,050,000
August 15, 2014
2,110,000
February 15, 2015
2,175,000
August 15, 2015
2,240,000
February 15, 2016
2,310,000
August 15, 2016
2,375,000
February 15, 2017
2,450,000
August 15, 2017
2,520,000
February 15, 2018
2,600,000
August 15, 2018
2,675,000
February 15, 2019
2,755,000
August 15, 2019
2,840,000
February 15, 2020
2,925,000
August 15, 2020
3,010,000
February 15, 2021
3,100,000
August 15, 2021
3,210,000
____________________________
* 
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Sections 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Page  11
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for works estimated to cost more than $10,000,000 shall be prequalified 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $12,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for works under Part C.1 of this Section 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contracts for goods and works to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part C above the following procedures 
shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract 
Page  12
under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank 
a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about January 31 of each year, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; 
(c)
review with the Bank, by March 31 of each year or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter;
(d)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about January 31 and July 31 of each year, a semi-annual report on 
the Project implementation; 
(e)
(i) prepare, not later than July 31, 2004, jointly with the Bank, a 
midterm review report of the progress made in carrying out the Project. The midterm 
review report shall include the progress made in meeting the objectives of the 
Project; and (ii) carry out, not later than one (1) month after the completion of the 
midterm review, the recommendations of the midterm review as agreed with the Bank and 
set out in an action plan for the Project satisfactory to the Bank; and
(f)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank Progress Reports to be submitted not later than January 31, April 30, July 31 
and October 31 of each year for the preceding three (3) months in an appropriate 
format to ICC, PSC, and the Bank. The quarterly report would cover the progress and 
expected completion date for civil works, equipment and good contracts, progress on 
institutional components, training and studies, and activities of the PMU; monitoring 
and evaluation of the EMP implementation and Project impact, procurement and financial 
consultants. 
2.
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable 
to the Bank and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project, and afford the Bank a reasonable 
opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on said plan.
3.
The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project maintain PMU for Project 
management, implementation and coordination of the Project related activities with 
staff whose qualification and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the Bank. 
4.
The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, maintain ICC established by 
Page  13
the Borrower for the purposes of coordinating the Project activities. 
5.
The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 2001, establish PSC. The PSC’s 
main task shall be: (i) to keep the local population informed of Project activities 
and progress, including but not limited to Project studies, design, implementation; 
monitoring and evaluation results, activities and programs proposed or undertaken by 
donors; funding of these activities etc.; and (ii) to ensure that the Project achieves 
its environmental and social development outcomes.
6.
The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 2002, establish BCG consisting of 
major Project stakeholders under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. The BCG’s 
main task shall be to ensure effective public participation in the water allocation 
and management process in the Kazakh part of the basin. 
7.
For overseeing of implementation of dam safety measures at Chardara dam IPOE 
with composition and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank consisting of national 
and international experts shall be maintained which shall have as its main task to 
review the design and oversee the implementation of mitigating measures.
8.
The Borrower shall ensure by all necessary measures the implementation of the 
Project’s EMP prepared as part of the environmental assessment studies.  Towards that 
end the Borrower shall ensure that: (i) recommended mitigation measures are 
incorporated in the design of Project works; (ii) such measures are implemented during 
the construction period and subsequent operation of the Project facilities; (iii) PMU 
is staffed with appropriate expertise to oversee the implementation of the EMP 
consisting of at least two (2) ecologists, and one (1) hydrologist whose 
qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and (iv) independent 
consultants whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the Bank are 
recruited and maintained during the Project period for monitoring the implementation 
of the EMP.
9.
The Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 2002, recruit and thereafter 
maintain consultants whose qualification and experience shall be satisfactory to the 
Bank, who will be responsible for monitoring of the EMP implementation and monitoring 
and evaluation of the Project’s impact.
10.
The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 2001, recruit and thereafter 
maintain consultants whose qualification and experience shall be satisfactory to the 
Bank, who will be responsible for design and construction supervision.
