Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20467-TUN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$99 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR THE
FIRST PHASE OF THE
EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM (EQIP)
May 30, 2000
Human Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 20, 2000)
Currency Unit    =          Tunisian Dinar (TND)
TND 1.00               US$ 0.76
US$ 1.00    =         TND  1.32
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL         Adaptable Program Lending                    MIS         management information system
BCT         Banque centrale de Tunisie (Central Bank     MNA         Middle East and North Africa
of Tunisia)
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy                  MoE         Ministry of Education
CdB         comp6tences de base (core competencies)      NCB         national competitive bidding
CGF         contr6leur general des finances (Controller  NER         net enrollment rate
General of Finance)
CNEERE   centre national de l'evaluation educative et    NGO         non-govemmental organization
de la recberche en education
CREFOC    centre regional de formation continue (in-     NS          national shopping
service teacher training center)
DFC         direction de la formation continue           PAES        Projet d'appui a lenseignement secondaire (Secondary
(Directorate of Teacher Training)                        Education Support Project)
DFEEB       dipl6me de fin d'6tudes d'enseignement de    PAQSET    Programme d'amelioration de la qualite du systeme
base (basic school leaving certificate)                  educatiftunisien (Education Quality Improvement
Program)
DGSC        direction g6n6rale des services communs      PHRD        Policy and Human Resource Development Fund
(Directorate General of Support Services)                (Japanese Gouvemment Trust Fund)
DRE         direction regionale de l'education (MoE      PIU         project implementation unit
Regional Office)
EA          Environmental Assessment                     PMR         project management report
EB          enseignement de base (basic education)       QCBS        quality- and cost-based selection
[Grades 1-9]
ECD         early child development                      SA          special account
EdM         ecole de metier (trade school)               SBD         standard bidding document
EMP         Environmental Management Plan                SIADE       systeme informatise d aide A Ia dette exterieure
(Information System for Foreign Debt)
EQT         ecole de qualification technique (technical  SIL         Sector Investment Loan
school)
FY         fiscal year                                   SOE         statement of expenditures
GER         gross enrollment rate                        SY          school year
GRT         Government of the Republic of Tunisia        TIMSS-R    Third Intemational Mathematics and Science Study
Repeat
ICB         intemational competitive bidding             TND         Tunisian dinar
ICT         information and communication technology     TOR         terms of reference
INBMI       Institut national de bureautique et de micro-  UNESCO    United National Educational, Scientific and Cultural
informatique (National Institute of                      Organization
Computer Science)
INSE        Institut national des sciences de leducation  UNICEF    United Nations Children's Fund
(National Institute of Educational
Research)
LACI        Loan Administration Change Initiative        VET         vocational education and training
LTPS        long-term perspectives study                 ZEP         zone d'education prioritaire (priority education zone)
TUNISIAN SCHOOL SYSTEM
Lower Basic        Grades 1-6 (ler cycle de 1'enseignement de base, ecole primaire)
Upper Basic        Grades 7-9 (2eme cycle de l1enseignement de base; ecole preparatoire or college)
Secondary          Grades 10-13 (enseignementsecondaire; lycee)
Vice President:    Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:    Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager/Director:    Marlaine Lockheed/Jacques Baudouy
Task Team Leader:    Benoit Millot



TUNISIA
EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM (EQIP)
CONTENTS
Page
A. PROGRAM PURPOSE AND PROJECT DEVELOPEMENT OBJECTIVE ............................2
1. Program  purpose and program  phasing ............................................................2
2. Project development objective ............................................................2
3. Key performance indicators ............................................................3
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT ........................3
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ........................3
2. Main  Sector issues and Government Strategy ............................................................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ................................................7
4. Program  description  and performance triggers for subsequent loans ............................................8
C. PROGRAM AND PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
1. Project components ............................................................9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms suppored by the project ..................................................... 10
3. Benefits and target population ...........................................................                                                    11
4. Institutional and implementation  arrangements ...........................................................                                    12
D. PROJECT RATIONALE
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ........................................................... 14
2. Maj or related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ....................... 16
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ...........................................................                                17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ...........................................................                                   17
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ...........................................................                                       17
E. SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS
1. Economic ...........................................................                                                                          18
2. Financial ...........................................................                                                                         21
3. Technical ...........................................................                                                                         21
4. Institutional ...........................................................                                                                     21
5. Environmental ...........................................................                                                                     23
6. Social ...........................................................                                                                            24
7. Safeguard policies .............                                                                                                              25



F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS
1. Sustainability ..................................                                           25
2. Criticalrisks ..................................                                            26
3. Possible controversial aspects ..................................                           27
G. MAIN CONDITIONS ..................................                                              27
1. Effectiveness condition ..................................                                  27
2. Other ...................................27 2
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION ..................................                                 28
I.  COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES ..................................                               29
Annexes
Annex 1:  Project Design Summnary
Annex 2:  Project Description
Annex 3:  Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4:  Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5:  Financial Summary
Annex 6:  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7:  Project Processing Schedule
Annex 8:  Documents in the Project File
Annex 9:  Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Annex 11: Govemement's Sector Policy Letter
Annex 12: Environmental Review Procedures
MAP(S)
IBRD 24726R



TUNISIA
EDUCATION QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM (EQIP)
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
MNSHID
Date: May 30, 2000                                      Team Leader: Benoit Millot
Country Manager/Director: Christian Delvoie             Sector Manager/Director: Lockheed/Baudouy
Project ID: P050945                                     Sector(s): EP - Prirnary Education, ES - Secondary
Education, EY - Other Education
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)        Theme(s): Education
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Fin ncing Data
Estimated
APL                   Indicative Financing Plan             Implementation Period (Bank    Borrower
FX l
IBRD                 Others         Total       Commitment        Closing
US$ m       %        US$ m          US$ m           Date            Date
APL 1         99.00        47.9   107.73        206.73          09/15/2000      06/30/2005        GRT
Loan/ Loan                  Gvt
Credit
APL 2         75.00        60.0    50.00        125.00          06/30/2005      06/30/2009        GRT
Loan/ Loan                  Gvt
Credit
Total        174.00               157.73        331.73
Project Financing Data Loan
For Loans/Credits/Others: Amount (US$m): 99.0 (including front-end fee)
Proposed Terms: Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                                                Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.85% per annum from the date on which
such charges commence but not including the fourth anniversary
of such date; and 0.75% per annum thereafter.
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:
Source                                                       Local           Foreign     I      Total
GOVERNMENT                                                   107.73             0.00           107.73
IBRD                                                           2.86            96.14            99.00
Total:                                                       110.59            96.14           .206.73
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE)
Address: Ministere de l'Education, Tunis, Tunisia
Contact Person: Mr. Abdelkader ZGOULLI           Tel: 216 1 569 294     Fax: 216 1 569 307
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/USM):
FY                2001              2002            2003            2004               2005
Annual        4.0              15.0              32.0           32.0             16.0
Cumulative        4.0              19.0              51.0          83.0              99.0
Project implementation period: January 2001 to December 2004
Expected effectiveness date: 01/01/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005
OCS APL PAD Form: Rev. March, 2000



2
A. PROGRAM PURPOSE AND PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE
1. Program purpose and program phasing
The Government of the Republic of Tunisia [GRT] is embarking upon a comprehensive approach
to education reform, clearly necessary to underpin other efforts to raise the rate of economic
growth and prepare Tunisia for greater participation in the global economy. The purpose of the
Education Quality Improvement Program (PAQSET in French) is to support the GRT's efforts (a)
to achieve near-universal completion of basic education (Grades 1 through 9); (b) to provide a
greater number of students (from a wider range of backgrounds) with opportunities for post-basic
education; and (c) to modernize the sector in ways that improve the quality of outputs and the
efficiency with which they are produced.
Given the long-term vision which underpins changes in the sector, as well as the convergence of
the GRT's objectives with the Bank's assistance strategy, the PAQSET program will be supported
by an Adaptable Program Lending [APL] instrument. The first phase of the two-phase program
(PAQSET I) will cover a four-year period (2001-2004), and will support the implementation of
the GRT's basic education strategy, as spelled out in the Sector Policy Letter transmitted to the
Bank before negotiations (Annex 11). It will also support the development of a strategy to
manage the consequences of enrollment expansion at the post-basic levels, the development of
which will take place as part of the preparation of the Tenth Five-Year Plan (2002-2006). The
second phase, covering a period of about four years from 2005 onwards, and the launching of
which will be subject to the attainment of key milestones, would support the implementation of
this post-basic education strategy.
2. Project development objective (see Annex 1)
The present project will support the medium-term goals of the government's strategy, in
particular, the goal of having 80 percent of Grade 9 students pass the diplome de fin d'eudes
d'enseignement de base (basic school leaving certificate) [DFEEB] by 2004, by (a) promoting
excellence in teaching and learning, and (b) continuing the push for the inclusion of all children at
all levels of the basic education system.
In general, the objectives of excellence and inclusion are complementary in the long run. The
impact of increasing the human capital of the entire population can be expected to well outweigh
any effect of a decrease in the average human capital of the in-school population (see chart
below). As basic education approaches universality, it is the hardest-to-reach children that are the
last to be included. These hardest-to-reach children are also the "hardest to teach", inasmuch as
their disadvantaged backgrounds provide them with lower home-derived human capital than other
children. As a result, the more children drawn into school, the lower the in-school population's
average accumulation of human capital, but also the greater the dispersion of human capital
"scores" amongst the in-school population. More importantly, the more children drawn into
school, the higher the average accumulation of human capital of the entire school-age population
(whether in school or out of school).



3
Impact of Universal Basic Education
on Human Capital
standard deviation  in-school population's average H
"tW    +    ' 1   I ,  I    I  i1   11      I                
Cu
school-age population's average HC
E
Time
3. Key performance indicators (see Annex 1)
The indicators listed below will be used to follow progress through the four years of PAQSET I.
(These indicators may be adapted for PAQSET II, depending on the nature of this second phase
of the program.)
* continued reductions in both repetition and dropout rates;
* integration of new teaching and learning methods into the various grade levels of basic
education;
* introduction of a system of formative assessment that takes into account the competences de
base [CdB] (basic skills) program);
* implementation of a program of zones d'education prioritaires [ZEP] (priority education
zones) that aims to improve school performance in those regions;
* introduction of projets d'etablissement (school charters).
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project
(see Annex 1)
Document number: 20161-TN                 Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/27/2000
The most recent CAS proposes Bank support for the GRT in three major directions: (a)
consolidating long-term development, mainly through human resource development, natural
resources management, transport, rural development and municipal development; (b) supporting
economic reform to enhance competitiveness and increase employment, and (c) promoting new
initiatives that strengthen local institutions, launch new development niches, and mobilize
external finance. The current project will contribute directly to (a), and indirectly to (b), through
human resources development activities that inter alia improve the quality of the labor force.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
Overall context. The Tunisian education sector compares well with those of other countries at
similar levels of development, both in the region and elsewhere. Enrollments are high by
regional standards, and male and female students are practically equal in terms of access and
results.



4
Tunisia has a net enrollment ratio of 99 percent for 6-year-olds, and 92 percent for 6- to 12-year-
olds. In SY99/00, girls accounted for 47 percent of lower basic enrollments, 49 percent of upper
basic enrollments and 54 percent of secondary enrollments. National statistics on enrollment,
transition and drop-out rates show few discrepancies by gender. Major differences between male
and female enrollments take the form of subject differentiation and begin to appear only at the
secondary level: girls are over-represented in literature (73 percent), economics (58 percent), and
science (57 percent), and under-represented in mathematics (37 percent) and the technical stream
(19 percent). Male and female students have about the same chance of obtaining a passing
overall score at the end of Grade 6. A recent study that followed a cohort of students found
however that girls who failed the Grade 6 exam were slightly more inclined to dropout
voluntarily and, once out of the public school system, less likely to go onto private education
(Mete, 2000).
Over the last decade the GRT has devoted between 4.6 and 5.0 percent of GDP to basic and
secondary education. As a proportion of the total public budget, expenditure on these levels of the
education system has fluctuated from a high of 14.5 percent in FY91/92 to a low of 12.6 percent
in FY98/99.
The key issues facing the Tunisian education system are: (a) promotion rates that range from a
high of 87 percent between Grades 1 and 2, to a low of 68 percent between Grades 6 and 7, with
concomitantly high (although declining) drop-out rates (1 percent in Grade 1, and 8 percent in
Grade 6) and, more particularly, repetition rates (between 12 percent in Grade 1 and 25 percent in
Grade 6); (b) uneven quality of basic education, which contributes both to high repetition and to
the creation of a class of ill-equipped school-leavers; (c) insufficient articulation between general
education and VET, and a low insertion rate into the labor market; (d) state dominance in
education provision and financing, and (e) growing budgetary pressures (especially in the area of
recurrent costs) associated with greater numbers of students completing basic education.
Issue (a): Dropout and failure in basic education. The first major challenge for all levels of
education, and particularly for the basic level, is to ensure that all who enter each cycle complete
that cycle satisfactorily, with an acceptable level of quality and an emphasis on excellence for all.
At present, for every ten students entering Grade 1, nine successfully complete Grade 6. Of those
nine, six have repeated at least one grade-year at some point in their time spent at the lower basic
education level. Exclusion takes one of two forms at the basic education level: first, involuntary
dropout (or "push-out", where students have exhausted their entitlement to basic schooling), and
second, voluntary dropout.
According to the prevailing laws, any student who passes any regional or national exam (given at
the end of Grades 6, 9 and 13) is guaranteed a place in the subsequent grade. Examinations are
used to select as much as to certify. Thus, anyone who does not pass these exams is considered
a "failure".
Issue (b): High cost of uneven quality of basic education. The quality of education is the second
major issue facing the system, in relation not only to dropouts, but also to those who successfully
complete each cycle. Poor quality is one factor that reduces internal efficiency. The cost of
repetition through the thirteen years of schooling is estimated at 17 percent of annual public
recurrent expenditure on education.
Since independence, education has been used as a tool for consolidating Tunisia's national
identity, for promoting social mobility on a meritocratic basis, and for providing graduates suited
to employment within the State. While the system was effective at a time when only a modest



5
percentage of the population was educated, and when all graduates were assured employment in
the public sector, that is no longer the case. Maintaining this system through an era of expansion
(with more than 99 percent of 6 year olds enrolled) has been increasingly difficult, and the mass
of graduates no longer fit the new needs of an economy open to the world. Recent studies
(including the latest UNICEF study on monitoring learning achievements and the World Bank
regional education sector strategy paper comparing baccalaureat exams across the MNA region)
show a heavy emphasis on rote-learning rather than on problem-solving.
Even in the absence of detailed information, there is general agreement that the traditional
methods of teaching (including lecture-style classes, with the teacher speaking and the students
listening) are unable to prepare children for their future role as active participants in a changing
economic environment -- particularly when teachers are called on to manage the increasingly
diverse range of students that results from  universalizing basic education.  Teaching
methodologies need to be improved and teacher incentive systems need updating. Formative
evaluation and remediation remain insufficient but figure amongst the GRT's main
preoccupations. The current examinations system does not enable an effective measurement of
student achievement.
Issue (c): Vocational education and training. Outcomes in general education have clear
consequences for vocational education and training [VET], and for higher education. According
to current legislation, only those students who have successfully completed the basic education
cycles of nine years can enroll in advanced VET programs. This arrangement has reduced
opportunities for students who dropped out before Grade 9 and had viewed VET as the last resort
before abandoning education altogether.
Issue (d): State dominance of the education sector. The State's quasi-monopoly of the provision
of education results in a lack of flexibility and diversification in curricula, while its predominant
role in financing does not guarantee equitable access to higher levels of the system. However, it
is only with the pressures coming from the massification of education (and the resulting
unsustainable burden on the budget) that State dominance is now emerging as a major concern of
the GRT. At present, at the lower basic education level, the private sector enrolls fewer than 1
percent of students, mainly in elite schools and mostly in Tunis. The figure is slightly higher at
the upper basic education level (around 2 percent) and even higher at the secondary level (around
7 percent); private schools at these levels cater mainly to drop-outs from the public system
wanting to continue their studies.
Issue (e): Growing budgetary pressures. Estimates of the financial impact of achieving a basic
education completion rate of 80 percent indicate that, despite gains due to improvement in
internal efficiency, recurrent costs will continue to increase for the next eight years, beyond the
level of expected available resources. The resulting teacher surplus may be used to improve
teaching quality, particularly by lowering pupil-teacher ratios and introducing supplementary
remedial activities, especially in ZEP-based schools.
The higher education sub-sector relies mostly on public funding, with only marginal cost-
recovery, a poorly targeted scholarship system and, until recently, few incentives for the private
sector to participate. Even though the share of higher education expenditure as part of overall
education spending is slowly increasing, unit expenditures per student are declining -- an
evolution which probably reflects quality erosion more than efficiency gains.



6
Government strategy. The GRT continues to place a high priority on education, engaging in
deep and on-going consultation on the critical subject of education reform and launching a
number of initiatives aimed at addressing these maj or issues.
Strategy for issues (a) and (b): Reducing dropout and reducing repetition by raising quality. As
the next step in ensuring that all children complete basic education, presidential directives have
set 2004 as the year by which at least 80 percent of Grade 9 students will pass the DFEEB.
Actions are also planned to reduce repetition and drop-out in the intervening years, so as to
approach universal completion of basic education. Recent research in Tunisia has shown that
school quality (less crowding and better educated teachers) is related to lower dropout (Mete,
2000).
The GRT's strategy to achieve an 80 percent pass rate in the Grade 9 exam, along with reductions
in repetition and drop-out in the earlier years, consists of (a) extending the child-centered,
competency-based CdB program to all ecoles primaires over five years (2000-2004), and piloting
it in twenty ecoles preparatoires; (b) instituting three two-year sub-cycles in primary (Grades 1/2,
3/4, and 5/6), during which teachers follow their students, formative evaluation takes place only
at the end of the sub-cycle and no intra-cycle repetition occurs; (c) equipping all schools with new
technologies; (d) identifying ZEPs in areas serving poor populations; (e) reducing class size to
thirty students, beginning with schools in ZEPs; (f) developing a projet d'etablissement that
identifies the school's particular challenges in meeting national targets and sets out an action plan
to address those challenges; and (g) converting ecoles de qualification technique [EQT] into
ecoles de metiers [EdM].
In addition, the greater use of evaluation techniques at classroom-, school- and country-level, as
well as of international comparisons (such as the Third International Mathematics and Science
Study-Repeat [TIMSS-R]) will provide additional much-needed information regarding education
quality, and curricular content and coverage as well as opportunities for capacity building in
educational research.
Strategy for issue (c): Changing VET. Beginning in the current school year, EQTs are being
converted into EdMs (trade schools), providing an educational alternative to those students who
are either dropping out of general education at the lower and upper basic levels, or wanting to
undertake non-general training. At this time, it is unclear whether these EdMs will offer a real
alternative for students excluded from the general education system.
Strategy for issues (d) and (e): Diversifying sources of financing through the encouragement of
private provision. The country is planning to absorb higher education enrollments mostly in
public facilities, and mostly with public funds, while encouraging a more substantial role for both
financing and provision by private sources. In December 1999, the Tunisian Parliament passed a
new law that fills a legal vacuum and encourages private entrepreneurship in the higher education
sector. Private education could eventually develop in much the same way at both the basic and
secondary levels.
At the school level, additional costs will be largely offset by savings generated by falling
enrollment at the lower basic education level. However, as noted above, achieving higher
completion rates at basic and secondary levels will likely mean greater costs at the higher levels
of schooling. The first phase of the program will be a time for the GRT to develop its financing
policy to deal with this growth, which the second phase could be used to support.



7
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
Circumstances are ripe both for the GRT and for the Bank to enter into a long-term engagement
that would improve the internal and external efficiency of the school system: improving the
quality and relevance of the learning experience while reducing the costs associated with
repetition and drop-out. The two-year long national consultation around the theme of the «cole
de demain>> ("School of Tomorrow") has culminated in a strategic vision for the basic education
sector that will begin to address its main shortcomings.
The MNA region's education and training strategy, recently discussed with all major clients in the
region, underscores the need for further attention to quality even as access is expanded in upper
basic and secondary education. The strategy also emphasizes the critical role of strengthening
MoE and school administrative capacities even as teaching reforms are carried out. The Bank-
financed Projet d'appui a lenseignement secondaire [PAES] (Secondary Education Support
Project), due to close on December 31, 2001, started to address these issues, and the current
project addresses them even as it provides the next critical building block to the modernization of
the education sector.
To attain its development objective, the present project addresses the first two issues identified
above (dropout and quality), through interventions organized on two levels: first, there must be a
shift in how teaching and learning are organized at the level of the school, and within the
classroom; second, there are system-wide changes that must occur if structural reforms are to take
place and be sustained. A (not exclusive) emphasis of the school-level interventions on ZEPs is
warranted in light of the impact of poverty and rurality on student success (Mete 2000).
Interventions at the school-level
Pedagogy must be updated, focusing on the child as an active learner, and providing a supportive,
dynamic teaching environment. The goal is to improve student achievement, increase completion
rates at all levels, and reduce both repetition and dropout rates. Expansion of the CdB program is
a key component in reaching this goal.
With the rapid development of new technologies and web-based learning environments as
pedagogic inputs into the teaching of all subjects, the traditional view of the use of technology in
the classroom will need to be updated. This would entail not only the purchase and upkeep of
hardware and software, but more importantly the training of teachers and administrators, the
continued upgrading of their skills, the retooling of curricula to respond to new media as well as
new needs, and the integration of new technologies into classrooms, away from the separate
computer laboratories.
While focusing on improving quality, the fact that growing numbers of students are completing
each cycle means that there continues to be a need to expand both upper-basic and secondary
education facilities. Thus, increasing access remains an important priority at these level, while
maintaining existing building stock, neglected until now, will be critical, particularly at the level
of lower basic education. Existing facilities also need to be adapted to new educational purposes,
including the addition of multi-purpose rooms.
Finally, the teacher will be a key actor in the introduction of change within the classroom, and the
principal will be the one to establish the environment within which good teaching can flourish.
Recent research in Tunisia shows the importance of teacher qualifications for successful learning
(Mete, 2000). In addition, although the teacher and the principal are two of the most important



8
actors, there are others whose inputs are also important for the success of teaching and learning.
The upgrading of teaching qualitv through improvements in teacher training, as well as the
strengthening of supporting administrative functions (including those of principals, inspectors,
and teaching assistants) will be a massive undertaking, critical to the success of other
interventions in the areas of curricula, evaluation, teaching methods, ICT and school
management. A comprehensive overview of the training program is provided in the project
implementation manual.
Interventions at the system-level
There is an acute need to instill a culture of evaluation and remediation: evaluation of teachers,
of education institutions, of student achievements and learning materials, and finally of the
system as a whole. In addition, the examinations system needs to be revisited to ensure that (a)
the appropriate instruments are being used to measure achievement; (b) the certification aspect of
the exam is given greater weight than the selection function; (c) a national assessment tool (or, in
its absence, the TIMSS-R experience) will be used to establish standards-based system for
measuring progress in the system.
The system needs to support continued research at all levels of the system, from operations and
applied research at the school, to comparative efforts at the regional level, to the most
sophisticated types of research at the central level. This will require the Institut national des
sciences de l'education [INSE] (National Institute of Educational Research), teacher training
institutions, and the universities to take the lead in conducting, disseminating and evaluating the
research.
While it is now too soon to speak of decentralization of all critical decision-making to the school
level, the MoE is more open to giving greater responsibility to schools and delegating some
responsibilities to the regional levels. Thus, this project would provide the first steps in this
direction.
If the GRT reaches its target of having 80 percent of Grade 9 students passing the DFEEB by
2004, it will have to deal with a massive increase in young people seeking post-basic
opportunities, most notably in secondary schools. In order to manage these increased flows out
of basic education, the GRT will need to begin now designing the mechanism that will enable
students to choose between various academic and vocational pathways according to their
aptitudes and the needs of the Tunisian economy.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans
PAQSET I, the first phase of the program, will cover a four-year period, from January 2001 to
December 2004, supporting the implementation of the GRT's sector-wide strategy addressing
both the impact of declining enrollments at the lower basic education level and student flow
regulation issues at the quickly expanding post-basic levels. Provided that PAQSET I is
satisfactorily implemented and the agreed milestones reached, PAQSET II (covering a period of
about four years starting in January 2005) would support the implementation of this strategy.



9
The milestones that will trigger the transition from the first to the second phase of the PAQSET
program are presented below:
Milestones
1. Generalization of CdB program to Grades 3 and 4 in all schools
2. Generalization of two-grade sub-cycles in Grades 1 through 4 in all schools
3. Extension of self-assessment system, as defined within eachprojet d'etablissement (school charter) in
at least 25 percent of schools
4. Development of sector-wide strategy to manage student flows, covering (i) the impact of decreasing
student numbers at the lower basic level, and (ii) access to post-basic education whether general,
vocational or higher.
In addition to these milestones, moving to the second phase of the program will be based on the
following indicators:
Implementation Indicator                         Baseline Value     Target Value
(1998/1999)       (2002/2003)
la   Number of ZEP intervention programs                      Nil             3 annually
lb   % of &oles primaires with computer equipment (as         Nil                40
proportion of total number of schools programmed to
be equipped)
Ic   Number of colleges built and opened for the start of     Nil                29
SY03/04
Id   % of Grade 1 and 2 teachers trained in CdB               10                 60
le   % of senior administration staff trained in school   Less than 5            60
management
If   % of senior supervisory staff trained in assessment      10                 60
Impact Indicator                            Baseline Value     Target Value
___=___.                                                (1998/1999)       (2002/2003)
IIa    Grade 2 promotion rate                            86.2               95.0
Ilb     Grade 2 repetition rate                          12.9                4.0
IIc    Grade 4 promotion rate                            84.7               95.0
Ild     Grade 4 repetition rate                          12.6                4.0
IIe    Grade 6 promotion rate                            67.5               78.0
IIf    Grade 6 repetition rate                           24.8               19.0
hIg    Exam pass rate in ZEP schools                      TBD                TBD
C. PROGRAM AND PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project has two components. The first covers school-level interventions designed to support
the GRT's efforts to improve the quality of both the teaching/learning processes and the physical
surroundings in which basic education students learn, while the second covers system-wide
reforms aimed at strengthening evaluation and remediation, research and school- and regional-
level management capacities. Although the second component is allocated only a small
proportion of project financing, it is critical to the future of the education system. It is precisely



10
to emphasize the role and increase the visibility of system-wide reforms that they have been
assigned to a separate component.
Indicative     % of         Bank-          % of
Component              Sector         Costs         Total      financing      Bank-
(US$M)                    (US$M)       financing
COMPONENT 1:
1.1 Supportquality        Prinary              9.30         4.5           4.40         4.4
teaching innovations      Education
1.2 Use new information   Other               54.55        26.4          30.00        30.3
and communication         Education
technologies to enhance
learning outcomes
1.3 Extend, equip and     Other              138.60        67.0         61.95         62.6
maintain school           Education
infrastructure
1.4 Reinforce in-service  Other                3.02         1.5           1.40         1.4
training capacity         Education
COMPONENT 2:
2.1 Systematize assessment  Other              0.11         0.1           0.11         0.1
of students, teachers and  Education
institutions
2.2 Strengthen education  Higher               0.06         0.0           0.05         0.1
research capacity         Education
2.3 Improve knowledge of   Other               0.04         0.0           0.04         0.0
the management techniques   Education
and tools of the education
system
2.4 Regulate student flows   Other             0.06         0.0           0.06         0.1
Education
Total Project Costs                   205.74         99.5         98.01         99.0
Front-end fee                     0.99          0.5          0.99          1.0
Total Financing Required                    206.73        100.0         99.00        100.0
Figures in table have been rounded.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
The key policy decision that the current project is supporting relates to the presidential directive
setting 2004 as the year by which at least 80 percent of Grade 9 students will pass the end-of-year
examination. This decision has a quantitative dimension (i.e. not only increasing the number of
students eligible for post-basic education, but also having more students stay on through the nine
years of basic education) and a qualitative dimension (i.e. improving the relevance of what is
learned and enabling students to acquire this knowledge without having to repeat). The following
chart, beginning at the top left-hand corner with the key decision, shows the main steps that will
be taken to address both the quantitative and qualitative challenges that it poses (with the figures
in parentheses referring to the relevant project sub-components).



11
Measure fne reslts of   r 
/                                           fi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~he schol system  
/        Prepare ~~~new          Integrate new       againtstsated objectives,l
/eachehs-'gides aed      tedmologies into     theosg eval.aton 2.1)    R
/       , ~~~~~students retok11      eaching pmtacde (I .Z
t3stablish a set                                                        Certify students      E
QUALITY   t ofcomnonlerrnng    /                            /|    aing achi-crnent
l   objectives defined                 \   /c                              objectively,        S
:: :  Mamr ,trartry f , .: . , in termn of ooe  \ Use a nange of      Develop spot      /|through evaluation (2. 1 )
,bld. aiti .    ...........  sillsmdknowle           delivesymethoos  &      ochaoismsad                                   E
. . ,stEssfi,Gijd t,ot ?ptti . , .   depenqding on fre natur  remedial interentions,\    Make reacher
Manage a divese        ofthestasden(1.1)      forstudents at risk (1.1)  accountable forttheir  A
// |      _       ~~~~~~~set ofstudents                                                    students' results~
/i/ QUANTITY   rn a massi'ded system   r                                thmugh-e evaluion (2.1)  R
\              l       ~~~~~~~~~~~~Adapt the school  Giv greatu r lxbty                           Mk  inpasC
\    Increase schol capadty  |  eniromtnent t: the   to shools                                           f. acm thbe i b
\   ( 1.3 )   |   ine,easimgly die,         by decentaliciag                               qaaty of their school,  H
41             .     stu~~~~~~~dent populabo n ( 1.3)  re1- t t-mtions (.3)thuheaaio(21
Regulate audent flow   l                                                                                                (Z.2)
betaveen school leves                                TRAINING TEACHERS, PRINCIPALS,
based o aptitdes (2.4)                                INSPECTORS, TRAINERS, ETC (1.4)
School-level interventions
Extension of the new child-centered, competence-based approach to curricula (i.e. CdB program)
into all ecoles primaires, with the elaboration of specific curricular goals at all levels, and the
concomitant shifts in classroom behavior of teachers.
Integration of new technologies into the teaching/learning process, including the modification of
teacher training curricula, the training of principals and inspectors, the continued upgrading of
their skills, and the retooling of curricula to respond to new media and new needs.
Reinforcing the managerial and technical capacity of the MoE, through the training of teachers,
principals, inspectors, teaching assistants, and central staff.
System-wide interventions
Support for improving the systematic evaluation, both formative and summative, of institutions,
staff and students.
Support for education research that responds to the priority needs of reform in the Tunisian
education sector.
Development of an approach to decentralization and deconcentration that results in a management
system (i.e. structures and processes) delivering high quality education to an increasingly diverse
population, in an efficient manner.
Support for the development of a strategy by which the GRT will regulate the flow of students
that will result from the massive increase in future Grade 9 graduates.
3. Benefits and target population
Students enrolled in basic and secondary education, in particular those who would repeat or drop
out under current circumstances (between 50,000 and 130,000 repeaters and an average 35,000
dropouts averted each year at the basic education level);



12
Almost 100,000 teachers (including some 5,400 school principals) in basic and secondary
education, through improvements in their working environment, increased responsibility and
accountability for the outcomes, more customized testing instruments and remediation tools,
higher quality in-service training courses linked both to their needs as actors in the school, and to
their prospects for career development; and better defined functions for administrators at the
school, regional and central levels, and the appropriate training.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
4.1 Executing agencies
The project will be executed by the MoE, in collaboration with the Ministere de l'Equipement
(Ministry of Equipment) for the civil works activities. The functional relationship between these
ministries is well established both at central and regional levels. The MoE has decades of
implementation experience in Bank-financed projects. As in the ongoing project (PAES, Loan
No. 3786-TUN), the MoE will integrate project implementation into the day-to-day management
activities of existing departments, some of which will be strengthened to better cope with the
additional work program generated by the project. The relevant structures within the MoE will be
responsible for the implementation of the project activities within their mandate.
4.2 Project management
The direction generale des services communs (Directorate General of Support Services) [DGSC]
will be in charge of all procurement (i.e. civil works, equipment and services) as well as financial
management. In this capacity, the DGSC will elaborate and monitor procurement plans and
produce the management reports. The Director General of Support Services will be assigned the
role of Project Director. To improve efficiency, some divisions will be strengthened, including
the DGSC. Within each unit involved, a staff member will be assigned as a focal person for the
purposes of project monitoring.
4.3. Project Coordination
To ensure adequate coordination with the overall program of the Ministry as well as between all
departments concerned, a member of the Minister's Cabinet has been appointed as Project
Coordinator and will be working in close collaboration with the Project Director to ensure the
smooth implementation of the project and provide adequate coordination between the relevant
units.
4.4 Project Monitoring
A comite de pilotage (oversight committee), comprising the project director, the project
coordinator and all the relevant unit directors, will meet every quarter. An extended oversight
committee, broadened to include representation from the Ministere de la Cooperation
internationale et de l'Investissement exterieur (Ministry of International Cooperation and Foreign
Investment), the Ministere du Developpement economique (Ministry of Economic Development)
and the Ministere des Finances (Ministry of Finance) will meet once a year, at a time when the
budget is being prepared. In addition, the coordinator and focal persons will meet on a regular
basis to monitor project activities.



13
Minister of Education   a
OBE 
Focal Pocuemen  Focl CrnoFocinationFo
Fl   a  leno         Fla                                    l              l              I
PrwiDirectior           BEPP         DGE aI         DFC           IGE            iNMBI          INSE
Lead 2.3    Leit    13   ----------    ----------    ----------    _________         --------_    ----------
(DGSC )      (DBE)         Lead 2.4      Lead 1.1     Leiid 1.4      Lo21Lead 1.2                  Lead 2.2
Management  alrrnemstruae    Student      Leaminro      Traing                       Technology      Reseah h
F           Ieod annovation  C apactty
(GE    inpaa     dnda a resnmn           Flnanda  l    l   TiaiNEPo                     ICaT a
FccIai Penson t   natio enald abratqaatda micro-  MInisbe| Flnohctal Coperaton andFcl eBo 
KeEY TO ACRONYMS                                OVERSIGHT COMMrrTE E
BEPP        Bureat desnatudna den se sa plandiacairon et de la  PA rSrt Candinancr eCha7r)
4 AS  Fia pnciammanon                           PAaSe n    DheciArrrlnectorGmeernDGSC
took placeduring  appraiesral.Ti   sssmn   ea   otefolwn                          onlsos
POE Dct        c4fn des b capane its et de i'quiemenr  DiescorGeneraI DGEBm
DGEmentrequron                ad odnreAs                o du                Ter cyi           e de  Directr General DFC
Ian  i r ea csonment de base  inotictor DPM S
DfC        Discafon de       n      a foatagsn contmnue  Hem n             e BEPP
b GSC DteD   Chsn gdnsnbre des usnicts rw huns i Head   tre
DPMS Dwit     cton ri s procammes ed des manuels  aierd iSi
srxlaies                             edINM
u GE wlb e ste7ngth    de red bsy  a      inem en          l Hee pd INSE
iNceI s      nse d na eaffdc e a bureauttqe et de ps micro-   Mingstris theinrtranal Coopenation and
hbrmatique                          Foreignfnwestnnt, amongmid
INSE        Inspaain   nasfJual des s 2iences de   bwabion  Deve-lpme ct apd finane                               i
4.5  Financial Management Arrangements
An assessment of the financial management capacity of the MoE, and in particular the DGSC,
took place during appraisal. This assessment lead to the following conclusions:
Project management capacity in its current state meets the Barik's minimum financial
management requirements and Board presentation cfmtiotns. There is an adequate accounting
and internal control system in place and satisfactory extesal independent audit arrangements.
The project is part of the national accounting system, maintained centrally by the Ministere des
Finances for the management of the entire public debt. It allows on-line access and processing
by the DGSC's disbursement unit, which records transactions daily. A centralized internal co-ntrol
system with strict procedures and regulations is in place and being adhered to. The Disbursement
unit will be strengthened by a qualified financial management person for the new project to
increase efficiency of the unit in processing their transactions and financial controls and facilitate
preparation, as of July 31, 2001, of bi-annual project management reports; a simplified financial
report would also be submitted on a quaterly basis. This is an exception as it goes beyond the 18-
month period -for implementation of action plans under the LACI. The reporting frequency of six
months agreed with the Tunisians is also higher that the three-month reporting requirement for
PMRs as proposed under LACI. The system and periodicity of transmission of reports will be
jointly reviewed in December 2002. DGSC will strengthen its informnation base and reporting by
establishing a comprehensive management informnation system allowing the integration of all
project information (financial, procurement, and physical progress/indicators of the project).



14
The audit arrangements for this project will be the same as for the on-going PAES. The Contr6le
general des finances (CGF), within the Ministere des Finances, will be the auditor of the project
and will conduct the audit annually and submit their report to the MoE and the Ministere de la
Cooperation internationale et de l'Investissment exterieur which will submit it to the Bank within
six months of the end of each fiscal year being audited. The audit TORs will be submitted to the
Bank for clearance prior to appointing the auditors for the first year of the audit, but not later than
June 30, 2001. The report will encompass audited project financial statements, auditors' opinions
on the financial statements, the special account [SA], and the use of SOEs, a reconciliation of the
special account, a listing of SOEs for the year, and a management letter. The auditors will also
issue an opinion on the PMRs when these are generated by the new MIS and submitted to the
Bank.
The GRT has informed the Bank that it is maintaining the traditional disbursement methods:
SOEs and SA replenishments in addition to the direct payment. SOE thresholds are described in
Annex 6 (B). A SA for the project will be opened at the Banque centrale de Tunisie (Central
Bank of Tunisia) [BCT] and managed by the DGSC. Replenishments of the SA will follow Bank
procedures. The SA will be audited annually by the project auditors (i.e. CGF). Records,
reconciliation, and documentation for withdrawal will be maintained and prepared by the DGSC
Disbursement unit. The BCT will send requests to the Bank for replenishment of the SA as
needed and with the proper supporting documentation.
D. PROJECT RATIONALE
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
Lending Instrument
Sector Investment Loan [SIL]: The project was first conceived as a traditional SIL. However,
with its emphasis on qualitative inputs, and with its ambitious goals spread over almost a decade,
this project is obviously not "business as usual". After discussions both within the Bank and with
the GRT, it was deemed that an Adaptable Program Lending [APL] approach was more
appropriate, and it was decided that the Bank intervention would be framed as a program, using a
two-phase APL. This decision was taken in light of the (i) the GRT's long-tenn strategic vision
and political will to develop the education system, (ii) its clear action plan for basic education in
the medium term, (iii) the need for deeper reflection before embarking upon reforms at the post-
basic levels, (iv) the schedule associated with the development of the GRT's Tenth Five-Year
Plan, and (v) the emphasis in the latest CAS on the move from traditional projects to adaptable
programs.
Project Components
VET and higher education: On-going Bank projects in higher education and in vocational
training are already addressing the issues of improving VET quality and reducing state
dominance of higher education provision.
Early child development [ECD1: The advantages of ECD in supporting education achievement,
particularly for poor communities, are becoming increasingly obvious. Although the GRT has
begun considering the extension of ECD provision, it has been decided that inclusion of ECD in
PAQSET I is premature and would add too much complexity to the project, as this sub-sector is



15
under the responsibility of the Ministere de la Jeunesse, de l'Enfance et des Sports (Ministry of
Youth, Childhood and Sport).
Trade schools: There is no clear consensus between the Bank and the GRT over the conversion of
EQTs into trade schools, and the tracking of a certain number of general education dropouts to
these institutions. As a result, these trade schools will not be included in the PAQSET; the Bank
remains however available to discuss further this issue with the GRT.
Language of instruction: The language of instruction was another area of concern flagged in the
strategy note prepared by the Bank in 1998. While standard modern Arabic is used in the early
grades and French introduced progressively from Grade 3, most students speak vernacular Arabic
at home. However, since no clear link has yet been established between Arabic diglossia and
student achievement, it was decided not to address the issue in this project.



16
2. Major related projects fmanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned)
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                 Proj ect                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-fnanced projects only)
Bank-financed                                          Implementation      Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Improving access and quality in  Secondary Education          S                S
upper-basic and secondary education   Project PAES (Ln
3786)
Higher education reform and      Higher Education             S                S
introduction of technical institutions   Restructuring Project
(Ln 3456)
Higher education policy reforms in   Higher Education         S                S
the area of decentralization,    Reform Support Project
encouragement of private involvement (Ln 4297)
relevance and financial sustainability
Vocational Education and Training    2nd Employment and       S                S
Project, aiming at modernizing   Training Project (Ln
training services and making them  4036)
more relevant to the needs the
economy
Use of APL as lending instrument  Transport Sector            S                S
Investment Projet
[APL] (Ln 4358)
Other development agencies
UNICEF                           Competences de base I
European Union                   Adjustment operation
(FASII) with education
prominently included in
the policy matrix
Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg        Support to EdM
African Development Bank         Secondary Education
Project (including
construction of new
schools)
Agence francaise de developpement   Several interventions
mostly targeted on
teacher training and
French language
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
Exploit synergies between Bank sector analyses and GRT efforts to build consensus by
synchronizing expert visits and consultant reports, and allowing the dialogue to develop
sufficiently within GRT to ensure both ownership and sustainability (despite complications for
the Bank's calendar);
Emphasize the importance of "soft" activities (such as assessment and research) especially if they
represent a smaller part than civil works and equipment in project costs, as they can have a
significant impact despite the size of the budget associated with them;
Provide timely think-pieces and strategy notes as a part of project development, to ensure buy-in
from all sections of the GRT;
Use conditionality only as a last resort, in order to speed up innovative and sensitive reforms
identified by decision-makers;
Exercise caution in determining the APL triggers, as the Transport Sector Investment Project (the
first APL in Tunisia and in the MNA region) has shown.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
The year-long dialogue on the ecole de demain, the constant consensus building efforts over the
past 18 months led by the MoE and other relevant agencies, along with the high priority given to
education at macro-levels (e.g. during the Annual Meetings of the Bank and the IMF) are all
indications of a high level of borrower conmmitment and ownership. The quality of the project
documents prepared between January and March 2000, along with the decision taken by the MoE
during the appraisal mission to appoint a coordinator and to reinforce the MoE units responsible
for PAQSET activities with additional staff, also show an ownership of the project that matches
the political determination to modernize the education sector and increase social equity.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
Bank intervention in the area of quality and in fighting exclusion is critical, as both issues come at
the very forefront of the GRT's agenda. Bank sectoral knowledge (both in Tunisia and in other
national contexts), as well as earlier and current involvement in the sector (lending and non-
lending services) make this new support highly valuable for the GRT.  During project
preparation, the Bank developed strong cooperative relationships with two of the most important
donors in the education sector in Tunisia, UNICEF and the European Union.
In the areas of introduction of new technologies, evaluation and research, the Bank can share both
years of global experience with the introduction of alternative models, as well as access to some
of the best known experts in these areas. Finally, the Bank's long-term support through a two-
phase, flexible APL is particularly valuable given the fiscal constraints and particularly in light of
the major investments needed as a result of rapid enrollment growth in upper basic and secondary
education.



18
E. SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS
(Detailed assessments are in the projectfile, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4): Other
The economic analysis for the project deals mostly with the budgetary implications of increasing
access and improving system efficiency; it also touches on the cost effectiveness of training
activities.
Public intervention in the Tunisian education sector does not aim at crowding out the private
sector, but at consolidating and rationalizing public provision of services to make them more
responsive to the needs of a modem society. The intervention also aims at making the public
system more equitable by fighting exclusion and reducing regional disparities. It will concentrate
on priority areas (ZEP) where the private sector is less likely to develop. The need for more
private involvement is real however, both for diversification purposes and budgetary reasons. It
has started to materialize at the higher education level (viz. recent law on private universities),
and the movement triggered at this level should percolate down to the secondary and basic
education levels. It should be noted also that at the secondary level, private schools are presently
institutions of the second chance for students excluded from public schools. To the extent that
this project aims at reducing exclusion, private schools will have to adjust to new roles and to
define alternative objectives.
(a)    Budgetary implications of increasing access and improving efficiency
Current situation
Enrollments and internal efficiency. Although primary school enrollment is nearly universal, the
internal efficiency of the public school system is low. On average it takes 10.7 years to produce a
Grade 6 graduate. Student repetition ranges from 10 percent in Grade 1 of basic education to 25
percent in Grade 6. Compared to other countries in the region, Tunisia has the highest percentage
of repeaters in primary education: about 16 percent of the current stock of primary school
students are repeaters. Student repetition in Grades 7-9 is also high: each year, 21 percent of
enrolled students repeat a grade while 9 percent dropout. On average it takes 5.3 years to
complete the three-year cycle. In secondary education, student repetition remains high and
increases significantly during the fourth year of the cycle. Repetition rate is 10 percent in Grade
10 and increases to 27 percent in Grade 13. All levels combined, the annual cost of student
repetition is equivalent to 17 percent of the recurrent budget for education. High student
repetition also affects average class sizes and student teacher ratios.
Expenditures. Over the last decade the GRT devoted between 4.6 percent and 5.0 percent of
GDP to basic and secondary education. As a proportion of the total public budget, expenditure on
these levels of the education system has fluctuated from a high of 14.5 percent in FY91/92 to a
low of 12.6 percent in FY98/99. Recurrent expenditure increased slightly from 18.8 percent in
1989 to 21.9 percent in 1999, while capital expenditure declined from a high of 5.2 percent in
1990 to 2.2 percent in 1999 (as a proportion of the national recurrent and capital expenditure
budgets). Significant increases in the average years of schooling (from 4.4 in 1985 to 5.1 in
1990), and in the adult literacy rate (from a mere 16 percent in 1960 to 68 percent in 1990) attest
to the high level of public commitment to providing education for all.
Equity. (i) Educational attainment is highly correlated with poverty prevalence. While the
percentage of the very poor without education is 68 percent, the percentage for the non-poor falls



19
to 40 percent. The incidence of poverty decreases as the educational attainment of the head of
household increases. According to the 1995 Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS), the
average number of years of education of the household head for the lowest expenditure groups
was around 4.5, compared to 7 for the highest groups.
(ii) The area of residence has a marked impact on internal efficiency: despite having fewer
and smaller classes, student repetition is higher in rural areas. Repeaters make up 22 percent of
total enrollment in rural schools compared to 16 percent in urban schools. In the final grade of
primary school, repetition increases to 35 percent in rural areas compared to 14 percent in urban
areas.
(iii) The differences between girls and boys, in terms of access and achievement, have
practically disappeared. However, although girls are as successful as boys (even more successful
at the DFEEB), a more detailed analysis shows that girls who fail remain more vulnerable than
their male counterparts. Moreover, at the secondary level, girls "specialize" in literature and
economics, leaving the mathematics and technical streams largely dominated by boys.
Expanding and improving the educational system
Expansion scenarios have been designed in collaboration with the MoE. The goal of these
scenarios is to estimate staff and capital requirements while modeling different assumptions about
the scope and pace of expansion. The base scenario (HO) essentially maintains current repetition
and dropout rates. Two scenarios (HI and H2) simulate improvements of internal efficiency at
the basic education level, but differ in the proportion of Grade 9 graduates continuing to
secondary education. A third scenario (H3) strengthens internal efficiency gains in the second
cycle of basic education, and expands them to secondary education (see table below).
Evolution in Enrollments, Repetition and Dropout (thousands)
and Budgets (TD nillions) by Scenario
(Difference between 2000101 and 2008/09)
HI           H2           H3
Enrollments, EB                           (276)        (276)        (277)
Enrollments, Secondary                     285          157           319
Enrollments, Total                           9         (119)          42
Repeaters, EB                             (161)        (161)        (183)
Repeaters, Secondary                        38           23           0,4
Repeaters, Total                          (123)        (137)        (183)
Dropouts, EB                               (28)         (32)         (37)
Droputs, Secondary                          20           10             3
Droputs Total                              (8)          (23)         (34)
Projected Recurrent Budget gap in         (203)         (26)        (248)
2008/9 (TND million)
Budget gap 2008/09 budget                 8.0%         1.0%        10.0%
Cumulative recurrent budget needs,       17095        16595         17261
Total (TND million)
Cumulative needs, gap compared to        (1762)       (1267)       (1928)
HO (TND millions)



20
Figures have been rounded.
The outcome of the simulations is somewhat counter-intuitive because it results from two forces:
(i) declining demographic pressure, and (ii) increasing internal efficiency. At times these effects
offset each other and, at other times, are cumulative, depending on the level of schooling. On the
whole, enrollments will decrease in all cases in lower basic education (reflecting the demographic
effect), but decrease or increase in upper basic education, depending on the scenario. Dropouts
and repetition will also decrease, provided a more radical action than the one currently under
consideration is implemented. At the secondary education level, whether with the status quo
scenario or with the expansionist scenarios, enrollments will sharply increase, but the number of
dropouts may well remain high for many more years. The net results in terms of enrollments will
depend primarily on the way in which the system of student flow regulation at the post-basic level
is organized. This is a critical issue, which will give rise to the development of a specific strategy
during the preparation of the Tenth Five-Year Plan, with the support of PAQSET I. The question
of post-basic student flows involves not only the MoE, but also the ministries in charge of VET
and of higher education, since selection, orientation and tracking must be seen holistically.
Rational decisions regarding this issue will require a careful analysis of the impact of alternative
solutions not only in pedagogic terms, but also in terms of budgetary and external efficiency. A
sectoral strategy presenting these solutions will be developed and will serve as a background
document for the PAQSET II. The receipt of the strategy by the Bank (before December 31,
2003) is one of the milestones that will trigger the transition to PAQSET II.
Whichever scenario is considered, the outcome of the simulations in recurrent budgetary terms
points to a deficit in the medium term. Teachers at different levels are in particularly contrasting
situations: while a surplus (already) characterizes the lower basic education, a teacher shortage
will emerge at upper levels of the education system. Keeping the absolute number of teachers at
its current level in Grades 1-6 would imply that the student-teacher ratio would diminish to
under-20 levels, which are neither affordable nor justified on pedagogic grounds. Therefore, the
situation created by the decreasing student intake offers an opportunity to redeploy teachers either
within the lower basic level, in activities aimed at reinforcing low achievers, or at the upper basic
level, where needs are growing. An operational action plan is needed to assess the balance of
surpluses and shortages and to prepare realistic training and redeployment programs. The above
mentioned sectoral strategy will address these issues and result in the action plan. As to
investments at the post-basic level, they are highly sensitive to the assumptions made on the
transition rates and on the proportion of students proceeding to the general education Iycees (as
opposed to VET fields).
Overall, the most "reasonable" scenario (H3) -- counting as it does on improving internal
efficiency at each level -- is not the least costly. It would involve a budget gap representing about
10 percent of the expected available resources for the MoE at the end of the period. A better
distribution of teaching staff, aimed at reducing resource gaps, would both lower the cost and
reach the "inclusion" objective.
(b)    Equity aspects
Poor children are less likely than well-to-do children to pass the Grade 6 end-of-year exam on
their first attempt since good schools tend to be located in urban areas, poor children in rural areas
have little access at present to good quality education. Improving the quality of teaching ought
to disproportionately advantage poor students, especially in ZEP-based schools. By targeting
disadvantaged schools and allocating additional resources to them within the ZEP program, the



21
PAQSET will reinforce positive discrimination aimed at offsetting low human capital inputs from
the home and community environments.
(c)    Cost-effectiveness
The cost-effectiveness analysis compares two modes of delivering the teacher training module (in
Sub-Component 1.1), which is at the heart of the push to increase the quality of learning
outcomes, to all 65,000 teachers in lower basic education. The unit cost per training session per
participant is 7 TND under the 4-session mode and 6 TND under the single-session mode. The
CdB training program (in Sub-Component 1.1) is expected to have a substantial effect on
lowering repetition, by virtue of raising the quality of teaching, and therefore of learning
outcomes. It is estimated that by SY04/05 (when the training program is over), 80 percent of the
reduction in repetition (beyond the baseline trend) could be ascribed to the implementation of this
training program. However, alternative training delivery mechanisms are expected to have a
different effect on the scope of reduction in repetition. Spreading the training out over a number
of session over a two-year period is deemed more effective than delivering the same training
content in a single session, because the former enables teachers to put what they have learned into
practice, to reflect on that practice and then to bring those reflections to the next training session -
- thereby maximizing the value of that training. The most cost effective intervention is the 4-
session delivery mode, costing 41 TND for each repeater "saved", compared with 70 TND for the
single-session delivery mode.
2. Financial (see Annex 5)
Fiscal Impact:
Total incremental recurrent costs generated by the project are estimated at US$41.8 million over
the four-year project period. They include maintenance and operating costs for new construction
(I percent of investment cost), equipment (10 percent of investment cost) and furniture (3
percent) as well as salaries for teachers who will be recruited in the new schools and for the six
staff to be recruited within MoE to strengthen implementation and management capacity of the
project. For 2004, when all investments are operating at full capacity, annual recurrent costs are
estimated at US$25.1 million or 2 percent of MoE projected recurrent budget.
3. Technical
Each sub-component of the project was prepared by a high-calibre team of MoE officials in
Tunis, seconded in many cases by international experts provided with the assistance of a PHRD
grant. Supervision of the technical preparatory work has been entrusted to a tandem of national
experts (current head of the bureau des etudes, de la planification et de la programmation and the
former head of the CdB program). The Bank team assessed positively the quality of the project
documents received at appraisal.
4. Institutional
4.1 Executing agencies
The MoE has decades of implementation experience in Bank financed projects. Experience with
the existing and past projects shows strong capacities in the areas of procurement and
disbursement under Bank operations. The delineation of roles and responsibilities between
departments is clear and hierarchical channels are well understood. The relationship between the



22
central administration and its regional antennas is also well-established. Finally, the functional
relationships with the Ministere de l'Equipement (Ministry of Equipment), responsible for the
entire civil works program, have long been established at both central and regional levels. The
technical capacity of the MoE to implement the PAQSET will be put to the test most critically in
three areas of activity: (i) construction, (ii) equipment of schools with computers, and (iii)
training. With regards to construction, even though the total number of new schools to be built
under the project is high (about 65 over a period of 4.5 years), it remains below the number of
schools currently being constructed (about 40 each year). Regarding equipment, the MoE has
already successfully equipped all lyc&s, and extending this operation to ecoles preparatoires
should not represent a real obstacle. In the case of training, this is an activity in which the MoE
has recently increased its capacity, in particular thanks to its CREFOCs. In addition, to cope with
the added demand which program implementation will create, the MoE will strengthen its human
resources by hiring additional staff and assigning them in the strategic units in charge of the three
above-mentioned activities.
4.2 Project management
Project Management capacity has been demonstrated by the efficient handling of the ongoing
project (PAES, Loan No. 3786-TUN). To further strengthen this capacity and better face the
challenges of the project, the MoE will develop its planning and monitoring capacity through the
introduction of project management softwares, streamline its financial management function
through the introduction of financial/accounting software, and in general increase coordination
mechanisms through a joint information system and periodic meetings. High levels of activity
are anticipated; to handle them, three new positions will be opened in the DGSC, in charge of the
project. During the negotiations, the Tunisian delegation confirmed that the funds necessary for
the first year of project operations will be included in the MoE budget for FY01.
4.3 Procurement issues
The MoE is very familiar with Bank Procurement guidelines. Procurement arrangements are
described in Annex 6. Bank standard bidding documents [SBDs] will be used for all ICB
procurement and services. In the few cases where Tunisian procurement guidelines vary from
that of the Bank, Tunisian legislation permits international agreements to prevail.
4.4 Financial management issues
The MoE has been implementing Bank-financed projects for many years and has had satisfactory
financial management records. The audit arrangements in place have been satisfactory to the
Bank and have met all Bank audit reporting requirements. The flow of funds from the loan
proceeds are centralized within the DGSC and are subject to tight financial control. Two actions
have been recommended to improve efficiency of the financial management function of this
project. First, increasing the capacity of the disbursement unit in charge of the accounting and
cash management of the project by hiring an additional staff member qualified in the area of
financial management. And second, increasing the project management capacity to process
project information and generate project management reports. The banking arrangements are also
considered satisfactory to the Bank. A long-term relationship between the Banque centrale de
Tunisie (Central Bank of Tunisia) [BCT], where the special account is maintained, and the MoE
exists and working procedures between the two parties are clearly understood with reduced lead
time of executing payment orders. The BCT prepares the replenishment applications and the SA
is being audited annually by the Contr6leur gen6ral des finances, the project auditor. As such, the
financial management of the project is considered satisfactory.



23
5. Environmental                  Enviromnental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation
(including consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment
emergingfrom this analysis:
Discussions with the MoE, the Ministere de l'Equipement and the Agence nationale pour la
protection environnementale (National Agency for Environmental Protection) [ANPE],
confirmed that schools are not specifically cited in the Tunisian legislation on environmental
protection. In order to comply with OP 4.01, a four-step environmental assessment review
procedure (as described in Annex 12 and included in the Project Implementation Manual) was
therefore developed jointly with ANPE and MoE to ensure adequate treatment of environmental
concerns in the construction of new schools under the project.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The process developed for new school constructions situated outside areas covered by an existing
land use and urban scheme will be tested on two sites for which studies will be carried out and
financed under the PHRD grant, to be transmitted to the Bank by January 31, 2001, in a form
acceptable to the Bank. The MoE's direction des bdtiments et de l,6quipement (Directorate of
Buildings and Equipment) will have primary responsibility for carrying out these activities,
recruiting consultant experts where needed.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:          Each case will be assessed according to the
procedure set out in Annex 12; Satisfactory
confirmation that the school is either situated
in an area covered by an urban planning and
land use scheme, or has satisfied the
evaluation procedure defined in Annex 12,
will condition Bank financing of each
construction.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b)
draft EA report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan?
Describe mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The MoE will select govemorates in which schools will be built, based on educational criteria and
priorities, and the governorates will make the final selection of municipalities based on the school
mapping exercise. In most cases, school sites have already been selected as part of an urban
planning and land use scheme. In those cases where no scheme exists, the selection process will
be initiated by local authorities, and its acceptability validated through the environmental review
procedure described above.
5.5  What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project
on the environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The Bank will finance only those schools satisfactorily cleared under the environmental review
procedure described in Annex 12. During construction activities, compliance monitoring to



24
ensure implementation of the recommended mitigation measures will be the primary
responsibility of the supervision architects, with oversight responsibility by the local
representatives from the Ministere de l'Equipement.
6. Social
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's
social development outcomes:
A longitudinal study was undertaken, based on two sets of data covering both learning outcome
and household factors, to determine the implications of the highly selective promotion practices
of the Tunisian education system for education efficiency and equity. The first set of data relates
to 953 drop-outs randomly drawn from 100 public ecoles primaires, while the second set contains
the Grade 6 examination scores and school grade averages of the full cohort of almost 250,000
students. The results of this research have been considered in the choice and design of sub-
components. In particular, by focusing on the reduction of drop-out rates and concentrating on
priority areas (ZEP), the project will benefit more specifically the poor (See Mete 1999 and Mete
2000).
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The consensus-building efforts of the GRT have been in place consistently throughout the
preparatory phase of this project and even prior to that with the discussions around the ecole de
demain. Initially, MoE efforts centered around its own officials at central, regional and local
levels, with invitations extended to relevant ministries as needed. Then this consultative process
was expanded to include other GRT actors, including all key ministries and non-governmental
entities (such as the Tunisian Organization for Education and Family). Finally, regional
consultations were held in every govemorate, involving all the stakeholders (including parents,
students, teachers and community leaders), who were invited to share their thoughts and air their
concerns.
In preparing for the implementation of PAQSET I, the MoE will undertake a campagne de
sensibilisation et de mobilisation (awareness campaign) in the fall of 2000, aimed primarily at
school principals. Using regional meetings and publicity brochures, the MoE will present the
GRT's objectives for curriculum reform, assessment reform, management reform and the
integration of ICT into school life, and gathering feedback on these same issues, with a view to
ensuring buy-in and preparedness on the part of the project's key players.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil
society organizations?
See paragraph 6.2 above.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its
social development outcomes?
Targeting priority zones (ZEP) will enable additional resources to be allocated to populations in
disadvantaged areas. Equipping &oles primaires with computers will increase computer literacy.



25
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
See indicators developed in Section B.4.
7. Safeguard Policies
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                            Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)        Yes
(OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                No
(OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                         No
(OP 4.09)                                                  No
(OPN 11.03)                                                No
(OD 4.20)                                                  No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                          No
(OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                         No
(OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                                No
(OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)                                No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard
policies:
See Section E.5. above on environmental and potential resettlement issues. An action plan was
developed that includes the development of a process to carry out environmental reviews for all
new schools to be built outside areas covered by an approved urban planning and land use
scheme, and the development of remedial measures when needed. Given the conditions in
Tunisia, there is very little likelihood of encountering problems of land acquisition and
compensation. The process described above has been developed to identify any potential issues
and develop satisfactory solutions. Only satisfactory sites will be selected.
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS
1. Sustainability
Political: As with other projects in the education sector in Tunisia (both past and ongoing), the
GRT initiated the preparation process, and there is a clear commitment to the project
development objectives articulated above. The mainstreaming of project activities into the MoE's
core business, and the consultative process followed thus far, ensure that the main activities (as
well as their underlying rationale) extend deep into the MoE structure at central, regional and
even local levels. The risks related to the sustainability of the project are therefore minimal.
Institutional: The long-term, programmatic approach of an APL testifies to a long-standing
commitment by the Bank to stand by agreed sectoral strategies. Moreover, by relying on the
existing MoE structures, the PAQSET does not create artificial, exogenous units, but rather
contributes to strengthening existing institutions and improving their implementation capacity.
Financial: In financial terms, most of the effort will be directed to civil works, computer
equipment and teaching staff. For civil works, maintenance will need to be undertaken but will



26
not however require resources above current levels. As to computer equipment, it will need more
frequent replacement and a regular flow of financing. At the upper basic level, some 1500
additional teachers will be required over the next four years, the cost of whom will have to be met
out of public funds. It is to be noted however that this level of recruitment is lower than the
average observed in recent years.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                    Risk          Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
From Outputs to Objective
The system-internal stakeholders (central and  M    Awareness and training strategies are already
regional rniristry officials, inspectors, principals  planned for key staff, and incentive structures
and teachers) may not have the sense of          are under examination.
ownership to effectively implement the changes.
The system-external stakeholders (legislators,  M    Consultative process has minimized this risk
civil society representatives) may resist       to some extent, but political unknowns exist.
proposed changes
Teachers and principals may not accept the need    S   The CdB program pilot has shown that there
for results to be evaluated, at both the individual  is substantial buy-in, and evaluation of the
and the institutional level.                     pilot has been largely positive; support from
UNICEF will help to face possible difficulties
in taking the pilot to scale.
INSE in particular, and the education research  S   With the changes in the statutes of the INSE,
establishment in general, may not have in their  the project will support the identification and
ranks individuals with the capacity to conduct   hiring on temporary contract of qualified
high-quality research.                           researchers to build up that capacity.
From Components to Outputs
Teachers, principals and inspectors may not  S   Training and incentives have been put into
"buy into" long-term process of behavior change  place, and the pilot CdB is an important
required.                                        demonstration tool, but this remains the
highest risk in any reform process.
An imbalance may emerge between the need to    M    The MoE already has a strategy for how this
familiarize both teachers and students with new  will be accomplished, and it has the
technologies, and the need to help them          endorsement of the President of the Republic.
integrate ICT as tools in learning
GRT may be unwilling to allow devolution of  M    Though there is already some movement in
financial and personnel decisions as well as    this direction, it will require a major shift in
administrative ones.                            the centralizing tendencies of GRT.
Institutional and technical capacities to handle  S   Additional staff is being recruited to reinforce
large and complex operations may be              both executing and managing units in the
insufficient.                                    MoE
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)



27
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
The team does not foresee any specific controversies surrounding this project. At a broader level,
however, shifting primary accountability for the quality of learning outcomes from the student to
the teacher (and the principal) may be seen as challenging the respected position of teachers in
Tunisian society. Teachers may view such change as diminishing their status. However, if the
appropriate training -- designed both to provide new skills and change attitudes -- is provided at
the critical early stages (as provided for in the project), resistance should be avoided.
G. MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS
1. Effectiveness Condition
Transmission of the final list of govemorates in which school building activities are to be
undertaked in the first year of the project will be a condition of loan effectiveness.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements]
The following technical covenants will be included in the Loan Agreement:
Before January 31, 2001:  Transmission of (a) the list of sites selected for new school
construction and rehabilitation activities in the first year of the project, with details of their
location on the relevant urban planning and land use scheme, and (b) two environmental
assessment studies in respect of schools to be built in an area outside an urban planning and land
use scheme;
Before January 31 of each year (beginning with January 31, 2002): Transmission of a report
that comprises (a) the list of sites selected for school construction and rehabilitation activities for
the current year, including for each new construction, the relevant budget allocation and the proof
of availability of the selected site, (b) the results of applying the environment review procedure
through the current year, and (c) the updated architectural programs and technical specifications
for the current year;
Before December 31, 2003: Transmission of the progress report, including progress made in
implementing PAQSET I and in reaching the milestones (in particular, in preparing the draft
strategy for both the basic and post-basic levels), as a prerequisite to the launching of PAQSET II
(see B.4).
Disbursement condition: No withdrawal from the Special account and no payment out of the
loan account shall be made with respect to any school construction unless the Borrower shall
have first confirmed to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, that (i) the site
on which the said construction is to be undertaken is covered by an urban planning and land use
scheme, or that (ii) the said construction, if not on a site covered by such a scheme, will be
undertaken in accordance with the environment review procedure.



28
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
[D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready
for the start of project implementation.
0  1. b) Not applicable.
El 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
0  3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
0E 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The preparatory work for the project has been scheduled so that implementation can start on
January 1, 2001, by which time the FY01 budget will have be approved, and planned date for
effectiveness of the loan. All activities for which financial commitments by the Tunisian
legislation are not required will be carried out before effectiveness.
Schools construction program: During appraisal, generic architectural programs and cost
estimates for school construction were reviewed and agreed upon. A preliminary list of
govemorates selected for construction has been transmitted to the Bank. The process and draft
TORs for envrionment reviews have been agreed upon during appraisal, in collaboration with the
ANPE. Standard NCB bidding documents have been prepared and are under review by the Bank.
The project implementation plan anticipates the schedule of preparatory documents as follows:
*  TORs for environment review have been transmitted and approved by the Bank. Two pilot
environment reviews will be carried out by January 31, 2001. Environment reviews and
design studies for the schools to be constructed during the first year program will be launched
early January 2001.
* Site selection for the specific schools to be constructed is being completed, based on careful
procedures combining school mapping, stakeholder consultation, and technical advice from
regional offices of the MoE. The final list of sites to be constructed and/or rehabilitated for
the first year of the project will be transmitted by January 31, 2001, once the budget
negotiation process is completed.
Documentation allowing the project to be ready for implementation on time has been prepared
and evaluated. Completion depends on the results of pre-defined complementary work to be
completed within six months following Board presentation, which reduces the risk of delay while
still fitting in with the budget preparation cycle in Tunisia.
Studies and training: The TORs for the two studies to be carried out during the first year of the
project have been drafted. A training plan has been prepared. All relevant documents can be
found in the Project Implementation Manual.
Equipment procurement: Standard bidding documents [SBDs] for teaching materials and
computer systems are under review by the Bank. Lists of teaching materials have been prepared
for the second year of the project.



29
Project implementation plan:  The plan is realistic considering MoE's implementation
experience. While an implementation period of four years is certainly ambitious, the MoE
benefits from the strong momentum created by the presidential targets set for basic internal
efficiency at the basic education level, which will ensure strong support. hi addition, MoE has
been preparing for this project by (i) strengthening its human resources; (ii) availing itself of the
required planning and monitoring tools; (iii) strengthening, whenever possible, capacity at
regional levels; and (iv) establishing coordination mechanisms and a management structure to
avoid bottlenecks. Implementation of the project will be initiated in January 2001. Bidding
documents and technical specifications for the first year of the project are expected from the
beginning of Year 2001.
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
Ix 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
0 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
enoit Millot               ockheed/Baudouy                          voie
Team Leader           Sector Manager/Director      Country Manager/Director






Annex 1
Page 1 of 4
Project Design Summary
TUNISIA: Education Quality Improvement Program (EQIP)
Hierarchy of Objectives       Key Performance         Monitoring & Evaluation       Critical Assumptions
Indicators
Sector-related CAS Goal:      Sector Indicators:       Sector/ country reports:      (from Goal to Bank
Mission)
Upgrade education quality  Grade 6 scores improve in   Regional examination results  Al: Improvements in human
regional examinations in   and annual MoE statistics   resource development will
Arabic, French and                                     lead to higher labor
mathematics                                            productivity and to poverty
alleviation
Program Purpose:           End-of-Program              Program reports:           (from Purpose to Goal)
Indicators:
Achieve near-universal     80 percent of age cohort    Annual MoE statistics      Al: Nine years of schooling
completion of basic        successfully completes nine                            is a minimum requirement
education                  years of basic education                               for individuals in democratic
nation within globalized
economy.
Provide greater number of    Around 80 percent of Grade   Annual MoE statistics   Al: Post-basic education
students with opportunities    9 graduates complete at least                      catering for diverse
for post-basic education   two years of post-basic                                population increases
education                                              productivity and innovation
Modernize education sector   Curriculum and assessment   MoE reports and          Al: High quality education
in order to improve the    in line with new directions    independent evaluations  outputs require significant
quality of teaching outputs   taken in developing the                             changes in curriculum,
school system                                          assessment, training and
management



Annex 1
Page 2 of 4
Hierarchy of Objectives        Key Performance              Monitoring &          Critical Assumptions
Indicators                Evaluation
Project Development           Outcome / Impact           Project reports:         (from Objective to
Objective:                  Indicators:                                          Purpose)
Promote excellence in teaching    Quality: 80 percent of  Annual MoE statistics     Al: Reducing repetition
and learning while continuing the  Grade 9 students pass the                        (by improving the quality
push for the inclusion of all  end-of-year DFEEB                                    of teaching) makes
children at all levels of the basic                                                 eventual dropout less
education system              Continued reductions in                              likely, and enables
repetition rates:                                    students to complete
Baseline: 15.9% in                                  basic (and post-basic)
Grades 1-6 and 20.7% in                              education at lower cost
Grades 7-9 in 1998/1999.
Target: < 5.0% in Grades                            A2: Reducing dropout by
1-6 and < 15.0% in Grades                            definition enables
7-9 by 2005/2006.                                    students to complete
basic education and make
Continued reductions in                              the transition to post-
dropout rates:                                       basic education
Baseline: 3.2% in Grades
1-6; and 10.1% in Grades 7-
9 in 1998/1999.
Taget: < 1.5% in Grades
1-6 and < 5.0% in Grades 7-
9 by 2005/2006.



Annex 1
Page 3 of 4
Hierarchy of Objectives         Key Performance              Monitoring &            Critical Assumptions
Indicators                 Evaluation
Output from each               Output Indicators:         Project reports:            (from Outputs to
component:                                                                            Objective)
Promote excellence and inclusion   CdB program generalized  MoE reports and statistics;    Capacity and agreement
at the school level            throughout Grades 1-9      inspectors reports          exists among various
stakeholders to effectively
ICT installed and well used                           implement changes
Construction program                                  Teachers' buy-in to proposed
completed, including 48                                changes
&olespreparatoires and 17
Iycees
Completion of training of
some 60,000 primary
teachers, principals and
inspectors in new teaching
methods
Strengthen assessment and      Improved assessment        Inspectors' reports; INSE   Buy-in on the need for
remediation, research, and     activities at the central,  publications; MoE policy   evaluation at different levels
management capacities at       regional and school levels    documents
system-wide level                                                                     Existence of trainable
School Performance                                     capacity to conduct high-
Indicator System and Test                              quality research
Item Bank established
Buy-in from stakeholders
Training program in
management established for
regional MoE staff and
school principals
Strategy established to
manage impact of declining
enrollments at lower-basic
level, and transition from
basic to post-basic levels



Annex 1
Page 4 of 4
Hierarchy of Objectives         Key Performance              Monitoring &            Critical Assumptions
Indicators                 Evaluation
Project Components / Sub-        Inputs: (budget for          Project reports:         (from Components to
components:                each component)                                            Outputs)
School-level
Support quality teaching       Training of teachers,      Annual report of DFC        Al: Teacher buy-in to
innovations                    inspectors, pedagogic                                  changes.
assistants, principals, and
regional and central staff in
new methods.
Use new information and        Purchase of computer        Annual report of INBMI     Al: Will maintain balance
communication technologies to    equipment, along with                                between need to familiarize
enhance learning outcomes      training in its use                                    both teachers and students
with new technologies, and
to help them integrate ICT
as tools in learning
Extend, equip and maintain     Construction of 48 ecoles  Annual report of MoE; MoE   Al: GRT recurrent budget
school infrastructure          preparatoires and 17 lycees   statistics               can sustain increased outlay
Reinforce in-service training  Training and production of    Annual report of DFC     Al: Buy-in from
capacity of trainers and school  training materials; purchase                         stakeholders
principals                     of equipment for CREFOCs
System-wide
Systematize assessment of      Sustained technical         Qualitative and quantitative    Al: Willingness to adopt
students, teachers and institutions   assistance to support  evaluation of progress and  changes in behavior by all
systematic formative and   impact                      key actors
summative evaluation in
teaching
Strengthen education research  Training, technical        Annual report of INSE       Al: Implementation of
capacity                       assistance and equipment for                           already programmed INSE
the School Performance                                 activities
Indicator System and the
Test Item Bank
Improve administrators'        Finance study visit to view  Study tour reports; annual    Al: Stakeholders' buy-in to
knowledge of the management    different models of         report of DGSC             move towards increased
techniques and tools of the    decentralization and                                   decentralization and
education system               deconcentration                                        deconcentration
Regulate student flows         Finance study and study tour  Study reports; study tour  Al: GRT willingness to
to identify a strategy for  reports; annual report of  consider a range of options
managing the increase in   BEPP                        for orienting students at the
student enrollments at the                             post-basic level
post-basic level



Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
Project Description
TUNISIA: Education Quality Improvement Program (EQIP)
Introduction
The current project aims to promote quality and excellence and to counter school failure, by introducing
reforms that strengthen curricula, teaching methods, as well as assessment, remediation, research and
school- and regional-level management capacities. The components of the project are summarized below
while a detailed description of the various inputs (civil works programs, equipment lists, TORs and
description of studies, and contents of training and target population) can be found in the project
implementation manual.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$205.46 million
School-level interventions
1.1  Support quality teaching innovations
Objective:
To implement an achievement-oriented approach to teaching which enables students to acquire
sustainable knowledge and know-how that develop both cross-cutting and subject-specific skills.
Activities:
(a)    Train all types of educators responsible for the implementation of the CdB program (teachers,
principals and inspectors), with a view to extending the program throughout lower basic
education. (Input type: training);
(b)    Equip ecoles primaires and inspectorates with a photocopying machine, to enable them to
produce materials adapted to the needs of their students (Input type: equipment);
(c)    Produce a range of documents for teachers of Arabic, French and mathematics (subject guides,
assessment handbooks, and teaching methodologies and training modules) (Input type: technical
assistance and printing).
1.2  Use new information and communication technologies
Objective:
To provide students from a young age with cross-cutting skills that enable them to learn, to obtain
information and to solve problems through the use of information and communication technologies.
Activities:
(a)    Equip schools and inspectorates with computer equipment (Input type: computer equipment);
(b)    Establish a network EduNet linking the various parts of the MoE (schools, inspectorates, DREs,
MoE central office, 1NSE/CNEERE) (Input type: computer equipment, technical assistance);



Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
(c)    Implement the Virtual Education Library (Bibliotheque virtuelle educative), to provide the
various parts of the MoE with access to relevant quality information on education (Input type:
training);
(d)    Train teachers, principals, and inspectors in using and integrating information and communication
technologies into the school curriculum (Input type: training);
(e)    Increase the capacity of the INBMI, to enable it to manage the new ICT program (Input type:
equipment, training).
1.3  Extend, equip and maintain school infrastructure
Objective:
To increase school capacity and improve teaching and learning conditions, by building and
equipping new ecoles preparatoires and lycees, and by rehabilitating existing schools.
Activities:
(a)    Build and equip 48 ecoles preparatoires and 17 lyc&es (Input type: civil works);
(b)    Upgrade existing ecoles primaires, ecoles preparatoires and Iyc&es situated in ZEPs, by adding
specialized facilities, to bring them  up to current standards (Input type: civil works and
equipment);
(c)    Rehabilitate existing ecoles primaires, &oles preparatoires and lycees (Input type: civil works).
1.4 Reinforce in-service training capacity
Objective:
To strengthen the quality and effectiveness of in-service training, in order to meet the skill needs of
the education system.
Activities:
(a)    Train DFC administrators in the various aspects of implementing training reform (Input type:
training);
(b)    Train professional trainers in the in-service training of basic and secondary teachers (Input type:
training);
(c)    Produce distance learning modules in subject areas and cross-subject themes, to complement
residential in-service training courses (Input type: technical assistance);
(d)    Train principals in school management (Input type: training);
(e)    Train all general monitors with a view to them modifying their educational practices in ways that
promote student well-being (Input type: training)
(f)    Renew  and diversify the equipment available in CREFOCs (Input type: equipment).



Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
Project Component 2 - US$0.28 million
System-wide interventions
2.1  Systematize assessment of students, teachers and institutions
Objective:
To put in place a culture and practice of assessment -- in respect of students, teachers and
institutions -- that increases student achievement and makes the various players accountable for the
outcomes of their interventions.
Activities:
(a)    Train all lower basic teachers, a third of all upper basic teachers, and a number of supervisory
staff in assessment methods (Input type: training [implemented under sub-components 1.1]);
(b)    Train principals to assess the performance of their own school (Input type: training [implemented
under sub-components 1.4]);
(c)    Provide additional measurement and assessment training to examination coordinators and subject
committee members (Input type: training and study visit);
(d)    Develop a unified framework for planning and interpreting national examinations, and set up a
related database to produce detailed reports that assist in the diagnosis and remediation of the
school system (Input type: technical assistance);
(e)    Design a procedure for analyzing test items with a view to improving the validity and reliability
of test results, including a sub-procedure for obtaining a representative sample of the
characteristics of the student population (Input type: technical assistance);
(f)    Produce two teacher guides, one for the lower basic level and the other for the upper basic and
secondary levels, bringing together in a single, easy-to-read document the various regulations
pertaining to student outputs (Input types: technical assistance and printing).
2.2 Strengthen education research capacitv
Objective:
To provide INSE/CNEERE with the means to monitor the development of teaching and learning
quality.
Activities:
(a)    Implement the School Performance Indicator System (Systeme d'indicateurs de performance des
etablissements), to evaluate the comparative performance of schools as well as the performance
of the overall school system (Input types: computer equipment and training);
(b)    Develop a national assessment item  bank to provide teachers with formative assessment
instruments (Input type: technical assistance).



Annex 2
Page 4 of 4
2.3  Improve knowledge of the management techniques and tools of the education system
Objective:
To support the MoE in decentralizing the management of the education system.
Activity:
(a)    Introduce administrative staff from MoE central and regional offices to good policy and practice
in deconcentration and decentralization in selected countries (Input type: study tour).
2.4  Regulate student flows
Objective:
To put in place a sector-wide strategy to manage both the impact of declining enrollments at the
lower-basic education level and the increase in student enrollments at the post-basic education level.
Activities:
(a)    Undertake a study on the management and orientation of post-basic student flows, which inter
alia, proposes an orientation system that includes various post-basic learning pathways (Input
type: study).



Annex 3
Page 1 of 1
Estimated Project Costs
TUNISIA: Education Quality Improvement Program (EQIP)
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million   US $million   US $million
COMPONENT 1: SCHOOL LEVEL IMPROVEMENTS
1.1. Support quality teaching innovations               4.40          3.99          8.39
1.2. Enhance learning outcomes through use of          10.87         37.92        48.79
new information and communications technology
1.3. Extend, equip and maintain school infrastructure  79.68         42.12        121.80
1.4. Reinforce in-service training capacity             1.67          1.04          2.71
COMPONENT 2: SYSTEMIC IMPROVEMENTS                                                     0.00
2.1. Systematize assessment of students, teacher and    0.05          0.06          0.11
institutions
2.2. Strengthen education research capacity             0.03          0.03          0.06
3.3. Improve knowledge of the management techniques     0.00          0.04          0.04
and
tools of the education system
3.4. Regulate student flows                             0.02          0.03          0.05
Total Baseline Cost                                        96.72         85.23       181.95
Physical Contingencies                                     7.06          5.11         12.17
Price Contingencies                                        6.81          4.81         11.62
Total Project Costs                                       110.59         95.15       205.74
Front-end fee                                                             0.99         0.99
Total Financing Required                                  110.59         96.14       206.73
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million   US $million   US $million
Works                                                      67.99        36.01        104.00
Goods                                                      21.56        57.17         78.73
Services                                                   15.72         0.31         16.03
Training                                                    5.32          1.66         6.98
Total Project Costs    110.59       95.15        205.74
Front-end fee                  0.99          0.99
Total Financing Required   110.59         96.14        206.73
This table presents the investment costs of the PAQSET I project only, i.e. the costs of the first four-year phase of the
overall program. All figures have been rounded.






Annex 4
Page 1 of 11
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
TUNISIA: Education Quality Improvement Program (EQIP)
The economic analysis for the project focuses on the budgetary implications of increasing access and
improving the internal efficiency of the system.
I.   Current Situation
A.   Enrollments and internal efficiency
A paradoxical situation characterizes the Tunisian education sector: despite education being generally
accessible to all, school failure is a significant issue. At the basic education level in particular,
performance is highly satisfactory in terms of enrollment rates, but low in terms of internal inefficiency
(repetition and drop-out).
Lower basic education (Grades 1-6)
(a)  Enrollments and internal efficiency
A total of 1.4 million students are attending public primary schools in SY99/00. Enrollment at this level
is nearly universal: 99 percent of all 6-year-old children and 92 percent of the 6- to 12-year-old children
enroll in school. Student repetition is high however, ranging from 12 percent in the Grade 1 to 25
percent in Grade 6, with repeaters counting for approximately 16 percent of the current stock of primary
school students (World Bank, 1999). An analysis of a sample of the 1989 student cohort indicates that
for every ten students entering Grade 1, nine successfully completed Grade 6, and of those nine, six
repeated at least one grade-year at some point in their time spent at the lower basic education level. On
average, it takes 10.7 years to produce a Grade 6 graduate. Student dropout rates range from 1 percent
in Grade 1 to 8 percent in Grade 6, with approximately 46,000 students dropping out before completing
Grade 6.
(b)  Impact of low efficiency
The annual cost of student repetition represents 16 percent of the recurrent budget for lower basic
education. High student repetition also affects average class sizes and student teacher ratios, and
increases the likelihood of students dropping out early, before having the opportunity to acquire
essential basic skills.
Upper basic education (Grades 7-9)
(a)  Enrollments and internal efficiency
Total enrollment in these grades is 555,000, a figure that includes 106,000 repeaters. Of the 608
students from the 1989 cohort who enrolled at this level, 359 completed Grade 9 successfully, and only
199 completed it without repeating a grade. On average, it takes 5.3 years to complete the three-year
upper basic program. About 52,000 students (9 percent of enrolled population at this level) dropout
every year.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 11
(b)  Impact of low efficiency
The annual recurrent cost of maintaining the current student repetition rate is equivalent to 19 percent
of the recurrent budget for upper basic education (Grades 7-9) or 4.8 percent of the total recurrent
budget for education.
Secondary education (Grades 10-13)
(a)  Enrollments and internal efficiency
Total enrollment at this level is 353,000. Although there are no formal exams to enter the last two years
of lycee, only two thirds of students in Grade 11 proceeded to Grade 12. It is in this last two years of
studies that students pre-specialize in one of five academic areas. Repetition rates are high throughout,
and vary from 10 percent in Grade 10 to 27 percent in Grade 13. On average, 12 percent of the students
in the system dropout every year before reaching Grade 13. Of the 359 students from the 1989 cohort
who enrolled in lycee, 181 completed the program successfully, only 77 without repeating a grade. The
average time spent to complete the four-year secondary program is 8.2 years. Grade 13 is a decisive
year where students take the baccalaureat examination. On average, 95 percent of Grade 13 students in
public institutions take the baccalaureat exam, approximately half of whom obtain a pass. Exam
results vary by area of specialization: while 65 percent of mathematics students obtain passing grades,
the rate is only 30 percent for those specializing in economics and management.
(b)  Impact of low efficiency
The cost of repetition for the four-year program is about 40 million TND per year, which is equivalent
to 17 percent of the recurrent budget for secondary education or 3.3 percent of the recurrent budget for
education.
B.   Recent Trends in Educational Expenditure
In 1999 the economy expanded by 5.5 percent, and estimates for 2000 and 2001 suggest expansion
rates ranging from 4.6 percent to 7.0 percent. At the same time, the budget deficit has fallen from 4.2
percent of GDP in 1997 to 1.4 percent in 1998, while average inflation has fallen to 3.1 percent (the
lowest in 25 years), and the official unemployment rate declined to 15.2 of the workforce.
Over the last decade the GRT devoted between 4.6 percent and 5.0 percent of GDP to basic and
secondary education. As a proportion of the total national budget, expenditure on education has
fluctuated from a high of 14.5 percent in SY91/92 to a low of 12.6 percent in SY98/99. Recurrent
expenditure on education increased slightly from 18.8 percent in 1989 to 21.9 percent in 1999.
Recurrent expenditure by level of education has remained relatively constant over the last ten years. On
average, 50 percent of the education budget is spent on lower basic education, between 44 and 46
percent is devoted to upper basic education, and between 1.3 and 2.8 percent is devoted to the
administration of these two levels.
The proportion of recurrent expenditure allocated to staff salaries has remained constant over the
decade. At the lower basic level, the bulk of the budget is devoted to salaries (96 to 98 percent). At the
upper basic and secondary levels, the proportion spent on salaries ranged between 90 percent and 92
percent. Upper basic and secondary education absorbs two-thirds of the total budget for non-salary
expenses. Real per pupil expenditure at the lower basic level ranged from 165 TND in 1989 to 258
TND in 1998 (1990 TND). At the upper basic and secondary levels, real per pupil expenditure ranged
from 399 TND in 1989 to 385 TND in 1998.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 11
C.   Equity considerations
(a)   Urban/rural and regional differences
Rural schools account for 40 percent of the enrollment and 60 percent of the total number of schools.
On average, rural schools are smaller in size and relatively less crowded. While 91 percent of rural
schools have fewer than 400 students, only 35 percent of urban schools fall in the same category. The
average class size in rural schools is 28.3 compared to 31.8 in urban schools. About 40 percent of the
teaching force is posted to rural schools, a percentage that is consistent with the proportion of
enrollments in rural areas. Rural schools are clearly disadvantaged with respect to access to basic
services such as water and electricity. Approximately 32 percent of rural schools lack running water
and 7 percent lack electricity. In urban areas, less than 1 percent of the schools fall in the same
category.
Despite having fewer and smaller classes, student repetition is higher in rural areas. Repeaters make up
19 percent of total enrollment in rural schools compared to 14 percent in urban schools. In Grade 6,
repetition increases to 31 percent in rural areas compared to 23 percent in urban areas. Transition rates
from lower to upper basic education range from 55 percent in Kairouan to 75 percent in Monastir.
In Grades 7-9, student repetition differs from region to region (18 to 26 percent). Transition rates from
Grade 9 to Grade 10 range from a low of 50 percent in Zaghouan to a high of 83 percent in Sfax.
Transition rates from secondary to higher education also vary significantly by region, with Sfax (68
percent) having the highest rate and Kassarine the lowest (40 percent).
(b)   Gender
Statistics on enrollment, transition and drop-out rates show few discrepancies by gender. At the lower
basic education level, there are no significant differences in enrollment rates between boys and girls.
Girls make up 47 percent of the total student enrollment in Grades 1-6, and 48 percent of enrollments in
Grade 6. On average 99 percent of the students (boys and girls) take the Grade 6 examination at the end
of the school year. The transition rate from Grade 6 to Grade 7 is 61 percent for boys and 64 percent for
girls. Girls make up half of total enrollments in upper basic education. The transition rate from Grade
9 to Grade 10 is 66 percent for girls and 61 percent for boys. In June 1999, the Grade 6 examination
pass rate was 70 percent for girls and 67 percent for boys. Repetition and dropout rates are also slightly
worse for boys. However, at the secondary level, there is a clear differentiation by field of study: while
girls make up 72 percent of the students enrolled in Liberal Arts, they account for only 19 percent of
total enrollments in Technical studies and 19 percent in Mathematics.
Findings from multivariate research studies on the factors and determinants of repetition and drop-out
in Tunisia are consistent with national statistics (Mete, 1999). This analysis found inter alia that male
and female students become disadvantaged only in the event of failure, and in such an event, are less
likely to attend private education or junior technical training. Nonetheless, the odds for further
schooling improve significantly for those female students whose mothers are educated and who live in
urban areas.
(c)   Education andpoverty prevalence
Findings from a poverty profile using the 1995 National Household Consumption Survey (NHCS) and
the 1995 Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS) indicates that poor live in rural areas, have a
large household size and high dependency ratios. Most heads of poor households have little or no
formal education, are wage eamers and work in agriculture, fishing or the construction sectors. At the



Annex 4
Page 4 of 11
national level, education and poverty are strongly correlated. Those in the lowest expenditure quintile
have no formal education, while those in the highest are most likely to have secondary education.
According to the 1995 LSMS, the average number of education year of the household head for the
lowest expenditure groups is about 4.5 years in both rural and urban areas compared to 8 and 10 years
for the highest expenditure groups respectively in these areas, and compared to 7 years at the national
level.
(d)  External efficiency
From 1989 to 1994 the total number of employed workers grew from 1.8 million to 2.3 million. As the
Tunisian economy has become more outward looking, employed workers have become more educated.
In 1994, about 36 percent of workforce had a secondary or higher education level, compared to 28
percent in 1989, and 24 percent in 1984. This is in contrast with 24 percent of the workforce who is still
unable to read or write.
From 1989 to 1994 employment growth occurred in industries employing better-educated people,
whilst employment contracted or stagnated in industries employing uneducated workers. The two
sectors which employ the least educated people are agriculture and construction, where, respectively,
only 9.0 percent and 16.8 percent of workers had a secondary degree or higher education in 1994. The
education level of workforce in these two sectors has improved marginally since 1989, whilst both
industries seem less prominent employers in Tunisia. During 1989-94 the sectors with the largest
annual growth rates were also those with above-average improvements in the education levels of their
workers. In real estate and other services, the proportion of workers with a secondary degree or higher
education increased from 20.9 percent to 40.5 percent during the period. The proportion of educated
workers in transport and communication, with 10.8 percent employment growth, moved from 31.8
percent to 43.5 percent. The proportion of educated workers in financial services (where employment
is growing by 8.6 percent p.a.) reached 89.4 percent in 1994 compared to 86.4 percent in 1989. Finally
in the trade sector (growing by 5.8 percent), the share of educated workers improved from 27.1 percent
to 35.3 percent.
H.  Expansion and Efficiency Improvement Scenarios (SY01/02 - SY08/09)
This section spells out the approach used to design scenarios for the future evolution of the education
sector (1); it then proceeds with a presentation of the results obtained with the base scenario (2), and
with those derived from the improved scenarios (3, 4, 5); it concludes with a discussion of the
affordability of the various scenarios (6).
1.   Designing plausible scenarios
Expansion of educational access is expected to take place alongside specific quality enhancement
measures (improving internal efficiency, modifying classroom pedagogical practices, introducing
inforrnation technology, etc.). The Bank team has worked collaboratively with the MoE on the
feasibility of educational expansion and on the evaluation of.specific quality improvement measures.
In order to analyze the feasibility/impact of educational expansion and internal efficiency
improvements, the MoE identified two alternative scenarios (111-H2). These two scenarios share the
same assumptions about the scope of efficiency improvements, but they differ by the level of expansion
after Grade 9 (transition rate and proportion of students going to general education as opposed to VET
tracks), and assume a very moderate increase in internal efficiency at the secondary level. The Bank
team developed a third scenario (H3) which reinforces improvements in internal efficiency at the upper
basic and secondary levels. These scenarios are compared against a base scenario (HO) which models



Annex 4
Page 5 of 1 1
the human, physical and financial requirements of the educational system in the absence of expansion
and/or efficiency improvements.
Table 1 Expansion and Efficiency Improvement Scenarios 111-113
H I     112   IH3
-Increasing transition rate: Grade 6 to 7 from 72% in 1999/00 to 85% in 2005/06.
-Reducing avg. repetition rate: Grades 1-6 from 15.0% in 1999/00 to 4.5% in 2005/06.
-Reducing avg. dropout rate: Grades 1-6 from 1.9% in 1999/00 to 1.4% in 2005/06.  ___   ______
Grades  7-9                                                     .......      ...---  --......
-Reducing repetition rate from: 20.4% in 1999/00 to 14.6% in 2005/06.
20.4% in 1999/00 to 10.0% in 2005/06.
-Reducing dropout rate from: 8.8% in 1999/00 to 4.3% in 2005/06.
8.8% in 1999/00 to 2.6in 2005/06.
- Icresin trnsiionrate: Grade 9 to lycee or Vocational Training from 70%rin 1999/00
to 80% in 2003/04.
- 80% of students will enter lycee       ----.-~
- 65% of student will enter lycee while 15% enter vocational training_______
Grades 10-11
- Increasing transition rate: Grade  ....1...1..to..12  frm6 .   in. . 999/0..to..0..    in  2005.0. .......- ------
- Increasing transition rate: Grade I11 to 12 from 67.5% in 1999/00 to 8050% in 2005/06.
Inreducing trepetition rate: rd     o1 from:67.2 % in 1999/00 to 13.7% in 2005/06.
-Reducing ropettontrate from: 13.1% in 1999/00 to 10.6% in 2005/06.                           -~
-        13.~~~~14% in 1999/00 to 7.5% in 2005/06.
-Reducing drepeutito rate from: 19. 1% in 1999/00 to 18. 6%/ in 2005/06.1
19. 1% in 1999/00 to 10.5% in 2005/06.
-Reducing dropettout rate from: 191.4% in 1999/00 to 18.0% in 2005/06.
11.4% in 1999/00 to 6.% in 2005/06.
2.    Base Scenario (HO)
Hypothesis: Under this status quo scenario, the requirements of the educational system are estimated
by projecting current student transition, repetition and dropout rates. Table 2 below provides a summary
of the results for this scenario.
(a)   Enrollment and internal efficiency: Tunisia is undergoing a demographic transition period
which has resulted in a slowdown of the school age population. However, this slowdown has not yet
spread to the entire school pyramid, and its effects are partly offset by improvements in internal
efficiency. In the aggregate, total enrollments will slowly decline from 2.3 million to 2.1 million across
the period. But when each level is looked at separately, the contrasts are starker.



Annex 4
Page 6 of 11
Table 2: Base Scenario (H0)
SYOO/01           SY04/05            SYO8/09
Total enrollment                                        l
Lowerbasic            1,391,121             1,251,118          1,113,227
Upper basic             583,955               556,046            512,371
Secondary               365,945              445,156             438,427
Repeaters
Lower basic             220,824               207,020            183,575
Upper basic             121,259               117,762            110,051
Secondary                57,647                66,897             71,405
Dropouts
Lower basic              44,672                41,572             35,934
Upper basic              56,273                55,854             51,036
Secondary                43,639                48,131             52,777
Classes-students
Lower basic              46,997                42,268             37,609
Upper basic              17,481                16,920             15,798
Secondary                11,467                14,066             14,125
Teachers
Lower basic              59,238                54.236             48,401
Upper basic              23,049                22,206             20,524
Secondary                18,169               22,066              22,156
Lower basic education: According to demographic projections, the number of children entering Grade 1
is expected to decline by 18 percent between 1999 and 2007. As smaller student cohorts enter and
move through the system, total enrollment in lower basic education will decline from 1.4 million in
SY99/00 to 1.1 million in SY08/09. Even with an unchanged percentage of repeaters out of total
enrollment (at 16 percent), the stock of repeaters would decline by 17 percent. Similarly, while the
average student dropout rate in Grades 1 to 6 will remain unchanged at 3 percent, the absolute number
of students leaving the system will decline from the current 45,000 to 36,000.
Upper basic education: Total enrollment at this level is expected to increase slightly over the next two
school years, and then to decline gradually from 577,000 in SY02/03 to 512,000 in SY08/09. In spite
of a slight increase in the student repetition rate from 19 percent to 21 percent, the stock of repeaters in
the system is expected to decline marginally by SY08/09. The number of dropouts will stay around its
current 50,000 level.
Secondary education: At this level, enrollment would peak for Grades 10 and 11 in SY04/05, and
decline gradually thereafter. In Grades 12 and 13, enrollments are expected to increase from the current
161,000 to an all time high of 204,000 by SY05/06, before declining again by SY08/09. In the absence
of efficiency improvements, the absolute number of repeaters is expected to increase slightly in all
grades.
(b)  Needs: At the lower basic level, the reduction in the overall number of students will have an
effect on the size of the teaching force and on the number of classes required to maintain the current
student-class and teacher-class ratios. Should the current student-class ratio of 29.6, and teacher-class
ratio of 1.5 were to remain unchanged, there will be a surplus of 9,000 classes and 14,000 teachers.
Between SYOO/01 and SY08/09, declining enrollments will release a surplus of 2,500 teachers. In terms
of physical needs, the system will require and additional 280 classrooms and about 30 new schools by
SY02/03 in order to maintain the current ratio of 33.4 students/class. At the upper basic and secondary
levels, 4,500 additional teachers, 1,500 new classrooms and about 55 new lycees will be needed.



Annex 4
Page 7 of 11
(c)   Budgetary impact: At the lower basic level, and to a lesser extent at the upper basic level, and
even in the absence of efficiency improvements, the impact of a declining student population could
result in significant reduction of recurrent expenditures. The extent of the reduction would depend on
the size of the teaching force over the next nine years. Should the current student-teacher and teacher-
class ratios remain at their current levels and should the surplus primary school teachers be redeployed
to remediation activities and to other levels of the system, substantial savings could be achieved.
3.   Expansion and Efficiency Improvement under Scenario HI
Hypothesis: Under this scenario, gradual improvements are introduced in the efficiency of the system
in Grades I through 9.
Table 3: Scenario (HI)
Transition rate from Grade 9 to Grade 10: 80 percent (SY03/04)
SYOO/01           SY04/05           SY08/09
Total enrollment                                         I
Lower basic               1,391,121          1,250,784        1,009,190
Upper basic                 583,955           624,873           689,708
Secondary                   365,639           529,803          650,415
Repeaters
Lower basic                 182,226            95,285           35,224
Upper basic                 112,301            94,159           98,743
Secondary                    57,340            73,836           95,342
Dropouts
Lower basic                  24,345            18,855            14,498
Upperbasic                   46,716            36,892           28931
Secondary                    43,498            49,171            63,374
IClasses-students   r
Lower basic                  46,997            45,318           39,421
Upper basic                  17,516            19,454            21,789
Secondary                    11,570            17,303           21,628
Teachers_
Lower basic                  59,238            56,853           49,228
Upper basic                  23,101            26,007            29,511
Secondary                    18,323            26,922            33,410
(a)   Enrollment and internal efficiency
The impact of the demographic slowdown is more pronounced when coupled with internal efficiency
improvement. While, on the whole, total enrollments would remain stable, their intemal distribution
would change markedly: the share of students enrolled in lower basic education would move from 59 to
43 percent.
Lower basic education: Student enrollment will decline from the current 1.4 million to 1 million by
2008/09, and the stock of repeaters will fall sharply, from 182,000 to 35,000.
Upper basic education: An increase in the transition rate from 70 to 80 percent to either lycee or VET
will translate into an expansion in student enrollment from the current 584,000 to 690,000 by SY08/09
(i.e. 178,000 more than the status quo).



Annex 4
Page 8 of 11
Secondary education: Increasing the transition rate from Grade 9 to Grade 10 will require an additional
180,000 places in Grades 10 and 11 over the next nine years. The total student enrollment in lycees will
increase by 78 percent and reach 650,000 by SY08/09. Improvements in repetition and dropout rates
being only marginal at this level, the absolute number of repeaters will increase.
(b)  Needs
Lower basic education: Reducing repetition in Grades 1-2 in SYOO/01 will trigger an increase in the
number of additional students in Grades 2 and 3 in SYO1/02. While student enrollment in Grades 2 and
3 will be bulging, enrollment in Grade I is expected to decline. Teacher redeployment could be
considered as a way of correcting these level-internal imbalances.
Upper basic education: The reduction in the number of students who leave the system before finishing
the three-year cycle will increase the demand for school places in Grades 8 and 9. To meet the demand
for school places, the system will require 4,300 new classes and 5,500 new teaching positions to
maintain the current students-class and student: teacher ratios.
Secondary education: The number of additional teachers required to reach this target is 15,000, and the
number of classes is 10,000. The increase in teaching staff would be less, should MoE decide to
introduce various efficiency improvements at this level. Expansion requirements under this scenario
imply the construction of about 4,500 new classrooms and 165 lyc&es.
(c)  Budgetary impact:  If the current stock of teachers in the lower basic system is to be
maintained, the student-teacher ratio would decline from the current average 1:23 to 1:17 in SY08/09.
Maintaining the current student-teacher ratio would produce a teacher surplus. Reallocating teachers to
remedial, advisory and support activities would be an avenue worth exploring, especially if undertaken
with a view to reducing school failure. The capital requirements are expected to be minimal given the
demographic slowdown of the school-age population.
4.   Expansion and Efficiency Improvement under Scenario H2
Hypothesis: The only difference introduced in scenario H2 is on the percentage of students, who upon
completing Grade 9, either enter lycee (65 percent) or VET (15 percent). Results for this scenario are
presented in Table 4 below.
(a)  Enrollment and internal efficiency: Depite more modest objectives for secondary enrollment
expansion, the number of school places is still estimated to increase by 51 percent in Grades 10 and 11,
and 44 percent in Grades 12 and 13. The substantial number of "dropouts" in this presentation comes
from the fact that any student leaving the general education track and moving up to VET fields is
registered in the simulations as a dropout.
(b)  Needs: This scenario would imply an increase of about 8,000 teaching positions and 6,000
classes. On the physical side, the expansion will require an additional 1,800 new classrooms and 70
lyc&es.
(c)   Budget: Since Scenario H2 entails shifting 15 percent of Grade 9 graduates to VET, the cost
implications of adopting the H2 scenario are less, from the MoE perspective. However, the policy of
shifting students to VET should be examined from a broader fiscal perspective. It is not yet clear
whether the ministry responsible for VET will have the staff, physical and financial capacity to meet an
annual intake of 30,000 students. All these issues are to be tackled in the context of the Tenth Five-
Year Plan preparatory work.



Annex 4
Page 9 of 11
Table 4: Scenario (112): Transition rate from Grade 9
to Grade 10: 65 percent and 15 percent to VET
SYOOI/01         SY04/05           SY08/09
Total enrollment
Lower basic                  1,391,121         1,250,784          1,009,190
Upper basic                    583,955          624,873            689,708
Secondary                      365,639          529,803            522,380
Repeaters
Lower basic                    182,226           95,285             35,224
Upper basic                    112,301           94,159             98,743
Secondary                       57,340           73,836             80,787
Dropouts
Lower basic                     24,345           18,855             14,498
Upper basic                     46,716           36,892             24,322
Secondary                       43,498           49,171             53,080
Classes-students
Lower basic                     46,997           45,318             34,094
Upper basic                     17,516           19,454             21,789
Secondary                       11,570           16,370             17,406
Teachers
Lower basic                     59,238           56,853             49,228
Upperbasic                      23,101           26,007             29,511
Secondary                       18,323           25,522             27,077
5.   Expansion and Efficiency Improvement under Scenario 113
Hypothesis: As in scenario H2, the transition rate from Grade 6 to Grade 7 is increased from 70 to 85
percent; in addition, the transition rate from Grade 9 to Grade 10 is increased from 68 percent to 80
percent by SY03/04. H3 goes another step further by introducing more radical efficiency improvements
at the lycee level, in Grades 7 to 13. Results for this scenario are presented in Table 5.
(a)   Enrollment and internal efficiency:
With 113, overall enrollments would remain stable, but the stock of repeaters would be cut by about
half, while the cohorts of excluded students would be reduced as much as in H2.
Upper basic education: Since the efficiency improvements under scenario H3 are broader than those
under HI and H2, enrollment would increase faster and students would move faster through the system.
Total enrollment would peak at 720,00 students in SY06/07.
Secondary education: Total enrollment in Grades 10 and 11 is expected to increase every year over the
period from 191,00 to 391,000. For Grades 12 and 13, enrollment would almost double. Even though
student repetition rates would decrease from 14.5 to 6.5 percent, in the context of a growing enrollment
population, the absolute number of repeaters would decline only slightly at Grades 10 and 11, and
actually increase at Grades 12 and 13.



Annex 4
Page IO of 11
Table 5: Scenario (113)
Transition rate from Grade 9 to Lycee 80% plus efficiency improvements
SY0O/01            SY04/05            SY08/09
Total enrollment
Lower basic                 1,391,121          1,250,784          1,009,190
Upper basic                  583,955             635,691           688,732
Secondary                    365,639             534,043           684,606
Repeaters
Lower basic                  182,226              95,285            35,224
Upperbasic                   112,301              87,881            75,959
Secondary                     57,340              51,787            57,761
Dropouts
Lower basic                   24,345              18,855            14,498
Upper basic                   46,716              36,892            19,522
Secondary                     43,498              41,634            46,363
Classes-students
Lower basic                   46,997              42,256            34,094
Upper basic                   17,516              19,803            21,811
Secondary                     11,570              17,458            22,770
Teachers
Lower basic                   59,238              52,126            39,883
Upper basic                   23,101              26,532            29,544
Secondary                     18,323              27,155            35,123
(b)  Needs: To achieve these efficiency improvements at the upper basic level, an additional 5,400
teachers and 3,600 classrooms would be required by SY06/07. The investment requirements are
estimated at 1,500 new classrooms and 160 &oles preparatoires. At the secondary level, the additional
needs are estimated at 15,000 teachers, 5,200 classrooms and 200 Iycees.
(c)   Budget: The additional recurrent cost estimated for secondary education would be about the
same as for scenario Hl.
6.   Assessing the Affordability of the Scenarios
In order to project the growth of the education budget the following assumptions are made: (i) an
average GDP growth of 8.5 percent (in current prices); (ii) an average allocation of 21.1 percent of
GDP for the national recurrent budget and 15.6 percent for the national capital budget; (iii) an average
allocation of 21.9 percent of the national recurrent budget for recurrent expenditure in education and 3
percent of the national capital budget for capital expenditure in education; and (iv) an average 20.7
percent of the capital budget for education provided by external sources. Recurrent expenditure needs
are derived from unit costs and capital expenditure needs are based on construction unit costs.



Annex 4
Page 11 of 11
Table 6: Budget Projections and Estimated Needs (FY99/00 to FY08/09)
1999/00 (actual)     2000/011   2004/051  2008/09
Estimated Bud2et
,in millions TND))
BUDGET de L'Education
Recurrent budget (5 yr. avg.)                   1,177      1,261      1,747      2,421
Capital budget (5 yr. avg.)                       104        128        177        245
Total                                           1,282      1,388      1,924      2,667
Avg .% CB from External                            22         26         37         51
Sources
Avg, % CB with inflaon                     __       -         27         38         52
Estimated Needs
gin nillions TND))
Scenario HO
Projected Recurrent Exp. Needs                  1,177      1,279      1,701      2,141
Projected Capital Exp. Needs                      104        113         66         35
Difference RB minus RB needs                        -       (18)         46        280
Difference CB minus CB needs                                  15        111        210
Difference Total                                    -        (3)        157        491
Difference in %                                            -0.2%       8.2%      18.4%
Scenario HI
Projected Recurrent Exp. Needs                  1,177      1,279      1,842      2,624
Projected Capital Exp. Needs                      104        112        142         91
Difference RB minus RB needs                        -       (18)       (94)       (203)
Difference CB minus CB needs                                  15         35        155
Difference Total                                    -        (3)       (59)        (48)
Difference in %                                            -0.2%      -3.1%      -1.8%
Scenario H2
Projected Recurrent Exp. Needs                  1,177      1,279      1,811      2,447
Projected Capital Exp. Needs                      104        112         86         42
Difference RB minus RB needs                        -       (18)        (64)       (26)
Difference CB minus CB needs                                  15         91        203
Difference Total                                    -        (3)         27        177
Difference in %                                            -0.2%       1.4%       6.6%
Scenario H3
Projected Recurrent Exp. Needs                  1,177      1,279      1,854      2,669
Projected Capital Exp. Needs                      104        112        159         99
Difference RB minus RB needs                      (0)       (18)      (107)       (248)
Difference CB minus CB needs                        -         15         18        146
Difference Total                                             (3)        (89)      (102)
Difference in %                                            -0.2%      -4.6%      -3.8%
The simulations show that, whichever route is taken, expansion accompanied by efficiency measures
will require considerable resource mobilization of recurrent resources, capital expenditures being more
amenable to control. The budgetary gap may reach 10 percent of expected available resources for the
sector. Simulations also yield the paradoxical result that the most reasonable solution in educational
terms (H3) is also the most costly. Scenario H3 ought not be discarded however, as variants of it
should be studied more closely with a view to deciding on the long-term management of the three major
determinants of resource needs: (i) resources freed up by the reduction in basic education enrollments,
(ii) resources required to cater for the increase in post-basic enrollments, and (iii) the rate at which
internal efficiency improves.






Annex 5
Page 1 of 1
Financial Summary
TUNISIA: Education Quality Improvement Program (EQIP)
Years Ending
December 31 (US$ million, 2001 base year)
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Year 1          Year 2          Year 3          Year 4
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs                  28.2            80.0            75.2            22.4
Recurrent Costs                     0.1             1.0           15.6             25.1
Total Project Costs                 28.3            81.0            90.8            47.5
Front-end fee                        1.0             0.0             0.0              0.0
Total Financing                     29.3            81.0            90.8             47.5
Financing
IBRD/IDA                          14.9           37.8            34.5             11.7
Government                        14.4           43.2            56.3             35.8
Central                        0.0             0.0            0.0              0.0
Provincial                     0.0             0.0             0.0             0.0
Co-financiers                      0.0            0.0             0.0              0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries            0.0            0.0             0.0              0.0
Others                             0.0            0.0             0.0              0.0
Total Project Financing               29.3            81.0            90.8             47.5
Main assumptions:
Recurrent costs would include: overall maintenance of new buildings, related equipment and furniture,
additional teachers for the new schools and staff salaries and operating costs for the PIU. Year 4 is
representative of the project recurrent costs when in full operation.






Annex 6
Page 1 of 9
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
TUNISIA: Education Quality Improvement Program (EQIP)
Annex 6(A) Procurement and Disbursements
Procurement
Responsibility for procurement:
Within the overall project management structure described in Section E.4. of this document, the
Directorate General for Support Services (direction generale des services communs) [DGSC] will be
responsible for all procurement (civil works, equipment and services) as well as for financial
management. The DGSC will ensure the planning (procurement plan) and monitoring of contracts,
supervision of construction in coordination with the Ministere de l'Equipement (Ministry of Equipment),
management of project accounts, and disbursements through the Banque centrale de Tunisie (Central
Bank of Tunisia) [BCT]. It will also prepare progress report and plans, including project management
reports [PMRs]. This department has had a satisfactory record in the implementation of the previous
Bank-financed project, and no difficulty is anticipated. To ensure that appropriate attention is given to the
project, each structure of the project was reinforced by a staff member in charge of implementing and
monitoring. The DGSC will liaise with the project coordinator both at the level of the Director General
and of the monitoring committee, as described in C.4.4. of this document. The MOE has formally
confirmed these arrangements to the Bank.
Planning and monitoring: To facilitate planning and monitoring of activities, the MoE has endeavored
to put in place the following measures:
A computer network is being installed within MoE. It will include a software package for monitoring
procurement and disbursement, which will be kept up-to-date in real time by the relevant departments
involved in the project and accessible for consultation to all involved to ensure appropriate coordination.
The first reports will be produced by July 31, 2001. The MOE has also purchased a Project Management
software and is training staff in its use. Each unit will maintain updated data pertinent to the activities
under its control.
Coordination mechanisms are defined in the project implementation manual and include (i) a definition of
paper flows between departments; (ii) quarterly meetings of the monitoring group; and (iii) production of
a periodic progress report according to an agreed format.
Applicable guidelines: All Bank-financed civil works, equipment and materials would be procured in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January
1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). Procurement of
consultant services and technical assistance would follow the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September 1997 and
January 1999).
Use of standard documents. All procurement under international competitive bidding [ICB] will use
Bank standard bidding documents [SBDs]. For national competitive bidding [NCB], simpler documents
were developed on the basis of the SBDs. All consulting services will use standard forms for time-based
or lump-sum contracts as appropriate for the type of assignment. The following standard documents have
been transmitted formally to the Bank and are under review for use throughout the project: (i) civil works
under NCB; (i) equipment (educational and computer systems) under ICB and NCB; (iii) services; (iv)



Annex 6
Page 2 of 9
evaluation and selection reports; and (v) a presentation note to regions and procurement boards on Bank
guidelines, so as to avoid any difficulty in those cases where procurement is decentralized.
Notification and Advertising: A draft General procurement notice informing the public of bidding
opportunities for the project has been transmitted to the Bank before negotiations for publication in
Development Business and an annual update published. All ICB bids for equipment in an amount greater
than US$500,000 and all services in an amount greater than US$200,000 will be advertised in
Development Business.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement methods are defined below:
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement   Method1
Expenditure Category  ICB            NCB            Other2         N.B.F.          Total Cost
1. Works                               84.37          19.64            0.00         104.01
0.00       _ _ _ _ _ _                                   _ _ _ _ _  _
(0.00)       (41.00)          (9.50)         (0.00)        (50.50
2. Goods                54.00           2.60           0.40           21.70          78.70
(43.00)         (2.00)         (0.30)         (0.00)        (45.30)
3. Services              0.00           0.00           0.95           15.50          16.45
Inc.  consultants  &     (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.90)          (0.00)         (0.90)
study   tours   and
international training
4. Local Training        0.00           0.00           6.41            0.16           6.57
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.30)         (0.00)         (1.30)
5. Front-end fee         0.00           0.00            1.00           0.00           1.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.00)         (0.00)         (1.00)
Total                54.00           86.97          28.40          37.36         206.73
(43.00)        (43.00)        (13.00)         (0.00)        (99.00)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the . All costs include contingencies
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through shopping and direct contracting. Technical assistance and training
for the project.
Civil works. Around 65 contracts for construction of schools, of which 2 contracts estimated at around
US$1.9 million each (2.4 million TND), 15 contracts of around US$1.4 million each (1.7 million TND),
and 48 contracts of around US$0.9 million each (1.2 million TND), as well as about 20 contracts for
rehabilitation and expansion, totaling about US$84.4 million including contingencies would be awarded
according to NCB procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. These contracts are expected to be
scattered geographically, and procurement would be carried out by the regions. Experience has shown
that Tunisian enterprises have sufficient capacity to handle contracts of this size and that intemational
firms do not usually respond to bids below US$5 million. Smaller contracts for rehabilitation of existing
schools in an amount smaller than US$25,000, for a cumulative amount estimated at US$19.6 million,
would be subject to shopping based on at least three quotations.
Goods. Three packages for pedagogic equipment estimated each of about US$0.8 million, US$4 million
and US$5 million of a cumulative amount of US$10 million; six packages for computer



Annex 6
Page 3 of 9
equipment/systems, each of an average amount between US$5 million and US$7 million, for a total of
US$40.1 million; and four packages for audiovisual and photocopying equipment of an average of
US$750,000 (totaling US$3 million) would be procured through ICB procedures based on Bank SBDs for
the procurement of goods. Contracts for office equipment, reproduction and audio-visual hardware and
software, below US$500,000 would be awarded in accordance with NCB procedures also based on Bank
SBDs for the procurement of goods and would not exceed an aggregate amount of US$2.6 million.
Smaller contracts below US$25,000 would be awarded according to international shopping [IS], local
shopping [NS] or direct contracting procedures and this would not exceed an aggregate amount of US$0.4
million.
Consultant and training services. Architectural and engineering services for schools will be financed by
the Borrower. Short-term consultants for studies and training services will be financed by the Loan. There
are five studies in the project, estimated at a cumulative total below US$ 0.5 million, which will be
procured separately considering the varied nature of expertise required and the pace of their realization.
Selection would be based on consultants' qualifications. For training services, contracts are expected to
be limited to the development of training modules and training of trainers (MoE inspectors and
administrators), in which cases selection will be made based on the quality and cost-based selection
[QCBS]. The cumulative amount of these contracts is estimated at US$ 0.2 million. The remaining
training costs are for teachers' training in the field of new technologies. Study tours for a cumulative
amount of about US$ 0.4 million are also included.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
The contracts value threshold above which the Bank would review documentation prior to each further
processing step are defined in Table B below. In those cases, the Bank would review (i) all bidding
documentation prior to bid advertising, including any changes to the standard documents agreed upon; (ii)
all opening, evaluation and selection reports prior contract signing.  Signed contracts would be
transmitted with Form 384 prior to disbursement. It is estimated that this review would cover 26 percent
of the works contracts and 68 percent of the goods contracts. For consultancy contracts, the Bank would
review all TORs regardless of the amount of the contract, while contracts above the stated thresholds
would require transmission of (i) TORs, short list, letter of invitation, advertising, draft contract ; (ii)
evaluation and selection report prior to contract signing; and (iii) signed contract prior to disbursement.
These thresholds for services would account for about 80 percent of Bank-financed contracts. Contracts
under these thresholds would be subject to selective post-award review during supervision mission, or by
the auditor.
In addition, for civil works concerning new constructions, the transmission prior to launching of bids for
contractors, of the following documents, in a form satisfactory to the Bank, would condition financing of
the construction of each school:
transmission to the Bank, by latest January 31, 2001, of the list of selected sites for the construction and
rehabilitation of schools for the first year of the project, indicating their location and whether they are
situated in area with a Land Use and urban scheme;
the performance results of the two studies using the Environment Review Procedures related to new
constructions of schools in areas outside the urban development plan;
each year, by January 31, the Borrower will transmit: (a) the list of selected municipalities eligible for
school building for which adequate budgets will be allocated; (b) proof, satisfactory to the Bank, that the
land on which such construction activities are to be carried out has been transferred to MOE; (c) the
performance results of studies using the Environment Review Procedures, including any individual
environmental impact assessment studies; (d) architectural programs and updated technical specifications
for construction and rehabilitation.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 9
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review 1
Expenditure Category    Contract Value         Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Method               Prior Review
(IJS$ thousands)                              (US$ millions)
1. Works                  3,000>X>25                              Cumulative prior review
amount: 26
All contracts > 1 and the
Shopping with at least   first three contracts for
<25           three price quotations    construction of "ecoles
preparatoires"
2. Goods                     >500                  ICB             Cumulative prior review
estimated amount: 53
All contracts >0.5
500>X>25                NCB
<25             Shopping/Direct        All direct contracts
=r_____ _  Contracting
3. Services                                                        cumulative prior review
Firms                      >100                 QCBS                  amount: 0.4
TORs for all studies and
full documents for
Individual consultants        >50                  QBS             contracts >0.1 for firms
and >0.05 for individuals
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:              US$ 79.40 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
A procurement assessment has been carried out and is available in the Implementation Manual.
Disbursement
Allocation of proceeds (Table C)
Allocation of loan proceeds and financing percentages by category of expenditures are based on the
assessment of investment to be submitted for Bank financing and on the fact that the MoE is exempt of
taxes and customs duties. Goods financed by the loan (pedagogical equipment and computers) are all
imported. Locally manufactured goods will be financed by the GRT. The resulting allocation is
summarized in Table C.
Documentation for withdrawals. Withdrawal applications for contracts valued at more than US$ 1.0
million for works, US$ 500,000 for goods, US$ 100,000 for consulting firms, US$ 50,000 for individual
consultants and training activities would be presented with full documentation for disbursement and
statement of expenditures (SOEs) used as described below.



Annex 6
Page 5 of 9
Table C: Allocation of Proceeds
Expenditure Category                        Amount in US$million          Financing Percentage
Civil Works
- Construction of new schools                39.00                           48%
- Rehabilitation                              8.00                           48%
Goods                                         43.00                        100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 80%
of other items procured
locally
Consultants' Services, Study tours             0.88                           100%
and training abroad                          _
Local Training                                 1.20                            20%
Unallocated                                    5.93
Total Project Costs                           98.01
Front-end fee                                  0.99
Total                                         99.00                                                I
1 Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and contact the Regional
Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Annex 6
Page 6 of 9
Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arran2ements
1.   Financial Management Assessment
1.1. Financial management: organization structure, accounting, and internal control of the PAES.
The accounting function is performed by two departments : the Department of financial affairs and, for
projects with external financing, the disbursement section of the MoE's, direction des bLtiments et de
1'equipement [DBE]. Two parallel systems of cash-basis accounting are maintained:  ADAB is a
computerized accounting system for the public expenditures reflecting the Tunisian share of the budget,
and SLADE (Systeme informatise d'aide a la dette ext&rieure: Information System for Foreign Debt) is a
computerized accounting system for all the foreign expenditures funded by foreign finances. The latter
aims at maintaining separate accounting records for the foreign debt management and for donors
reporting requirements. The maintenance of the systems is currently being decentralized at the level of
the MoE. Accounting records are entered into one or the other of the systems once the payment takes
place based on a set of well defined procedures.
For IBRD loans, accounting records are kept in the SIADE system and maintained by the disbursement
unit where payments also take place. Payments are prepared at this unit once the documentation is
received from technical department after clearance. Accounting documentation is then reviewed again at
the disbursement unit, and payment orders are prepared and submitted for approval to the Director
General in charge of the project. These are then sent to the BCT, where the special account (SA) is
maintained for payments. The BCT reviews the supporting documentation and proceeds with the
payment when everything is considered satisfactory. Only one staff member has an accounting
background. The Bank mission has recommended the hiring of at least one additional staff member at the
disbursement unit to increase capacity, allow the preparation of the project management reports as of July
2001, and maintain the financial records in the recommended MIS.
Loan proceeds flow from the Bank to the BCT, and disbursements are made based on payment orders
received from the disbursement unit.  Payments from the loan proceeds are centralized at -the
disbursement unit. Monthly reconciliation of the SA is made by the disbursement unit. Replenishments
of the SA are made based on traditional disbursement methods, and are prepared and sent to the Bank by
the BCT. These arrangements have been considered satisfactory by the Bank.
The GRT has expressed its intention to keep the traditional methods of disbursement for the PAQSET.
Bi-annual project management reports will be produced and transmitted to the Bank as of July 31, 2001.
Simplified financial reports will be transmitted on a quarterly basis. As these measures are an exception
to the guidelines on LACI, they will be jointly reviewed in December 2002.
1.2. Budgeting and budgetary control
The budgeting process starts annually in January of the following year, and includes budgets for the
Bank-financed projects. The budget is approved as of December 31 of each year. All expenditures
during the year are committed and paid for only if they are included in the approved budget. Strict
budgetary control is in place. Once implementation of an activity is complete, this is reviewed and
cleared by the technical departments (regional and central) for payment. Payment takes place in two
parts: the part financed by the GRT is processed by the direction des affaires financieres (Finance
Directorate), and the one financed by the loan processed by the disbursement unit through a payment
order from the SA. There are no comparison between budgeted and actual expenditures. It is
recommended that the installation of the new integrated MIS incorporate the maintenance of such



Annex 6
Page 7 of 9
information. Moreover, this type of information will form part of the semi-annual reports to be submitted
as of July 31, 2001.
1.3. Reporting and database management
Three software applications are being used by the disbursement unit. For project accounting records, the
national debt accounting software SIADE is used to make daily on-line data entry. In addition, two
software applications are being used: Excel spreadsheet for reporting purposes, and 4th Dimension (a
Quattro database template) on which a program has been designed to monitor the commitments and
disbursements. There is no interface between the three applications, which requires considerable manual
data entry (with a double data entry in many instances). Reporting is limited and does not, for the time
being, allow for the production of required information. There are discrepancies at times between the
reports issued by the different units of the technical departments, i.e. discrepancy between the technical
studies unit and the disbursement unit records and reports. These are mainly due to the absence of a
software application that allows the integration of the information between procurement and contract
management on one hand and budgets and payments on the other.
The Bank mission has recommended the installation of an appropriate management information system
that allows the integration of all information: financial, procurement, and physical indicators of project
progress, as well as any other information project management would require. Two options were
suggested: (i) to contact the higher education project management and/or the health project management
to see if the samne application can be adopted with some adaptation (since both projects appear to have
applications that integrate all project information and are capable of producing PMRs); or (ii) assess other
application possibilities and adopt/develop what is needed and appropriate for the PAQSET. The
installation, training of staff who will be using the software, and generation of first report to be submitted
to the Bank should be done not later than July 31, 2001.
2.   Audit arrangements
The annual audit is performed by the contr6le general des finances (CGF), an entity of the Ministere des
Finances (Ministry of Finance). Their audit has been satisfactory to the Bank. It meets all Bank audit
reporting requirements. The same entity will be auditing the PAQSET project including the project
management reports when these are issued semi-annually.  Auditors perform  the audit of the
disbursement unit records and the BCT's records of SA and replenishment requests.
In addition, the project is audited by the Cour des comptes from time to time based on documentation
received from the MoE annually.
3.   Disbursement arrangements
Special account [SA]:
To facilitate the management of funds, the GRT will establish a SA in the BCT, to be operated by MoE
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank would, upon request, make authorized
allocation of US$9 million. Initially, the allocation would be limited to US$2 million and until disbursed
and committed amounts reach US$10 million. Replenishment applications would be submitted on a
monthly basis, or when about 33 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs first.
The replenishment applications would be supported by a bank statement of the SA and a reconciliation
bank statement of the SA against IBRD records.



Annex 6
Page 8 of 9
The SA kept at the BCT will be managed by the project management unit. Records, reconciliation, and
documentation for withdrawal are maintained and prepared by the disbursement unit. Once clearance for
payment is given by the technical units, the disbursement unit reviews the supporting documentation to
ensure the financial control and prepares payment orders. These are then sent along with the supporting
documentation to the BCT for payments. The BCT performs its own verification of the supporting
documentation and eligibility of the expenditures, and proceeds with the payment. The BCT also sends
requests to the Bank for replenishment of the SA as needed, using traditional disbursement methods of
SOEs and SA replenishment as specified in this section. The SA is audited annually by the CGF. The
audit report should be submitted to the Bank for review within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
As stated above, the GRT does not intend to use PMRs for disbursements, they will be using the
traditional disbursement methods of SOEs and SA replenishment same arrangements as for the PAES.
Use of statements of expenditures [SOEs]:
Disbursement for contacts valued at less than US$1.0 million for works, US$500,000 for goods,
US$100,000 with consulting finns, and US$ 50,000 with individual consultants and training activities,
would be made on the basis of SOEs.
4.   Conclusion and recommendation
The financial management assessment undertaken during the pre-appraisal/appraisal mission covered the
current project (PAES) accounting, its internal control system, its financial management organization
structure, the audit arrangements in place, and the information and reporting system. The current system
meets the Bank's minimum financial management requirements and project board presentation conditions.
It has an adequate accounting and internal control system in place and satisfactory audit arrangements.
This allows them to continue disbursement based on Bank's traditional disbursement methods. The GRT
has decided not to adopt the PMR-based disbursement at the time being, and thus the traditional
disbursement will be used. However, to improve the system the project management need to consider (i)
increasing the capacity of the disbursement unit by appointing (before the end of 2000) at least one
additional person qualified in financial management; and (ii) installing an integrated management
information system that can, among other things, produce project management reports, in addition to
providing the necessary hardware and training to staff to use the new MIS. The new MIS should be up
and running no later than July 31, 2001.
The Bank mission notes that the MoE is currently engaging in the implementation of both actions. The
first action: hiring an additional staff qualified in financial management, is currently underway. The
second action of installing an integrated MIS is also underway and options are under consideration.



Annex 6
Page 9 of 9
Annex 6(C) Financial Management Action Plan
To improve the financial management arrangements and produce project management reports, the DGSC
will undertake the following actions:
Recruit an additional financial management staff for the Disbursement Unit and before the end of 2000.
Install not later than July 31, 2001, an adequate financial management system that will allow the
integration of all project infonration: financial, procurement and of physical progress/indicators. This
will also entail the preparation of reports for the Bank's reporting requirements, the training of staff who
will be using the new MIS, and the provision of the necessary hardware for use by units involved in
maintaining and using the system. The first report should be generated by the new MIS and submitted to
the Bank not later than July 31, 200 1.



ANNEX 6(C): LACI Certification                                             4-B
Tunisia PAQSET
Report on the Assessment of the PMR-based Disbursements
Ineligiblefor PMR -based Disbursements at Appraisal Stage
Part 1: Financial Management System
I have reviewed the financial ;narnagement svstem relating to this project. The objective of the
review was to determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial rmanage nent
system as required by the Administrator under OP/BP 10.02.
MEy review, which included visits to the project implementing agency, was based on he Bank
g-uideiines for "Review of Financial Management Svstem," and focused on the assessr,ent or he
project accounting system, internal control, planning, budgering and financial repormng system,
selection of an auditor, and the format and contents of the Project Management Resort (PR) to
be submitted by the Borrower in support of Withdrawal applications.
I confirm that the project sais-fies the Bank's minimum fimanc;al management requirements.
However, in my opinion, the project does not have in place an adequate project tmanciai
management system that could provide, with reasonable assurance. accurate and timne,;
Informatron on the status of `he project as required by the Bank tor PN4R-based disbuzsements.
During my review, I observed some inadequacies in the system: however, they are nor serious
enough to withhold certification. I have detailed in the attachm. ent the inadequacies It r ound
in the svstem, and included an. action plan for remedying the situation that was agreetd xon with
the Borrower.
Signed bv:
Finarncial Management      -
Soecalist                                                Anril "A. 2000
(FMS-OPR)               Ra.ika Chaouai, MN-SI                    Date
Part II: Procurement/Contract Management System
I have reviewed the orocurement/contract management system relating to this project. including
the format and content of the section on Project Management Reports (PMNRs) on proczen'ent
monitoring. The objective or the review was to determine whether the procurement/contract
management system adopted bv the project confirms to the Bank guidelines for procurement in
investment projects. My review.v was based on the "Assessment of Agency's Capacit to
Implement Project Procurement. Setting of Prior Review Thresholds and Procurement
Supervision Plan" guidelines issued by the Bank.
I certify that the project has in place a procurement/contract management system that can provide
the appropriate data on major procurement and contract management (PMR - Section i) as
required by the Bank.
During my review, I observed some inadequacies in the system; however, they are not serious
enough to withhold certification. I have detaii,ed these inadecuacies in the attachment, and
included an action plan for remedying theLtua;ion that was agreed upon with the Borrower.
Signed bv:                             /
Procurement Specialist                v                         April 24. 2000
Ch aist/ia tey,    /                     Date



Part HI: Physical Monitorable Indicators and Overall Assessment
I have reviewed the project system for monitoring physical implementation progress, including its
monitorable indicators for major outputs, and certify that the system can provide the appropriate
data on physical progress (PNM - section 2) as required by the Bank.
During my review, I observed some inadequacies in the system; however, they are not serious
enough to withhold certification. I have detailed these inadequacies in the attachment, and
included an action plan for rerredying the situation that was agreed upon with the Borrower.
Signed by:
Task Team Leader                                        April 24. 2000
Benoit Millot, MN >S                     Date
Part IV: Concurrence of LOA for Eligibility of Project for PMR-Based Disbursements
I have conducted a reasonable review of the process followed by the Task Team in assessing the
project, and I concur with its recommendation that this project is not eligible for PIv2R-Based
Disbursements.
Signed by:                                 -
F-MS- OA/DO                Andrina Ambrose                   Date
' L clo






Annex 7
Page 1 of 1
Project Processing Schedule
TUNISIA: Education Quality Improvement Program (EQIP)
Project Schedule                               Planned             Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                        7
First Bank mission (identification)            09/15/98           09/15/98
Appraisal mission departure                    03/06/2000         03/06/2000
Negotiations                                   05/01/2000         05/08/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  01/01/2001
Prepared by:
Ministry of Education [MoE]
Preparation assistance:
PHRD No. TF022632
PHRD No. TF025667
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                       Speciality
Dominique BICHARA                    Counsel
Hocine CHALAL                        Environment Specialist
Rafika CHAOUALI                      Financial Specialist
Pierre DEVAUD                        Architect (Consultant)
Hala KHATTAR                         Financial Specialist
Marie KHOURY                         Disbursement Specialist
Benoit MILLOT                        Team Leader
Meskerem MULATU                      Human Resource Specialist
Karine PEZZANI                       Language Program Assistant
Christian REY                        Principal Operations Officer
Georges SOLAUX                       Education Specialist (Consultant)
Alexandria VALERIO                   Economist
Claire VOLTAIRE                      Operations Officer
Jeffrey WAITE                        Education Specialist
Christine WONG                       Procurement Assistant






Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
Documents in the Project File*
TUNISIA: Education Quality Improvement Program (EQIP)
A. Project Implementation Plan
Tunisian Ministry of Education, 2000, PAQSET Project Implementation Plan / Manuel
d'execution du Programme d'amelioration de la qualite du systeme educatif tunisien
B. Bank Staff Assessments
World Bank, 1993, Getting Results: The World Bank's Agenda for Improving Development
Effectiveness ["Wapenhans Report"]
World Bank, 1998-2000, Aide-memoire de la mission de la Banque mondiale relatif au PAQSET.
decembre 1998, avril 1999, juillet 1999, novembre 1999, mars 2000
World Bank, 1998, Performance Audit Report: Tunisia: Education and Training Project
World Bank, 1998, Le developpement a long terme du systeme educatif tunisien
World Bank, 1999, Education in the Middle East and North Africa: A Strategy Towards learning
for Development
World Bank, 1999, Reflexions sommaires sur la situation scolaire en Tunisie
World Bank, 1999, Note sommaire sur un probkme complexe
World Bank, 1999, Continued Improvements in Basic Education: Causes of High Repetition and
Dropout Rates in Grade 6
World Bank, 1999, Project Concept Document
World Bank, 2000, Le Systeme educatif tunisien: orientations strategiques (MNSHD Discussion
Paper Series No. 5)
C. Other
Altet, Marguerite & M. Develay, 2000, Etude sur la strategie de formation continue des
enseignants (PHRD 22632)
Auger, Rejean, 2000, Les Examens officiels (PHRD 22632)
Ben Sedrine, Said & A. Mahjoub, 2000, Ebauche du cadre d'action strategique de promotion de
la qualite de lI'ducation et de la reussite scolaire: synthese et bibliographie des etudes sur le
systeme educatif(PHRD 22632)
European Union, 1998, Note on Education Sector
Ginestie, Jacques, 2000, Programme d'introduction des technologies dinformation et de
communication dans l'enseignement : 2001-2006 (PHRD 22632)
Glewwe, Paul, 1996, "The Relevance of Standard Estimates of Rates of Return to Schooling for
Educational Policy: A Critical Assessment" Journal of Development Economics 51, pp. 267-290
Hanushek, Eric & D. Kim, 1995, Schooling. Labor Force Quality and Economic Growth
Working Paper No. 5399. Cambridge, MA: National Bureau of Economic Research
Jolliffe, Dean, 1998, "Skills, Schooling, and Household Income in Ghana" The World Bank
Economic Review 12, (1) pp. 81-104
Ktari, Mohsen, J-P. Jarousse & G. Solaux, 1997, Rapport intermediaire sur le rendement interne
du premier cycle de l1enseignement de base
Laurier, Michel, 2000, Le Contr6le continu (PHRD 22632)



Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
Levesque, Marcienne, 2000, Etude sur la formation initiale et continue des personnels de
l'encadrement pedagogique du 2eme cycle de lenseignement de base et des Iycees en Tunisie
(PHRD 22632, February 2000)
Mete, Cem, 1999, The Determinants of Primary-Leaving Examination Score in Tunisia: How
Important is the Student's School Performance?
Mete, Cem, 2000, The Implication of Highly Selective Promotion Practices for Educational
Efficiency and Equity: Who Drops Out, Who Repeats and Why? The Case of Tunisia 2000,
Solaux, Georges, 1996, Rapport sur le secteur educatif tunisien
Tunisian Minister of Education (former), 1998, Principales reformes realis&es ou initiees au
ministere de l'Education entre octobre 1997 etfivrier 1999
Tunisian Ministry of Education (with the World Bank), 1998, Actes des journeees d'etude sur
l'Ecole de demain
Tunisian Ministry of Education, 1999, Actes du colloque international: l'approche par les
competences au service d'une education de qualite pour tous
Tunisian Ministry of Education, 1999, Les Competences de base a l'ecole: guide de l'enseignant
Tunisian Ministry of Education, 2000, Statistiques scolaires 1999-2000: premier cycle de
l'enseignment de base
Tunisian Ministry of Education, 2000, Statistiques scolaires 1999-2000: 2eme cycle de
l'enseignment de base et l'enseignment secondaire
*Including electronic files



Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
Statement of Loans and Credits
TUNISIA: Education Quality Improvement Program (EQIP)
Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions           and actual
disbursementsa
Project ID   FY  Borrower    Purpose                                      IBRD       IDA      Cancel.    Undisb.      Oig    Frm Rev'd
P005745   1996 Tunisia        2ND EMPL. & TRG.                            60.00      0.00      0.00       41.01     19.53        0.00
P005733   1994 Tunisia        DEV.OF MTS NW REGION                        27.50      0.00      1.48        3.48      3.05        1.16
P005741    1998 Tunisia       HIGHER EDUC. Il                              80.00     0.00      0.00       69.59      7.26        0.00
P005726   1992 Tunisia        HIGHER EDUCATION                            75.00      0.00      0.00       28.24     32.40       17.40
P046832    1997 Tunisia       MUNICIPAL DEV. II                           80.00      0.00      0.00       25.94      7.39        0.00
P005736   1997 Tunisia        NATURAL RESOURCE MGM                        26.50      0.00      0.00       20.98      6.01        0.00
P005749   1995 Tunisia        RURAL ROADS                                 51.50      0.00      0.00        5.54     -4.79        0.00
P005725    1993 Tunisia       SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT                 69.00      0.00      3.40       33.06     24.49       -1.34
P005743   1995 Tunisia        SECONDARY EDUCATION                         98.30      0.00      0.00       27.32    29.66         0.00
P005721    1994 Tunisia       TN-AGRICULTURAL SEC INV                     120.00     0.00      0.00        5.11      6.34       -3.26
P050418   1998 Tunisia        TN-ASIL 2                                   42.00      0.00      0.00       22.99     15.05        0.00
P053255   1999 Tunisia        TN-ECAL II                                  159.00     0.00      0.00       67.64      8.16        0.00
P055814   1999 Tunisia        TN-EXPORT DEVELOPMENT                       35.00      0.00      0.00       34.65      4.65        0.00
P005731    1997 Tunisia       TN-GREATER TUNIS SEWERAGE                   60.00      0.00      0.00       48.68     11.66        0.00
P005746   1998 Tunisia        TN-HEALTH SECTOR LOAN                        50.00     0.00      0.00       43.06     18.41        0.00
P040208   1996 Tunisia        TN-INDUSTRY SUPPORT INSTITUTION             38.70      0.00      0.00       26.56     16.16        0.00
P005748    1994 Tunisia       TN-PRIVATE INVESTMENT CREDIT                120.00     0.00      0.23        4.56      5.41        5.18
P005720   1995 Tunisia        TN-RURAL FINANCE                            65.00      0.00      0.00       30.68     30.68        6.43
P005680   1995 Tunisia        TN-WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE                58.00      0.00      0.00       18.13     10.39        0.00
P043700   1998 Tunisia        TRANSPORT SECTOR INV                        50.00      0.00      0.00       31.28     22.89        0.00
Total:           1365.50      0.00      5.11      588.50   274.80        2S.57



Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 02/29/2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                    Disbursed
IFC                         IFC
FY Approval  Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi Partic
1998/00      BIAT            0.00    0.32    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.29    0.00   0.00
1993        Ideal Sanitaire    0.00    1.02   0.00   0.00    0.00    1.02    0.00   0.00
1995         Maghreb IM Bank 0.00   0.33    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.33    0.00   0.00
1986/92/98    SITEX          0.00    0.77    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.77    0.00   0.00
1973/75      Sousse-Nord     0.00    0.59    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.59    0.00   0.00
1998         Tuninvest       0.00    4.64    0.00   0.00    0.00    2.36    0.00   0.00
Total Portfolio:   0.00    7.67    0.00   0.00   0.00    5.36    0.00   0.00
ovals Pending Commitment
FY Approval            Company                  Loan   Equity   Quasi        Partic
Total Pending             0.00    0.00    0.00        0.00
Conmmitment:



Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
Country at a Glance
TUNISIA: Education Quality Improvement Program (EQIP)
M, East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          & North   middWe
Tunisia    Africa   Income      Development diamond'
1998
Population. mid-year (rnflions)                       9.4       285       908                  Life expectancy
GNP percapita (Atlas method, US$)                   2,050      2,050     1,710
GNP fAlls method. US$ bilions)                        19.2      586      1.557
Average annual growth, 1992-95
Population (%)                                        1.6        2.2       1.1
Labor force (56)                                      2,9        3.0       1.5     GNP                  "           Gross
per                            primary
Most recontestirrnte tiatest yearavalable, 1'99 l)                               capita       \    /          enrollment
Povwerty (5 of population beow national poverty line)   -
Uroan populaton (% of totfapopulation)                 64        5g        S8                       1
Lifte expectancy at birth (years)                      70        67        68
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live it)                   30        49        38
Child malnutfrition-P of chl7dren under 5)              9        14         ..               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% ofpopulation)                  90        81        7S
fliteracy (% of populatin age 15+)                    33        3S        14               .n.
Gross primaryenrollment t%ofschoolaepopulation)       117        96       103          Tunsia
mate                                                120       103       105              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              113        a9       100 .
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      11Sb
Economic ratios'
GOP (IUSS biflions)                          5.1      9.7       18.9      20.0
Gross domestic investmentlGDP               30.5     23,5       26.7      27.5                     Trade
Exports of goods and sertices/GDP           29.6     34.8       43.9      42T4
Gross domestic savings/G)P                  22.1     22.5       24.2      24C3
Gross national savings/GDP                  21.6     22.0       23.4      241                        T
Current account balancelGOP                  -9.3     -1.0      -3.1      -3.4     D
Interest paymnents/GDP                       13       3.6        2.        2.4     Domestc
Total debtfGDP                              43;7     70.3       59.9      51.8     Savings                      ne n
Totaldebtservicetexports                    10,6     28.3       15J7      15.0
Present value of debtWGDP                      ..       .       55.17
Present value of debt/exports                 ..        ...117.0
Indebtedness
197747  198w-98     1997       1998   19S943
(rage annual gfowlh)
GDP                                 4.4      4.6      6.4        5.0       6.1         - Tunisia
GNP per capita                      1.6      2.7      4.5        3.6       4.4               Lower-middle-income group
Export of goods and services        3,2      4.8     10.5       387        5.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment(%)
(% of GDP)                                                                         30
Agriculture                                 15.8      16.5      13.3      12.4    20
Industry                                    25.7     29.5       28.5      28.4
Manufacturing                              10.6     15.1      18.4      18.2      0
Services                                    58.4     54.1       58.2      59.2     0s
Private consumption                         61.7     60.6       62.8      62.7    .20
General govemment consumption               16.2      16.9      13.0      13.0         . .. GDI    --GDP
Imports of goods and services               38.0     35.8       46.4     45.6        _
1977-87  1988-98      1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  3.7      4.4        2.9      -1.0   'i
Industry                                     4.6      4.6        5.6       4.9    10
Manufacturing                               7.9      6.1       7.1       3.6      .              .
Services                                     4.5      2.1        6.1       6.4 s
Private consumpton                           5.1      4.5        4.0       5.2    o     _.   ___  __,__
General govemment consumption                5.5      1.8        6.6       3.6      .    93   94       5         97   9S
Gross domestic investment                    0.3      5.5        5.6       6.1    -5
Imports of goods and services                2.2      4.1        8.9       4.2            -s xports    O4"--lmports
Gross national product                       4.3      4.6        6.0       5.5
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data ame missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
Tunisia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1977     1987       1997     1998      Inflation (%)
(% change)
Consumer prices                               6.7      8.2        3.7       3.1     9
Implicit GDP deflator                         9.7      5.2        4.0       3.6     4 -
Government finance                                                                 2
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 o        -
Current revenue                                 ..    28.3       28.7      29.3            93    94    95   99    97    95
Current budget balance                           -     4.9        3.4       4-5              -GDP deflator 5         CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -3.0        -3.9      -2.4
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1977     1987       1997     1998      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                           928    2,137      5,559     5,722     10.000
Fuel                                        389      505        503       367
Agriculture                                  52       166       277       193      8,000
Manufactures                                434    1,431      3,680     3,804      6,000
Total imports (cif)                         1,824    3,028      7,951     8,317     4         i000
Food                                        216      312        691       692
Fuel and energy                             198      318        597       396     2.000
Capital goods                               540      520      1,724     1,917        o
92  93  94  95  95  97  98
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..       69        108      105
Import priceindex (1995=100)                    ..      68        107      107               r Exports     Nlnpnorts
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..    100          101       98
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977    1987      1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US$ mnillions)                                                           
Exports of goods and services               1,511    3,377      8,164     8,479      0
Imports of goods and services               1,942    3,473      8,688     9,077                    IZi
Resource balance                             -431      -96       -524     -598                      1 1          E
Net income                                   -199     -486       -860      -857     -4             U
Net current transfers                           -         -       791      780
Current account balance                      -474      -98       -593     -875
Financing items (net)                         437      215        711      601
Changes in net reserves                        37    -116        -118       74    Ino
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$millions)          ..    616        1,988     1,851
Conversion rate (DEC, locaU1US$)              0.4       0.8       1.1       1.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        2,233    6,817     11,323    10,341
IBRD                                        167    1,052      1,434     1,450                G 1,110    A: 1450
IDA                                          67       63        45        43                     1      A 1
Total debt service                            180    1,105      1,413     1,401                                     C:129
IBRD                                         23      177       275       268
IDA                                           3        2          3        2
Composition of net resource flows                                                    F: 2,655
Official grants                              32       85        134       82                                      D :1,988
Official creditors                          312      129        105     -145
Private creditors                           351     -120       587         6
Foreign direct investment                    93       92       316       697
Portfolio equity                              0        0          0        0                        E: 2,966
World Bank program
Commitments                                  78      200        167      222      A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                53      166        127      133    BB-IDA      D- Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                         12      100        175      180      C-IMF                         G - Short-term
Net flows                                    41       66        -48      -47
Interest payments                            14       79       103        90
Net transfers                                27      -13       -151     -137
Development Economics                                                                                                  918199



Annex I 1
Page 1 of 7
GOVERNMENT'S SECTOR POLICY LETTER
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
from the
Minister of Education
to the
Vice President of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development
SUBJECT: Sector Policy Letter
Since independence, Tunisia has made human resources a central thrust of its
development strategy. This choice has proved even more critical now that, with the completion
of the structural adjustment program in 1994, our country has started adopting market
mechanisms and is progressively opening up to the global economy. Membership of GATT and
the conclusion of an association agreement with the European Union, while confirming our
choice of economic liberalization and openness, inevitably have implications for the economy
and for social cohesion. Liberalization, even gradual, poses a new set of challenges for
economic transformation: on the one hand, the policy of privatization and of opening up to
international competition, and on the other, the push to acquire external markets (as well as the
necessary development of competition), are new and crucial elements that cannot be pursued
without a high level of human resources.
Our aim is that, at the start of the Tenth Economic Development Plan (2002-2006), the
modernization program, established and under implementation since September 1995, will
improve the productivity of the factors of production (which are expected to account for 40
percent of the growth in unit production) and will provide for a more efficient management of
the economy. The current process of restructuring and modernizing all sectors of the economy,
including the public administration sector, should enable the country to withstand economic
liberalization and provide its economy with a greater level of competitiveness, both domestically
and internationally.
The new market economy requires a solid economic foundation, and a capacity for
innovation and creativity that cannot be developed except through a more responsive national
education and training system, open to the most up-to-date knowledge and technologies.
Penetration by the global market calls not only for good governance of resources, but also for
substantial investment in programs that adapt and update qualifications.
THE TUNISIAN EDUCATION SYSTEM: Context and Challenges
Tunisia has since independence allocated a sizable share of the budget to the education
sector, in line with its vision of development as being reliant on human resources playing an
active role; and considers it as much an economic necessity as a social duty that the efforts
expended on education result in qualifications that consolidate the country's development.



Annex 11
Page 2 of 7
Because competitiveness is unsustainable without the participation of the largest possible
proportion of the population, the State defined several priorities for the major reforms undertaken
in 1958 and 1991. The most important of these were, first, to provide everyone with access to
basic education, in the spirit of equity; and second, to develop human resources able to tackle the
difficulties of economic and social development, through a system of quality education and
training. The appropriateness of these priorities is underlined by the remarkable level of
educational performance achieved since independence and by the social development indicators
values attained over the last decade.
Before the 1958 reform, the Tunisian education system, then run by a range of groups
and organizations, reached only one-third of school-aged children. Of a total number of 840,000
children, only 290,000 were actually schooled. The pre-reform education system therefore
denied an education to 550,000 children. This doubtless explains why today, 40 years later, a
policy actively promoting education for all is not simply an ideological choice. For a country
which regained its identity and independence to allocate one-third of its budget to developing its
human resources and building up a qualified population shows a determination to use education
and training as a means of societal renewal.
The Minister of Education is responsible for the entire public education system, which
accommodates more than 2.3 million students in basic and secondary education out of a total
population of 10 million. Today, 25 percent of the total population is educated, and Tunisia has
4441 primary schools (2679 of which are located in rural areas) as well as 985 colleges and
secondary schools. An annual average of 40 newly constructed schools allows the State to
develop and expand the educational infrastructure and to therefore improve working and
teaching conditions.
Although the once exponential enrollment rates that occurred in Grade 1 (and which
continue moving on through the upper grades) are now declining due to the recent reduction in
the birth rate, the number of students continues to grow in both colleges and secondary schools.
A detailed analysis of the school population provides some lessons: new enrollment data show a
reduction in the number of lower basic students, expected to continue until at least 2005-2006.
These new enrollments numbered 196,190 in September 2000 and will be 163,130 in September
2005. This reduction is correlated with the birth rate which has been in steady decline (211,600
in 1992, 163,800 in 2000, and 159,900 in 2005). The number of lower basic students, in
noticeable decline, was 1,403,729 in 1999-2000 and will further reduce to 1,176,645 by 2005-
2006.
In contrast, the number of upper basic students, who numbered 555,114 in 1999-2000,
will be 656,688 in 2005-2006, giving an annual growth rate of 2.8 percent. Secondary education
is progressing at an average annual rate of 8.3 percent. In 1999-2000, there were 353,134
students, with the number projected for 2005-2006 being 571,335.
The goals set for improving secondary education in both quantitative and qualitative
terms require that solutions be found to manage the ever-increasing inflow of students. Unlike
basic education, secondary education is undergoing massification due essentially to improved
progression rates at lower levels of the system.



Annex 1 1
Page 3 of 7
These facts highlight the extent to which pressure is building on the upper levels of the
education system -- exacerbated moreover by having a series of ambitious goals that arose from
a process of thinking around the shape of the "school of tomorrow". These goals involve
establishing learning objectives that will enable graduates to deal with the information age,
globalization and Tunisia's transition to the status of "emerging nation". The goals of
generalizing computing and Internet access to every school by the end of 2004, as well as that of
reaching an 80 percent pass rate at the end of Grade 9, give a glimpse of the challenges facing
the Tunisian education system.
Despite the fact that these challenges are considerable, the basis and principles guiding
the education system, which have been reaffirmed during every reform, remain completely
unchanged: free education for all, compulsory schooling for 6- to 1 6-year-olds, links to the
outside world, diversity of curricula and subject areas, acquisition and mastery of technology,
mathematics, and languages.
GENERAL DIRECTION AND STRATEGY FOR THE FUTURE
Having achieved numerous successes in quantitative terms, the Tunisian education
system can not overlook the qualitative problems that have been created in large part by these
same successes, as well as by the general progress of our society. The questions here are legion.
How to deal with the different learning speeds and the diversity within classrooms that have
resulted from keeping children in school until age 16, at a time when knowledge and workplace
practices are constantly changing? To what degree should new information technologies be part
of the school of tomorrow? What new role should teacher trainers, principals, inspectors and
administrators play? Which teaching methods should be used and which learning goals should
be pursued with students? How to use evaluation to increase the internal efficiency of the
education system, and to improve student, teacher, and institutional performances? How to run
an education system that relies on active participation and focuses on promoting success rather
than eliminating failure? What could be the role of the research in updating knowledge, and in
establishing performance indicators and new teaching practices? How to regulate student flows
by controlling progression and developing a system of forecasting that uses education system
data ? How to guarantee both the correct application of educational interventions and the
optimal conditions and environment for learning?
The decision to apply the "core competencies" method throughout Grades 1 to 9 will
require that teachers' attitudes and behaviors change and that a culture of training and assessment-
become the norm, something for which the Tunisian education system will need preparation.
The current problems with effectiveness, efficiency, and the quality of learning achievement call
for actions to improve teaching methods, curricula, and educational materials, as well as internal
efficiency.
Increased progression rates (associated with falling repetition and drop-out rates) will
give rise to improved student flows within the system, with numbers of course growing as the
rates rise. The main result will be broader access, with new population groups gaining entry to



Annex 1 1
Page 4 of 7
levels of the education system from which they were hitherto excluded. The arrival of these new
groups will necessitate improved management techniques, at both the basic and post-basic levels.
For these reasons, the Ministry of Education intends implementing the PAQSET project,
in collaboration with the World Bank. In line with the national modernization strategy, the
project aims to promote quality and excellence, and to reduce school failure. The project has two
components: the first targets the learning experience by updating learning methods and tools; the
second treats the system holistically, improving school performance. Due to being in 2001, the
project comprises eight sub-components built around two main themes: first, the physical and
pedagogical environment in which students are educated, and second, the management and
evaluation of the system as a whole.
PAQSET has multiple goals: (i) reduce school failure, (ii) develop child-centered
learning, (iii) adapt curriculum content, (iv) encourage different learning styles, (v) improve the
efficiency of classroom teaching practices, (vi) provide direct assistance to students in difficulty,
(vii) improve dialogue within school, (viii) reduce inter-regional and inter-school disparities, (ix)
instill a culture of school-based development, (x) professionalize teachers, principals, inspectors
and administrative staff, (xi) strengthen research, (xii) regulate student flows, and (xiii) construct
appropriate learning environments and good conditions for the oversight of the education system.
With this in mind, the Government established priority actions in September 1999, which
are currently being implemented. These actions, which relate to lower basic education, include:
gradually expanding the "core competencies" method (with formative assessment
practices) throughout lower basic education;
establishing mini-cycles at the lower basic level, to enable the elimination of class
repetition within the mini-cycles and improve learning achievement;
improving learning conditions in schools through a lowering of the student-class ratio
(starting with the graduating classes -- Grades 6, 9 and 13) and a reduction in the number
of classes (i.e. eliminating triple-shift classes during 1999-2000 and creating single-shift
classes where there are fifteen or more students);
establishing a specific program for the education priority zones, identifying these zones
in 2000, drawing up a map and developing an action plan.
These actions are part of a process of reform that will eventually extend to all levels of
the education system; their success will determine the nature and extent of future reforms in
secondary education.
Improving the quality of education (with a view to ensuring success for all) requires a
strategy of change founded in educational innovation involving (i) the learning process (content,
method, and organization), (ii) the training of those involved in these innovations, notably
teachers and inspectors, (iii) school-based management (charters, development of a culture of
innovation), and (iv) the improvement of learning conditions and student support systems.



Annex I I
Page 5 of 7
This strategy consists of:
implementing teaching methods focused on promoting success, enabling students to
acquire, in a sustainable way, knowledge and skills that reinforce their autonomy, widen
their horizons and develop (a) general communication and problem-solving skills, and (b)
subject-specific skills;
improving student support systems and develop in students a sense of citizenship founded
on values and attitudes of tolerance and cooperation;
ensuring that schools give all students equal access to basic knowledge and skills,
irrespective of their level of material well-being, intrinsic aptitude or geographical
location.
At the heart of this process of transforming the education system lies the pre-service and
in-service training of teachers, principals, inspectors and administrators aimed at improving their
skills. Improving education quality requires that the roles of teacher, principal, inspector, and
administrator all be better structured. These adult roles in the education system are critical to
school performance, to instilling a culture of school-based development, and to the success of
every innovative process. The quality of the education system also depends on the attitudes and
qualifications of inspectors and administrators. The principal, vice-principal and other
administrators, as well as inspectors and supervisors, are instrumental in the was a school
functions internally; and can influence students' learning by their attitudes and behavior. For this
reason, increasing the professional skills of these supervisory staff (in pedagogy, management
and leadership) is an important means of enhancing the education system.
Developing a culture of systematic evaluation of students, teachers and schools will also
ensure improvements in the education system. Evaluation enables (i) the internal efficiency of
the system to be measured and corrected, (ii) any dysfunction to be detected at all levels, and as a
result, (iii) investments to yield optimal returns.
In relation to students, assessment must focus on recognizing learning achievement,
diagnosing shortcomings and proposing remedial actions, and must be linked to the new teaching
methods (core competencies and differential learning styles), if the latter are to succeed in
improving teaching quality and reducing school failure. In short, the Tunisian education system
must abandon the logic of normative assessment and the principle of selection by failure.
With respect to teachers, the 60,000 or so lower basic teachers are supervised and
evaluated by 400 inspectors and some 800 teaching assistants; and the 37,000 secondary teachers
by 220 inspectors and 250 teaching counselors. It is clear that assessing teachers is critical to an
understanding of their performance as professionals, and requires the evaluators to treat such
exercises as formative assessments. Indeed, with the aim of encouraging teachers to become
more involved in the learning process and more receptive to innovation, teacher assessment
should encourage and support teachers' efforts, helping them to adjust their teaching practices to
the needs of a diverse student population. Assessment should also stimulate teachers by opening



Annex 1 1
Page 6 of 7
up new areas for action and reflection, and by orienting them towards practical experiments and
innovative training.
At the school and institutional level, the education system can no longer make do with
general impressions based on aggregate indicators. The development of a series of more
qualitative performance indicators will reinforce efforts undertaken to (i) promote and monitor
the health of the school environment, (ii) provide an educational scoreboard, and (iii) design and
implement an information management system. Thus, any institutional response must include
the development of modem and effective school performance indicators, if it is to support
current efforts to renovate the education system.
One of the purposes of schooling is to help students understand and keep pace with
change. In this respect, schools must keep up with technological changes and close any gap that
may occur between the rate of technological advance and the learning calendar. Information
and communication technologies should be approached and used as tools to optimally access and
integrate the most up-to-date knowledge and experiences. Effort is therefore being put into the
development of an information technology culture from the first years of schooling, through the
expansion of information technology as a subject and its use as a work tool and learning aid. All
students, regardless of their level of studies, will have access to digital resources via Edunet and
Internet, and will be able to take experimental courses that integrate digital technologies into the
various subject areas.
In order to better understand the impact that its new policies are having on student
achievement (and, where necessary, to improve upon them), the Government will have a series
of reliable and valid data relating not only to the students themselves, but also to their teachers
and schools. A research institute has an important role to play here. The National Institute of
Educational Research (INSE) is responsible for evaluating curricula and teaching methods, and
to promote educational research. INSE will be restructured so as to be more responsive to the
priority needs of the Tunisian education system in the areas of research and evaluation, and to be
more effective in managing research requests that come from the Ministry of Education and
other agencies. The aim is to use the results of INSE's studies and thinkpieces to adjust
educational policy and enable schools to improve their practices, and following on from that,
their results.
Unless accompanied by a program of construction and equipment acquisition, the
accomplishments involved in expanding school access and opting for a success-oriented teaching
method could weaken the effectiveness of the school system. Achieving effectiveness will not
be possible unless school infrastructures are developed at the same time as investments are made
in updating curricula and training teachers. In particular, quantitative and qualitative
improvements necessitate an increase in student places, as well as new ways of managing the
ever-growing numbers of students passing through both the upper basic and secondary levels of
education.
The Ministry of Education is trying to increase student places and to modernize existing
educational space by acquiring functional furniture that is adapted to the objectives of a
remodeled educational system. In short, the Ministry is equipping schools with the infrastructure



Annex 11
Page 7 of 7
necessary for good teaching. Finally, in line with the aims of education, a range of schools will
need to be provided with the means to promote children's physical and social development,
through the fitting-out of spaces for physical education, cultural activities, etc.
The State continues to assume responsibility for the entire education system. Managing a
sector that caters for one quarter of the population constitutes however a heavy load. Despite a
willingness to decentralize responsibility to local representatives of the national administration,
public education remains quite strongly centralized. Although the Ministry of Education has
maintained responsibility for public education, it is aiming to transfer part of its powers (in the
areas of school management and administration) to regional and local educational structures.
Increasing the accountability of the various players within the education system also requires a
reorganization of the school as an institution, one which determines the areas of responsibility
that could be handed over to the school itself, whether administrative (e.g. setting school hours)
or pedagogical (e.g. delivering the curricula). Schools themselves would eventually be required
to draw up a school charter, which would give them a certain level of freedom to strengthen
relations with local institutions and to increase school autonomy and innovation.
The main goal of the PAQSET project is to support the implementation of reforms
adopted or planned by the Ministry of Education with the aim of continuing to improve the
quality and effectiveness of the Tunisian education system. The project will cover every area
discussed in this sector policy letter. The framework for action would be built around the
various dimensions of the system, whether (i) institutional, administrative, or educational; (ii)
human, financial or physical; or (iii) related to the school environment or socio-economic
context. These dimensions will be treated in an integrated fashion, so as to ensure that all aspects
of the project are covered and that the synergies between the different sub-components are
captured.
The project will be spread over two phases within an APL framework. In 2004,
PAQSET I will be subject to an initial evaluation; at the same time, the activities to be
undertaken in, and the outcomes expected of, PAQSET II will be identified in detail.
Minister of Education
Ahmed Iadh Ouederni






Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
Enviromment Review Procedures
The following procedure will apply to all sites on which a new school is to be built.
Rehabilitation within existing buildings is exempt from the procedure.
Step One: Site Selection
A list of sites eligible for school building will be established by the MOE, using school mapping
(carte scolaire). The final selection of sites will take into account the following criteria:
social criteria, including (i) land ownership status as attested by the owner (maitre d'ouvrage)
where the site is a state administered property, or (ii) in the case of the other sites, progress in
implementing land acquisition procedures based on Tunisian law, in accordance with Bank
Directive OD4.30 on involuntary ressettlement;
environmental criteria, including (i) whether the site and school are part of an approved urban
planning and land use scheme, and (ii) the date on which this scheme was approved.
Output: Summary issues document describing the abovementioned issues. Steps 2 and 3 below
relate only to those schools to be built outside areas covered by an urban planning and land use
scheme.
Step Two: Environmental and Social Review
An environment review will have to be carried out only for school sites located outside areas
covered by an approved urban planming and land use scheme. The review will assess potential
impacts of the planned construction on the environment and the local population, with particular
attention to: (i) traffic and safety issues (ii) disturbances to adjacent resident population; (iii)
immediate surrounding vegetation; (iv) potential cultural or archeological resources close to the
school site; (v) air and water pollution affecting the site; (vi) availability and impacts of providing
basic infrastructure to the site i.e. roads, electricity, potable water, wastewater sewers and
treatment, etc. The review will also put forward detailed recommendations for the introduction of
remediation measures to minimize the potentially negative impacts of building and operating the
school. A basic outline for terms of reference (TORs) for this type of review has been developed
by ANPE, and will be used for the two pilot projects to be carried out in accordance with the
dated covenant in Annex 5-B-1 of the Loan Agreement. The TORs will be included in the
Implementation Manual.
Output: An environment review for each relevant site, approved by the ANPE
Step 3: Integration of Environmental and Social Aspects into the Preparation of the Desian
Program
The winning architect will be provided with the recommendations of the environmental review
(in particular, where appropriate, those relating to relevant health issues, minimizing impacts on
existing networks, solid waste management systems, and the preservation of trees and other
vegetation), in order that they be taken into account in the architectural design.
Output: Bidding documents that include measures to mitigate environmental impacts. In the case
of the two pilot projects, the Bank will be sent the relevant environmental reviews and complete
bidding documents.
Step Four: Construction Monitoring



Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
The entity responsible for monitoring construction will ensure that the environmental and social
recommendations included in the bidding documents have been implemented by the contractor,
and to this end, will prepare three reports a year. In the case of the two pilot projects, a copy of
the monitoring reports will be forwarded to the Bank.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 24726R
le     o fv                 10-~~~~~~'    Guif of  -
MEDITERRANEAN                             Bizerte Tunis
SEA,                             <
'   ¢5          Be j a    ~~~ARIAN 1       S    t
,?JENDOULBA       BEJA          BENArous
Jendouba                    AROUS-
-          Nabeul
ElKef                  Zaghhouan.
<      JElI Kef   -             -ZAGHOUAN-I
Siliana          -       Guif of Hr nrnsmmef
36'                EL KEF                             r                        36
-36   (>  j   E  Kf       jT               g   \Sousse
ILI   '      -   - : S\        Kairouan                   n ;Monostir
LU       -                                       m -f M STIR
o                    ~~~~KAIROUAN   ~M~~SI
j  KASSERINE   .Mahdia
_  <       .                  . <  g>~~MAHDIS A
Kasserine                            AD .
_I 35e  <  /Sidi Bou                                            3s
j   ,         S I D I ~~~~~~~~~SFX         51 g K  k- e n o- h
BOU    -sian4s
/    Gafsa                                              Miskor
j  Ghcrsa GAFSA   D                -            Gulf of        Ashtart
Ghorsci  ~Chott niG1be
t .-  *    :    ;: tX.  D tab~~~F d          Gaes                     34
T zeurE)                          ~~~~~~~Ga be s
Ch o tt e    Gb e11i       GABES    ?
Medenine
-33         \           GBELLI           °ataouine
K.                         .                                    )
\,                    TATAOUINE                     C-'
TUNISIA                                                                     32
TUNISIE                             \                              A
SALT LAKES
LACS SALES               j1
GOVERNORATE CAPITALS   \.
S    CAPITALES DES                                       0   2s  50   75
GOUVERNORATS               \                         KILOMETERS
GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES                                                 31he boundarie  colors,
-   FRONTtERES DES           z                 ;   denominations and any
GOUVERNORATS                 \                 /   other information shown
NATIONAL CAPITL       on this mop do not
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                1 j implyl, on the port of
''    CAPITALE DU PAYS              f      The ~~~~~World Bank Group,
CAPITALE DU PAYS  ~ ~      ~       ,. any judgment on the legal
INTERNATIONUPALS BOUNDARSstatus of any territory,
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES   '             /          or any endorsement
FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES   \                        acceptance of such
C      C                  C       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~boundories.
3°                 9°                I0                 11
APRIL 1995



