Report No. PID9037
Project Name                     Tunisia-Education Quality Improvement (+)
Program (Programme
d'amelioration de la qualite de l'
education en Tunisie -PAQSET)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Primary Education; Secondary Education; Other
Education
Project ID                       TNPE50945
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE)
Ministere de l'Education, Tunis, Tunisia
Contact Person: Mr. Abdelkader ZGOULLI
Tel: 216 1 569 294
Fax: 216 1 569 307
Email: Zgoulli@minedu.edunet.tn
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                April 28, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         March 25, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 22, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Overall context. The Tunisian education sector compares well with those
of other countries at similar levels of development, both in the region
and elsewhere. Enrollments are high by regional standards, and male and
female students differ little in terms of access and results. The key
issues facing the Tunisian education system are: (i) promotion rates that
range a high of 89 percent between Grades 1 and 2, to a low of 67 percent
between Grades 6 and 7, with concomitantly high (although declining)
drop-out rates (1 percent in Grade 1, and 8 percent in Grade 6) and, more
particularly, repetition rates (between 10 percent in Grade 1 and 25
percent in Grade 6); (ii) uneven quality of basic education, which results
in both inefficient repetition and ill-equipped school leavers. Other
issues include the low quality of graduates from vocational training
institutions, state dominance in education provision and financing, and
growing budgetary pressures associated with greater numbers of students
completing basic and secondary education.Government strategy. The GRT
continues to place a high priority on education, and, after engaging in
thorough consultation on critical issues faced in the sector, has launched
a number of initiatives aimed at addressing these major issues, in
particular in view of reducing dropout and repetition while raising
quality. As the next step in ensuring that all children complete basic
education, presidential directives have set 2004 as the year by which at
least 80 percent of Grade 9 students will pass the end-of-year exam
(dipl¶me de fin d'etudes de l'enseignement de base). Targets have also
been set to reduce repetition and drop-out in the intervening years, so as
to approach universal completion of basic education. Recent research in
Tunisia has shown that school quality (less crowding and better educated



teachers) are related to lower dropout.The GRT's strategy to achieve an 80
percent pass rate in the Grade 9 exam, along with reductions in repetition
and drop-out in the earlier years, consists of (a) extending the
child-centered, competency-based CdB program to all ecoles primaires over
four years (2001-2004), and piloting it in twenty ecoles preparatoires;
(b) instituting two-year mini-cycles in primary, where teachers follow
students for two-year periods (Grades 1/2, 3/4, and 5/6) during which only
formative evaluation would be conducted and no intra-cycle repetition or
dropout would occur; (c) connecting all schools to the internet; (e)
identifying Zones d'Education Prioritaires [ZEPI where acute problems
exist; (d) reducing class sizes to thirty students, beginning with
schools in ZEPs; and (e) experimenting with autonomy, by having ZEP-based
schools develop a projet d'etablissement that identifies the school's
particular challenges in meeting national targets and sets out an action
plan to address those challenges. In addition, the greater use of
evaluation techniques at classroom-, school- and country-level, as well as
the participation of Tunisia in the Third International Mathematics and
Science Study-Repeat [TIMSS-R] will provide additional much-needed
information regarding education quality, and curricular content and
coverage (as well as opportunities for capacity building in educational
research).The Government is also addressing other sectoral issues by,
inter alia, converting EQTs into trade schools to continue to provide an
alternative to those students who are dropping out of general education at
the lower and upper basic education levels, and by diversifying sources of
financing through the encouragement of private provision, mostly at the
higher education level. Issues regarding the financial burden of
increasing enrollments at the post-basic education level will be dealt
with in a holistic manner during the preparation of the Xth 5-year plan.
2. Objectives
This project, the first phase of the PAQSET program, will support the
medium-term goal of the government's strategy, namely approaching
universal completion of primary schooling, by (a) promoting excellence in
teaching and learning, and (b) continuing the push for the inclusion of
all children at all levels of the basic education system.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Bank intervention in the area of quality and in fighting exclusion is
critical, as both issues come at the very forefront of the GRT's agenda.
Bank sectoral knowledge (both in Tunisia and in other national contexts),
as well as earlier and current involvement in the sector (lending and
non-lending services) make this new support highly valuable for the GRT.
The Bank has developed strong cooperative relationships with two of the
most important donors in the education sector in Tunisia, UNICEF (which
has contributed to project preparation) and the European Union (which
shares the Bank's strategic vision); the comparative strengths of the
three agencies are complementary and the collaboration ensures optimal
support for the GRT. Finally, the Bank's long-term support through a
two-phase, flexible APL is particularly valuable in a period budgetary
pressures are on the rise as a result of the considerable investments
required to accommodate the rapid expansion of enrollments in Grades 7 to
13.
4. Description
The program, as presented in the Government's Letter of Development
- 2 -



Policy, and to be supported by an Adaptable Program Loan, is structured
into two phases, which constitutes two successive projects. PAQSET I, the
first of the two projects, has two components. The first component covers
school-level interventions designed to support the GRT's efforts to
improve the quality of both the pedagogical context and the physical
surrounding in which basic education students learn, while the second
component covers system-wide reforms that help the GRT strengthen
evaluation and remediation, research and school- and regional-level
management capacities. Successful completion of the first phase,
including the development of a strategy to deal with increasing
enrollments at the secondary level will trigger the second phase of the
program.
COMPONENT 1: SCHOOL-LEVEL INTERVENTIONS
1.1 Support quality teaching innovations
1.2 Use new information and communication technologies to enhance
learning outcomes
1.3 Extend, equip and maintain school infrastructure
1.4 Reinforce in-service training capacity
COMPONENT 2: SYSTEM-WIDE INTERVENTIONS
2.1 Systematize assessment of students, teachers and institutions
2.2 Strengthen education research capacity
2.3   Improve knowledge of the management techniques and tools of the
education system
2.4 Regulate student flows
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               105
IBRD                     99
IDA
Total Project Cost       204
6. Implementation
Executing agencies: The project will be executed by the MoE, in
collaboration with the Ministbre de l'Equipement (Ministry of Equipment)
for civil works.    The functional relationships between these ministries
are well established both at central and regional levels. The MoE has
decades of implementation experience in Bank financed projects. As in the
ongoing project (PAES, Loan No. 3786-TUN), the MoE will integrate project
implementation into the day-to-day management activities of existing
departments, some of which will be strengthened to better cope with the
additional work program generated by the project. The MoE's technical
directors will be responsible for the implementation of the project
activities within their mandate. Project management: The Direction
generale des services communs [DGSC] will be in charge of all procurement
(ie. civil works, equipment and services) as well as financial
management. In this capacity, the DGSC will elaborate and monitors
procurement plans and produces PMRs. To improve efficiency, some divisions
will be strengthened. Within each unit involved, a staff will be assigned
as focal person to the project. Three additional staff ("focal persons")
will be assigned to this directorate to deal with the ambitious program of
activities (and the related substantial budget) scheduled under the
project.Project Coordination: To ensure adequate coordination with the
- 3 -



overall program of the Ministry as well as between all departments
concerned, a coordinator, attached to the Minister's Cabinet, has been
appointed and work in close collaboration with the DGSC to ensure the
smooth realization of the project, adequate coordination between entities
and pro-activeness in case of bottlenecks. A comite de pilotage
(oversight committee) composed of all directors concerned, the DGSC, the
coordinator, and representatives from other concerned ministries will be
constituted and will meet at least twice a year. Project Monitoring: A
comite de suivi (monitoring committee) will also be constituted with staff
specially assigned to the project in both executing and managing units, to
ensure close monitoring of activities and prompt development of
correctives measures when needed.
7. Sustainability
There is strong GRT ownership of the preparation process, and strong GRT
commitment at the highest levels to the project development objectives as
articulated above. The mainstreaming of project activities into the MoE's
functions, and the consultative process followed thus far, ensure that the
main activities as well as the reasons for why they are being undertaken
extend deep into the MoE structure at central, regional and even local
levels. Thus, there is minimal concern regarding the sustainability of
the project.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Exploit synergies between Bank sector analyses and GRT efforts to build
consensus by synchronizing expert visits and consultant reports, and
allowing the dialogue to develop sufficiently within GRT to ensure both
ownership and sustainability (despite complications for the Bank's
calendar);Emphasize the importance of "soft" activities even (or
especially) if they represent a smaller part than civil works and
equipment in project costs, as reluctance to have qualitative activities
being financed by the Bank has been noticed in the past;Provide timely
think-pieces and strategy notes as a part of project development, to
ensure buy-in from all sections of the GRT;Use conditionality as a last
resort (as its greatest effectiveness comes when it provides an external
impetus to take actions or undertake reforms that internal decision makers
are convinced about but may meet some resistance to implement).
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  Discussions with the MoE, the MinistOre de
l'Equipement and the Agence nationale pour la protection environnementale
(National Agency for Environmental Protection) [ANPE], confirmed that
schools are not specifically cited in the Tunisian legislation on
environmental protection. In order to comply with OP 4.01, a four-step
environmental and social assessment review procedure as described in Annex
12 was therefore developed jointly with ANPE and MoE to ensure adequate
treatment of environmental concerns in the construction of new schools
under the project. This process will be tested on three sites for which
the studies will be carried out and financed under the PHRD grant. The
MoE's direction des batiments et de l'equipement (Directorate of Buildings
and Equipment) will have primary responsibility for carrying out this
activity, recruiting consultant experts where needed. Transmission of
these three studies, in a form acceptable to the Bank and the ANPE, will
- 4 -



be a condition of effectiveness. For schools located outside areas
approved for urban development by ANPE (i.e. outside an existing plan
d'amenagement detaille [Urban Development Master Plan] or of a plan
d'amenagement des sols), a social and environment assessment including
consultation, will be prepared and submitted to ANPE for approval and
reviewed by the Bank prior to the launching of design competition for
construction of new schools.An environmental and social review procedure
has been designed and will apply to all sites on which a new school is to
be built (but excludes rehabilitation within existing buildings). The
procedure is organized as a succession of four steps: (i) General site
selection screening, (ii) Environmental and social assessment, (iii)
Preparation for design competition, and (iv) Preparation of construction
bidding documentsEach assessment will be included in the documentation
transmitted to the Bank for prior review before launching of the design
competition. Satisfactory results of the study will condition the Bank's
financing of a given school.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Benoit Millot
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 1 (202) 473 26 16
Fax: 1 (202) 477 00 36
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 5, 2000.
- 5 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the
borrower prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report
is required, once it is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in
accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, it will be
filed as an annex to the Public Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an
EA annex; the findings and recommendations of the EA will be
reflected in the body of the PID.
-6-



