Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7028-TUN
Loan Agreement
(Education Quality Improvement Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 15, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7028-TUN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 15, 2000, between THE REPUBLIC OF 
TUNISIA (the Borrower) and THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated April 20, 2000 
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies (the Program) designed to (a) ensure general completion of basic 
education; (b) provide a larger number of students with opportunities to 
access secondary education; and (c) modernize the management of the 
education sector, and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the 
execution of the said Program;
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Bank’s support in the 
execution of the Program through a series of loans over a period of 
approximately eight (8) years to be utilized by the Borrower for, and 
assisting the appropriate entities in, implementing the Program;
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the first phase of the Program (the Project) described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
Page  2
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower in support of the Project 
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 
1, 1999 with the modification set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified 
to read as follows:
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be  agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its 
cost and the benefits 
derived and to be derived from it, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of 
the Loan.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Central Bank” means the Central Bank of Tunisia (Banque 
Centrale de Tunisie) established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Law No. 58-90 dated September 19, 1958, as the same may be amended from 
time to time;
(b)
“DGSC” means Direction Générale des Services Communs, the 
Borrower’s General Directorate of Support Services within MOE (as this 
term is hereinafter defined);
(c)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) 
set forth in the table of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(d)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(e)
“Environmental Assessment Procedures” means the Borrower’s 
procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, furnished by the Borrower to the 
Bank and defined in the Implementation Manual (as this term is 
hereinafter defined), as the same may be updated from time to time by 
agreement of the Borrower and the Bank, for the implementation of the 
Project in accordance with appropriate environmental standards and 
guidelines, and including, inter alia, the preparation of environmental 
assessment reports for school construction activities to be carried out 
under Part A.3 (i) of the Project;
(f)
“Governorate” means “Gouvernorat”, an administrative 
jurisdiction of the Borrower, the status of which is defined by a Decree 
of June 21, 1956, modified by Law No. 83-104 of December 3, 1983 setting 
forth the administrative division of the territory of the Borrower;
(g)
“Implementation Manual” means the manual, at all times 
satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth, inter alia, the respective roles 
and responsibilities regarding the implementation of the Project, the 
accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements, the 
procurement plan, the monitoring and evaluation procedures including the 
Page  3
selected indicators for Project progress and Program milestones, the 
Environmental Assessment Procedures, and all other relevant provisions, 
as reviewed periodically between the Borrower and the Bank;
(h)
“MOE” means the Ministry of Education of the Borrower;
(i)
“Oversight Committee” means the Oversight Committee (“Comité 
de pilotage”) established and operating pursuant to a decision of the 
Minister of Education of the Borrower dated April 11, 2000, referred to 
in Section A.1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(j)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement;
(k)
“Urban Planning and Land Use Scheme” means the planning 
instrument of the Borrower for land use planning and development, 
defining the purposes of specific perimeters in terms of urban 
development, including housing areas and their relevant social and 
technical infrastructure; and
(l)
“ZEP” means Zone d’éducation prioritaire, a priority target 
area established by MOE for the promotion of education.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount 
equal to ninety nine million Dollars ($99,000,000), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in 
respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of 
the General Conditions.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open 
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank of 
Tunisia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, 
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later 
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in 
an amount equal to nine hundred ninety thousand Dollars ($990,000). The 
Borrower agrees that on or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay 
to itself the amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to 
time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty five one-hundredths of one percent 
(0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge commences to accrue 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum 
thereafter.
Page  4
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in 
respect of each Interest Period at the Variable Rate; provided, that upon 
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such 
amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the 
following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate 
prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion 
of the principal amount of 
the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all 
or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from 
a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; 
and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable 
to all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said Variable 
Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section that is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, 
as defined in Section 2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be 
effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate 
Cap or Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has 
requested that the premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in 
accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, technical, education and environmental good 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement and the 
Implementation Manual.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
Page  5
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each 
such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and 
accounts and report of such 
audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
Page  6
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements 
of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than July 31, 2001, or such later 
date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare semi-annual reports in 
accordance with the provisions of Section C of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement and acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program or a 
significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional 
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions, namely that the Bank has 
received the final list setting forth the Governorates in which school 
construction activities under Part A.3 (i) of the Project shall be 
carried out during the first year of the Project.
Section 6.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date 
of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of International Cooperation and Foreign 
Investment of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of International Cooperation
 and Foreign Investment
98, Avenue Mohamed V
1002 Tunis-Belvédère
Republic of Tunisia
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile
MCIIE
18060
216-1-799069
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Page  7
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By /s/ Noureddine Mejdoub
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
   (Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
(a)
under Part A.3(i)
39,000,000
48%
of the Project
(b)
under Part A.3(ii)
8,000,000
48%
of the Project
(2)
Goods
      43,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory cost); 
and 
80% of local 
expenditures 
for other items 
procured 
Page  8
locally
(3)
Consultants’ services, 
  880,000
100%
study tours and foreign 
training
(4)
Local Training
1,200,000
20%
(5)
Fee
  990,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement
(6)
Premia for Interest
  100,000
Amount due under
Rate Caps and 
Section 2.09 (c) of
Interest Rate Collars
this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
5,830,000
TOTAL
99,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of (a) payments made for expenditures prior to 
the date of this Agreement; and (b) expenditures under Category 1 (a) 
related to any specific school construction activities, unless the 
Borrower shall have first confirmed to the Bank, under conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, that (i) the site on which said construction 
activities are to be carried out falls within an Urban Planning and Land 
Use Scheme, or (ii) whenever said construction activities are to be 
carried out on a site which is not covered by an Urban Planning and Land 
Use Scheme referred to in the preceding sub-paragraph (i), said 
construction activities comply with the Environmental Assessment 
Procedures.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works 
under contracts costing less than $1,000,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods 
under contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent each; (iii) 
services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each; and (iv) training activities and services of individual 
consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in 
reinforcing the process of reforming the Borrower’s education sector 
through (a) promoting excellence in teaching and learning in an improved 
pedagogical and physical environment, and (b) increasing the inclusion of 
children into the basic education system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  9
Part A:
School Level Interventions
1.
Carrying out a program, through the provision of goods, training 
and consultants’ services, to, inter alia, (a) promote innovation and the 
development of new teaching methods, programs and materials, (b) promote 
teaching initiatives aimed at preventing and reducing school failure, and 
(c) improve learning conditions and the schooling environment, 
particularly in priority schools.
2.
Promoting the use of new information technologies with a view to 
enhancing learning outcomes, through the provision of equipment, 
consultant services and training.
3.
Carrying out a program, consisting of the execution of works and 
the provision of goods, to (i) construct new schools, and (ii) 
rehabilitate existing school infrastructure.
4.
Strengthening MOE’s staff training capacity, through the provision 
of goods, consultants’services and training, to enable MOE to carry out a 
program of specialized training for teachers, school principals, 
inspectors, administrators and supervisory staff.
Part B:
Sector-Wide Interventions
1.
Carrying out a program, consisting of the provision of goods and 
consultants’ services and the carrying out of study tours, with a view to 
assess (i) students’ learning achievements, and identify students’ 
learning needs in order to address such needs, (ii) teachers, in order to 
enable them to adjust their teaching methods to the diverse needs of 
their students, (iii) schools, towards improving their operation and 
performance, and (iv) the school system, to monitor the impact of 
education policy reforms on students’ learning achievements.
2.
Strengthening the Borrower’s education research capacity, through 
the provision of goods and consultants’ services, to, inter alia, (a) 
develop an assessment item bank, and (b) establish a school performance 
indicator system.
3.
Carrying out a program, consisting of the provision of goods, 
training and consultants’ services, to enhance the quality of the 
education system’s management at the central and regional levels of MOE.
4.
Carrying out a program, consisting of the provision of goods and 
consultants’ services, and the carrying out of study tours, to support 
the development of policies and plans to manage the increase in students 
at the post-basic level.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the 
Loan and the percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable 
on each Principal Payment Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of 
the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower 
on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the 
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in 
Page  10
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment 
Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as 
a %)
October 1, 2005
7%
April 1, 2006
7%
October 1, 2006
7%
April 1, 2007
0%
October 1, 2007
0%
April 1, 2008
7%
October 1, 2008
7%
April 1, 2009
0%
October 1, 2009
0%
April 1, 2010
7%
October 1, 2010
7%
April 1, 2011
0%
October 1, 2011
0%
April 1, 2012
7%
October 1, 2012
7%
April 1, 2013
7%
October 1, 2013
5%
April 1, 2014
5%
October 1, 2014
4%
April 1, 2015
4%
October 1, 2015
3%
April 1, 2016
3%
October 1, 2016
3%
April 1, 2017
3%
2.
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan 
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall 
repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as of such date in accordance 
with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date 
shall be repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of 
such withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which 
shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum 
of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates 
falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment 
Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date 
of withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph 3, if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing 
system under which invoices are issued on or after the respective 
Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no 
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing 
Page  11
system.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this 
Schedule, upon a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the 
withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved Currency, the 
amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on 
any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall 
be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved 
Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of 
the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits”, published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 
and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto with respect to the Preference for domestically 
manufactured goods, shall apply to goods procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $83,000,000 equivalent 
and goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,600,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. Works estimated to cost less 
than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $19,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
Page  12
the basis of national shopping procedure in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods, under Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project, which should be 
procured as an extension of existing contract, are of a proprietary 
nature, and costing $100,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, 
with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to (i) each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, (ii) each contract for goods estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, and (iii) the three first 
contracts for works under Part A 3 (i) of the Project estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $1,000,000 or less, which have been procured in 
accordance with the procedures of Parts B and C of the present Section, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers”, 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services and 
training to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for 
services estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  13
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
sub-paragraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
A.
Project Coordination and Implementation
1.
The Borrower shall ensure overall Project coordination through MOE 
and the Oversight Committee. The Borrower shall, at all times, maintain 
the Oversight Committee under terms of reference, composition and 
institutional arrangements satisfactory to the Bank. The Oversight 
Committee, which is headed by the Minister of Education or his 
representative, shall, inter alia, coordinate and oversee progress in the 
implementation of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall vest MOE with the overall responsibility for the 
implementation of the Project. In order to ensure proper management and 
coordination of the Project, the Borrower shall cause MOE to appoint, 
subject to terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank: (a) a Project 
Coordinator who will be in charge of monitoring the execution of the 
Page  14
Project; and (b) the Director General of DGSC as Project Director. The 
Project Director shall: (a) ensure the physical and financial management 
of the Project; (b) coordinate all procurement, disbursement and audit 
activities; and (c) prepare, in collaboration with the Project 
Coordinator, the semi-annual and mid-term review reports referred to in, 
respectively, Sections C and D of this Schedule. The Borrower shall, at 
all times, cause MOE to: (a) maintain professional staffing in adequate 
number, whose qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the 
Bank; and (b) carrying out the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Manual.
B.
Part A.3 of the Project
1.
The Borrower shall submit to the Bank, not later than January 31, 
2001, (a) the list of selected sites for school construction activities 
for the first year of the Project under Part A.3 (i) of the Project, 
determining, inter alia, whether each such site falls within an Urban 
Planning and Land Use Scheme, and (b) two (2) environmental assessment 
studies, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, relating to the 
carrying out of school construction activities under Part A.3 (i) of the 
Project which are not located on a site covered by an Urban Planning and 
Land Use Scheme.
2.
The Borrower shall prepare and submit to the Bank, not later than 
January 31 of each year, commencing on January 31, 2002, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as agreed between the Bank and the Borrower, 
including, inter alia, (a) the list of selected sites for school 
construction and rehabilitation activities,  including, for each new 
school to be constructed under Part A.3 (i) of the Project for the 
current year, the budget allocation and the evidence, satisfactory to the 
Bank, that the land on which such construction activities are to be 
carried out has been transferred to MOE; (b) the performance results of 
using the Environmental Assessment Procedures; and (c) the architectural 
programs and the technical specifications for construction and 
rehabilitation activities for the current year, as the same may have been 
updated.
C.
Semi-annual reports
Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement and to those of Sections D and E of this Schedule, the Borrower 
shall, not later than January 31 and July 31 of each year until 
completion of the Project, commencing on July 31, 2001, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a Project management report, of such scope and in 
such detail as agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, describing, 
inter alia, (i) the progress achieved in the implementation of the 
Project, (ii) the workplan for the following six-month period, and (iii) 
the financial and procurement status of the Project.
D.
Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, on or about October 31, 2002, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
Page  15
(c)
review with the Bank, not later than March 31, 2003, or such 
later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
E.
Program Milestones
The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than December 31, 
2003, a report describing the progress in the fulfillment of the actions 
referred to in the Program, including the attainment of the milestones 
agreed between the Bank and the Borrower and required to be reached as a 
pre-requisite to initiate the second phase of the Program; and
(b)
review with the Bank, not later than March 31, 2004, or such 
later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in 
subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required by the Bank to initiate the second phase of the Program.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), 
(3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to $9,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts 
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits 
into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Bank 
Page  16
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount 
as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out 
of the Special 
Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said 
documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in 
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
Page  17
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
