Document of
The World Bank                           FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2862-NEP
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR THE
THIRD WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
July 8, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Nepalese Rupee (NR)
Since March 20, 1978
US$1.00      =      NRs 12.00
NR 1.00      =      US$0.08
NRs 100      =      US$8.33
METRIC SYSTEM
ABBREVIATIONS
ha - hectare
lcd - liter per capita per day
ACRONYMS
DHS       -   Department of Health Services
EEC       -   European Economic Community
LDD       -   Local Development Department
MWPI      -   Ministry of Water, Power and Irrigation
MHP       -   Ministry of Home Panchayat
WSSB      -   Water Supply and Sewerage Board
WSSD      -   Water Supply and Sewerage Department
UNDP      -   United Nations Development Programme
FINANCIAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
THIRD WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Kingdom of Nepal
Beneficiary:         Water Supply and Sewerage Board (WSSB)
Amount:              US$27.0 million
Terms:               Standard
Onlending:           The proceeds of the Credit would be relent by the Govern-
ment to the WSSB at 3/4th of one percent interest per
annum for 25 years, including five years grace.
Project
Description:       The project would assist the Government to meet its goal
of providing safe water supply to all the urban population
by 1990. The five year project (FY1981-85) would (i)
improve and extend water supply and sewerage works ini-
tiated under the previous two projects, to further extend
the supply hours and increase the number of persons served;
(ii) upgrade and extend water supply systems in six addi-
tional towns; and (iii) provide institutional support to
the WSSB. After completion of the project, about 97%
of the population in the Kathmandu Valley and Pokhara and
60% of the population in the additional towns would have
access to 24-hour service of safe water. Consultant
services would be provided to assist with complex design
works, preparation of specifications and bidding documents
as well as tender evaluation of major contracts and for
general construction supervision. This technical assist-
ance, support for the in-house training program and the
prudent project implementation schedule reduce the risks
of slow project implementation. The tariff levels would
be revised to attain minimal standards of financial viabil-
ity for WSSB while not exceeding the consumer's ability
to pay.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost                                          US$ Million Equivalent
of Project:          Component                       Local   Foreign   Total
I.  Water Supply                      8.10      8.84    16.94
II.  Sewerage                          1.33      0.31      1.64
III.  Vehicles, Tools, Equipment         0.03      0.45     0.48
IV.  Engineering and Administration 1.05          1.71     2.76
V.  Training and Future Project
Preparation                     0.06      0.59      0.65
Base Cost               10.57    11.90    22.47
VI. Contingencies
Physical                        1.53      1.55      3.08
Price                           3.23      3.64      6.87
Subtotal                 4.76      5.19      9.95
PROJECT COST            15.33    17.09    32.42
VII.  Taxes and Duties                   0.90       -        0.90
TOTAL PROJECT COST    16.23    17.09    33.32
Financing Plan:                                         US$ Million Equivalent
Local   Foreign  Total
IDA                                   10.5       16.5    27.0
Government                              5.7        -      5.7
UNDP                                              0.6     0.6
Total                               16.2      17.1    33.3
Estimated IDA                               US$ Million Equivalent
Disbursements:        IDA FY        1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986
Annual        2.2    6.0   8.6   5.5   3.4   1.3
Cumulative   2.2    8.2  16.8  22.3  25.7  27.0
Rate of Return:       3%, based on incremental revenues only.
Staff Appraisal
Report:             No. 2925-NEP, dated May 29, 1980.
Map:                  IBRD No. 14959



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR THE THIRD WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed devel-
opment credit to the Kingdom of Nepal for the equivalent of US$27.0 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance the Third Water Supply and Sewerage Project.
The Government would provide its own contribution to the project in the form
of an equity contribution to the Water Supply and Sewerage Board (WSSB) and
relend the NRs equivalent of the IDA Credit at 3/4th of one percent interest
per annum for twenty five years, including five years grace. The United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) is expected to provide about US$0.65
million equivalent on a grant basis for technical assistance and training
requirements of the project (para 37).
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.         The most recent economic report entitled "Nepal-Development Perform-
ance and Prospects" (Report No. 2692-NEP) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on December 14, 1979. The principal findings of the Report are
described below. Country data are shown in Annex I.
3.         Nepal is one of the least developed countries in the world.  Per
capita income is estimated at $110 (1977), and health and education standards
are well below the average of South Asia: life expectancy at birth is about
45 years, infant mortality 150 per thousand, and adult literacy 19%. The
population, growing at the rate of 2.6% a year, is estimated to be 13.3
million (1978). Over 90% of the population live in rural areas.
4.         The economy of Nepal centers around agriculture.  It accounts for
more than 60% of GDP and 75% of merchandise exports, and provides a liveli-
hood to over 90% of the population. In addition, most of the industrial
sector, which comprises about 9% of GDP, processes agricultural raw materials.
About 25% of total rural incomes are estimated to arise from non-agricultural
activities. Cottage industries are one of the most important of these,
engaging over 1 million people and comprising about 6% of GDP. They provide
basic consumer goods in the many small, isolated markets where such goods
would otherwise not be available.
5.         As a small open economy, Nepal is highly susceptible to develop-
ments in India. The Terai, which lies along the Indian border, has close
and virtually free trading links with India, and accounts for about 60% of
1/ Part I of this Report is substantially the same as Part I of the Report
and Recommendation of the President to the Executive Directors on a
proposed credit to the Kingdom of Nepal for the Community Forestry Dev-
elopment and Training Project (Report No. P-2763-NEP of April 2, 1980).



- 2 -
the country's GDP, and about 40% of the population. The Kathmandu Valley,
the administrative and commercial center, is closely linked with the Terai,
but at significant transportation costs. The rest of the country, the Hills
and Mountains, is almost inaccessible and consists of a large number of
fragmented markets.
6.        When Nepal adopted economic and social development as major govern-
ment objectives in the early 1950s, there was virtually no economic or
administrative infrastructure. Initial development efforts were necessarily
concentrated on establishing a foundation for future development. During
these early stages, it was inevitable that growth would remain slow and that
there would be little if any increase in per capita income. However, the
Fifth Development Plan (1975/76 - 1979/80) was to be a turning point; it was
believed that the country was poised for more rapid growth on the order of 4 -
5% annually. The level of investment was to increase substantially and its
focus to shift towards the more directly productive sectors and the social
services.
7.        Public investment performance has been excellent; development
expenditures have grown at over 15% annually in real terms and the Government
has been relatively successful in reorienting investment away from the trans-
port sector towards agriculture and the social services. However, few of the
other Fifth Plan objectives have been achieved. The GDP growth rate is likely
to average only 2.4% per year, mainly because of poor agricultural performance.
Little progress has been made in increasing agricultural productivity and
agricultural production increased at an annual rate of only 0.7% during the
first four years of the Fifth Plan. Growth in other sectors has been mixed,
with the poor agricultural performance limiting the growth of agro-related
industries. Production in several large industries including jute goods,
sugar, leather goods, and cement have increased but most Fifth Plan targets
will go unmet. In the services sector, tourism has been dynamic, but it
still only contributes about 1% of GDP.
8.        The economic situation deteriorated markedly in 1979/80 and is now
worse than it has been in many years. The poor monsoon in South Asia in 1979
has had a severe impact on Nepal's foodgrain production in 1979/80. Both the
maize and rice crops suffered major losses, and as a result, agricultural
production is likely to decline by 4%. The non-agricultural sector continues
to be constrained by supply bottleneck problems and delays in the preparation
of new development projects in the public sector. This sector's growth is
expected to be only about 4% in 1979/80, which when combined with the decline
in agriculture, gives a 1% decline in GDP.
9.        The disappointing overall performance of the domestic economy during
the Fifth Plan period has been accompanied by a widening trade deficit.
Imports have grown under the impetus of the Government's development program
while the trend in export earnings has been sluggish due to declining rice
exports. The deterioration on the trade account has been partly covered by
increased tourism receipts and remittances from Gurkhas (soldiers from Nepal
serving in the British or Indian armies). Foreign assistance in the form of
grants and concessionary financing have generally ensured that the overall
balance remained in surplus. Foreign exchange reserves in July 1979 were



- 3-
equivalent to nearly nine months of imports. However, the shortfall in food-
grain production in 1979/80 could have a serious impact on Nepal's external
position, since not only will rice exports further decline, but foodgrains
will have to be imported, this all coming at,a time when Nepal's oil bill is
rising steeply. The Government has therefore appealed to the international
community for emergency assistance in obtaining foodgrains and for help in
distributing food to the shortfall areas; by the end of January 1980 donors
had committed 33,000 tons of foodgrains.
10.        On March 31, 1978, the authorities replaced a complex system of mul-
tiple exchange rates and exchange and trade restrictions with a dual exchange
system. Transactions with India, which were virtually free from restrictions,
were unaffected by these changes. New treaties on trade and transit with India
were also concluded in March 1978. Under the dual exchange rate system, Nepal
maintains a basic rate of Rs 12.00 per dollar, with a second, premium rate
applying for all merchandise trade with third countries except for imports of
certain development goods. On February 21, 1980, the premium rate was changed
from Rs 16.00 per dollar to Rs 14.00 per dollar, but the exemption from the
second rate was restricted to only imports of petrol and petroleum products,
cement and chemical fertilizers. These exchange rate adjustments involved an
appreciation of about 14% for exports to third countries and an overall appre-
ciation of about 2% for imports from third countries. But this was partly
offset by (i) withdrawing the 12% duty on exports of raw jute; and (ii) raising
import duties on a wide range of imports from third countries. However, with
the exception of raw jute exports, earnings in domestic currency from exports
to third countries will decline, leading to a possible shift of some exports
to India. The overall trade balance is likely to be adversely affected by
the recent measures.
11.        The poor long-run performance of the economy is chiefly due to the
failure of agricultural production to keep pace with population growth. Over
the period 1967-77, foodgrain production grew at an average annual rate of
only 1.5%. Increases in the area under cultivation account for almost all of
this, since average yields rose by only 0.1% annually. Although poor monsoons
have adversely affected agricultural production, the more fundamental reason
is the failure to more fully exploit the irrigation infrastructure. In the
past, insufficient attention has been paid to bringing water down to the farm
level and this has been compounded by inadequate support services such as
extension and research, timely supplies of improved seed and fertilizer and
other inputs, credit and farm-to-market roads. However, recent major irriga-
tion projects financed by IDA and the Asian Development Bank are addressing
these problems by taking more comprehensive and integrated approaches.
12.        In the Hills and Mountains, which contain only one-third of the
country' s agricultural land and yet have nearly two-thirds of the population,
population pressures have pushed cultivation up steep hillsides and onto
marginal land; average yields have actually declined. Population density on
agricultural land in these areas is higher than in Bangladesh. Malnutrition
is acute; food production meets only two-thirds of minimum subsistence needs.
Because they have little to trade except their labor, one-third of the inha-
bitants of these Hill areas migrate seasonally to the Terai plains and northern
India for food and work. Since the early sixties, an estimated 400,000 have
migrated pe-rmanently, and there are signs that this exodus is accelerating.



13.       The seriousness of the economic and social problems confronting
Nepal calls for a well focused development strategy that directly addresses
the difficult choices to be made. The revised Fundamental Principles of the
Sixth Plan recently adopted by the Government and endorsed by members of the
Nepal Aid Group at its January 31, 1980 meeting, is an important milestone in
the Government's efforts to evolve a program that meets Nepal's needs. The
highest priority is placed on developing agriculture, including revitalization
of Hill food production to meet local requirements since significant agro-
climatic specialization between the Hills and Terai is feasible only in the
longer run. At the same time, since land holdings in the Hills are too small
to generate much more than subsistence needs, programs will be started to
encourage diversification into other activities such as small-scale and cottage
industries to supplement Hill incomes. For the Terai, the strategy is to
continue efforts to realize the Terai's considerable potential for increasing
production of foodgrains and cash crops. The irrigation infrastructure is to
be more fully utilized and improvements to extension services and associated
inputs concentrated on those areas with irrigation facilities. Rural electri-
fication is seen as an important element in providing for increased production
in rural areas. Reafforestation programs are given priority in order to
provide fuelwood and fodder as well as to reduce soil erosion.
14.       While these efforts in the directly productive sectors merit urgent
attention, Nepal faces similar challenges in developing its human resources.
Although curbing population growth requires major actions, selective programs
in education and health can greatly assist population planning as well as
alleviate human suffering and lay the basis for future increases in productiv-
ity. The Government's strategy recognises that the approach must be selective
since programs for meeting basic needs generally have only a long-term impact
on manpower development but divert resources away from activities more directly
and immediately related to production. Increasing foodgrains production will
meet the major need of improved nutrition.  Better and more readily available
supplies of drinking water and fuelwood will meet other needs, while also
freeing labor currently spent in their collection. Basic health facilities
are to be expanded through integrated community health posts, while in educa-
tion, stress is placed on improving the quality of primary and adult vocational
education. Family planning programs are to be stepped up. The other basic
need to be met in rural areas is improved transport, and the Sixth Plan will
include programs to improve trails, tracks, and suspension bridges.
15.       For Nepal to establish a basis for more rapid and sustained growth,
the structure of its economy will need to change since its present dependence
on agriculture limits the economy's overall growth potential to about 4% per
year. Tourism offers perhaps the best near-term potential for increased
foreign exchange earnings; however, efforts are needed to reduce its capital
intensity, strengthen linkages with other local industries and extend its
benefits beyond the Kathmandu Valley. Hydropower also offers some possibil-
ities, but neither it nor tourism will ever be substantial generators of
employment. In the long run, Nepal must diversify and develop its indus-
trial sector. Obviously, efforts in this sector must be on a highly selective
basis. The multiplicity and complexity of the constraints to industrial
development, including the lack of natural resources and skilled labor force,



Nepal's small domestic market and landlocked position,will nullify any general-
ized approach. Public enterprises need to operate more efficiently, village
and cottage industries should be promoted. Beyond this, joint ventures with
India, for example, as in cement production, may be attractive.  The precon-
ditions for industrialization must be established in the near future or there
is a danger that Nepal will always be struggling to move its economy beyond
subsistence.  These include providing financial incentives, research and
extension services on the technical, financial and marketing aspects of enter-
prise, and the upgrading of manpower skills in the areas where Nepal may have
a comparative advantage.
16.       Nepal has made significant progress in mobilizing domestic resources
to support its development efforts, considering the extreme poverty, low degree
of monetization, and fragmented nature of the economy.  Revenue grew at 16% a
year in current terms between 1969/70 and 1978/79, while as a percentage of
GDP it increased from 5% in 1969/70 to about 9% in 1978/79. Over the same
period, the Government was able to maintain savings on current account in
excess of 2% of GDP, a good achievement for a country in Nepal's economic
position. However, this excellent record is now in jeopardy. Revenues from
income and land taxes declined in 1978/79 and although total revenues grew by
14%, the bulk of the increase came from taxes on international trade as a
result of higher imports. No real growth in total revenues is expected during
1979/80, after allowing for inflation. This slowdown reflects not only the
weak economy in 1979/80, but also the impact on the tax system of the political
difficulties facing Nepal. While only limited scope exists for discretionary
tax measures, there is a potential for increased tax revenues from agriculture,
particularly in the Terai. Revenues could be increased through improving the
tax machinery, and the government has approved, in principle, various admin-
istrative reforms in this direction, including the formation of a Special
Revenue Service.
17.       Foreign assistance has been a decisive factor in Nepal's development.
During the Fifth Plan, foreign financing equalled about 45% of development
expenditures. In view of the limited prospects for increased domestic resource
mobilization, foreign financing requirements may be about 60% of planned Sixth
Plan development expenditures, which amount to about Rs 10 billion or over
$800 million at 1979/80 prices. Aid commitments need to average about $225
million annually during 1980-82 compared with $160 million during 1977-79.
However, even this level of foreign assistance would not provide the Government
with sufficient resources to meet increasing consumption demands. Additional
aid, either through financing a higher proportion of total project costs or in
the form of commodity assistance, could provide budgetary support to meet
pressing recurrent expenditure requirements, particularly in the social
sectors. In order to assist in the overall coordination of financial and
technical assistance efforts, the Nepal Aid Group was formed in 1976. The
Group has met three times at plenary meetings under the chairmanship of the
Bank to discuss overall external assistance needs as well as at the local
level in Kathmandu to discuss and coordinate strategy. At the latest plenary
meeting, which was held in Paris on January 31, 1980, and was attended by
representatives from eight countries and six international organizations,
Nepal received aid indications exceeding US$200 million equivalent.
18.       Although foreign aid commitments and disbursements grew by over
25% annually during the Fifth Plan period, only 40% of disbursements included



-6-
in the Government's budget were from foreign borrowing, the remainder being
grants. As of December 31, 1978, official foreign debt outstanding was only
$88 million, of which $75 million was due to multilateral agencies. These
loans were obtained on a highly concessional basis and the grant element of
total aid remains in excess of 90%. As a result, debt service payments were
only US$3.1 million during 1978/79, equivalent to less than 2% of exports of
goods and services. Medium-term prospects are also good; by 1981/82 total
service on existing debt is expected to amount to only US$5.1 million, still
less than 2% of projected goods and services exports.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
19.       Bank Group operations in Nepal began in FY70 with an IDA credit of
US$1.7 million equivalent for a telecommunications project. Since then, 20
additional credits have been approved, bringing total IDA assistance to Nepal
to US$234.4 million equivalent, net of cancellations. In view of Nepal's many
development needs, IDA assistance has been for projects in a wide variety of
sectors. Six of these sectors account for 83% of IDA credits by amount:
agriculture (US$75.0 million for 5 projects), power (US$40.8 million for 1
project); telecommunications (US$21.7 million for 3 projects); highways
(US$19.2 million for 2 projects); water supply and sewerage (US$19.8 million
for 2 projects), and rural development (US$19.0 million for 2 projects). The
remaining US$38.9 million of IDA assistance has been for one project in each
of the areas of settlement, technical education, tourism, technical assistance,
forestry and industrial development finance. The proposed credit would be the
first in FY81, bringing the total amount of IDA assistance to Nepal to US$261.4
million equivalent, net of cancellations. No Bank loans have been made to
Nepal. IFC made its first investment in Nepal (US$3.1 million) in a hotel
project in Kathmandu in FY75. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
Group operations as of May 31, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing IDA
projects. It shows certain delays in the implementation of these projects,
particularly during the initial periods. These delays have been largely due
to Nepal's limited technical and managerial capabilities. In order to assist
Nepal in coping with this constraint, considerable technical assistance is
being given by Bank Group staff, including the Resident Mission in Kathmandu.
As a result, improvement in the rate of disbursements is being realized.
During FY1978, US$11.4 million equivalent were disbursed compared to US$12.8
million equivalent disbursed during the entire previous seven years; disburse-
ments during FY1979 indicated a further improvement, disbursing a further
US$18.2 million equivalent. Disbursements through the first eleven months
of FY1980 amounted to US$19.5 million.
20.       Bank Group lending to Nepal has so far been at a modest level com-
pared to the country's need for external assistance. The international com-
munity has shown considerable interest in Nepal's economic development and,
to date, shortage of funds has not been a bottleneck. The main constraint on
the utilization of increased aid has been Nepal's limited absorptive capacity,
affecting the pace of project preparation and implementation. The Bank is
assisting the Government in project preparation through the Technical Assis-
tance Credit and by acting as Executing Agency for a number of technical



- 7 -
assistance projects in the current UNDP Five-Year Program. The Bank Group
has also addressed the problem of absorptive capacity through its role in
organizing the Aid Group for Nepal (para 17).
21.       The Bank Group's current strategy places major emphasis upon the
directly-productive sectors (particularly agriculture) and the development
of complementary infrastructure, including feeder roads (particularly con-
necting the Hills to the Terai), communications and hydroelectric power.
Preparation of projects in agriculture/irrigation, Hill food production,
cottage/small industry, and power is underway.
PART III - WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR IN NEPAL
22.       The water supply and sanitation sector in Nepal is still in an early
stage of development. Of the total estimated population of 13.3 million
(1978), only about 10% enjoy access to safe water through house connections
or standpipes. Due to insufficient sources, inadequate storage and distribu-
tion capacity, and extensive leakage and wastage, most of the piped systems
are only able to provide water intermittently and service is generally re-
stricted to a few hours a day. In some urban areas, coverage is as high as
80% (of which about 70% through standpipes), while in rural areas it is only
about 6% (all standpipes). The population which is not served by piped sys-
tems uses springs, ponds, canals, streams and rivers, which are not protected
and which frequently have high levels of pollution. The overall average level
of consumption is only about 45 liters per capita per day (lcd). Due to the
long distances often involved from source to homestead in rural areas, water
use is of necessity reduced to a bare minimum. Sanitation is unsatisfactory
and only Kathmandu and the neighboring city of Bhaktapur have water-borne
sewerage systems, both of which are being rehabilitated. The old combined
sewerage system in Kathmandu was established around 1800, but due to lack of
adequate maintenance, became virtually non-operational. The existing cover-
age is about 9% of the population of these two cities, or about 5% of the
total urban population. In larger towns in the provinces, less than 20% of
the population has some type of latrine facilities, whereas practically no
sanitation facilities exist in smaller towns and in rural areas. Drainage
systems, much needed in view of the heavy rain during the monsoon, exist only
in a few towns.
23.       There are three main Government agencies operating in the sector:
(a) Water Supply and Sewerage Board (WSSB), formed in 1973
under the Ministry of Water, Power and Irrigation (MWPI),
is the Government's executing agency for the two IDA
assisted Water Supply and Sewerage Projects (Credit No.
470-NEP of May 8, 1974, US$7.8 million equivalent, plus
Supplementary Credit No. 470-1 of May 27, 1977, US$4.0
million equivalent, and Credit No. 704-NEP of May 27, 1977,
US$8.0 million equivalent). WSSB is presently responsible
for the construction and operation of the facilities in the
Kathmandu Valley, Pokhara, Biratnagar and Birganj, with
services to about 480,000 of the 565,000 inhabitants. It



- 8 -
is intended that WSSB gradually assume responsibility for
the urban water and sanitation sector in communities with a
population of more than 10,000 inhabitants. Frequently,
fringe villages in surrounding areas also fall under its
authority. WSSB carries out planning, design and con-
struction of works within its areas of responsibility
and continues to operate the completed systems.
(b) Water Supply and Sewerage Department (WSSD), also under
MWPI, is responsible for the water supply and sanitation
sector in communities with populations between 1,500 to
10,000. In discharging its responsibilities, it carries
out planning, design and construction of systems and
normally hands them over for operation to the respective
local government (panchayat). In case the community does
not have the expertise or the funds for operating its
system, WSSD assumes the responsibility of operating it.
(c) Local Development Department (LDD) was created in 1971
under the Ministry of Home Panchayat (MHP), to serve rural
communities with a population below 1,500. It carries out
planning, design and construction of water supply and
sanitation systems, but transfers the operation of the
completed systems to the respective panchayats.
24.       In light of the International Drinking Water and Sanitation Decade,
the Government has established a ten-year plan (1981-90) for sector develop-
ment. Utilizing the agencies described above, the Government expects to
reach the following goals by 1990: (i) provide water supply services to
all the urban population; and (ii) provide at least one reliable source of
water supply in each rural community, covering about 65% of the rural popu-
lation. The overall population coverage would be about 68% by 1990. WSSB is
expected to continue to take over additional urban systems so that before the
end of the decade it would operate all 22 urban water systems. With respect
to rural water supply, about 2,250 piped systems in the Hills and Mountains
and about 35,000 shallow tubewells in the Terai would need to be constructed.
WSSD is expected to construct all medium size systems and about half the
shallow tubewells, and LDD all small size systems and the remaining shallow
tubewells. In addition to providing sanitation facilities in urban areas
through WSSB, the Government plans to promote and coordinate environmental
sanitation activities through the Department of Health Services (DHS). The
immediate objective is to promote appreciation of the importance of sanitary
disposal of waste water, excreta and solid wastes through educating and
motivating school authorities, government departments and local communities.
Similarly, WSSD and LDD plans to develop latrine construction programs in
collaboration with panchayats.  The United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) Global Project on low cost sanitation, for which the Bank is execut-
ing agency, is establishing two demonstration projects in Nepal for improving
sanitation in urban environments.
25.       The funds required to cover the ten year plan are estimated at
US$162 million in 1980 prices, US$59 million for the urban sub-sector and



- 9 -
US$103 million for the rural sub-sector. In the past, HMG's investments in
the sector have been low compared with the overall development expenditures,
although the sector's share of social service investments has increased to
reasonable levels. To meet the goals of the ten-year plan, however, invest-
ment levels must be increased considerably, from about 3% of total develop-
ment expenditures to about 7%.
26.       Development of the water supply and sewerage sector faces three
major constraints: manpower, supply of materials and finances. It will only
be possible to overcome gradually the shortage of manpower through continuous
and patient training efforts. WSSB, assisted by technical advisors, has pre-
pared a training program and the proposed third project would provide facil-
ities for its implementation. In addition, the new Institute of Engineering,
assisted under the Technical Education Project (Credit No. 772-NEP), has
introduced graduate courses for engineers, with the first diploma level class
to graduate in 1981. The timely supply of material has in the past been a
problem due to Nepal's geographical remoteness. However through the two
previous IDA-assisted projects, WSSB has gained experience in dealing with
this matter effectively through appropriate packaging of procurement contracts.
Sector financing continues to be problematic mainly because of the low level
of average income. As a result, the sector relies heavily on the Government
budget for development costs. WSSB has barely been able to cover its operat-
ing expenses and there is virtually no cost recovery for the rural schemes.
Fortunately, a number of donors have been assisting Nepal in the development
of the sector and most of this assistance has been provided on a grant basis.
Germany is providing assistance for the construction of a water supply system
in Bhaktapur, while India and Switzerland have provided similar assistance to
activities sponsored by WSSD and the LDD. The United Nations International
Children's Emergency Fund has also assisted the latter with the construction
of small schemes in rural areas. The United Kingdom has provided WSSB with
a team of experts for technical assistance in engineering and financial admin-
istration. UNDP provided financing for Master Plans for the development of
water supply and sewerage facilities in the Kathmandu Valley, as well as water
supply facilities in other towns.
27.       The first IDA-assisted water supply and sewerage project provided
for the extension and improvement to water sources, transmission and primary
distribution in the Kathmandu Valley and Pokhara and a new trunk sewer and
treatment facility to service Kathmandu and Lalitpur. The second project
is for the most part a continuation of the first water supply and sewerage
project, enabling WSSB to extend its water supply services to larger areas
in the Kathmandu Valley and Pokhara, and to extend the sewerage collection
system in the most densely populated core areas of Kathmandu and Lalitpur.
Also included in the second project are works to increase the water pro-
duction capacity and extend the distribution systems in two additional towns,
Biratnagar and Birganj. Project implementation for the first project is about
three years behind the original schedule, primarily due to WSSB's inexperience
in the early years dealing with relatively complex contracts, which resulted
in delays in letting contracts and assembling materials. This problem has
since been overcome as WSSB gained more experience as reflected in good



- 10 -
progress in implementation of the second project. At the time of the
appraisal of the first project, it was recognized that works of the type and
magnitude in the project had never before been executed in Nepal, and, there-
fore, background data for cost estimation were not available. After receipt
of bids for major contracts, cost estimates were revised upward from US$10.4
million equivalent to US$16.4 million equivalent. A supplementary credit of
US$4.0 million equivalent was approved April 1977 to finance part of these
cost overruns. All works of the first project are now expected to be com-
pleted by December 1980 and those of the second by December 1981. A European
Economic Community (EEC) Special Action Credit (US$3.0 million equivalent,
No. 26-NEP) was approved in July 1979 to cover some of the Government's share
of the local costs of these projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
28.       The Project was prepared by the Water Supply and Sewerage Board
(WSSB) with assistance from consultants funded under the Second Water Supply
and Sewerage Project (Credit No. 704-NEP) and the Bank Group's Project Prepar-
ation Facility (No. PPF 092). It was appraised in January 1980, and negotia-
tions were held in Washington in May 1980. The Nepalese delegation was led
by Mr. P.P. Shah, Secretary, Ministry of Water, Power and Irrigation. The
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2925-NEP, dated May 29, 1980) is being distri-
buted separately. A supplementary data sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives
29.       The proposed project would assist the Government to meet its goal of
providing safe water supply to all the urban population by 1990 (Map No. IBRD
14959). Its principal objectives would be to: (i) augment water sources and
improve and extend water supply systems in the four areas now covered by the
second project; (ii) augment water sources and improve and extend water supply
systems in six additional towns; (iii) extend the sewerage system in the
Kathmandu Valley; and (iv) provide institutional support to the WSSB.
Project Description
30.       The five year project (FY1981-85) would comprise the following:
(a) construction of tubewells, river/spring intakes, trans-
mission mains, a new treatment plant, chlorination stations,
primary network and secondary network distribution mains,
and service reservoirs;
(b) supply of about 17,500 water meters;
(c) construction of trunk sewers, laterals, and overflow
structures;
(d) construction of operational buildings;



- 11 -
(e)  provision of about 150 manmonths of consultants services for
preliminary and final engineering and supervision;
(f)  fellowships for overseas training and provision of equipment
and facilities for the ongoing in-service training program; and
(g)  consultants services to begin preparation for projects in the
remaining 10 towns to be assigned to WSSB.
31.       On the basis of studies commissioned under the previous projects,
it has been determined that the most feasible new sources of water for the
Kathmandu Valley and Pokhara are groundwater. While additional surface
sources are available, they are much further from the service area and thus
more costly. Groundwater sources of relatively good quality are also avail-
able in the Terai and would be exploited for the water supply systems in
Biratnagar, Birganj, Bhairawa, and Janakpur. The towns in the Hills just
north of the Terai (Butwal, Dharan, and Retauda), would continue to rely on
river and spring sources. The basic design criteria of the project works
have been kept at the most modest appropriate technical level. The choices
of water sources and service standards have been determined to be least cost
solutions, amounting to about US$20 equivalent per capita for the major towns
where project works are largely extensions to systems under implementation
and to about US$42 equivalent per capita in the six provincial towns where
project works include basic facilities such as source works and transmission
mains. For some parts of the systems, components such as transmission mains
and tubewells have been designed to be able to utilize the full capacity of
the respective sources beyond the estimated 1990 demands. This additional
investment is justified as the marginal incremental cost is small compared
to the cost of additions which would undoubtedly be needed after 1990. The
water supply systems are planned to enable 24 hour service, with service
reservoirs expanded to at least three hours storage capacity at peak hour
flows.
Organization and Implementation
32.       WSSB would be directly responsible for the design of secondary net-
works, chlorination stations and all operational buildings and would assume
overall responsibility for overall project implementation and supervision of
project works. Although it is adequately staffed to carry out its operational
requirements, WSSB needs the assistance of consultants for more complex design
work, preparation of specifications and bidding documents, as well as tender
evaluation for major contracts and for general construction supervision. The
consultants would also provide specialist assistance in tubewell drilling.
Since early appointment of the consultants is important for timely project
implementation, completion of arrangements satisfactory to the Association
to employ these consultants would be a condition of effectiveness (Section
7.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement (DCA)).
33.       WSSB's organization and staffing are satisfactory.  The position
of Project In-Charge, the chief executive officer of WSSB, would continue to
be filled by a person with qualifications and experience appropriate for that
position (Section 4.02(b) of the draft DCA). WSSB would take over the assets



- 12 -
and operations of the existing water supply systems in the six towns to be
added to WSSB's responsibility (Bhairawa, Butwal, Dharan, Hetauda, Janakpur,
and Nepalganj) as equity, free and clear of indebtedness; the takeover of
such assets and operations would be completed prior to commencement of physi-
cal project works for each respective town (Section 4.05 of the draft DCA).
The Government and WSSB would also acquire all land and secure all rights of
way for project works in accordance with the agreed project construction
schedule (Section 3.05 of the draft DCA).
34.       WSSB has established a connection and metering program which takes
into account the projected availability of additional water, the willingness
of the public to take connections, and WSSB's capability of carrying out con-
nections and installing meters. Details of the program are outlined in a
letter supplementary to the draft DCA. The FY1980-85 program calls for the
number of water connections to increase by about 29,000, with a further 15,000
existing unmetered connections to be metered, bringing the total number of
metered connections to nearly 62,000, up from about 18,000 at the beginning
of FY1980. The number of sewer connections would increase from about 1,000
to about 10,500.
35.       Water regulations, satisfactory to the Association, have been issued
which, inter alia, allow WSSB to work in an orderly fashion, to enter premises
for the purpose of carrying out construction and maintenance work, and to
charge for its services. WSSB is presently in the process of amending some
of the technical stipulations of the regulations in order to bring them into
line with current country requirements. Draft sewerage regulations, satisfac-
tory to the Association, have been prepared by WSSB. As these will form the
legal basis for all aspects of operation of the sewerage sytems, as well as
for levying of sewerage charges, it would be a condition of credit effective-
ness that sewerage regulations applicable to WSSB's operations which are
satisfactory to the Association have come into force (Section 7.01(b) of the
draft DCA). WSSB would make available to the Association for comment drafts
of any rules or regulations proposed to be issued by or relating to WSSB
(Section 4.04(d) of the draft DCA).
Training
36.       Experts financed by the Overseas Development Administration of the
United Kingdom have been working with WSSB since mid 1974 and have provided
assistance to upgrade WSSB staff capabilities in general engineering, project
management, finance, leak detection, metering, water production and laboratory
work. The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) is expected to provide
funding to support the ongoing in-house training program through the provision
of additional training materials and equipment and fellowships for overseas
training for senior level staff.
Cost and Financing
37.       The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$33.3 million
equivalent, including contingencies and about US$0.9 million equivalent of
taxes and duties. Water supply and sewerage works would represent about 79%
and 8% respectively of project cost (net of taxes and duties). Cost estimates



- 13 -
are based on tender prices obtained for similar works between October and
December 1979 and include physical contingencies of 10% for common services,
buildings, and equipment, 15% for service reservoirs and primary networks, and
20% for secondary networks, tubewell schemes and sewerage works. Price con-
tingencies have been calculated assuming that price escalations would closely
follow those estimated for the Indian economy: 10% for 1980, 8% for 1981, 7%
for 1982 and 1983, and 5% for 1984 and thereafter. The foreign exchange cost
is estimated at about US$17.1 million equivalent or about 53% of total project
cost (net of taxes and duties). The proposed IDA Credit would cover all the
foreign exchange cost (excluding the financing for training and future project
preparation to be provided by UNDP) and about US$10.5 million equivalent of
local costs, amounting to about 83% of total project cost (net of taxes and
duties). UNDP would provide about US$0.65 million equivalent on a grant basis.
The Government would contribute the remaining US$5.7 million equivalent as
equity. The Nepalese rupee equivalent of the IDA Credit would be relent to
WSSB under a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the Association (Sec-
tion 3.01(c) of the draft DCA). The cost of individual consultant's services
was calculated at about US$10,000 per manmonth including salary, costs, fees,
international travel and subsistence, based on recruitment experience under
the previous projects.
Financial Aspects
38.       Under the EEC Special Action Credit Agreement and amended Develop-
ment Credit Agreements for the previous projects, WSSB is required to achieve
a rate of return of at least 2% on average net fixed assets in operation for
the FYs 1980-1982, rising gradually in subsequent fiscal years to 6% in FY1987
and thereafter. A water tariff increase of 60% in FY1975 enabled WSSB to
realize small surpluses in FYs 1976-79, but prospects for achieving a positive
rate of return have deteriorated due to the delay in implementing the first
project, slow progress in connecting new customers due to low service avail-
abilities, and reluctance to adjust tariffs before improved service was pro-
vided. A tariff study was carried out under the second project. Taking into
account the revised pace of work, the study concluded that in order to achieve
the previously agreed rate of return, tariffs would have to be set at levels
which require customers to spend at least 5% of average family income for
water (and higher for the lower income groups), levels much higher than for
similar water supply systems in the subcontinent and higher than what we
consider affordable in Nepal. It is proposed, therefore, to revise tariffs
so as to obtain levels representing about 3% of average family income. As
part of a phased program to reach this level, tariffs would initially be set
to cover at least WSSB's annual cash operating expenses and depreciation in
FY1981 and FY1982 (Section 4.06(a) of the draft DCA). This would require about
a 45% tariff increase in FY1981, which would be a condition of effectiveness
(Section 7.01 (c) of the draft DCA). Starting in FY1983, rates, including
tariffs for water supply and sewerage and Government payments for standpipe
water, would be set to cover WSSB's annual cash operating expenses, and amor-
tization and interest on debt or depreciation, whichever is higher (Section
4.06(b) the draft DCA). The sewerage charge, which would apply from the start
of operations of the rehabilitated and extended system (expected end 1980),
would be set at a level of at least 25% of the water charge in FY1981 and at
a level of at least 50% of the water charge in FY1982 and thereafter (Section



- 14 -
4.04(c) of the draft DCA). A review of these financial targets would be made
in FY1983, including the possibility of achieving at least modest positive
rates of return after FY1983. As the price paid by consumers at the tariff
level corresponding to 3% of family income would amount to only NRs 1.25 per
cubic meter, compared to the average incremental cost of service of about
NRs 2.36 for water sales only, WSSB intends to apply a block tariff structure
which features a low cost block for the first 10 cubic meters per household
per month, but to charge tariffs much closer to the average incremental cost
of service for any additional consumption.
39.       The payment for water supplied from standpipes would be made by the
Government. It would be a condition of effectiveness that the Government had
agreed with WSSB on the number of standpipes in the WSSB service area and had
appropriated funds to pay all amounts due to WSSB as of end FY1980 on account
of water consumed through these standpipes (Section 7.01(d) of the draft DCA).
In the future, the Government would make timely payment for the total number
of standpipes in WSSB supply areas and would annually establish its payment
rate per standpipe at rates to be agreed with the Association (Section 4.04(b)
of the draft DCA).
On-Lending
40.       Under the previous two projects, the proceeds of the IDA Credits
were relent to WSSB at roughly the cost of capital prevailing in Nepal at
that time (6% and 9% under the first and second projects respectively).
Analysis of WSSB financial position and projections indicate that, even after
full operation of the first project and achievement of the tariff levels men-
tioned in para 38 above, WSSB would not be in a position to pay its full debt
service under the first on-lending agreement before FY1983. The first subsi-
diary loan agreement would therefore be amended as follows; (i) extending the
grace period and deferring the first debt service payment until after June 30,
1981; (ii) setting the total annual debt service payments in FY1981 and FY1982
at levels not exceeding the amount of WSSB's annual depreciation; and (iii)
amortizing the debt outstanding at end of FY1982 in 40 equal semi-annual
installments of principal and interest commencing in FY1983. With tariffs
set at levels which correspond to about 3% of average family income, WSSB
revenues are estimated to be sufficient to cover only the obligations of the
first two onlending agreements (as amended), plus amortization and a very low
interest charge for the proposed third project. It is therefore proposed to
relend the proceeds of the third IDA Credit to WSSB on terms and conditions
similar to those of IDA, but with a 25 year repayment period, including five
years grace. Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association, would be a condition of credit effectiveness
(Section 7.01(e) of the draft DCA).
Procurement
41.       Materials and equipment amounting to about US$11.8 million equi-
valent would be purchased under the project. All major materials and equip-
ment contracts, pipe materials, fittings, valves and water meters amounting
to about US$10.6 million equivalent, would be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines. Con-
tracts of less than US$75,000 equivalent each, amounting to about US$1.2



- 15 -
million equivalent, would be procured under Government local competitive bid-
ding (LCB) procedures, which are satisfactory to the Association. Civil works
contracts would amount to about US$16.9 million equivalent. Contracts for the
construction of primary networks in Nepalganj and Janakpur, all secondary net-
works and operational buildings, and other minor works not exceeding US$30,000
equivalent per contract (about 30% of the total value of civil works) would be
awarded on the basis of LCB. All other contracts would be awarded on the basis
of ICB. In the evaluation of bids, the standard domestic preferences would
apply--15% on the c.i.f. price or the prevailing duty, whichever is lower, for
equipment and 7.5% for civil works.
Disbursement
42.       Disbursement of funds would be on the following basis:  (i) 100% of
foreign expenditures and 40% of local expenditures for civil works; (ii) 100%
of foreign expenditures for directly imported goods and equipment, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for locally manufactured goods and 60%
of local expenditures for other goods procured locally; and (iii) 100% of
total expenditures for consultant services. Disbursements against civil works
carried out by the contracts of less than US$30,000 equivalent would be made
against statements of expenditure. The documentation would be retained by
WSSB and made available for inspection by IDA representatives during the course
of project supervision. Requests for disbursements against all other items
would be fully documented. Advances drawn from the Project Preparation Facil-
ity (PPF 092), with any service charge accrued thereon, would be repaid out
of the proceeds of the proposed Credit as soon as it is declared effective.
Accounting and Audit
43.       The Government would cause WSSB to maintain records of its opera-
tions and financial condition in accordance with sound accounting practices
and would ensure that these accounts and financial statements would be audited
by an independent auditor, acceptable to IDA, and furnished to the Association
within six months of the close of the fiscal year; the audit report would be
required to include a statement that funds disbursed against statements of
expenditure had been used for the purpose for which they were provided (Sec-
tions 4.01(a) and (c) of the draft DCA). The documents evidencing the expend-
itures on account of which withdrawals are requested on the basis of state-
ments of expenditure would be retained until one year after the closing date
(Section 4.01(b) of the draft DCA).
Benefits and Justification
44.       With completion of the project, the population served in the project
area would increase by about 28%, up from about 565,000 (1980) to about 720,000
(1985), representing 83% of the total population in the project area. Average
consumption per capita is expected to increase from about 80 lcd to 105 lcd in
the Kathmandu Valley and from about 60 lcd to 70 lcd in the other towns. It
is also expected that 50% or more of the population served would be served by
private house connections. In keeping with the Government policy to ensure
the minimum level of safe water supply to the lower income groups, which would
otherwise have to depend on unsafe and occasional sources of water, the number
of standpipes in the provincial towns would also be increased. Sewerage



- 16 -
service would be restored and extended for central areas of Kathmandu city
and Lalitpur; the population served would nearly triple, up from about
25,000 (1980) to about 67,000 (1985).
45.       The main benefits of the proposed project are not quantifiable - the
improved health of the inhabitants of the project area and the further reduc-
tion in the level of pollution in the Bagmati River. The provision of water
systems will also release significant manpower now occupied in transporting
water for more productive tasks. The improved environmental quality and
health conditions would also benefit the tourism industry which is an important
source of foreign exchange. A rate of return, based only on incremental
revenues accruing to WSSB as the result of investments under the project and
assuming tariff rates at about 3% of average family income, has been calculated
to be about 3%.
46.       The risk that project implementation may be delayed has been reduced
through measures to improve WSSB's capabilities. Over the course of the last
several years, WSSB and the local contracting industry have significantly
improved their implementation capacity, gaining experience through working
on the first two projects and working with the international consultants.
Furthermore, in-house training is taking place for WSSB sub-professional staff,
which will be expanded (para 36) and technical assistance from consultants
(para 32) would also be provided under the project. It is also expected
that future bid invitations should attract more competitive offers than in
the past, particularly from India as many project works are reasonably close
to the Indian border in the Terai. The risk that the tariff increases, sub-
sequent to the initial 45% increase (para 38), may be delayed, and therefore
the financial viability of WSSB impaired, is being addressed in the ongoing
dialogue with the Government regarding project finance as well as the overall
resource position of the Government in the Sixth Plan.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
47.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of Nepal
and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
48.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Special conditions of effectiveness are that: (i) WSSB had completed
arrangements satisfactory to the Association for employing the engineering
and supervision consultants (para 32); (ii) the Government had caused appro-
priate sewerage regulations, satisfactory to the Association, to come into force
(para 35); (iii) WSSB had increased tariffs by an average of 45% (para 38);
(iv) the Government had appropriated funds to pay all amounts due to WSSB on
account of water consumed through standpipes (para 39); and (v) a subsidiary
loan agreement between the Government and WSSB, in form and substance satis-
factory to the Association, had been executed (para 40).
49.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
50.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
July 8, 1980
Attachments



-18 -                                     Annex I
TABLE 3A                                 Page  1  of  5  sages
NEPAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NEPAL                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVfRAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. KM.)                                                    -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) E
TOTAL            140.8                                 MOST RECENT          LOW INCOME            ISIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      40.1               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA 4 PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   40.0        60.0     120.0               197.9                894.8
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       5.0        15.0       11.0              166.0                842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      9.3         11.4      13.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 3.1           3.9       4.8               20.8                  39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       21.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         46.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 104.                      66.0         81.0      97.0              193.2                376.1
PER SQ. PM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    243.0        286.0     339.0              409.6               2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.3        42.0       42.4               42.0                 40.4
15-64 YRS.                         57.0        55.0       54.6               55.0                 56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.7         3.0        3.0                3.0                  3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.1          2.0       2.2                2.2                   2.4
URBAN                              6.5          4.3       5.0                3.9                  4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     46.0         45.0      45.0               37.4                  28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     29.0         23.0      21.0               14.6                   7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.0         3.0       3.2                2.6                   1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..         37.4     138.8
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           0. 7/c    4.3/c             15.6                  39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         106.0        101.0      91.0              101.4                116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   93.0         96.0      91.0               92.4                 108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          50.0        51.0       48.0               49.8                 60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        9.0          9.0       9.0               12.0                  18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     35.0         27.0      23.0               17.9                   5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    36.0         41.0      43.0               50.8                  63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             *-        152.Od       ..                 ..                  52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          2.0       9.0               30.2                  42.4
URBAN                               ..         53.0      81.0               66.0                  62.1
RURAL                               ..          ..        5.0               20.0                  29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         1.0       1.0               17.7                  52.8
URBAN                               ..         14.0      14.0               71.3                  71.1
RURAL                                ..         ..         ..                 ..                  42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         72000.0      49770.0/e 35207.0/e           6322.7                4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..     68320.O/e 51222.0              9459.0                2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           8060.0      6750.0    6289.0              1758.4                819.4
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..              502.9
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..            10524.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         ..         ..                 ..                  28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          5.5
URBAN                              5.4           ..
RURAL                                ..         ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                              2.0           ..        ..
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..           ..        ..
URBAN                              30.2          ..        ..
RURAL                                           ..             ..              ..



- 19 -                                           Annex 1
Page 2 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
NEPAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NEPAL                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAOES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  Ab    1970 Ab ESTIMATE /b        ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  10.0         26.0       71.0                80.9                  98.6
MALE                  19.0         44.0      108.0                94.3                   99.2
FEMALE                 1.0          8.0       32.0                66.7                  97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   6.0          9.0      14.0                 26.6                  55.5
MALE                  11.0         15.0       23.0                34.8                   60.7
FEMALE                 2.0          3.0        5.0                18.2                   49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   0.2            6.0       22.Ojf               9.9                   13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             33.0         22.0      31.0                 41.1                  34.6
SECONDARY                           32.0         21.0      28.0                 20.5                  28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          9.0L       14.3       19.2                40.9                   85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.2          0.4        ..                  1.8                   9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0          5.0       12.0                25.8                 118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..         ..                 2.4                  39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    0.8          2.0        8.0                13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..         ..                  ..                    4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       4813.2       5566.2    6535.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    40.3         40.3       39.0                29.4                  36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               94.6         93.9       93.0                70.5                   51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   2.0          2.1        2.0                11.6                  21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 50.0         48.7       48.3                37.9                   39.1
MALE                                  59.8         58.3       58.1                51.3                   48.5
FEMALE                                40.2         39.2       38.5                23.7                   29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9          0.9        0.9                 1.2                    1.1
INCOhE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUS EHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      95.0                107.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..      45.0                 86.5                 192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..       41.0                  ..                 182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      55.0                 46.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..       61.0                51.7                  33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
Lc   Government programs only;  /d 1971-73;  /e Personnel in government services only;  /f Upper secondary
(grade 8-10) only; /R 1962.
April, 1980



X 44
bi)                     7
Z  I
04
. . . . . . . . . . . .
1 A      -7
JI
04
t 2
Z j
t  I
. . . . . . . . . .
I A
t g
T                         i  IT I              I       4
% t
Jr
3a - a



- 21 -
ANNEX I
,Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1977   US$110 /a
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prives)
US$ Mln.     %                             1965-75
GDP at Market Prices                        1,548      100.0                             2.0
Gross Domestic Investment                      155      10.0
Gross National Saving                           78       5.0
Current Account Balance                    -    3      - 0.2
Exports of Goods, NFS                          124       8.0
Imports of Goods, NFS                         201       13.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977                                                   Value Added
Value Added               Labor Force /b           Paer Worker
US$ Mln.      7          Mln.        %                 US $
Agriculture                                    996       68.0        5.9        93.0                169
Industry                                      132        9.0         0.1         2.0              1,320
Services                                      337       23.0         0.3         5.0              1,123
Total/Average                     1,465      100.0        6.3       100.0              232.5
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
Rs. Mln.                        % of GDP
1975/76      1976/77       1977/78       1978/79      1976/77
Current Receipts                    -1,097.Z       1,302.2       1,559.3      1,688.0          7.5
Current Expenditure                    654.1         784.1         815.0         991.5        4.5
Current Surplus                        443.1         518.1         744.3         696.5        3.0
Capital Expenditure                  1,224.6       1,486.4       1,792.9      2,049.7         8.6
External Assistance (net)              489.5         538.1         830.7       1,019.3        3.1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1975     1976      1977     1978    1979
(Million Rs outstanding mid-July)
Money and Quasi Money                               2,064    2,524    3,223    3,772   4,517
Bank Credit to Public Sector                          286       480      750       966   1,154
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises                     569       567      511       869   1,108
Bank Credit to Project Sector                         783       716      864    1,072   1,304
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                    12.5      14.5     18.6       ..
General Price Index (1973/74   100)                 116,8    115.9    119.0    132.3   136.8
Annual Percentage changes in:
General Price Index                                  16.8    - 0.7       2.7      11.2     3.5
Bank Credit to Government                           104.3     67.8      56.3      28.9    19.5
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises                   341.1    - 0.4    - 9.9       70.1    27.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector                        11.5    - 8.6      20.7      24.1    21.6
Note:  All conversions to US dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
/a World Development Renorts 1978 and 1979.
/b Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
.. not available



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PIYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                        MERCHANDISE EXPORTS 1977/78  a/
1975/76  U1L7677  1972/78                                                                US$ Mln.      %
(millions us$)
Exports, f.o.b. b/                            98.3      93.9      88.8     Foodstuff & raw materials                                    71.5       83.0
Imports, c.i.f. b/                           156.3    166.9    209.7       Manufactures                                                 L4.7       17.0
Trade Balance                           -58.0    -73.0   -120.9
Total                                                  86.2      100.0
Services, net                                 23.2      39.4      47.6
of which:  Tourism                          17.1      23.0      30.2
EXTERNAiL DEBT, DECEMBER 31,1978
Transfers, net                                27.7      30.8      25.1                                                                u5  Mln.
of which:  Private Remittances              18.7      21.5      18.3
Indian Excise Refund             7.9       9.3       8.1     Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                                87.7
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Current Account Balance                  -8.2    - 2.8    -48.2       Total outstanding & Disbursed                                87.7
Official Grants                               21.1      18.5      23.9
Official Capital, net                         12.1      16.3      22.7     DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977 c/
Private Capital, net                           9.6    -10.3    -10.4
Change in Reserves (- Increase)         -34.6    -21.7      12.0      public Debt, inc. guaranteed                                  1,4
Gross Reserves (mid July)                    120.3    145.3    135.1
Net Reserves                                 114.9    137.8    126.1
Fuel and Related Materials                                                 IBRD/IDA LENDING, (February 1980) (Million US$)
Imports of which:  Petroleum                14.3      17.6      17.5                                                               IBRD        IDA
Exports of which:  Petroleum                                             O     n -D  b e
Outstanding & Disbursed.5-7
Undisbursed                                               ----       14 .7
RATE OF EXCEANGEr
From October 1975 t;.rough                      Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                                         201.4
Through October 1975   March 20. 1978                  Since March 20, 1978
US$ 1.00 - NRs 10.56         1.00   NRa 12.5           US$ 1.00 = NRs 12.00
NR  1.00 - US$ 0.095   NR  1.00- US$  0.08             NR  1.00 = US$  0.083
a/ Customs basis.
b/ Payments basis.
c/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not applicable                                                                                               south Asia Programs Department
March 1980



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of May 31, 1980) /a
US$ Millions
Amount (less
cancellations)
Credit                                                                       Undis-
No.      Year         Borrower                Purpose               IDA   bursed
Three credits fully disbursed                                          7.1
373         1973     Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                    6.0      0.5
397         1973     Kingdom of Nepal    Telecommunications II    5.5           1.6
470         1974     Kingdom of Nepal    Water Supply and
Sewerage                 11.8       3.4
505         1974     Kingdom of Nepal    Settlement                    6.0      4.8
600         1976     Kingdom of Nepal    Kulekhani
Hydroelectric            40.8      22.5
617         1976     Kingdom of Nepal    Rural Development             8.0      6.2
654         1976     Kingdom of Nepal    Groundwater                   9.0       2.9
659         1976     Kingdom of Nepal    Technical Assistance          3.0       1.6
704         1977     Kingdom of Nepal    Second Water Supply
and Sewerage              8.0       6.9
705         1977     Kingdom of Nepal    Industrial Development
Corporation               4.0       3.4
730         1977     Kingdom of Nepal    Second Highway               17.0     12.1
772         1978     Kingdom of Nepal    Technical Education           5.7      5.6
799         1978     Kingdom of Nepal    Telecommunications III  14.5          14.5
812         1978     Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                   30.0     28.7
856         1978     Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                   14.0     13.7
939         1979     Kingdom of Nepal    Second Rural
Development             11.0      11.0
1008         1980     Kingdom of Nepal    Community Forestry /b   17.0           17.0
1980     Kingdom of Nepal    Mahakali Irrigation Ic  16.0          16.0
Total Now held by IDA /d                   234.4
Total Undisbursed                                    172.4
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of May 31, 1980)
Amount of US$ Millions
Year         Obligor        Type of Business                 Loan   Equity   Total
1975     Soaltee Hotel          Hotel                        2.70   0.43      3.13
(Pvt) Ltd.
Total commitments now held by IFC                2.41   0.43      2.84
/a   No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
T7   Signed May 22, 1980, not yet effective.
7W   Approved June 26, 1980, not yet signed.
T7   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 373 -  Birganj Irrigation Project US$6.0 million Credit of
April 18, 1973; Effective Date: July 9, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Implementation of the project is progressing satisfactorily after
initial delays in appointing engineering consultants, carrying out field
surveys and procurement. Civil works in the surface irrigation blocks and
construction of tubewells is almost completed. Irrigation operations started
in 1976 from nine tubewells, and in 1977, in the first surface irrigation
block. The project is expected to be completed shortly. Water charges are
now being levied in a limited area, and farmer's acceptance has been satis-
factory.
Credit No. 397 - Telecommunications Project II US$5.5 million Credit of
June 20, 1973; Effective Date: September 11, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Due to organizational problems, lack of continuity in senior manage-
ment, and delay in obtaining expert assistance, there have been delays in
procurement and the project is about two years behind schedule. Good progress
is now being made with the assistance of experts and consultants provided by
the United Kingdom and a new General Manager has been appointed. The project
is now proceeding satisfactorily and present estimates are for completion by
the end of 1980.
Credit No. 470 - Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$11.8 million Credit of
May 8, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978; Revised Closing Date: July 31, 1981
Project implementation is about three years behind the original
schedule, primarily due to delays in letting the contracts. A management
team provided by the United Kingdom is assisting the Water Supply and Sewerage
Board. Work is now progressing satisfactorily. An EEC Special Action Credit
was approved in July 1979, to cover some of the Governments share of the local
costs of the project. During the negotiations for the EEC Special Action
Credit, the implementation schedule and dated covenants were revised, and the
closing date amended to July 31, 1981. All major contracts are scheduled to
be completed by December 1980.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action being taken. They should
be used in this sense on the understanding that they do not purport
to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



- 25 -                       ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 505 - Settlement Project US$6.0 million Credit of August 14, 1974;
Effective Date: February 20, 1975; Closing Date: July 15,
1982
Project implementation, though still about two years behind
schedule, has improved slightly over the last months and 1,550 families
have been settled. Forestry clearing remains a bottleneck and technical
assistance is being provided to speed up the operation. Stress has also beer
laid on the need for employment of adequate and experienced staff and better
management and planning of operations. Because of doubts about land use
policy, we are discussing with the Government reduction of project area to be
newly settled from 17,600 ha to 11,100 ha.
Credit No. 600 - Kulekhani Hydroelectric Project US$40.8 million Credit of
January 9, 1976; Effective Date: May 18, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
All civil works contracts have been awarded and construction work
started in December 1977. The revised estimate of project costs, excluding
taxes and duties, is now US$109 million which is some 60% higher than the
estimate of US$68 million at the time of appraisal. The increases in costs
are due to a number of factors, principally design changes as a result of
further geological investigations and the risk factors inherent in a major
project which is remotely located. These are reflected in higher prices and
implementation delays which are adding to costs. In addition, the apprec-
iation of the Japanese yen, in which substantial part of the costs of equipment
and engineering services are being paid, has increased the US dollar cost of
the project. Cofinanciers are providing additional funds to cover the foreign
exchange cost overrun. An IDA supplemental credit of US$14.8 million and an
EEC Special Action Credit of US$3.0 million equivalent were approved by the
Executive Directors on May 10, 1979. Progress is satisfactory.
Credit No. 617 - Rural Development Project US$8.0 million Credit of
April 30, 1976; Effective Date: July 15, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress continues to be satisfactory, with almost all planned
project actions being implemented ahead of schedule. Disbursements had been
lagging due to delay of project authority in submitting disbursement applica-
tions. Interministerial cooperation is good, and at the district level, sound
and practical development plans have been produced which are fully supported
and understood by project farmers. Adequate financing to carry out project
proposals has been made available in the budget by the Government and sites
and plans for most district construction projects have been completed and
construction started. Training of weavers and issuance of improved looms
under a credit scheme is proceeding well. Shortage of middle-level staff in
the project area for construction supervision and agricultural extension may
hinder project implementation. However, arrangements have been made for more



- 26 -                      ANNEX II
Page 4
efficient deployment of existing staff and for special training of farmers
as part-time agricultural assistants. Under the associated Bank-executed
UNDP technical assistance project, the assistant to the Project Coordinator
and the Irrigation Advisor have nearly completed their assignments.
Credit No. 654 - Bhairawa - Lumbini Groundwater Project US$9.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Drilling of tubewells is in progress.  Thirty-nine production wells
have been constructed.  Civil works construction for irrigation units is under-
way.  Recent supervision missions have discussed ways for expediting civil
works contracting with the Project Authority and the consultants, for ensuring
that tubewells can be energized from local power supplies, and for strengthen-
ing the agricultural staff on the project. Construction of village link roads
has started. However, there is delay in implementation due to the weakness
of contractors in the project area and delay in construction of transmission
lines.
Credit No. 659 - Technical Assistance Project US$3.0 million Credit of
September 16, 1976; Effective Date: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Studies for a national agricultural extension project, a silica-
lime brick factory, and the proposed grain storage project have been completed
while studies are in progress for river control for the Sunsari-Morang Irri-
gation Project, an airborne magnometic survey and cottage industries.
Arrangements for initiating additional studies are being made.
Credit No. 704 - Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$8.0 million
Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date:
February 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Feasibility studies, master plan updating, final designs and the
tariff study have been completed. Evaluation of the bids for major contracts
is underway. An EEC Special Action Credit was approved in July 1979 to assist
in financing a portion of the Government's share of the local cost of the
project.
Credit No. 705 - Nepal Industrial Development Corporation Project US$4.0
million Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date:
February 17, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The UNDP-financed policy advisor completed his assignment and the
accounting and information systems advisor took up his post in February 1980.
To date, subprojects for about $1.7 M have been approved by IDA. Progress in
implementation of the credit has deteriorated due to shortages of complementary
local currency resources. Accordingly disbursement have continued to lag.



- 27 -                      AdNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 730 - Second Highway Project US$17.0 million Credit of
October 19, 1977; Effective Date:  December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project implementation is nearly two years behind schedule due
to delays in the award of contracts and the appointment of consultants.
Consultants (financed by CIDA) arrived in March to provide maintenance
technical assistance. The pre-feasibility study for the Bombasa-Kohalpur
Road was completed in July 1978, and a proposal for the Mechanics' Training
Program is under review by the Government and the Association. Seven of ten
contracts have been awarded for the construction of the Tulsipur Road and
three contracts have been awarded for the earthworks on the Thankot-Naubise
Road. Arrangements for consulting services for supervision of construction
have been finalized.
Credit No. 772 - Technical Education Project US$5.7 million Credit of
April 14, 1978; Effective Date: July 11, 1978;
closing Date: September 30, 1983
Good progress towards implementation has been made. Contracts have
been signed for all civil works packages, except external works, for which the
bids are being evaluated; however, equipment tendering is behind schedule.
The first batch of fellowship students have completed their programs and a
second batch have started their programs. A team of educational experts,
financed by ODA, have begun work in the field and a program of cooperation
with Paisley College of Technology, Scotland, is progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 799 - Third Telecommunications Project US$14.5 million Credit
Of August 22, 1978; Effective Date: February 27, 1979
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
ODA is financing the telex equipment and the satellite earth
station. Project consultants have been appointed. Procurement actions have
been initiated.
Credit No. 812 - Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Project
US$30.0 million Credit of July 7, 1978; Effective Date:
November 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The Project Board has been established and the Project Manager,
Senior Agricultural Officer, and consultants have been appointed. Studies
for major canal structural repairs, sediment control and river training are
under way. Contracts for priority works have been awarded and procurement
action for equipment and civil works for Chatra Main Canal is underway. An
EEC Special Action Credit of about US$4.0 million equivalent was approved
in June 1979 to help finance a portion of the Government's share of the
local cost.



- 28 -                         ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 856 - Narayani Zone Irrigation Development - Stage II Project
US$14.0 million Credit of November 27, 1978; Effective
Date: January 8, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The contract for project consultants under Stage I (Nippon Koei)
has been extended to cover Stage II. Contracts for surface irrigation blocks
have been awarded. Procurement of the remaining civil works and for equipment
is being initiated. Satisfactory progress is being made.
Credit No. 939 - Second Rural Development Project - Mahakali Hills
US$11.0 million Credit of August 9, 1979; Effective Date:
January 15, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1985
The Project Coordinator has been appointed.
Credit No. 1008- Community Forestry Development and Training Project
US$11.0 million of May 22, 1980; Effective Date:
August 20, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Not yet effective.



- 29 -                         ANNEX III
Page 1
NEPAL
THIRD WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
24 months
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
WSSB, with the assistance of consultants funded
under the second project and under the Project
Preparation Facility.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of the first mission to consider the project
Part of Master Plan updated in second project,
which received regular supervision missions.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
January 7, 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
May 23, 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
October, 1980
Section II    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III    Special Conditions
Condition of Effectiveness
(a) WSSB had completed arrangements, satisfactory to
the Association, to employ the engineering and
supervision consultants (para 32);
(b) the Government had caused appropriate sewerage
regulations, satisfactory to the Association, to
come into force (para 35);
(c) WSSB had increased tariffs by an average of 45%
(para 38);
(d)  the Government had appropriated funds to pay all
amounts due to WSSB on account of water consumed
through standpipes (para 39); and
(e) execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between
the Government and WSSB, in a form and substance
satisfactory to the Association (para 40).
Other Conditions
(a) WSSB would take over the assets and operations
of the existing systems in the six towns to be
added to WSSB's responsibility as equity, free
and clear of indebtedness (para 33);
(b) A connection and metering program was agreed
with the Association (para 34);
(c) WSSB would make available to the Association for
comment drafts of any rules or regulations proposed
to be issued by or relating to WSSB (para 35); and
(d) Tariffs would be set at levels which produce
revenues to cover at least WSSB's annual cash
operating expenses and depreciation in FY1981
and FY1982, and starting in FY1983 to cover at
least WSSB's annual cash operating expenses and
amortization and interest on debt or deprecia-
tion, whichever is higher (para 38).



_  80'                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~8?2'                        8'4-                                     84'                                         1
X                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEPAL
I N D Ii-    ->        A                                                                             THIRD WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
-30'   <       >t i !\\  -~  .          .A                                                                                  PROJECT AREAS                                  1
Ar    f z  ,    t  - ,   .  i-   J ;                                                   2|2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    40  r,oro  1o  1,201 1 60 -IK2LONgETERS
,   rah,gort   g                                                                                                      io -o SD 7    2     J 50  I    MILES
<   -Y   -   .    _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'    - .  /   >.                        o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Towns and Village,
&  --$   ( ->9-'  <---.- - .  K A -~R N -A  L I  'v9THIMI Poetro
tDatxhuroO  9.   Sl,garl-a.i--- mi.S    J   osu_Iq . -t\   2  N   A   X                         rcxis.ing RorJds~~~~~~~~Eistin Road
Tanapr/                    9   -tR,pr kot         1 -                           te                                                   Rodlways
w  Mmhn6dmirdi % >' /"'-('X'4/9-''r < Cl ? X <:~~A                                ^R.pew.y
;/t g    ! '' /    -   <@<'--a.   ~~Doeht-\'/  DHAWALAGIRl                                                          - Rivers
V,~  ~~~r Dh                                                                                                                 Admi-nt0< \/ - $ist,otwve Bo.ndaries
*~ ~~~~a ,-\            rOrn  e       (    ;     -   lnG A NAR D A  K            , I,                           C  H  I N  A
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ T g                                             ung_



