CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1625 MOR
Shareholders' Guarantee Agreement
for the Maroc-Phosphore Phosphate Fertilizer
Expansion Project financed by the World Bank in the
Kingdom of Morocco and for amending and complementing
the Shareholders' Guarantee Agreement entered into among
the parties hereto with respect to Loan No. 1017 MOR
among
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
OFFICE CHERIFIEN DES PHOSPHATES
and
MAROC-PHOSPHORE
Dated October 27, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1625 MOR
SHAREHOLDERS' GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 27, 1978, among INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank), the OFFICE CHERIFIEN DES PHOSPHATES (hereinafter
called OCP) and MAROC-PHOSPHORE (hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to lend to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty
million dollars ($50,000,000) to assist in financing the con-
struction of facilities for the production and exportation of
phosphoric acid, as more fully described in Schedule 2 to such
Loan Agreement;
WHEREAS such Loan of the Bank is guaranteed by the Kingdom
of Morocco (hereinafter called the Guarantor) pursuant to the
Guarantee Agreement of even date herewith between the Kingdom of
Morocco and the Bank;
WHEREAS the Bank has so agreed to make the Loan only on
condition that the OCP, as shareholder of the Borrower, undertake
certain obligations toward the Bank and toward the Borrower;
and
WHEREAS the OCP, in consideration of the granting of the
Loan, is willing to undertake such obligations as and under the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions, as so
modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Loan


﻿- 2 -
Agreement and in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. (a) In order to ensure the availability to the
Borrower of sufficient funds to carry out the Project, the OCP
shall subscribe for, and pay in, not later than December 31,
1981 (or such other date as the Bank may agree) an increase of the
share capital of the Borrower which shall amount to not less than
DH200,000,000.
(b) For the purpose of this Section the term "Project"
shall include both the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement and the Project described in Schedule 2 to the 1974
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Whenever there is reasonable cause to believe
that the funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate to
meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of
the Project and fOL the carrying out of the operations of the
Borrower in accordance with Section 4.01 of the Loan Agreement,
the OCP shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank and the
Borrower promptly to provide to the Borrower such additional funds
as shall be necessary for the purpose.
Section 2.03. In addition to the funds to be provided under
Section 2.01 above and notwithstanding the generality of Section
2.02 above, the OCP shall promptly provide the Borrower, or
cause the Borrower to be promptly provided, with any funds or
other facilities necessary to ensure compliance by the Borrower
with Sections 5.04 and 5.05 of the Loan Agreement. Any funds
so provided by the OCP shall be provided either through loans
on terms satisfactory to the Bank, or by cash contributions
towards increases in the share capital of the Borrower or through
interest-free advances.
Section 2.04. The 1974 Shareholders' Guarantee Agreement is
hereby amended, as from the Effective Date hereof, by (i) the
deletion of all provisions included in, or all references to,
Section 2.01 of such Agreement and (ii) the substitution therefor,
and the consequential incorporation therein, of Section 2.01
hereof.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.05. If any provision included in the 1974 Share-
holders' Giiarantee Agreement is inconsistent with any provision
hereof, the pertinent provision included herein shall govern.
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. (a) The Bank and the OCP shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan will be accom-
plished. To Lhat end, the Bank and the OCP shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the performance by the Borrower of
its obligations under the Loan Agreement and by the OCP of its
obligations under this Agreement and to other matters relating to
the purposes of the Loan.
(b)   The OCP shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Bank all such information as shall be reasonably requested
concerning the matters specified in paragraph (a) of this
Section.
(c) The OCP shall promptly inform the Bank of any con-
dition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance
of the service thereof, the performance by the Borrower of its
obligations under the Loan Agreement or the performance by the
OCP of its obligations under this Shareholders' Guarantee Agree-
ment.
Section 3.02. The OCP shall furnish to the Bank prior infor-
maation on any proposed future intermediate and finished phosphate
fertilizer plants in the area of Safi and on any other proposed
major industrial investment by the OCP in such area.
Section 3.03. Until the Loan Agreement shall have terminated,
the OCP shall not, without the prior approval of the Bank:
(a)  sell, pledge or otherwise dispose of any of its shares
of the Borrower or permit a change in the percentage of its
holding of such shares, if such action would reduce its share-
holdings to less than 75% of the total shares of the Borrower;
or


﻿(b)  permit the modification of the Statuts of the Borrower.
ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the Effective Date of the Loan Agreement.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and the respective obligations
of the parties hereunder shall terminate when the Loan Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 4.03. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
any of the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly
given or made when it shall have been delivered by hand or by
mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it
is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified, or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request.
Section 4.04. The obligations of the OCP under this Agreement
shall not be discharged except by performance and then only to the
extent of such performance. Such obligations shall not be subject
to any prior notice to, demand upon or action against the Borrower
or the Guarantor or to any prior notice to, or demand upon the OCP,
and shall not be impaired by any of the following: any extension
of time, forbearance or concession given to the Borrower or the
Guarantor, any assertion of, or failure to assert, or delay in
asserting any right, power or remedy against the Borrower or the
Guarantor or in respect of any security for the Bank's Loan;
any modification or amplification of the provisions of the Loan
Agreement or of the Guarantee Agreement contemplated by the terms
thereof; or any failure of the Borrower to comply with any
requirement of any law, regulation or order of the Guarantor or of
any political subdivision or agency of the Guarantor.
Section 4.05. The OCP shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority of the person or persons who will, on
behalf of the OCP, take any action or execute any documents


﻿- 5 -
required or permitted to be taken or executed by the OCP under
this Agreement and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 4.06. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 4.03 of this Agreement:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For OCP:
Office Cherifien des Phosphates
305, Avenue Mohammed V
Rabat, Morocco
Cable address:                      Telex:
PHOSPHAT                            31012
Rabat
For the Borrower:
Maroc-Phosphore
305, Avenue Mohammed V
Rabat, Morocco
Cable address:                      Telex:
PHOSPHAT                            31012
Rabat


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Shareholders' Guarantee Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Maurice P. Bart
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
OFFICE CHERIFIEN DES PHOSPHATES
By Is/ Sellam M'Hamedi
Authorized Representative
MAROC-PHOSPHORE
By /s/ Sellam M'Hamedi
Authorized Representative


