Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIA L USE ONLY
RhWt N.. P-3988-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $25.0 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
WEIYUAN GAS FIELD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 16, 1985
b  docmen bu a            dWbuto       m    be use by rpim     y la &e pef o  of
the~~~~~ir ~W  dod    lF  n    ewwwbdi I widw WM Ban   behd



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984    April 1985
Currency Unic = Renminbi (RME)       (RMB)
$1.00         = Y (Yuan) 2.32        Y 2.84
Y 1.00        = $0.43                $0.35
(Project cost estimates are based on the February 1985 exchange rate of Y 2.8
per $1.00 which prevaiLed at the time of appraisal.)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton (mt)                        =    1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 metric ton (mt)                             2 2,204 pounds (lb)
1 meter (m)                              =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                         -    0.62 miles (T )
I cubic meter (m3)                       -    35.3 cubic feet Ccft)
X barrel (bbl)                          =    0.159 cubic meter (cu. m-.)
I metric ton of oil 39' API              =    7.60 barrels (bbl)
I normal cubic meter of natural
gas (cu. m.)                        -    37.32 standard cubic feet (scf)
1 kilocalorie                           =    3.97 British thermal unit (Btu)
i Megawatt (Mu)                          -    1,000 kilowatts
I kilowatt hour (kWh)                    =    1,000 watts/hour
1 Gigawatt hour (GWh)                          1 billion watts/hour
1 barrel -er day (bld)                  -    0.159 cubic meters/day
1 million cubic meters/day (1MMCMD)    =    35.3 million cubic ft/per day
I billion cubic feet (BCF)               =    28.33 million cubic meters
1 trillion cubic feet (TCF)              -    28.33 billion cubic meters
1 MCM                                   =    1 thousand cubic meters
1 MCF                                   =    1 thousand cubic feet
1 BCM                                   -    1 billion cubic meters
1 toe                                   =    1 con of oil equivalent
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARCO         -   Atlantic Richfield Company
CNOOC        -   China National Offshore Oil Corporation
CNTIC        -   China National Technical Import Corporation
EOR          -   Enhanced Oil Recovery
ECPI         -   East China Petroleum Institute
GOC          -   Government of China
IOCs         -   International Oil Companies
MOG          -   Ministry of Geology
MOPI         -   Ministry of Petroleum Industry
SPAB         -   Sichuan Petroleum Administrative Blureau
SWCPI        -   South West China Petroleum Institute
SWMD         -   South West Mining District



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
WEIYUAN GAS FIELD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       The People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries:  South West Mining District (SWMD), the Ministry of Petroleum
Industry (MOPI), the East China Petroleum Institute (ECPI) and
the South West China Petroleum Institute (SWCPI)
Amount:          $25.0 million equivalent
Terms:           20 years, including 5 years of grace, at standard variable
interest rate.
Relending        Same terms and conditions as the Bank loan; SWMD bears the
Terms:         foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:  The project objective is to assist SWMD and the Government to
- undertake a pre-investmient study of the Weiyuan gas field in
order to design a rehabilitation program that will maximize
recovery of gas reserves. The project would include:
(i) acquisition of reservoir and production data using modern
technology; (ii) a comprehensive diagnostic study including an
assessment of key reservoir parameters, well completion and
production methods, reservoir simulation and well stimulation,
and related pilot operations, as well as the design of an
optimum development program; (iii) essential equipment and
instrumentation for data collection and production; and
(iv) training to strengthen ECPI and SWCPI and to assist MOPI
in undertaking a diagnostic study of the petroleum education
requirements at the national level. Notwithstanding the low
permeability and porosity of the reservoir, there is a
reasonable prospect that an additional 10 billion cubic meters
(BCM) of gas (10 million toe) might still be recovered.
Consequently, a diagnostic study will be undertaken as part of
the proposed project to minimize risks and uncertainty before
a commitment is made to a large-scale investment in enhanced
gas recovery.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                       Local /a   Foreign    Total
-   --- - ($ million)  …----
Consultancy services:
Diagnostic studies                  1.1          4.0       5.1
Well services for data
acquisition and pilot tests       1.8          5.5       7.3
Equipment                             1.1          7.0        8.1
Training                              0.5          4.0        4.5
Base Cost                         4.5        20.5       25.0
Physical contingency                  0.3          2.9        3.2
Price contingency                     0.2          1.6        1.6
Total                             5.0        25.0       30.0
Local      Foreign    Total
------    million)      -
Financing
~.   Plan:           GOC/SWIHD                 .           5.0           -         5-
IBRD                                   -          25.0      25.0
Total                             5.0        25.0       30.0
Eb.imaLed         Ban. F'                        1986     1987      1988      i989
Disbursement:
Annual                          2.0     12.0       9.0       2.0
Cumulative                      2.0     14.0      23.0     25.0
Economic Rate
of Return:     Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:        None
laps:             IBRD 16436R3
IBRD 18870
/a   Includes taxes on expatriate consultant and well services estimated at
$1.6 million. Taxes on imported equipment are exempted.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANIK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A WEIYUAN GAS FIELD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for $25.0 million equivalent to the People's Republic of China for the Weiyuan
Gas Field Technical Assistance Project. The loan would have a term of 20
years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. Of
the totaL, $21.0 million would b^ onlent to the South West Mining District
{SWMD) in Sichuan province on tue same terms and conditions as the Bank
loan. SWMD would bear the foreign exchange risk. A total of $3.5 million
would be passed on as grant to the East China Petroleum Institute (ECPI) and
the South West China Petroleum Institute (SWCPI) for training. The remaining
$0.5 milLion would be used by the Ministry of Petroleum Industry (MOPI) for a
diagnostic study of petroleum education requirements at the national level.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A country economic memorandum, entitled "China:  Recent Economic
.Trends and Policy Developments" (No. 4072-CHA), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. An economic mission that visited China
early in 1984 is preparing a report on long-term development issues and
options, which is expected to be submitted to the Executive Directors by May
1985. Basic data an the economy are given in Annex I.
Background
3.        To address economic inefficiency and structural imbalances, the
Covernment initiated a program of reform and adjustment in 1979. Reform
implementation proceeded most rapidly in agriculture and culminated with the
introduction of the "production responsibility system" (in various forms),
which gave households and small groups autonomy in production and investment
decisions and allowed them to keep most income earned after contracted
payments to the state and collective. By the early 1980s, the vast majority
of production teams in China had implemented such a system. Reform of the
urban economy began much more slowly, but nevertheless significant systemic
changes occurred, including bonuses for individual workers; profit retention
by state-owned industrial enterprises (at first on an experimental basis);
fiscal decentralization measures, which allowed provinces to share in the
benefits of increased revenues and gave them more freedom in budgeting; and
some decentralization of foreign trade authority. Adjustment policies
resulted in an increase in the share of consumption in GDP; a rise in the
share of light industry in total industrial output, substantial improvements
in living standards, rapid growth of foreign trade (particularly manufactured
exports), and relativeLy modest (in relation to past trends) CDP growth.



-2-
4.        A number of problems emerged in the process of reform and adjust-
ment, including large budget deficits in 1979 and 1980, deterioration of the
external position and a significant current account deficit in 1980, infla-
tionary pressures and some overt price increases, and excessive investment
demand resulting from decentralization of investment decision making and
financing. In response to these difficulties the Government imposed a stabil-
ization program in early 1981, which relied mainly on administrative con-
trols. It resulted in a slowdown in growth, a reduction in price inflation
(to around 2% p.a.), a sharp cutback in budget-financed investment, a lower
budget deficit (1I of GDP in 1981); and a current account surplus of $1.5 bil-
lion in 1981 and $5.6 billion in 1982.
Economic Performance, 1981-84
5.        Economic growth picked up in 1982 with the resumption of rapid
growth of heavy industry and the rebound in investment. Overall performance
has remained strong, with real CDP growth averaging over 8% p.a. from 1981 to
1984. Shortages of energy, many producer goods, and construction materials
were exacerbated by the rapid growth of demand, yet price increases were
limited by further strengthening of administrative price controls (particu-
larly in 1983). Government budget revenue grew very slowly in 1982 (1.3%) but
much more rapidly in 1983 (7.9%) and 1984 (as much as 10Z), due to a new tax
on enterprise retained funds and extrabudgetary incomes of Government organi-
zations. This permitted an increase-in budget expenditures on investment of
17% in 1983 anid a further rise in 1984, while maintainidig a relativeLy small
budget deficit (less than 2% of GDP in 1983). Growth of subsidies was largely
stemmed by scopping increases in most of the agricultural procurement prices.
6.        Gross industrial cutput value ;rew at c'rer 10% p.a. between 1981 and
1984, with heavy indubtry growing somewhat faster than light indusEry (12% vs.
9%), a reversal of the 1978-81 pattern. The energy constraint on industrial
growth was eased by rising coal output (8% p.a. in 1981-84), conbistent annual
crude oil output at over 100 million tons, and imiprovements in the efficiency
of energy utilization (primary commercial erergy consumption grew only 60% as
fast as GDP in 1981-83). Agriculture has cor;cinued its very strong perfor-
mance, with gross agricultural output value rising at 9% p.a. in 1981-84 and
grain output at 7% p.a. (reaching over 400 million tons in 1984). Cash crops
and animal husbandry, stimulated by rising demand and attractive prices, have
also grown very rapidly.
7.        There have beer. impressive increases in personal incomes throughout
the period 1978-83. Average per-capita income in rural areas rose by about
12% p.a. in real terms and urban incomes by about 5% p.a.  Rural income growth
was mainly due to production increases, efficiency improvements, and growth of
employment in nonagricultural activities, as well as substantial agricultural
procurement price increases (through 1981). Urban income growth, on the other
hand, can be attributed primarily to wage and benefit increases, which have
exceeded growth of labor productivity.
8.        Control of the aggregate level of investment and its composition has
continued to be a serious problem. Enterprise and local government investment
continued to increase sharply in 1982, far exceeding plan guidelines. In



-3-
1983, more stringent measures brought this part of investment under control
(though it still exceeded plan targets). But investment outside the rural
sector remains rather inefficient, and improvements in efficiency have been
hindered by administrative controls. Construction costs have risen contin-
uously (101 p.a. in 1978-83).
9.        China has maintained a strong external position.  The dollar value
of both exports and imports stagnated in 1981-83, but this masked considerable
increases in the volume of foreign trade. Since 1983, imports have grown more
rapidly than exports, and in 1984, exports rose by an estimated 10% while
imports increased by 25Z. Manufactured export growth was slower in 1981-84
than in 1978-81, but it started from a much higher base and occurred in the
face of worsening world market conditions. Foreign debt and debt service
ratios remained at very low Levels ($6.4 billion and 5.5% respectively in
1983); China's foreign currency re6erves (excluding gold) rose to $1, billion
(over 7 months' imports) by mid 1984 and have stabilized at that Level since
then. The value of the Chinese renminbi declined by about 36% against the SDR
between the end of 1981 and Late 1984 (60Z against the US doLlar).
Recent Reforms
10.       Rural reforms have continued to progress more rapidly than reforms
elsewhere in the economy. There has been a remarkable spread of nonagri-
cultural activities Like processing, transport, and commerce.  "Specialized
households" (which concentrate on on=rundertaking - often cash crops, animal    v
husbandry, or nonagriculturaL activities) and pooling of capital by small
groups of households in various types of ventuces are becoming increasingly
common forms of economic organization in China's rural areas. Wholesale
markets for some agricultural products have emerged. To encourage investment
in land improvemenc and development, farming contracts between collectives and
peasant households (which typically had been fixed for no more than 3-5 years)
can now be extended to as long as 15-20 years. In early 1985, it was
announced that planned procurement quotas for agricultural commodities will be
abolished; more methods of financing investment in rural nonagricultural acti-
vities will be permitted (including tax exemptions, local government bonds,
higher interest rates to attract more saving, etc.); and the growth of the
agricultural processing industry in coastal areas will be promoted.
11.       The momentum of urban reforms has revived, with significant progress
on several fronts. Since early 1984, the focus has been on broadening and
delineating the decision-making authority of urban enterprises. Profit
retention now extends to virtually all state-owned industrial enterprises and
to nonindustrial sectors like transport, commerce, construction, and other
services. Urban collectives and individual enterprises, as well as a variety
of joint ventures between them and state enterprises, have grown rapidly (the
number employed in urban individual enterprises rose from 150,000 in 1978 to
2.31 million in 1983).
12.       In financial reforms, the most important new development was the
implementation of a profit tax system to replace profit remittances by state
enterprises to the Government budget. Though most enterprises have switched
to this system, the benefits have been limited because of the application of a



- 4 -
different effective tax rate for each enterprise, to offset the impact of
distorted ralative prices and other factors.  Similar problems have resulted
in the abandonment of an attempt to impose a fee or charge on the fixed
capital provided to state enterprises by the Government, and they have hin-
dered the shift from grant to loan financing of new fixed investment, despite
strong Government support. Financial discipline at the enterprise level
remains weak, in spite of efforts to strengthen accounting and auditing
systems and more strictly enforce existing financial regulations.
13.       In the crucial area ot price reform, a major price adjustment for
textiles and textile raw materials occurred in early 1983; it helped balance
supply and demand, to a large extent equalized profit rates for synthetic and
cotton textiles (which are close substitutes in production and consumption),
and drastically reduced subsidies for cotton procurement, with only a small
net effect on the Government budget. Prices of many "minor" consumer goods
(which individually do not have a significant impact on living standards) and
the majority of agricultural commodity prices have been decontrolled and are
now set by negotiations between producers and commercial units. "Floating
prices" (up to 20% above or below official prices) are now allowed for many
industrial producer goods (either for all output or for output above the
mandatory plan target). Price adjustments for key energy products and raw
materials (which in many cases are severely underpriced) and for subsidized
basic consumer goods like grain and edible oil have proven more difficult to
implement, hindered by the potential impact of price changes on urban living
standards and on t4e finances of energy-using enterprises. Nevertheless, some
price rises have occurred (e.g. for coal and petroleum), and moreover the
share of free market transactions (at largely uncontrolled prices) has
increased in recent years.
14.       Reforms in the employment and wage system have made limited
progress. The bulk of urban labor is still allocated administratively, and
transfers of workers or professionals among enterprises are heavily impeded.
Numerous attempts are being made to link individual performance more closely
with rewards, including piece-rates, "floating wages," and various types of
contractual "responsibility systems." These have achieved some success, but
probLems of egalitarian distribution of bonuses remain, and many enterprises
give out bonuses in kind or disguise them as allowances in order to evade
regulations.
15.       China's foreign exchange rate system has been unified with the
aboLition of the "internal settlement rate" (Y2.8 to $1) at the beginning of
1985. Direct foreign investment (which was first allowed in the late 1970s
but developed slowly due to the lack of a legal framework) is being actively
encouraged and joint venture agreements have increased sharply. In addition
to four "special economic zones" open to foreign investment and subject to
more flexible policies, 14 coastal cities were recently opened up in the same
way.
16.       Significant steps have been taken to develop new tools of indirect
macroeconomic management. The central banking functions of the People's Bank
of China were separated from its commercial banking functions (which were
given to the newly established Industrial and Commercial Bank of China) at the



-5-
beginning of 1984. The central bank relies on redeposit requirements and a
discount window to influence the operations of specialized banks, and even-
tually may use discount rates and interest rates in general as a flexible tool
of macroeconomic management. Adjustments in indirect taxes may be used to
affect profitability and supply, in the absence of or as a supplement to price
reform. Scope for horizontal flows of investment funds is also widening, as
enterprise4 invest in each other and in joint ventures and as some individuals
purchase stocks. Though restrictions on secondary trading remain, Government
bonds purchased by individuals can now be sold to banks or used as coLlateral
for loans.
Long-term Issues and Prospe-ts
17.       The Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party issued a major
document on urban reforms in October 1984, which reaffirms and consolidates
recent reforms and provides some general guideLines for the direction of
future reform. It emphasizes the need for breakthroughs in: (a) enlivening
and better motivating urban enterprises; (b) cLearly separating Government and
enterprise functions (and limiting direct intervention by Government organiza-
tions in enterprises' day-to-day operations); (c) reforming the price system;
(d) improving incentives in the wage and bonus system; (e) estabLishing a
planning system that is in harmony with gre.ter reliance on the market mecha-
nism and developing indirect macroeconomic management; (f) upgrading manage-
rial personnel to meet the new demands on them in a reformed economy; (g)
removing obstacles to 'a. unified national market and promoting cooperation  :Ld
technoLogy transfer among regions; and (h) expanding utilization of foreign
capitaL and advanced technology. Among the main themes of the document are
the roLe of competition in promoting a more dynamic, flexible economic system;
the reco,nition that a certain degree of income inequality is necessary to
provide better incentives for economic dev.elopment; the need for clear respon-
sibilities and appropriate incentives at all levels in the econoaiy; and the
recognition that thoroughgoing price reform must involve liberalizing the mode
of price determination, not just adjustments in administratively set prices.
Managers of large state-owned enterprises, however, will still be appointed by
Government organizations; a few key products will still be subject to manda-
tory planning and distribution by the Government; state ownership and control
over certain institutions like banks and railways will not be relinquished;
and establishment, relocation, changing product lines, mergers, and shutdown
of enterprises will stiLl be subject to Government approval.
18.       The Central Committee declaration represents a political commitment
to economic reform, which will help foster an environment in which fundamental
reforms can be gradually implemented in a coordinated way. But specific
policy measures wiLl take a considerable length of time to design and then to
implement. Many of the reforms required will be very difficult, particularly
since reforms in different areas are closely interrelated, and thus appro-
priate sequencing and coordination are essential. For example, price reform
in the absence of improvements in enterprise financial discipline will have
limited benefits, yet the more profit-oriented behavior that would result from
tighter f;nancial discipline would exacerbate the adverse impact of distorted
prices. Similarly, reform of the labor allocation system will be incomplete
without eliminating many of the "social responsibilities" of enterprises



- 6 -
(which now provide housing, medical care, and pensions for their workers and
in many cases education and jobs for workers' children) and replacing them
with Government-supported social service programs.
19.       China's objective of quadrupling the gross output value of industry
and agriculture between 1980 and 2000 (which means CDP growth of well over 6X
p.a.) will require significant improvements in efficiency as well as continued
high saving and investment rates. There will be major structural changes in
the economy over the next two decades, including a reduction in the share of
agriculture, a rise in the share of industry and possibly in that of services
(which at present is unusually low), and substantial urbanization (in smaller
towns if not in large cities). There will also be a shift within agriculture,
away from grain and basic crops and-into cash crops and animal husbandry.
20.       Certain physical/technical constraints will hinder the attempt to
achieve China's targets for the year 2000 and its longer-term goal of catching
up with developed countries. Despite rapid growth and substantial improve-
ments in efficiency in recent years, agriculture may again become a constraint
on overall growth, since land in China is severeLy limited. In energy, short-
ages of fuel (primarily coal) and electricity may continue to constrain growth
in transport and commerciaL infrastructure. Without large new investments and
improved efficiency, economic growth will lag. In mobilizing resources in all
these areas, China could profitably make use of foreign borrowing. Finally,
the rising share of the eLderly in China's population (related to the slowdown
in population growth) means that more resources will have-to be devoted to
maintaining their consumption Levels, especially in the decades after 2000.
21.       Poor motivation and inefficient utilization of labor in the state
sector of the economy are major problems which can be solved only by coordi-
nated reforms in labor alLocation, the wage system, enterprise management, and
social services, among other things. Reforms in the system of education and
training to develop China's "human capital" potential also are crucial. Back-
ward technology and inefficient use of existing technology must be addressed
by a combination of reforms, appropriately directed investment, and transfer
of advanced foreign technology. Irrational location of factories, suboptimal
scale of many plants, and poor utilization of physical capital in general are
related problems.
22.       If reforms successfully transform the economic system, with a bene-
ficial impact on growth and efficiency, a new set of issues will come to the
fore. Management of a reformed economy with indirect fiscal, monetary, and
other instruments is a major issue. In this context, maintaining an adequate
saving rate (if the Government no longer accounts for the bulk of aggregate
saving) and avoiding inflation (as well as deep cyclical downturns) will be
major goals. Assuring an adequate minimum standard of living for the popula-
tion and an appropriate level of social services will become a major challenge
as enterprise and rural communal responsibilities in these areas are reduced.
The problem of poor, backward rural areas in various parts of the country will
continue to require attention. Redistributing financial resources through the
fiscal system, easing restrictions on migration out of the poorest areas, and
lowering nonagricultural wages to make investment in them more attractive are
some options for alleviating poverty in these areas.



- 7 -
23.       The Government is in the process of finalizing its Seventh Five Year
Plan (covering the period 1986-90). The combination of potentially fundamen-
tal reforms and the urgent need for large investments in many parts of the
economy to build the foundation for further growth makes this task difficult.
In order to mobilize the investment resources needed for rapid, sustained
economic growth and development, China will need to rely in part on foreign
borrowing. Recognizing thin need, the Government plans to gradually draw down
its substantial foreign exchange reserves and hopes to attract foreign capital
through a variety of channels. China also has a claim to concessionary
lending because it is still one of the poorer countries of the world. But
China'3 access to concessionary capital to finance development and moderniza-
tion is limited; apart from Bank Group funds, a significant amount of conces-
sionary capital is likely to come only from Japan and a few other bilateral
donors and will probably average no more than $500-600 million p.a. during che
rest of the 1980s.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
24.       To sustain rapid growth over the coming decades, to increase effi-
ciency and innovation, and to maintain equity in distribution, China will need
continuing and fundamental reforms. These challenges are compounded by
China's large investment requirements and difficulty in efforts to open up to
the rest of the world. In light of this, there are several broad objectiv*s.
for the Bank to pursue in its relationship with China. First, the Bank can
offer China development experience and institutional knowledge as well as
opportunities for interaction with the Pank's other member countries. Second,
the Bank can assist China in removing major constraints on development and in
improving investment planning and policy coordination in the priority sectors
- namely energy, transport, other infrastructure, human development and
industry. Third, the Bank can assist the Government in efforts to remove the
remaining pockets of poverty.
25.       The Bank Group's strategy to meet these objectives is formulated in
line with China's broad development priorities and related issues outlined in
Part I of this report. However, Bank Group lending can provide only a small
portion of overall resource needs. As a key element of the strategy, there-
fore, the Bank's lending operations will aim to create a substantial demon-
stration effect applicable to China's overall development efforts. For
example, projects invoLving new techniques for land development or fo: provi-
sion of social services have been designed so they can be repeated by local
authorities with their existing resources. Some of the agriculture projects
and rural health projects are examples of this approach. The introduction of
international competitive bidding through Bank projects (first to finance
goods, and later civil works) is being adopted by the Government for most
local purchases and many domestic construction projects.
26.       Bank assistance can help improve the efficiency of investment,
through introduction and dissemination of improved analytical techniques for
investment and project planning and through institution building. Preparation
of the project appraisal manuals for the China Investment Bank and the Agri-



- 8 -
cultural Bank of Clhina, consultant assistance and the EDI-sponsored programs,
as well as specific sector work in transport, industry, health, education and
other sectors have improved the quality and content of project proposals.
Assistance to Chinese enterprises and agencies through staff training, ccuo-
sultant assistance, creation or reorganization of institutions, and improve-
ment of costing and finar:.ial management has been included in a number of
projects ranging from the ports and railway projects to the several education
and petroleum projects. Sector work in enterprise ;nanagement, urban develop-
ment, health and industry has also provided assistance for improvement of
investment efficiency.
27.       Human resource constraints are a particularly serious problem for
China's development. There are severe scarcities of higher level trained
manpower. Substantial economic and sector work and technical assistance and
training components in most of the Bank projects are providing support. In
terms of poverty alleviation, the rural health project, proposed urban and
water supply projects and sector work on labor mobility and regional develop-
ment options address poverty, health and equity issues.
28.       Transfer of technology in the broad sense is of fundamental impor-
tance in China's efforts to improve efficiency of the economy. Outmoded,
inefficient and costly industrial technologies are serious impediments to
development and are wasting valuable energy resources. Here, the Bank can
play the role of an intermediary. In transportation, energy, industry, agri-
culture and evea education, the Bank can finance transfer of technology
through equipment imports, provision of foreign consulting assistance,
arrangement of training and promotion of licensing and other agreements such
as are now being discussed in the railways and other projects. Long-term
investment for new technology will require increased foreign borrowing in the
future and the Bank can assist China through cofinancing. Progress is being
made in introducing co-financing under the first and second power projects,
coal, urban, water, and some agriculture projects, and the Bank will continue
these efforts.
29.       For most of these elements of country strategy, however, progress
will be gradual and will require sustained Bank involvement over a series of
projects in various sectors.
Economic and Sector Work
30.       Economic and sector work in China was initially designed in part as
a learning experience to provide the Bank with a basis of knowledge on the
development and functioning of the Chinese economy.  It also introduced the
Government to alternative ways of economic analysis and views about its
achievements.
31.       In the last four years, the above approach has been well received
and has fostered economic and sector work that is responsive to the problems
of adjustment and reform. Follow-up to the first economic report emphasized
technical assistance and sector work for investment analysis and selection
techniques and enhanced sector planning. The content of the lending program
has been directly influenced as a result. The rural credit project, the China



- 9 -
Investment Bank projects, and future regional industry projects are examples
of the links between economic and sector work ar.d the lending program.
32.       More fundamental research by the Bank in collaboration with Chinese
economic research institutions into the problems of enterprise management is
nearing completion. The research has yielded insights into the attitudes of
enterprise managers toward system reform and has led to better understanding
of how policy changes can improve planning, performance and management of
enterprises. In addition, there is a variety of project-related sector work
underway through studies included in the projects. These are expected to
produce the basis for detailed discussion of development options and policies
in the various sectors.
33.       Current economic work focuses on future options and issues to the
year 2000. A comprehensive report will be ready later this fiscal year. In
light of the experience of other countries in making the transition from low
to middle income levels, the report will pay special attention to inter-sec-
toral linkages and cross-sectoral and economy-wide issues.
34.       Future economic and sector work will be based on the conclusions of
the economic report and will look in more detail at some of the issues raised.
It will continue to improve our knowledge of the economy - its structure, the
issues and constraints in key sectors, and the functioning of the economic
management system. Collaboration with Chinese research institutions on issues
of institutional.,nd policy change will continue. Review of the investment
program in key sectors when the Seventh Five Year Plan (1986-9b) is finalized
will help develop the next generation of projects for the lending program.
Lending Operations
35.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in May of
1980, 24 projects involving lending of $2,391 million to China have been
approved. Annex II contains a summary statement on these loans and credits as
of March 31, 1985. For this fiscal year we expect to present a total of
twelve projects to the Board. These include the already approved projects for
Second Agricultural Research, Second Power, Second University Development,
Changcun (Luan) Coal Mining, Seeds Development, Rural Water Supply and the
proposed Weiyuan Gas Field Technical Assistance Project, as well as projects
in roads, railways, fertilizer rehabilitation and energy-saving, forestry and
Pishihang-Chaohu area development.
36.       For FY86 and beyond, the China lending program should continue to
grow from current levels. Areas of emphasis would include development of
energy resources, transport infrastructure, skilled manpower and improved
technology. We will also investigate the feasibility of a regional approach
in a number of sectors and will take better account of intersectoral linkages.
37.       Previous lending in the energy sector has included six projects,
which have emphasized increased energy output and technology transfer through
financing of equipment, technical studies, training and consultant assis-
tance. The Lubuge Hydropower Project has resulted in the Government's exten-
sive use of competitive bidding for power projects. The Second Power Project



- 10 -
places particular emphasis on better system planning. Fuel alternatives for
electric power, generating plant location and interconnection of power grids
will be the subject of future work. For development of China's petroleum and
coal resources, Bank Group assistance will emplhasize acquisition of appro-
priate technologies, least cost planning of investment and related transport
investment programs.
38.       In the transport sector, railway, port and road capacity must be
substantially increased. So far, one project each in ports and railways has
focussed on increasing capacity, upgrading technoLogy for Lower cost opera-
tions, and establishing better costing systems. Expanding domestic capacity
to manufacture improved transport equipment will continue to be a theme in the
sector and this should provide scope for substantial foreign private sector
invoLvement. Improved management and information systems and analytical tech-
niques for better cost control will be encouraged under the projects, which,
once proven, will be suitable for wider use throughout transport enterprises.
Intermodal coordination and planning and assessment of alternative investment
choices will have increasing prominence in both lending and seccor work.
39.       In agriculture, six projects have emphasized support services
through improved research and education, production increases through new land
development, reclamation, use of improved technologies and management, and
strengthening of the agriculture credit system and seeds development.
Projects in forestry and agriculture credit will continue to strengthen sup-
port services and rural institutions.  Land and area development projects wilL
endeavor to provide models of integrated regional development. Specialized
activity projects such as fisheries, livestock and agro-processing may also be
developed to support ongoing structural transformation in agriculture.
40.       In the industrial sector, two projects have focused on establishing
and strengthening the China Investment Bank. Improved investment selection
criteria, incentives for more efficient management, technology transfer, and
energy conservation are priorities for future projects. Lending will have a
two-pronged approach - further strengthening of the China Investment Bank (and
perhaps other financial intermediaries) and financing large regional produc-
tion-oriented projeLts such as for fertilizer, machine tools, and cement, to
expand output and d&monstrate the merits of improved subsector analysis and
planning.
41.       Further expansion of higher education and improvement of teaching,
curricula and graduate quality will be needed to the end of the century. The
human resource constraints have already been addressed by five education
projects and a component of the RuraL Health/Medical Education Project. The
value of international competitive bidding for equipment purchases and of
international advisory panels for educational policy and curriculum reform has
been demonstrated in the first projects. Improved universit) management is
being encouraged through establishment of quantitative targets for growth,
student-teacher ratios, classroom utilization, laboratory experiments per-
formed, and other reforms (including development of evaluation and monitoring
procedures and greater decentralization). Projects in health, urban develop-
ment and water supply will assist the Government in addressing difficult
poverty-linked questions of affordability, cost recovery, and minimum
standards with focus on particularly impoverished regions.



- 11 -
42.       Implementation.   Project implementation is generally proceeding
well. There have been some delays in procurement, but these are now being
addressed through a central procurement agency. Most project agencies, as
well as the Ministry of Finance and the State Planning Commission, have
established and staffed offices to handle Bank Group projects. To support
further expansion of the lending program, accelerate project preparation,
improve project implementation, and facilitate further economic and sector
work, the Bank Group is planning to open a resident office in China early in
FY86.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Overview
43.       China is the fourth largest producer and third largest consumer of
commercial energy in the world. Coal is by far the most important source of
energy in China, accounting for some 70Z of its commercial energy consump-
tion. Oil production has increased rapidly over the last three decades to
become an important source of both commercial energy and export earnings,
representing about 18% and 20% of the respective totals in 1983. Some 20% of
oil production and 1% of coal production is currently exported. Natural gas
(2%), hydroelectric power (5%) and limited quantities- of shale oil and geo-
thermal power make up the balance of commercial energy. Non-commercial energy
resources supply energy equivalent to about 40% of commercial production.
44.       China's achievement in developing its energy resources over the last
three decades has been remarkable. The annual production of coal has
increased from some 60 million tons in 1952 to 760 million tons in 1984.
During the same period, the annual oil production increased from 0.1 million
tons to 114 million tons, and the annual electricity generation increased from
about 7,260 GWh ro 376,990 GWh. However, China's future energy production is
expected to grow at rates substantially lower than in the past, while the
co.ntry's development goals require a sustained high rate of economic growth
(paras. 19 and 2C). To avoid a potential constraint on economic development,
it will be necessary for the country to meet at leasL the official output
targets set for all types of energy resources. For the petroleum industry in
particular, this is a tremendous challenge -ince the major onshore oilfields
have either reached or passed their peak production rates, and the offshore
exploration drilling activity being undertaken by the international oil
companies (IOCs) has not so far detected any large new oil fields. In
addition, serious sectoral constraints which exist in various aspects of
technology, logistics, management and financing need to be overcome. Because
the potential for speedier development of energy supplies is limited, China's
economic prospects will be critically affected by the degree to which the
intensity of energy use relative to economic output can be decreased without
compromising standards of living. The balance between energy supply and
demand will be precarious for the remainder of the century.



- 12 -
45.       In view of the complexity and difficulty of the problems anticipated
in the attempt to balance supply and demand, it is crucial for China to formu-
late and implement a comprehensive and coherent long-term strategy directed at
both efficient energy deveLopment and utilization. The Government, in its
Sixth Five-Year Plan (1981-85), accorded high priority to the development of
the two inter-related sectors, energy and transport, and these objectives wilL
be further emphasized in the Seventh Five-Year PLan (1986-90) which is cur-
rently under preparation. The Bank has taken an active role in support of the
Government's development objectives and formulation of a coherent sectoral
strategy through economic and sector work as well as lending operations.
Resource Endowment
46.       China is well endowed with primary energy.  Coal and Lignite
reserves are concentrated largely in the north and northeast, which have about
70% of the total recoverable reserves (640 billion tons). Future plans call
for increasing coal production significantly, but difficult transport (essen-
tially lack of railroad capac; -) appears to be a serious constraint to
achieving this objective. Biomass fuels are the second most important source
of energy in China, accounting for an estimated 30% of final consumption.
RecoverabLe reserves of oil onshore have been variously estimated between 6 -
15 billion tons, and estimates for offshore oil reserves range from 3 - 10
biAlion tons. Recoverable reserves of non-associated gas have so far been
estimated at about 3 trilLion cubic feet (TCF), about 90% of which are located
in Sichuan Province.  Ln addition, recoverable-reserves of associated gas are
estimated at about 1.5 TCF. However, the currently known total gas reserves
of 4.5 TCF (equivalent to over 110 million tons of oil) could be a small frac-
tion of the full potential. Recent gas discoveries in the Zhongyuan area and
in the South China Sea, as well as potential future discoveries, are likely to
augment the present gas reserve estimate. Unofficial estimates of oil shale
in China place reserves at 400 billion tons.  Current production of shale oiL
from the Liaoning and Guangdong mines is about 300,000 tons p.a. China's
hydropower potential, among the largest in the world, is estimated at 1.9
million GWh annually and current hydro generation is about 86,780 GWh. The
known uranium reserves in China are sufficient to sustain 15,000 MW of nuclear
power plant for 30 years. Although potential sources of geothermaL energy are
abundant in the mountainous southwestern part of the country, their develop-
ment has not been extensive, and the role of geothermal power is likely to
remain limited.
Efficiency of Energy Use
47.       China's consumption of energy per unit of GDP is well above any
major developed or developing country. Several factors contribute to this
high energy intensity, among them the structure of industrial production, the
scale of industrial units, the raw materials used, the technology employed,
and industrial organization and operating practices. Consumption of oil has
been growing at an annual rate of over 12Z for the last 17 years. An unusual
and wasteful feature of the consumption pattern is the direct use of crude oil
as fuel; some 6 million tons of crude oil were used as fuel in 1982. This is
partly attributable to the non-availability of refining facilities close to
the producing field, and partly to transportation constraints and the poor
quality of the crude oii.



- 13 -
48.       In the late 1970s, it became evident that the high energy consump-
tion rate could not be sustained.   The Government accordingly evolved a
series of administrative measures to reduce the rapid growth of energy con-
sumption, including quotas, adoption of energy efficiency measures, retro-
fitting, marginal adjustment in industrial structure and the importation of
energy efficient technology. These measures have had some success. Primary
commercial energy consumption per unit of industrial and agricultural ouput
has been dropping steadily since 1979. Gradual replacement of outdated energy
technologies, a change in the pattern of industrial structure, and appropriate
price adjustments are needed to achieve further energy savings.
Oil and Gas Subsector
49.       China has had remarkable success in increasing the leveL of oil
production from about 10 million tons in 1960 to 114 million tons in 1984.
Impressive production increases were secured using local technology and equip-
ment and relativeLy outdated production practices. However, the major onshore
oilfields have passed their peak production rates and in recent years, there
have been no substantiaL new discoveries. In 1981-82, China's oiL production
declined by some 3%. It then climbed to 114 million tons in 1984 following
remedial measures on existing fields including an intensive campaign of infill
drilling and welL stimulation. However, while there is large potential for
investment aimed at maintaining this level of production, no further signifi-
cant increase can be expected from existing fields. Over the longer term,
sustained or increased production will-depend on new oil discoveries.  The
petroleum industry in China, therefore, is faced with an immense challenge as
it attempts to meet the annual oil production target of 200 million tons by
the end of the century.
50.       Many of China's gas fields, like its major oilfields, have also
reached or passed their peak production rates. China presently produces about
12 billion cu.m. of gas per annum (about 12 million toe). About half of the
gas produced is non-associated gas, 90% of which comes from the Sichuan basin.
Over the last five years, gas production from Sichuan has fallen by about 20%.
The shortage of gas has become a major impediment to economic growth in
Sichuan and remedial measures are urgently required to arrest the decline of
gas production. The Government's target is to increase the country's annual
gas production to 15 billion cu.m. in 1990 and 25 billion cu.m. in the year
2000. In order to meet these targets, substantial new gas reserves will have
to be discovered and developed. The long-term prognosis for gas supply is
encouraging. The recent gas discovery in the Zhongyuan oilfield could be
sizable and more importantly, ARCO has made a significant gas find in the
South China Sea.
Natural Gas Demand in Sichuan
51.       At present, about 50% of the natural gas in Sichuan is used for
fertilizers, and about 10Z for petrochemicals and synthetic fibres. The
balance, some 40%, is burnt as fuel mainly for industries (e.g. iron, steel,
salt and cement), and to a far lesser extent, in igniting coal-fired power
plants and households in major cities. While Sichuan has a long history of
utilizing natural gas, investment planning for gas utilization has been



- 14 -
inadequate. In the wake of falling gas production in the province, demand has
increasingly tended to exceed supply, partly because in the past, an excessive
number of coal-fired industriaL units had been converted to gas without
adequate supplies being secured. As most of the natural gas in Sichuan is
used as feedstock (fertilizers and petrochemicals), the gas supply shortages
have also led to curtailment of production in existing gas-based industries.
52.       In rationing the use of natural gas resources, the Government's
policy is to accord first priority to feedstock, second to gas-based industry,
and third to household use in major cities. This is a sound allocation of the
scarce natural gas. Additional policies encourage: (a) the substitution of
gas with coal for industrial fuel, including accelerated conversion of
boilers; and (b) energy conservation, including the restructuring of steel and
fertilizer plants to improve industrial energy efficiency. These measures are
expected to have some positive resuLts and prevent shutting down of industrial
plants. However, a much more concerted effort is required to increase or at
least maintain production from existing fields and to identify new sources of
gas in Sichuan and other areas.
Exploration
53.       Onshore Areas.  Since the 1970's, the rate of discovery has been
declining as a result of several features of China's exploration efforts. On
one hand, the immense size and geological complexity of the prospective areas
impose an enormous requirement of capiVtal and expertise which cannot be met by
public resources alone. The policies dictated by central planning and the
objective of self-reliance have limited cross-fertilization and access to new
technologies and ideas, and have emphasized p-oduction and short-term gains
over long-term prospecting efforts. China's vast geological potential could
justify a much larger exploration program. As part of the effort to almost
double oil output by the end of the century, the Government has recently
decided to accelerate its onshore exploration, by both increasing activities
of the national oil companies and opening up onshore areas to foreign oil
companies. The initial offering is likely to be restricted to regions south
of the Chang Jiang and the pertinent legislation needed to bring this about is
being prepared.
54.       Offshore Areas.  China's offshore seismic work and the development
of offshore structures in the Bohai Bay area prior to 1979 revealed the limi-
tations of its offshore technological capabilities. Thereafter, China sought
the active cooperation of foreign oil companies in these areas. Forty-eight
foreign oil companies, from 12 countriel, were invited to undertake geophysi-
cal and seismic work in over 420,000 km of China's offshore sedimentary
basins. On the basis of these surveys, six prospective oil-bearing basins
have been identified. In early 1982, the Government established regulations
to enable foreign oil companies to participate i. exploring China's offshore
basins. Further, the China NationaL Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC) was
created to invite and evaluate bids and enter into offshore petroleum agree-
ments with foreign oil companies. The new regulations allow petroleum con-
tracts in which the foreign oiL companies bear the cost of all exploration
investment and the accompanying risks. Once a commercial oil or gas field is
discovered, the foreign contractor and CNOOC will invest jointly in its



- 15-
development. By end 1984, twenty-three production sharing contracts had been
concluded.
Exploration and Production Strategy
55.       Continuing to increase production of oil and gas and meeting the
targets set for the year 2000 will require a very large and sustained effort
by both public and private companies in exploration and production. To make
such effort possible, China would need to act simultaneously an two fronts.
First, it would need to formulate and promote major new initiatives in explor-
ation both offshore and onshore, especially in its vast and under-explored
onshore basins. This would require both infusion of Large amounts of invest-
ment capital and acquisition of more sophisticated technology. Such measures
are critical; by the year 2000 most of the currently producing fields
(including Daqing) would be 30-40 years of age and are unlikely to account for
more than a small fraction of forecast petroleum requirements. The balance
would therefore need to come from new discoveries. Future discoveries of the
magnitude envisaged could be achieved by more systematic evaluation of China's
geological potential, involving a more agressive exploration strategy in areas
which are difficult geographically and geologically. There are indications
that such a strategy is emerging. Second, and even more important in terms of
its impact during the medium term, steps will need to be taken very soon to
arrest or slow down the natural decline of the currently producing fields
through a variety of measures- including improved production techniques, EOR
and infill drilling.
56.       Difficult as the task may be, the Government is establishing an
appropriate policy framework and taking steps to achieve this objective. It
is entering into a large number of joint venture agreements with IOCs for the
offshore areas, opening up onshore areas for similar joint venture agreements,
importing technology, and reappraising present exploration and production
practices and the management structure in existing oilfields. China's
petroleum industry is in transition; it will need to continuously review and
modulate its policies in response to changing needs of the sector. Through
sectoral dialogue and lending operations, the Bank will continue to assist
China in the formulation of a dynamic sectoral strategy, support investments
in critical areas where new approaches can yield quick benefits, and encourage
measures designed to improve planning of sector development.
Pricing
57.       Despite recent economic reforms, energy in China has continued to be
allocated by administration, with market forces playing only a minor role.
Under the present pricing structure, significant economic rents are generated
from some fuels (e.g. oil) while barely covering average operating costs for
others (e.g. coal). The Government is aware that some energy products are
underpriced and is planning a general reform of the price system.
58.       In general, energy prices in China are not set according to inter-
national prices and are low in relation to economic costs, with the exception
of certain petroleum products and electricity for residential consumers. It
should, however, be noted that comparisons of energy prices in China with



- 16 -
international prices are extremely complex and must be interpreted with
caution, particularly because of difficuLties in anaLyzing energy prices in
isolation from the domestic prices of other commodities and uncertainties
about the level of the exchange rate appropriate for making such comparisons.
Nevertheless, certuin energy prices in China are low when compared with inter-
national prices and price distortions do occur, particularly in the coal
subsector.
59.       A summary comparison of domestic energy prices with international
prices is shown in Annex IV. Gasoline prices have remained above internatio-
nal prices. As a result of the price increase in 1983, the prices of kerosene
and diesel are currently close to international price levels. On the other
hand, the prices of crude oil and fuel oil are still considerably below the
international level; since 1982, a special tax of Y70/ton has been levied on
both crude oil and fuel oil for fuel usage. Further, "tabove-quota" crude
production is priced at the international price level. Rationalization of
energy prices to increasingly reflect the economic costs is an important
aspect of the Bank's ongoing dialogue with the Government. The Government
recently communicated to the Bank that its policy is to gradually increase
coal prices towards the long run marginal costs during the Seventh Five-Year
Plan (1986-1990).
60.       In regard to natural gas pricing policies, the welL-head price of
natural gas in China was, until 1982, standardized at Y50 per thousand cubic
meters (MCM) for both associated and non-associated gas. The well-head price
of non-associated gas in Sichuan was increased significantly to Y80 MCM ($0.8
MCF) in 1982 and again in 1984 to Y130/MCM ($1.3/MCF). This increase not only
allows the gas field operators to cover their rising costs of production but
also provides incentives to accelerate gas development by enabling operators
to finance a major portion of their investment from internaW,y generated
funds. In equivalent calorific terms, the end-users price - of gas in
Sichuan is higher than those of fuel oil and coal, the alternate competing
fuels for industrial use. This is consistent with the Government's policy to
accord priority to feedstock usage over fuel usage in rationing scarce natural
gas. In particular, since the end-users price of gas in Sichuan is about 3
times higher than that of coal, there is a strong financial incentive for
industrial enterprises to substitute coal for F.as.
Institutions
61.       The Ministry of Petroleum Industry (HOPI) generally oversees all
activities in the oil and natural gas subsector, including policy making and
overall planning, emploration, production, distribution, transportation,
research and design and training. The petroleum industry has been in a state
of continuous change since the 1970s; this has blurred the lines of responsi-
bility and created considerable overlap of functions among MOPI, the Hinistry
of Geology and the Ministry of Chemical Industry. To address these problems,
the Petrochemical Corporation of China was created in September 1983, and most
3/   Includes gas distribution fee of about Y40/MCM.



- 17 -
of the industries using peEraleum products or natural gas as feedstock have
been transferred to this Corporation. In addition, a major share of the
refineries with a capacity of over I million tons annually have come under the
management of this Corporation. As a further step toward strengthening
planning and management of the gas subsector, the National Gas Corporation was
created under MOPI in 1984 to focus attention in these areas.
Role of the Bank and Project Rationale
62.       As noted earlier, China faces the challenge of almost doubling oil
production by the end of the century if it is to keep up with the planned rate
of economic development. Serious sectoral constraints, particularly in tech-
nology and management must be deaLt with, if their production is to trow sig-
nificantly over the next two decades. The major thrust of the Bank's assis-
tance is therefore directed at strengthening the technological and managerial
capabiLities of the Chinese petroLeum industry.
63.       The Bank has so far financed three petroLeum projects in China.   In
each case, the rationale for the Bank's participation Lies in an assessment of
the technological -ap, the packaging of a specific technical assistance pro-
gram, the monitoring of its design and subsequent supervision of its implemen-
tation. Under the Daqing project (2231-CHA), the technical assistance was
directed at enhanced oil recovery using infill drilling, reservoir engineering
and improved production techniques. The Zhongyuan project (2252-CHA) focused
on exploratLon and production dsrilling under conditions of high temperature
and pressure. The Karamay project (2426-CHA) addressed the design and imple-
mentation of improved exploration techniques and heavy oil recovery programs
under difficult and geoLogically complex conditions. These projects are being
implemented satisfactorily.
64.       In addition to the transfer of specialized technology through con-
sultancy services, equipment importation and training, the Bank's participa-
tion also provided for strengthening the management capabilities of the three
oilfield entities concerned, particularly during the initial phase of project
identification. Through extensive project preparation work, the Bank intro-
duced to the oilfield entities improved techniques and methodology for project
analysis and investment programming. Bank assistafice in management has conti-
nued during project impLementation, through direct staff involvement and also
through the introduction of modern approaches in reservoir management, organi-
zation, management information systems and cost management.
65.       In addition. the Bank has been supporting a number of new initia-
tives taken by MOPI and the oilfield entities. It has already been instrumen-
tal in introducing foreign oil companies to provide technical assistance in
heavy oil exploitation. The Bank has also organized a seminar on issues in
gas development and is currently considering a request for a seminar on oiL
industry management issues and techniques. This seminar which would be orga-
nized with oil industry support would be particularly timely given the recent
decision made by the Government to enter into joint venture agreement with oil
companies to explore onshore areas of the country.



- 18 -
66.       The proposed project marks the first technical assistance operation
dealing solely with natural gas in China. The scope of the project differs
considerably from that originally proposed by the Chinese which entailed an
immediate field-wide rehabilitation program. After reviewing the basic
technical data, the Bank has suggested a two-phase approach, namely, a
diagnostic study which, if proven successful, would be followed in the second
phase by a major rehabilitation investment program. This approach has now
been accepted by the gas field authorities and should avoid unneccessary
investment while securing, if successfLl, a higher level (or at least a sus-
tained present level) of gas recovery. The rationale for Bank participation
in the proposed project therefore lies in assisting the South West Mining
District (SWMD) develop a more systematic approach to the rehabilitation of
gas fields with technologically complex production problems. If this approach
is successful in Weiyuan, it could well be replicated in other gas fields in
the Sichuan basin. In addition, the project aims at strengthening the Chinese
petroleum industry in the longer term by financing research and training
programs in East China Petroleum Institute (ECPI) and South West China
Petroleum Institute (SWCPI), and making a diagnostic study of the broader
petroleum education needs of the country at a national leveL.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
67.       The project was identified in October 1984 and appraised in February
1985. Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1985. The Government of
China was represented by Mr. Wang Liansheng, Deputy Director, External Finance
Department, Ministry of Finance and the South West Mining District by Mr. Qu
Junyao, Deputy Director, SWMD. No separate Staff Appraisal Report has been
prepared.  Special features of the project are given in the Loan and Project
Summary and in Annex III.
Background
68.       The Sichuan basin is located in a topographical depression drained
by the tributaries of the Chang Jiang in southwest China. It covers an area
of some 160,000 km2. Some of the world's earliest gas wells were drilled in
thiis area and there are indications that gas was produced from wells through
bamboo pipes some 2000 years ago. In modern times, hydrocarbons, mainly in
the form of non-associated gas, have been discovered in about 60 fields
located throughout the basin in various formations ranging in age from the
pre-Cambrian to Mesozoic. More than 1400 exploration and development wells
have been drilled in the basin and the gas production in 1984 was 5.4 billion
cubic meters (5.5 million toe).
69.       The Weiyuan field was discovered in 1964.  A description of the
petroleum geology of the Weiyuan gas field is provided in Annex V. This field
is a large anticline in the southern part of the Sichuan basin. Gas is pro-
duced from pre-Cambrian dolomitic limestones of the Sinian formation at a
depth of about 3000 meters. The field was put into production in 1968. SWMD
estimates the in-place gas reserves of the field at 40 billion cubic meters
(BCM), 12 BCM of which have been produced to date, leaving some 28 BCM of gas



- 19 -
in place. About 10 BCH (10 million toe) might still be recovered provided
optimal reservoir management and well completion techniques are utilized. The
peak production rate from the field was achieved in 1976 when the field
produced 3.7 million cubic meters of gas a day. Since then production rates
have declined steadily; currently, the production stands at M.SB million cubic
meters/day (Annex VI).
70.       The Weiyuan gas field is typical of a tight and fractured limestone
reservoir with low matrix porosity and permeability. Production from the
field is obtained mainly through the vugs and fractures in the formation. In
order to enhance gas recovery, appropriately designed well compLetion and
stimulation programs are required. However, the tools and techniques which
have been used for logging, coring, and formation testing are out of date and
have failed to provide the comprehensive picture of the reservoir behavior.
In addition, the field has suffered from inadequate reservoir management.
Wells have been drilled at sub-optimal spacing and completed with outmoded
techniques. Some of the wells have also been produced at excessive rates
which has reduced the ultimate recovery of the gas reserves. Further, the
formation stimulation practiced has been ad hoc and there has been little
follow-up and analysis of results. The outcome has been massive water
incursion into the fieLd. Of the 100 wells drilled, only three are still
producing water-free gas; the rest are either producing water and gas
together, or have gone completely to water.
Project Objective
71.       The project objective is to assist SWMD and the Government to under-
take a pre-investment study of the Weiyuan gas field in order to design a
rehabilitation program that will maximize recovery of gas reserves. To make
use of enhanced gas recovery methods and maximize ultimate recovery requires
detailed knowledge of such parameters as the voLume of the original and
current gas reserves, the points of water breakthrough into the wells, and the
effectiveness of the current gas and water production handling practices. The
stimulation and fracturing methods used also need to be reviewed and will
probably need to be redesigned and tested in pilot stimulation projects. Only
then will it be possible to design a program for total field rehabilitation.
Accordingly, the original approach to rehabilitation was modified and a two-
step process was agreed upon. The first step is a diagnostic phase to be
carried out under the proposed project. The second step is a follow-up, full
investment phase, the scope and content of which will depend on the study and
pilot results from the diagnostic phase.
Project Description
72.       The proposed project would corprise the following components:
(a) Collection of Reservoir and Production Data: Expatriate service
companies would be used for:
(i) formation logging of six new wells and seven wells already
drilled,



- 20 -
(ii)  production logging of approximately 20 wells,
(iii) coring and testing of approximately six wells.
(b) Studies: A comprehensive diagnostic study comprising the following
major components:
Ci)  a reservoir study which, inter alia, will consist of a
detailed geological and petrophysical evaluation of the
reservoir, a new estimation of the gas reserves, a defini-
tion of the field drive mechanism, an analysis of water
incursion problems, and prediction of future well
-     performance;
(ii)  a study of well completion and production methods used in
the field;
(iii) a reservoir simulation study;
(iv) a well stimulation study consisting of a review of the
current well stimuLation methods, and recommendations for
improving stimulation technology; and the subsequent testing
of these recommendations in a series of pilot operations;
and
Iv) based on the above studies, design of an optimum development
program aimed at obtaining maximum recovery from the
reservoir. This could involve workover and re-completion of
roughly 50% of the existing wells in the field with a view
to preventing further water incursion. In addition, many of
these wells will require further stimulation using improved
techniques in the design of fracturing and acidization
programs.
(c)  Equipment and Instrumentation:  Purchase of equipment essential to
collect well data (mobile well testing and workover units, blender
and laboratory equipment). In addition, in order to assist SWMD in
maintaining gas supplies at the present level while the studies are
being undertaken, the project would provide for gas boosters to
compress the low pressure gas before transmitting it into the high
pressure transmission line.
(d)  Training: to strengthen the training and research activities of the
East China and South West China Petroleum Institutes.
Ce)  Petroleum Education Study: to assist MOPI in carrying out a
diagnostic study to assess the requirements of petroleum tecnnical
education and research for the country at the national level.



- 21 -
Training
73.       Aiming to build up local capabilities in petroleum operations, the
Government has recently decided to: (a) update curricula and teaching tech-
niques in petroleum education; (b) strengthen research; and (c) expand the
training capacity of the various petroleum institutes, including ECPI and
SWCPI, two of the six regional institutes for higher education in petroleum
under the jurisdiction of MOPI.
74.       ECPI was established in Beijing in 1953 under its former name,
Peking Petroleum Institute.  It was renamed ECPI when it was moved to Shengli
oilfieLd in Shandong Province in 1969. The Beijing Graduate School of the
ECPI has remained in Beijing. ECPI currently has about 3000 undergraduates
and 170 graduate students for both master and doctoral degrees. In addition,
it has six research laboratories. Over the next few years, ECPI is planning
to increase the total number of students to 5000 and expand its research acti-
vities in some highly specialized areas (e.g. EOR and offshore technology).
75.       SWCPI was established in Sichuan Province in 1958.  It currently has
about 2500 students, of which 95Z are undergraduates and 5Z are masters degree
students. In addition, SWCPI has seven research groups which are currently
undertaking research in 44 subjects. Over the next five years, SWCPI is
planning to increase the number of students to 4000 and the share of masters
degree students to lOZ, and to raise the level of higher education to include
a-doctoral degree for,the first time. SWCPI has also planned to establish
five research centers, covering a total of 80 subjects.
76.       The training component of the proposed project would assist ECPI and
SWCPI to expand their programs by: (a) updating curricula, and improving
teaching material and methods; (b) providing for visits of teachers from
institutions abroad to lecture in these institutions and introduce modern
research techniques; (c) providing for Chinese teachers to visit foreign
institutions and participate in research programs; and (d) providing for
Chinese students and teachers to undertake overseas studies and attend
seminars and professional meetings in foreign countries. ECPI and SWCPI are
currently working out the details of the training program.  The submission of
a report on these details, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of
disbursement for this component (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule I para. 3).
77.       In addition, the project would assist MOPI to strengthen petroleum
education by providing for a diagnostic study to assess the requirements of
petroleum technical education and research at the national level. Based on
the results of this study, a systematic and comprehensive program of petroLeum
education can be desgined and implemented. Assurances have been obtained from
MOPI that it would undertake such a study using qualified consultants, and
furnish to the Bank the findings and consequent action plan by December 31,
1987 (draft Loan Agz!ement, Section 3.05).



- 22 -
Project Cost and Financing
78.       Total financing required for the project is astimated to be $30.0
million equivalent with a foreign exchange component of $25 million (83% of
project cost) and local cost component of $5.0 miLlion equivalent.  These
estimates include both price and physical contingencies ($5.0 miLLion). The
cost estimate is in early 1985 prices. Physical contingency has been assumed
at 14% for imported goods and services and 7% for locally procured
materials. Price contingencies for both foreign and local costs, when
expressed in US dollars, are based on expected international annual inflation
rates of 5% for 1985, 7.5: for 1986 and 8.0% for 1987-88. Consultancy
services have been estimated to total 250 man-months.
79.       The Bank loan of $25.0 million would finance 100% of the foreign
cost of the project. Detailed schedule of Bank loan allocation is provided in
Annex VII. The local costs would be borne by SWMD. The loan will be made to
the Government of China for a period of 20 years (including 5 years of grace)
at standard variable interest rate. Of the loan proceeds, $3.5 million for
training would be passed on by the Borrower as a grant to ECPI and SWCPI. A
total of $21 million would be on-lent to SWMD on the same terms and conditions
as the Bank loan. SWMD will bear the foreign exchange risk. The remaining
$0.5 million would be used by MOPI for the diagnostic study of petroleum edu-
cation and research requirements. In addition to the loan agreement with the
Government, a separate project agreement would he entered into with. SWMD.
Conclusion of a subs idiary loan agreement between the Government andiSWMD
satisfactory to the Bank will be a condition of loan effectiveness (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01(b)).
Project Implementation
8'o.      The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1988 and the
closing date of the Bank loan would be June 30, 1989. SWMD will have overall
responsibility for implementing the project except for the training component
which will be carried out by ECPI, SWCPI and MOPI. SWMD is one of the five
field operators in Sichuan which are overseen by the Sichuan Petroleum
Administrative Bureau (SPAB). Established in 1954, and in accordance with its
charter, SWMD operates as a state-owned enterprise and is responsible for its
profits and losses. A charter formalizing SWMD as a legal entity was issued
on April 1, 1985. SWMD is responsible for petroleum exploration and develop-
mevt in southwest Sichuan. Its franchise extends over an area of some 20,000
km and it is currently producing one billion cubic meters of gas annually.
It carries out a wide range of upstream activities including drilling, gas
field development, marketing and operations of sections of the gas trunk
line. However, specialized services such as logging and stimulation are
carried out by the down hole and logging companies which are sub-units of
SPAB. The organization chart of SWMD is provided in Annex VIII. SWMD is
headed by a Manager who is assisted by four Assistant Managers in drilling,
production, geology and personnel, and finance and admir.istration. To facili-
tate efficient project implementation, a project unit has recently been set up
by SWMD to coordinate and monitor the activities provided under the proposed
project. The project unit is headed by the Assistant Manager for Production
and crmprises four sub-units: (a) project planning and co-ordination of tech-



- 23 -
nical information; (b) procurement; (c) financiaL management, and (c) general
affairs. Assurances have been obtain-d from SWMD that it would maintain the
project unit during the project impLementation period 'draft Project Agree-
ment, Section 2.01(b)).
81.       While SPAB's down-hole company has the equipment to fracture tight
formations, it lacks expertise in the use of modern techniques of stimulation
design and engineering.   In addition, the logging company uses equipment
manufactured locally which is capable of producing basic logs suitable only
for the correlation of formation from well to well. Taking account of Chinese
technoLogical limitations, the proposed Bank loan provides for extensive
consultancy services to assist in project implementation.  The diagnostic
study will be carried out by expatriate consultants. The technical services
for logging and well testing, and the design and monitoring of the well
stimulation pilot projects will be undertaken by expatriate specialized
service companies. The terms of reference for the diagnostic study as well as
procurement and implementation schedule have been discussed and agreed with
SWMD (Annex IX). Assurances have been obtained from SWMD that it would employ
qualified consultants by not later than December 31, 1985 to carry out a diag-
nostic study of the Weiyuan gas field, including pilot stimulation tests, and
review the findings of the study and consequent action plan with the Bank by
not later than December 31, 1987 (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.06).
Procurement
82.       A table on the proposed procurement arrangements is set out in
Annex X. The services of the consultant will be secured in accordance with
Bank Guidelines. Goods and equipment financed by the Bank loan would be
procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines, through ICB. However, certain
specialized and/or proprietary equipment and instrumentation costing less than
$150,000 may be procured through direct purchases up to an aggregate of $1.0
million. Local manufacturers would be eligible to bid under ICB and would be
granted a 15% margin of preference or the prevailing customs duties, whichever
is lower in the evaluation of bids. Formation and production logging, coring
and testing and stimulation work would be procured through limited
international bidding from at least three qualified suppliers in accordance
with Bank Guidelines. The value of these contracts is estimated at $5.5
million. All bid packages having an estimated value of $500,000 or more would
be subject to prior review by the Bank.
Disbursements
83.       Disbursement of the Bank loan wouLd be made against 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of imported equipment, materiaLs, consultancy and well
services; 100% of the ex-factory cost of equipment and materials manufactured
locally and procured under ICB; and 100% of the cost of training. In order to
assist SWMDIMOPI to meet expenditures in a timely manner, it is proposed that
a special account be set up with an initial deposit of $2 miLlion. Disburse-
ments for training and contracts for goods and services each valued at less
than $100,000 equivalent would be made an the basis of Statement of Expendi-
tures (SOEs). Documentation supporting the SOEs need not be sent to the Bank,
but would be retained in the project office in Beijing and made available for



- 24 -
review by the Bank'ssupervision missions.  The detailed disbursement schedule
is set out in Annex XI.  Since the proposed project is the first Bank-financed
petroleum techn-icalasistance operation in China, comparable disbursement
profiles based on historical Bank operation data are not available.
Financial lspects, Accounts and Audits
84.       Details on SWMD's finances are given in Annex XII.  Over the past
few years, SWMD has been faced with an increasing cost of gas extraction
mainly because of the need for extensive remedicl measures to help offset pro-
duction decline. NevertheLess, the recent increase in natural gas price
allows SWMD to continue to cover its operating costs from internal funds.
SWMD's finances are forecast to remain satisfactory over the medium term; its
annual net income is expected to stabilize at some Y69 million ($25 million)
and its self-financing ratio for future investment over the next four years is
estimated to average at about 69X.
85.       SWMD is required to follow the "Accounting System for State Enter-
prises" enacted by the Government and its accounts have been kept
satisfactorily. However, while heavy emphasis is placed on the annual budget
as a management tool, the present financial practice in China does not provide
for financial planning beyond one year. With a view to strengthening SWMD's
financial management, an assurance has been obtained that it would extend the
horizon of financial planning to no l ,s than five years and furnish the Bank
with projected financial.,statements based on a five-year rolling plan. SWMD
would annual'y review with the Bank by October 1 of each year its current and
future financial plans, focusing on the trend of production costs, budget
variance analysis, and its investment and related financing arrangements
(draft Project Agreement, Section 4.02).
86.       In accordance with the regulations for state enterprises in China,
external auditing of SWMD is undertaken by the State Audit Agency which was
established in 1983.  SWMD agreed to maintain separate accounts for the
project; in addition, the project accounts and S-;.rD's accounts would be
independently audited and the audited financial statements sent to the Bank
within six months after the end of each fiscal year (draft Project Agreement,
Section 4.01). The content and format of the pr3ject progress report were
discussed and agreed during negotiations. Proje:t accounts for the training
component and for the petroleum education study, would be also audited and
reports submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of the fiscal
year (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.01).
Project Risks and Justification
87.       The original-gas-in-place at Weiyuan has been estimated by SWMD at
40 BCM. Cumulative production to date has reached some 12 BCM of gas. Assum-
ing the original reserve estimates were correct, some 28 BCM of gas remain in
place. Taking account of the complex geological conditions at Weiyuan, and
assuming a recovery factor of only 35%, which is about half of that of a
normal gas field, there is a reasonable prospect that an additional 10 BCM of
gas (10 million toe) might still be recovered. However, given the
technological problems confronting the Weiyuan field, it is imperative that



- 25 -
the economic considerations affecting the rehabiLitation of the gas field and
enhanced gas recovery he carefully examined while minimizing the investment
risk. The low porosity and permeability of the reservoir could pose
considerable difficulties to enhanced gas recovery. Further, the estimace of
the original-gas-in-place is uncertain. It is precisely to minimize such
risks and uncertainties that a diagnostic study is being proposed before
committing to large-scale investments in enhanced gas recovery. Investment in
the proposed project could have a significant payoff if the gas reserve
*       estimates and their productivity are confirmed and, difficult geological
conditions notwithstanding, if ways and means are secured for enhancing the
recovery of the remaining gas. Equally important, this approach, if found
successful in Weiyuan, could be replicated in other parts of the Sichuan basin
which face similar difficulties and geological conditions.
Ecology
88.       The proposed project has no adverse effect on the environment, as it
entails mainly colLection and collation of data. Even if a development
project evolves as a result of this technical assistance loan, it is unlikely
to interfere with the environment. Gas production activities have been
carried out in this basin for the last 30 years without impairing the ecology.
In fact, to the extent gas replaces coal, the project would have a beneficial
impact on the environment.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
89.       The draft Loan Agreement between the People's Republic of China and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the South West
Mining District, and the Report o' the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
90.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of loan effectiveness are the approval of
the Loan Agreement by China 5s State Council and the execution of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and SWMD.
91.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 26 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
92.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 16, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-27-                                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
WINO. P301U5 321. OF - SOCIAL INDICATOS DATA ST
MC,   O-lS 311. oF                   EZFERCZ 0ROU?S (ICnTO AFEZAS) /a
MIOT                 (MOST 3103 ESTUtATN) lb
utm            i. e         1        nutal
nL!         1mus                     Asa A PACIFIC          ASL 4 PACIFIC
mu  nmom .     .0                    ontoL.       osia0       gsa1.0
TATL                                3751.0      3511.0       3645.9
a m  cum  (flU1                         40.0 IC      n.0         310.0          276.0                    10914
noM   ann..rn     S  ann
c         on r OIL EQOIVALN)         191.0       230.0        412.0          272.0                     547.3
nmfl           ItL -ffIhc
pONLAflLDdE-1a8 (TCN15A )   07300.0    345700.0   10u175.0                      .                         .
MAm POUUI     CZ OF TOMAL)           1s.o 1         ..         20.0           21.7                     3
IOPCLATIOU AESCTIOU
POPMA101 IN MU 2000 (KUL)                                  1190.3
STnCEsT PoPiATlOI LU U )                                   141.0
pOAnu w-S                                                     1.7
M Sa. cm.                           71.9         3.5        103.S           104.6                    161.9
rSq. m.  3. U211.1                             217.9        256.3          345.5                    1735.1
POPULATIO  Al STSCUE  (Z)
0-14 Ms                            36.9        37.7         30.9           35.B                      39.0
1    n44 Us                        50.3         57.2         03.3           59.6                      57.o
U5 AM ARMt                          4.3      S    .1          5.5            4.3                       3.3
FOPOJATIOU 0309ff EATZ (2)
T7.L                                 1.1         2.t          l.5             1.9                      2.3
SiAN                                 ..           ..           ..            4.1                      4.3
CL32  313n= 36  (123 T2OU5)          39.2 /a      34.0         15.5           27.7                      30.1
CS3  DE0? 3   (MR T30S)              23.5 7f      10.1          6.6           10.1                      9.3
55 EMOOCTION  ATr                     2.6 7        2.3          1.2            1.6                     2LU
7T  HAPING
_o s,  amo.AL (TRI                    ..          ..           .. .P)
5    tS OF  hICIZ D m                 ..          ..          9.4 t..                                52.7
mOmD an  nuLnn
Dz or 1000 FoM. PA CAPITA
(199-711-00)                            ..       100.0        124.0          112.t                    123.0
PER CAPITA SIIFL oF
C*tUS (I or  tcSfltnISS)            93.0        U.0         107.0           97.7                     11A.4
? DSSllt (M    F  DAT)             56.0         53.0         66.0           56.8           S7.0
or 1U10 A550*A. AND PLSE         l1.O         16.0         17.0            14.                      14.1
CWUD (Am  1-4) DEA12 RATE            20.0         14.0          7.0            9.J                      7.2
LIF  USPCT. AT 311S (YEAS)           41.0 lb      52.3         04.5           00.0                     60.4
IsWO? WT.  UA! (1M3 T005)           165.0 7      109.0         67.0           83.8                     6.3
AC= TO SAM VATER (IPOP)
tOAL                                  ..          ..        41-0             32.9                     37.0
SI-M                  *       -                         -   ss-O70.9                                  54.3
CSEL                                  ..          .oA                       22.1                      20.4
aCSS TO EUlCEA DISPOSL
(Z or IPDSSOAS)                                                                                        4
TOflL                                ..           ..           ..            13.1                     41.3
lam                                   ..          ..           ..           72.3                     47.4
IDEAL                                 ..          ..           ..             .0                     33.3
P0FULATIE PE rPEXCXAN              8390.0 Il1   3330.0 IL   1310.0 It       348A.2                   7749.&
Pa. EE oISING rP1s0x               4050.0       270.0o    1790.0            4793.1                   24G0.4
p.r MR  osmnaL LD
TOTAL                             1040.0       700.0        490.0         1066.5                    1044.2
05535                             Z10.0           ..        160.0          29J.0                    *51.2
IDAL                             10140.0          ..       1020.0         5993.4                    2594.6
ASSW03  mm 3518  DID                  ..           ..           ..             ..                     27.0
TOML                                  ,,          ,,          5,
ARIS                                 ..           ..          *2.
U561                                  ..          ..          5.5             .
*ea  30. 0? lEO3/ZoOe
nOA                                   ..          .....
SI.                                  ..           .. .
StEAL                                 -.          ..
AC=S To ELECT. CZ OIF OWZLLDIG)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
mA;                                   ..          .....



ANNEX I
-28 -                                       Page 2 of 6
citwa. Wor? r1 31.         O      t - SoCIAl. N IXWI OXMAASlT)
POST                   (NOST 51011  ESTWZE).a
hKgt            LOW 1301              nSu   svoaM
1i6aoL       L970*k.    iStI& Lb    ASIA 4 PACIFIC             ASIA 6 PACIFIC
ADJIIS? ENKOLUiI? RATIOS
PLIaWT:  TOUIL                       109.D        110.0         111.0            97.4                      102.0
1*L1                         ..           ..        130.0            110.5                      105.9
FDKALE                       ..           ..        104.0             13.7                      91.2
S3COEUII: TOTAL                       21.0         23.0          44.0            33.9                       ".0
HALL                         ..           ..          53.0            44.0                      41.7
FAL                         ..            ..         33.0             24.1                      43.1
VOCUZOXWL (S OP sZDoDlaY)                 ..            ..          2.2             2.2                       17.5
MFDL-4ZAL R UTIO
rL                                      ..            ..         24.0            33.5                       31.8
S1~UlelY                                ..           ..          17.0            la.7                       23.3
ADULT LrUACT RAE! (Z)                   43.0            ..          1.0             53.4                      72.9
rAs51 CSTouS   For                        ..           ..           0.2             0.9                       10.1
DIO UQCZVES/ITOUAND PDP                   ..         14.2         153.3           112.1                      113.4
TV a XCvzISITQoUSAID POP                  ..          0.4          27.4            15.7                       50.
NEPAU Ct-AZLT ClErSAL
IrNzzsT) cI30UUTfON
PZ  ThODIAM  POVLATXeION                                                         14.2                       53.9
C L& ANNUAL ADAEICAPIA                    ..           ..            ..             3.                         3.4
TO%    S LAWe& FON   (TROU5)        32144.0      360555.0     47346S.0
FUlL! tCIU0NT)                        38.3         31.0         37.2             33.3                      33.3
Y*Cl1NL!DE  (PERCENT)                   ..           ..          46.9            69.6                      52.2
15301   (F51CEN)                        ..           ..          l?7             15.8                      17.9
PARZTCIPATION RAZZ (121011)
TOTL                                  446.8        45.0          47.0            42.6                       36.7
IIU£                                  55.9         54.5          57.2            54..                       50.9
P3(11                                 37.0         35.0          36.0            29.J                      24.4
E:0U01UC DIZZDZNCT RATIO                 0.9          1.0          0.8              1.0                       1.1
D5          2 SU'E
PEI93T OFW FIVATE INCCIE
EECEC!  By
3ZGs 5T 5 of wOSuOLS                    ..           ..          12.5                                       = ..  22.2
hx1lST 200 aOUS_ OLDS                   ..           ..            .               ..                     U4.O
LOWs  202 OF SSEOLDS                     .6                                        .                          .4
LOUS? m0  0  oUSUoLDS                  ..           ..          1LAL ..                                    15.5
ESTENZE  ASSOLOT  P091K?? INCWS
LVL (SS PER CALPrTA)
03.545                                  ..           ..       1. ..             133.                       1i.
O"L                                     ..           ..            ..           111.4                     152.0
~ som Lom
Lg3  (US3 MR CAPXTA)
Dual                                    ..           ..            ..              ..                     177.9
UL                                                                                                       1".S
p11R  NcaS LEVeL CZ)
0341.....                                                                        438                       234
..L                                                   .                          51.7                      37.7
MNOT AVL&ML
M1T APLICALE
la   7be grop  verag3e ftor each Dadicatar are puevlarlo-e_ighted arithmetlc oma_.  Coverae of comeriea am _S   e
indicators depeeda on avallabLItty of data .d le  ot unifer..
fb   Unloes  ocberiae aced, -atea for 19600  refer to any per bectwm  1959 and 1961; 'et for 1970' Veacuee  19 ad
1971; and data for MteC lacant 53I*g   be*gtwe  1980 ad 1982.
/c   XocerpDlted V157-2 data;  /d 1946;  l. 1955-1965 average; -/f Percentage of aLL earne  w a of child hearing
age practicin  contraception;  /  1977,  Ih 1955-04 average;  /1 senior doctor of tencen medicine;
n blutrihution of people rsaLi c      ma_;.de per capita iooe-. 1979 data.
*11 population end vial. 1etatrtice are beak eetimatee which differ free Cbdaee DffLcial statietice.
Fomrml education only;  oen-fornal *nrollet is subtantlal.
f* le iitlion and cowerlag  differ from thbe  of Cbieee Official statiecicS.
JoIn. iVu



-  9-                                                                                             ANNEX I
--                                                                       ~~~~~~~PageS of 6
gylcetiOM Or wKIsh tionle
-rp.erimh   Sieen    ai m  tea t iie.drtc    dmeim                  ii pti.  Zai  hiiies                lit   emi.l            Id etc  d..e fti  Ill.  i.1. eintt1tim. sedgEI E
dieth    gu    .1 uigilidec.  ilent. ciMOMu.  di .treiriiel                   . s     dumei.-ec.P Sim.ceiti
'hi nicercmiip  up  lt iJ.   -    eilP   aesl,  I. mh..5e  setr d (I) i  iip   ia   sc  unte    ub                              ii.i     eae*te  Ilb  eeiiicarie S-          lIb6
smimemme.  I  1k   etiplWe  Cre      eIt. I    csi  c.  isie ma  aitwid I*eilhinsil Ap-ici W i  tiddinesa   i-    el    .eaitp  ttm   ailm
e.imi   i   iams.fii   ti mImlshti Ji icElmi.    Wait im                    .timi  if  slm    W il ini 1m ampfas lb- eslem  EUi    liI        .me   mli  niled  lbenupi
ierA  mmme.c.sii ie.ie.t                                                t!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HRdI~~~RuhiPW L1.p?ld,tieis  deliSt   by emIm  i  pestlilig
aii  hi    s..-  cIiiriepiimi  IMi  *iE  ddW iIuIM  eeliiit  It".                                                               md:li         1 ich .m    - iieiiim     mini.
Jj.ii   met..isei    s    Il            asiPde  im m.  me. ramImi m4em.                        umrmeg imillt-ouc                                     -
tiJiuli.b± li m l,c.  ct                                                                                                                                    .1:t hiowlde
lowIt love, .sd  ml  diii.                                                                             imi  bia   c   plapimilam.  im.biit lteee   piemeiheg pimml peihi aeit.dl.t
-P.-         iiid. bid lhpt.ili. Sane.Imlieu                         a
iiISiWeicipW mFiiClhiiii      pp.m .le.  s.liem ahd-1 ileiiilem*r.   ebi. =ee" .t isa  *ilie il,                                                   imlemr siiItthii is
is  uemSiei ctrtirlll C Siime..  i ii eimEhmliiisumit   wt~                  pcliao" JtiMId  rim.. it-indlcii licelellie.
tEn   h. ad   mL dc.1-*VflhI M             edr .1 1d1NJ ewflo.,b40  ;h:ei  I-reeit  a d                                                                            cm    ispa
- Liii liii l~~~~~~~ cem. IItic  iS                      B.1tw              Ar i
saidciiirhit Ied.   III is    iiidii                                                      lb't MI.ildlii .ilmIm,imleiieiin
teecleli    -ef   Ciii   piime. petiemm J               i  Sui -  ii ef liEl,               ithpi    s    nl   i  ihi                   un    ntdimici
PT1lilitWis   sidrs    ml   ipimr                      tisliIlml dltmgcopieemnt1,ilmu   ered   Eeiliui  ila.iii.
recic.  Pritrmti  p.n ii   li telml  tIp.  piaihlei   hi                                            ecpli    Omil-
Juli  sa    ii  is     -il   Cli Imp.Ie  e".mI e Imimimt Im hI. e..                                                               -1" -liitsilullliielit IIiE   1.1w- itii  S  eiiii
pu.     .   pieitiie P. I,  '-imtl  iii.1  IE.ILc   lmc  ln.1 I%-                                     hut   PS....          itdiiim          .iitee
.iilitst.mlm   di er tmi  .5d riceemlep teise       eiilelmee pehiei.                            H     dMnieL1
air  i    l p oenS   ddel. sm.pemrlitil                                 ii-i alcih
%ei  tni iieil   .iiat.             W  -P-.atie     tat  1st                                      Lredie -.t..-a-    pipii.em-    --mItIe 6miml dihtdm   wInd s-3m
icp,"dieta ruti.t.  ti iiit e p~ip .etii   rim  teeth rite  I. eu..C                                  ie    Si  Aj-Iie    r.r diilipiu   lue21k .1 Pcliddef EAcililh
.W iqiu  ti mi   :.  I. . ee. 1k i. d lietir. .1.  Wilu..   mt.                                      ratImem   ilIt .ih-ne.  Idustie e-Ieieltae   iiW isi  ec Om            r.e
dillt ier  I.de   h   i.np   seileii  i-utel                                  e                       mr Ee pEctin.  -i  hiuii iiik     JiEitti  .ebal ".
irs..-. rm  rueii ditti  .1  ln .m., nh te eplir.ii  Cciii                           g-  deem i.miie-til                  pc..   P piii  peelaei  tideriiei-
- m  ei  liiniii  ep.smis  ish   i    ie             prclciiuiil.  m~miclJ             i    urie, lttW'       tiiitu    i
t.red  ik Ce cit rptrmui-t.ctmerllte,hi ku ieltinl ri.pmplti mImic, imI -,.:,                                E   qse,ier.iiiiircE"r
Ii. i.. ilir e   51  epr.deliuerime  l.. rerhi  i.im.  it                          auuJil.ri...did
ilcbdWItii    iirpiiilEI   blpllulI itI.- Jii±.i.                                                 Is . tIeleII.    hiPd.tLi.  wi im- re4in                 ieltdiiul
_dcpi  leiidime                                                                                 rem-rrlrZI                  ne,   s   ptt       u   ue.i-i   Jmtudm
_isa:t.    iirii        im  ie   - nidemi  -  i-...leiil.e.i    .diprcme.   eti   Sie pImlitle  aied Ik pa. is mt
-it Ids1  mere  a   mm _ii                                 01,dii,i.1
eeiiisr.eEUic  eeieii  - ui -4   keilil.  dcS  c-  l iti.hicui  1i uc.iC  riCt  peP_ i..a-  - it. WatiCiC Iml
Crud unt hli tcr   hi*ist -tIC 1 IC . trkpr   tase  .md-                                     st         .   M..,im   dii. ii  eeiieie a   -   h. enielptots  mI-en -i
Jei  preilie    mt1 ie. is  lJt  dir..eeruiee.im    iutr
cici  teh ii. (in   mleeisi- ismiCSee   p.  t.ie   m.d-ie                                Wtticp     mci l.ceLcie1M ba    IT ii  u.iir  tar tIi,e- i  i
P   tie.t                                                                                            pettl- d-aIeciie   diets   -  fctilt      r_.iedli  mcmii WW.  m   ipele
ii.tt  !tiei.c -leer  Cerre   il er-edeei)    pire::c i-a -ld                                      SIculc
ci emleli-imimica im  it. en  prsrmlnl..s ce Ellis imit.edi ii.. 1~   fdd                                                W`  ~l L            J--
peilmietia sir lire ii rile   epl Is  mi .iJ-- ..rrlc( e.  leda. iss0cJue !t
ed-4    = _1   P- ,  W.  -go...;  MI-1. .-M         1-2                       l~~~pedlr   -P.emie.iieci    .cim   -.eeu   e
Ilite eat liltiltue                                                            lanirehiel  ti~~~~~~~= 1 M ..  tri  is4   en?. dic ..   t.     I'-
ieairlmtiesif  igrtib et.e M         ime. ai  euietJu semet  lre7=e. fi.m   mli. eeeieit.  eeeeisetuir  iS L
nupti  is   c icia huedt. eappa l piietei  i.eh1-   eiri i-       i                                              P._elme.ic    iSae - ci eiac i.l tea    thp-lrri;  CP.- 510
dii.                                                                                     nii rlnCsiPet-isn.et -rut  mmc  i   fn e -Purmrtilme i
reWiiaiice IIA u 1im   Icrie  cirnel.ecr)  Whp..cd1piP -e                                         "Itr  ret  a.   crtd          .e1se*saPtPlk    rc
d.saltI- ce .pIc   ranii  CI'-iprpiec                huh1 -1  C-WWi.Ie.isme   ie    ti 2i i  tis   -   et.i  peptiri   riui
cepeii.  s  Ihsac   I - es . te  is Ui       . eiet -d s Iee   leeC   .id.                     cec-irr11 W a-i   lltri.e  It"Pb. CleCi.is ir Cein .
ti-nle!. 1imFd mepled pe..CI-           i    ui  I   CiClte.  iiiiecJdi-                             Ice. .im.cei    i   etii   ie.
im  tieuehld .eei.i.e-si.   ile ad  IO die..                                  flipiCCttie.       L.O.                       _.11
pesp dri    l i-etIi iii liku     h seleet preuum-  Id1Ici d.pip!flJf C.t.r_ Si-it.
Ci..       p-tlirdetic. tll   t
etmiesan  151 bil, li. iei   leiie   - A.asl bc.i-e  pe   huiim                             .lse    isl.  iprle                     pttm        erce-  Ics."          5pss
i    icttie.JleceJiid  lees diti.                                                             pIne
tee-    Jpmii J hic. tcrIkeld            .im si.hi    eet  iii
_        .r mli -ep   ehusd Ie   Cenmll.Iei   ta   is
Acn  .    iS,i hile  licsec   iiicR                  em   ce       e   cc
itir ci peiii triril  urhie. isnut  otis rciuehte  wi J,   ci.-.                                                            Cimiic   ilei  i   el.tri
aie   cee(trie.ntserJ           r    u     i    reeid   hi                                                                          ricttdsuc..5i-uit.ctireu



i 30 A'=  IN
Poplatian    i  1,00  willion (mid-1932)
MP per Capital  083310  (1912)
ClIlA -   03o01  !IDIC4ATOE
_Anul Oromth (Rat Constant Piie
tndLeator                                    19o7r 70   197                  1979        3111
(etiatt.t)
PreduetSen
Tam-zoutput
Agriculture                                 2.2       *.4       9.0       1.6       3.9        6.4      11.0         .5.
Lilte Industry                             3.3        7.83     10.        9.6     I.4        14.1       5.7       1.7
Heavy Industry                             11.6       9.3      15.J       7.7       1.4       4.7        4.9      12.4
Not Katerial Product fUH)                     5.2       4.R      12.4       7.0       6.1       4.A        7.4       ..1
1457      1970      1977       1978      1479       1930      141       19312     1493
Prtc @
Retail price Index (1970-100)   92.2       100.0     102.7     103.3      105.4     111.7     114.4      116.6     113.1Jh
111 deflator       t1970-100)   90.7      100.0       99.1     100.5      104.5     In2.4     110.5      11n.0     liljr7
E xchang rate         (1/11S)        2.63      2.46       1.36      1.i3      1.55       1.50      1.71      1.39       1.907
AHmnt                                                             AveraptR Annual Crowth
1982                 ihcr  o f G0P C)                           (z) t  onstent *riess
IbttSonl Accounts          WN1            7       1971     1932     1985 193  in       1157-in   197I 79   1970-32   1932- i
_ _                                                              _~~
CDP                          264.5      100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0    1n0.0          Va                   5.1 S.5
Agriculture                 97.5         ..    32.5      36.9     34.0      29.4        1.6        3.2       5.1       3.2
Industry                   107.0         ..    43.5      40.4     43.0     45.7        12.1       R.9        7.4       R.2
Other                       60.0          ..    24.0     22.7     23.0      24.9        3.5       4.3       (1.3       7.3
Consuption                   184.4       76.4    63.4      69.7     70.0      71.0        2.7       5.4        5.H       6.8
tIue.tent                     76.0       23.2    32.5      28.7     30.7      29.3        9.R       6.R        n.9       7.0
Exports  lIPS                 23.5        3.7/b   6.0       R.9      g.0       9.4        1.6/h     3.0/h    19.0        7.s
Import. CUPS                  19.4        3.576   6.8       7.1      9.3      10.4        2.7Wh     9.47ib    7.7       11.7
National seaings              80.1       23.6k  31.9       30.3     50.0      29.0
As 2 nF :nP
Public Wiwiasfice                                                   1457            1970            1931           13
Current revenues (esxcluding foreign borrovingl                   23.7            36.5           31.9            2q.1
Current expenditures                                              16.1            22.3           23.3            21.7
Surplum (+) or deficit C-)                                       +12.6           +11.7           4I.6            +7.3
Capital exnditures                                                11.9            16.4            9.9             9.4
Foreign borrowing /d                                               0.7             n.9            1.4             0.7
Other Indicatora                                                  1957-79         1979-R2        1932-90
CDP growth rate (2)                                                                S.1            6.5
CUP per capita *rowth rate (1)                                     3.3             3.9            5.1
Ulrgy coneumption growth rate (2-                                  8.5             1.9
ICOR                                                               5.4
Harginal savingp rate                                              0.4Z
Import elasticity                                                  1.6             1.5
/ IIIIP basls.
7F  Goods only.
7T  Cos.
7T  rrons.



ANNEX I
-31-                                                   ftsm  5 of 6
Population    t  1.008 aSllion (mid-1982)
CNP per capites UW 310 (1982)
CHINA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount
(million US. at                Annual growth rateos () (-e constenc ,980 prices)
current prices)                     Actual                                Projected
Indicator                              1983         1980        1981        1982        1913      1984         1985         1986
External Trade
-orchandlse exports                22,223          17          16           6          10         14           5             5
Energy                            4,466                            ..         ..          ..           ..
Other primary                     4,947          ..
Nmnutactures                     12.557          ..          ..          ..         ..
Other                               253
Merchandise impjrts                18,970          17          -9          10          29        30            8             8
Food                              2,735                                              ..
Energy                               99          ..          ..         ..
Machinery and equLp ent           3,537                                  ..         ..
Other                            12,599                                 ..                ..           ..
Prices
Export price index (1980-100)          ..         100         103          99          89        86           90            95
Import price index (1980-100)          ..         100         105          91          79        76           80            85
Terme of trade index (1980-100)        ..         100          9B         108         113        113         112           112
Cumpoaition of merchandise trade (2)                      Average annual incre-as  (2)
(at current prices )                                 (at constant prices)
1980     1981      1982     1983      1985      1990      1957-70  1970-79  1979-82  1982-85  1985-90
Export                  10O.D    100.0    100.0    100.0        100       100         1.6      8.0      12.9      9.6         4
Energy                 25.1      22.9      23.8     20.1        11         0          ..       ..
Other primary          28.4      24.1      22.8     22.3        24    . 4             ..       ..
Manufactures           46.5      47.8     50.5      56.5        60       7-           ..       ..
Other                   0.0       5.2       2.9      1.1         5         5          ..       ..
Imports                 100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0         100       100        2.3       9.4       5.4     21.9         7
Food                     ..      19.6     22.5      14.4        16        17         ..        ..
Energy                  0.0       0.0       0.0      0.5         0         8          ..       ..
Machinery and
equSpment            27.5      24.2      19.1     18.7        24       25          ..        ..
Other                    ..      56.2     58.5      60.4        60       50          ..        ..
Share of trade with           Share of trade with         Share of trade with countries with
industrial countries (2)       developing countries (Z)    centrally planned economies (Z) /a
1978    1981    1983          1978    1981    1983              1978       1981       1983
Direction of Trade /b
Exports                        37.3    45.9    42.1          51.6    50.2    53.1              11.1        3.9        4.7
Imports                       73.3    76.8    68.1           17.5    18.7    24.2               9.2        4.5       6.4
la  Includes the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe. Cuba, North Korea and Mongolia.
/b  Based on IMF:  "China - Recent Econoaic Developments." October 1984, p. 90b.



ANNU I
-32 _f6
Population    i  1. b08 *Llto n(todd-1982)
GNP per cepaLst USt310 (1982)
CUTNA - DILANCR 0a  PAmINTS. WsnamL CAPITAL AND DZIT
(Xlllions US$ at current prices)
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ata                                                                                 P9 a
Indieator                                             1979       iN D      Actual      18         198        14         oc
. l nc jf Pa e-ta
Eaporte of good., *nd astUice 15,351    20,901    25,157    25,989    26,389    29,060    32.000    53.300
Of which:  MIrc_andia f.o.b.                    13.658    18,492    22,027    22,476    22,223    26,450    27.000    45.700
Imports of goodv and *mervices                    18,206    26.752    24,380    20,793    22.48    28.060    31.900    62,600
Of which:  Ihrchandiaa f.o.b.                   16.212    22049    21,047    17.830    18.970    23,710    26.900    52,600
Not trasfers                -                        596        500        680        412        511        600        700        SOO
Current account balance                          -2,257    -3.351        1,457      5,608     4,442       1,600        8oO    -8,500
Foreign direct investmant (net)                        -         57        265        359        478        670        800      1,500
MLT Loans (net)                                      gO0      1,130        416        426        899      1,000      1,200      4,000
Official                                           350        446        479        557       789
Private                                            450        686        -63      -131         110
Other capital                                      2,056      2,555        365       -102    -2,481    -1,070    -1,300         1,000
Cbange In not reoerves C"- - increes.)              -597       -391    -2,503    -6,291    -3,338    -2,200    -1,500          2,000
International reserves                             7.274      7.665    10.168    16.459    19.797    22,000    23.500
of which:  gold                                  5,120      5.120      5,120     5,120      5.120
Ree-rves as months import.                           4.8        3.7        5.0        9.4       10.6        9.4        8:;
External Capital and Debt
Cross dimburgsoents
Concessional Loans
DAC                                                 ..         ..
OPEC                    *                           ..         ..         ..         ..
IDM                                                 ..         ..         .           ..
Other                                               ..         ..         ..         ...
Nonconceemional lo-an                                            ..         ..
OffLical export credits                                        ..
IBRD                                                ..         ..
Other multilateral                                              .         .
Private                                                  ..         ..
External debt
Debt cutatanding & disbursed                               5.433      5,785      6,058      6.397
official
Private
Undisburied debt                                               ..
Debt service
Total service payment                                          ..s
Interest
Payente ae I exports GCNS                            .        5.8        8.6/e    10.9/       5.5I
Average interet rate on nay loans (Z)                  .                    ..
Average maturity of now loan. (years)                            ..         ..
/a Including sea early repayment of principal.



ANlIC II
-33 -AN=1
STATUS OF BWE GROUP OPERATIONS N. THE PEOPLE'S REPUDLIC OF CHINA
A. STATEMENT OF BUN .LOANS AND IDA. CRSDITS
(a. of March 31, 1985)
Loan or                                                                                    US$ million
Credit                                                                              Apuat .(Cenp,cancellation)
Ntuber     Year    Borrwoer                     Purpoae                            BDnk      IDA    Undisburued
2021/1167  1981    People's Republic of Chuina  University Development              100.0    100.0       50.6
1261    1982    People's Republic of Chisa  North Ohina Plain Agriculture           -      60.0       19.6
2207    1982    People's Republic of China  Three Ports                          69.0        -        49.6
1297    1982    People's Republic of China  Agrlc. Education & Research            -       75.4       28.1
2226/1313  1982    People's Republic of China  Industrial Credit                     40.6     30.0       56.4
2231    1983    People's Republic of China  Daqing Petroleum                     162.4       -       110.1
2252    1983    People's Republic of China  Zhongyuan-Wenliu Petroleum           100.8       -        91.2
2261/1347  1983    People's Republic of Chisa  Heilongjiang Land Reclamation         35.3     45.0       41.1
1411    1983    People's Republic of China  Polytechnic/TV Unlversity              -       85.0       77.5
1412    1983    People's Republic of China  TechnLcal Cooperation                  -       10.0        8.0
1417    1984    People's Republic of China  Rubber Development                     -      100.2       74.6
2382    1984    People's Republic of China  Lubuge Hydroelectric                 145.4       -       141.6
2394    1934    People's Republic of China  Railway                             220.0        -       178.1
1462    1984    People's Republic of China  Rural Credit                           -       50.0       41.1
1472    1984    People's Republic of China  Rural Health & Medical Educ.           -       85.0       76.1
2426    1984    People's Republic of ChQia  Karamay Petroleum                    100.3       -       100.1
2434/1491  1984    People's Republic of China  Second Industrial Credit             105.0     70.0      170.2
2444/1500  1984   -People's Republic of Chuina  Second Agricultural Education        45.3     23.5       65.5
1516    1985    People's Republic of Chuia  Second Agricultural Research           -       25.0       24.1
1551    1985/a  People's Republic of Chilna  Second University Development         -      145.0      145.0
2493    19857W  People's Republic of China  Second Power                         117.0       -       117.0
2501    1985Wc- People's Republic of China  Changeun (Luan) Coal Mining          126.0       -       126.0
Total                                                         1,367.1    903.9    1.791.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                1,367.1    903.9
Total Undisbursed                                             1,U81.5    610.1
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 3t, 1985)
None
/a Signed on March 15, 1985, but not yet effectlive.
-7W Signed on March 15, 1985, but not yet effective.
7W Approved on March 14, 1985, but not yet signed.
Notes:  (J)  Subsequent to the above date of Statement A, the following projects were approved:
Seeds Development - credit of $40.0 million (already signed).
Rural Water Supply - credit of $80.0 million (already signed).
Highway - credit of $30.0 million and loan of $42.6 million.
Second Railway - loan of $235.0 million.
Fertilizer Rehabilitation and Energy Saving - loan of $97.0 million.
(2) The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA
financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive
Directors on April 30 and October 31.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
- 34 -
CHINA
WEIYUAN GAS FIELD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to
prepare the project:                    :   9 months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project         :   South West Mining
District
(c)  First presentation to the Bank            :   October 1984
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission  :  January 26, 1985
(e)  Completion of Negotiations                :  April 30, 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness             :  August 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   Condition of Disbursement
Submission of a report on the details of the training program, satisfac-
tory to the Bank, would be a condition of disbursement for this component
(pars. 76).
B.   Other Conditions
(a) GOC would undertake a diagnostic study for petroleum education at a
national level using qualified consultants, and would furnish to the
Bank the findings and consequent action plan by December 31, 1987
(para. 77).
(b) SWMD would:
(i) maintain a project unit during the project implementation
period (para. 80);
(ii) employ qualified consultants by December 31, 1985, to carry
out a diagnostic study of Weiyuan gas field, including pilot
st mulation tests, and review the findings and consequent
action plans with the Bank by December 31, 1987 (para. 81);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
- 35 -
(iii) extend financial pLanning to no less than five years, and
furnish the Bank with financial statements based on a five-
year rolling plan (para. 85); and
(iv) annually review with the Bank its current and future finan-
cial plans, focusing on the trend of production costs,
budget variance analysis, and its investment and related
financing arrangements (para. 85).



CHINA
WEIYUAN GAS FIELD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Energy Pricing
Domestic Price/
Chinese Average Retail   International/   Domestic                  Million
Price _               Price          Price as Z          Kilocalories
Petroleum Products (ton)         Y/ton        $/ton           $/ton         World Prices            (US$)
Gasoline                         800           286              278            103                   27.2
Kerosene                         735           263              263            100                   25.5
Diesel Oil                       560           200              245             82                   24.0
Fuel Oil
Directly burned              155            55              179             31                    5.5
Feedstock                    85            30              179             17                     3.0
Coal (ton)                        32            11               51             22                    2.0           1
Natural Gas (MCM)               Y/MCM        "/HCM                                                                 >
Non-associated gasb/             170           61                                                     6.6
Associated gas                   100           36                                                     3.9
a/ FOB Singapore prices on March 4, 1985.
b/ Includes trunk line fee of Y30/MCM and an additional Y1O/MCM from the trunk line to the end-users.
c/ Associated gas price for end-use-% varies tepending on the distance from the oilfield and assumed,
on average, to include Y20/MuM for gas treating and Y30/MCM for gas transport.
I  I                                      U     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



ANNEX V
Page 1of 2
PETROLEUM GEOLOGY OF THE WEInYUA  FIELD
Introduction
1.       Hye'docarbons are found mainly in sequences of sedimentary rocks where
sufficient organic material, usually from small marine plants and animals, has
been buried during the deposition of the sediments, and where under the action
of pressure and heat at depth In the earth these organic remains give up their
hydrocarbon content to form oil or gas.
2.       The rocks which contain enough organic matter for them to be source rocks
for hydrocarbons are usually shales or limestones deposited in seas wher.'
there is an abundance of plankton and small sea animals. These rocks are
usually found in sediments of late Palaezoic, Mesozoic or Tertiary age, that
is they were deposited up to 400 million years ago. Under the action of
forces in the earth, toe hydroca:bons formed move out of the source rocks into
suitable reservoirs (such as sands where the oil occupies space between the
sand grains). When the hydrocarbons are retained in the reservoir by some
impermeable barrier an oil or gas field is formed.
3.       The Weiyuan field is unusual in that the probable source rock is Pre-
Cambrian that is in the age range of 800 to 600 million years oldk which is
before the appearance of abundant life forms in fossil record. It appears
that the Sinian limestone/dolomite was formed by algae which were also the
source of the orgdnic matter from which the hydrocarbons in the field were
formed.
4.       In the course of Its history the Sinian formation was deeply buried
and subject to temperatures which were high enough to aplit the oil formed
into bitumen and gas, both of which are still found in the formation.
S.       The dolomite is tight and the porosity needed to make it into a
viable reservoir rock was formed when the Rimalayan earth movements some 6-15
million years ago formed the Wieyuan anticline and fractured the dolomite
along the crest as the structure developed.
6.       Some of the gas in the Sinian formation accumulated in the fractures,
and it is from these fractures that the gas so far produced has been ob-
taiued.  The water below the gas has moved into the fractures as the gas was
produced and is now causing the watering out of the wells and is killing the
field while a large part of the original gas reserves remain locked in the
matrix of the unfractured rock, and also in those vugs and fractures which
have been bypassed by the water.
7.       It seems unlikely that much of the gas in the matrix porosity can be
moved, but it may be possible to reach the gas bypassed in fractures by re-
pressuring the field, or creating artificial fractures from the production
wells into the gas zones.
Production History of the Field
8.       The discovery well, (the information well) was drilled on the east
flank of the structure close to the original gas water contact. This well was
spudded in 1956, suspended and then drilled on in 1967 to find gas in the Pre-



AmIM=v
-38-                        Page 2 of 2
Cambrian at a depth of around 3000 m.  Most of the vells had low initial pro-
duction rates and flow rates rapidly declined. Around 100 wells were drilled
on the field and a peak production of 3.73 million cu.m/day was reached in
1976-78.
9.       The production then showed a rapid decline and the gas wells began to
produce water. The production wells have been drilled over most of the field
at an average spacing of around 1.5 km.  Indiscriminate fracturing of the
formations, often breaking through into water bearing zones, and de-watering
of wells, have only produced short-term solutions and at present the field is
producing some 0.85 million tons of gaS per day from three flowing gas wells
and around 40 wells which produce gas and water intermittently when pumped or
gas lifted.
Geology of the Welyuaultield
10.      The Weiyuan structure is a large anticline which can be seen in the
surface outcrops at the southern end of a major uplift which trends roughly
NE-SW in the central part of the Sichuan Basin.
11.      On the surface the core of the structure exposes outcrops of Triassic
age surrounded by Jurassic rocks on the flanks of the anticline. The struc-
ture has a closed area of some 850 square kilometers and a vertical closure of
some 900 metres.
12.      The anticlinal crest of the Weiyuan field trends roughly east-west
with the crest being displaced in the centre of the structure by faulting.
13.      The gas producing horizons are fractured tight dolomitic limestones
of the Sinian formation which is of Precambrian age (600-800 million years
old). The marine dolomites were laid down in a shelf sea on a crystalline
Pre-Sinian basement corplex. The dolomitic limestones appear to have been
formed in a shallow marine environment by the build up of algae. The algae
appear to have been the source of hydrocarbons which eventually migrated into
the fracture zones formed by the Rimalayan folding which affected the basin
much later in the Neogene (10-20 million years ago).
14.      The Sinian formation is overlain by tight argillaceous dolomitic
limestone with shales of Cambrian age (500-600 million years old). This for-
mation forms the cap rock which retains the gas in the field. The Cambrian
limestones are also source rocks for gas and numerous gas shows have been
recorded while drilling this formation.
15.      The sequence of marine limestones and shales with some coals, con-
tinues through the Ord±vician and Permian up to the Triassic. When the marine
limestones are overlain by lagoonal limestones and coals and then in the Upper
Triassic these are overlain by continental shales and sandstones as marine
conditions give way to a terrestrial enviroment.



- 39 -
ANNEX VI
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
WEIYUAN GAS FIELD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Production History
Year       Average Gas        Annual Gas         Cumulative Gas          Water Gas
Production         Production          Production              Ratio
Million cu.m/day    Million cu.m         Billion cu.m        cu.m. water/
1000 cu.m gas
1971          1.539                 409,              1.52                0.6
1972          2.190                 663               2.18                2.2
1973          2.241                 777               2.96                7.8
1974          2.241                 746               3.70                9.7
1975          3.470                 974               4.68               15.6
1976          3.018                1157               5.83               26.8
1977          3.365                1145               6.98               24.0
1978          2.675                1043               8.22               40.0
1979          2.203                 896               8.92               52.0
1980          1.738                 712               9.63               58.7
1981          1.398                 557              10.19               71.8
1982          1.077                 443              10.63               93.0
1983          0-990                 369              11.00               91.8
1984          0.880                 32)-             11.30               89.7



- 40 -
ANNEX VII
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
WKIYUAN CA FIELD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Allocation of Bank Loan
(* Killon)-
1.   Studies
(including reservoir study, production
engineering and formation stimulation study,
stimulation pilbt design)                                     4.0
2.   Well services
formation logging for 6 new and 7 old wells                   2.0
production logging of 20 wells                                1.5
coring/testing of 6 wells                                     1.0
stimulation pilot tests for 6 wells                           1.0
3.   Equipment
mobile well testing unit (one)                                1.5
mobile well workover unit (one)                             '.1.3
blender for stimulation unit (one)                            0.5
gas boosters (12)
for pressure.:
from 2.5 kg/c  to   (kg/cm   8 units)                     2.0
from 12 kg/cm  to 120 kg/cm  (4 units)                    1.0
laboratory equipment                                          0.5
downhole tools                                                0.2
4.   Training
SWCPI & ECPI                                                  3.5
5.   Petroleum Education Study                                            0.5
Base cost total                                          20.5
Physical contingency                                          2.9
Price contingency                                             1.6
Total                                                    25.0



- 41 -                                  ANNEX VIII
CHINA
WEMUAN GAS FIELD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
South Wed Mining DII
OrganLitn Chart
<   j i j i S t S t S t AMMV    Au c
|  PWonklo |r4K     l a   R. onm                Admn    J           VT 0Hn 
DN    Pquk                      &1 Rmro
~~~~~~~~~~~~POO                   sk       a   R r _rce
J Wil tlihg |  I  agon  l  ms o
Roarrh                              e Be |  Rnt
TusNn; (Lb   DMrbn
_|  DdlihO  l  _   Bbck  icwd
| Tcobbocds DsuM |  -    Dt  W
TOO            n3w
B"gcde ~ ~~~~~~~ Bok*-2



4
CHINA
WEMNAN GAS FIELD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Soulh West Mlning Dlsrlct
Profect Impenienwkon Schedule
YO                     'm 19S6497
Raartb TcafiftHKHl
Ir?fftktton to Bid
Receipt d Bkd
Bid Evduation
Award ofContract
Mob8iUatbin
Resurvoir, Production
Stlnuiotion SfUdlGS                                             nnii   E          U1UP
Fom'notlon & Ptoductton
Loggng                                                                                                                                                                   I.
CodinGlTUftV
Stnmukann Tests
Bo*-m27



- 43 -
ANNEX X
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CRINA
WEIYUAN GAS FIELD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Procurement Method
($ Million)
Project Element                                 Procurement Method          Total
ICB      LCB      Others       Cost
Diagnostic studies                            -        -          6.1        6.1
(4.9)      (4.9)
Well services including pilots                -        -          8.£        8.8
(6.7)      (6.7)
Workover, testing &
production equipment                      9.7       -          -          9.7
(8.5)                           (8.5)
Training                                      -        -          5.4        5.4
(4.9)      (4.9)
Total                v             9.7        -        20.3       '30.0
(8.5)              (16.5)      (25.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.



- 44 -
ANNIX XI
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
WEIYUAN GAS FIELD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule of lank Loan
( SMillion)
IBRD Fiscal Year                           Quarterly                      Cumulative
and Quarter
1986     1                                     0.0                            0.0
2                                     0.0                           0.0
3                                    1.0-.                         1.0
4                                     1.0                           2.0
1987     1                                      3.0                           5.0
2                                     3.0                           8.0
3                                     3.0                          11.0
4                                     3.0                          14.*0
1988     1                                      3.0                          17.0
2                                     2.0                          19.0
3                                     2.0                          21.0
4                                     2.0                          23.0
1989     1                                      1.0                          24.0
2                                     1.0                          25.0



ANNEX XII
-45-                            Page 1 of 6
CHINA
SOUTH WEST MINING DISTRICT
Financial Aspects
A. Funding Arrangement
Over the past few years, significant changes took place in regard to
the funding arrangement between SWMD and the Government. As part of the
country's recent -economic reforms, these changes are directed at fostering the
economic responsibilities of the state enterprise.
(i) Until recently, SWMD was required to remit all net income and 50% of
its annual depreciation fund to the Government. Starting from 1983,
SWMD's net income is taxed at a rate of 55%. The balance of the net
income is distributed between GOC and SWMD, and In 1983, some 57Z of
this balance was remitted to GOC in the form of an adjustment tax.
For purposes of calculating income taxes, the price of gas is based
on the pre-1982 price of Y80/MCM. The additional net income arising
from the differential between this price and the preXent price of
Y160/MCM is retained by SWMD, entitled the "Exploration and
Development Fund", to help finrance a major portion of the field
investment which is being stepped up as part of the Government's
strategy directed at increasing gas production.
(ii) As in the case of the oilfield entities in China, SWMD is allowed to
retain a significant portion of its internally generated funds,
entitled the "Special Fund" to cover the cost of field maintenance.
The Special Fund is derived from three sources: (a) annual
depreciation - the retention rate was increased from 50% to 70% in
1984; (b) provision for overhaul; and (c) field upholding provision.
(iii) Until 1985, Government allocations to finance SWHD's investment in
exploration and development were in the form of grants. Starting
from January 1985, these grants were replaced by loans from the
Construction Bank at an interest rate of 3.6% p.a. and average
maturity of the loan is about 15 years.
(iv) Geological/Seismic Fund - continues to be funded by the Government in
the form of grants.
(v) Working capital - financed by the People's Bank at an interest rate
cl 7.2% p.a.
B.  Past Finances and Present Financial Position
SWMD's income statements and balance sheets for the four-year period
1981-84 are set out in Attachments I and II. Costs at SWMD have been tightly
controlled by the annual budget and the variance between planned and actual
unit cost remained within only 1% over the period 1981-84. However, SWHD has
been faced with an increasing cost of gas extraction, with the unit cost of



- 46 -
ANNEX XII
Page 2 of 6
production rising from Y60/CMC in 1981 to Y69/CMC in 1984.  This was mainly
because of the remedial measures undertaken to arrest production decline,
including workover and stimulation activities. Taking account of the rising
cost of production, the well-head price of non-associated gas in Sichuan was
adjusted in 1982 and 1984 to Y80/MCM and Y130/MCM respectively. In addition,
SWMD received Y30/MCM for the trunk line fee. As a result of the price
increase, SWMD was able to report operating income which increased from Y22
million In 1981 to Y55 million in 1984.
Future Finances
SWMD's future finances are forecast to remain satisfactory. Over the
period 1985-88, its annual operating income is expected to remain at Y66
million as both sales volume and unit cost of production are targeted by SWMD
to stabilize at the 1984 level (Attachment III). The cost and related
incremental production for a major enhanced gas recovery program has not been
included in the financial forecast in view of the uncertainty at this stage.
SWMD is expected to continue to finance a major portion of its future
investment from internally retained funds, and its self-financing ratio is
estimated at some 69Z over the medium term (Attachment IV).
Ns                      .-,



- 47 -
ANNEX XII
Page 3 of 6
Attachment I
CHINA
South West Mining District (SWMD)
Income Statements (1981-84)
(In Million Yuan)
1981         1982        1983       1984
Sales Volume
Natural Gas ({MCM)            1,276         1,046         973        968
Unit Cost (Y/ton)                          60           59          67         69
Revenues
Sales Revenues                            109          124         114        139
Less:  Sales Tax (5Z)                      (5)           (6)        (5)         (7)
Net Sales Revenues              104    -    118           109^       132
Expenses
Operating Cost                             62           52          56         55
Depreciation                               20            18         17         21
Others                                      1             1          1           1
Total Expenses                   82            71          74         77
Net Income                                 22           47          35         55



- J8 -
ANNEX XII
Page 4 of 6
Attachment II
CHINA
South West Mining District
Balance Sheets"r (1981-1984) (As of December 31)
(In Million Yuan)
1981        1982        1983      1984
Assets
Fixed Assets                        336         364         378        406
Less:  Acc. Depreciation           (175)        (195)      (202)      (217)
Net Fixed Assets                 161         169         176        189
Work in Progress                     76          80         102        134
Total Net Fixed Assets           237         249         278       323
Current Assets
Inventories                          33          40          43        42
Accounts Receivable                   2            2          1          1
Cash                                  5            1          1          1
Totab Current Assets             40          '13          45        44
Special Fund Assets                   5           2           3          3
Total Assets                    282          294         326       370
Liabilities and Equity
Equity
Fixed Asset Fund                    247         260         287        333
Working Capital Fund                  6           6           6          6
Total Equity                    253          266         293       336
Current Liabilities
Short-term Loan                       3           3           3          3
Accounts payable                      4           4           4          3
Total Current Liabilities          7           7           7         6
Special Fund                         22          21          26        28
Total Liabilities and
Equity                    282          294        326        370
/a Balance Sheets for production have been consolidated with Capital
Construction Accounts.



49 -
ANNEX XII
Page 5 of 6
Attachment III
CHINA
South West Mining District
Projected Income Statement (1985-88)
(In Million Yuan)
1985        1986        1987       1988
Sales Volume
Natural Gas (MMCH)                  922         960         960        960
Revenues
Sales Revenues                      155          159        159        159
Less:  Sales Tax (5Z)                (8)          (8)        (8)        (8)
Net Sales Revenues               147         151         151        151
Expenses
Operating Cost            -          59    Nn,   58          58        -58
Depreciation                         21          22          22         22
Other Expenses                        1            1          1          1
Total Expenses                    81          81          81         81
Income Before Interest                    66           66         66         66
Interest                              2           8           9         10
Income Tax-la                        -           -           -          -
Net Income                       64           58          57        56
Source:  SWMD & Mission
/a For purposes of calculating income tax, natural gas price of Y80JMCM has
been used. Since the sales revenues net of sales tax are projected to be less
than the total expenses, SWMD is not expected to pay any income tax over the
medium term.



- 50 -
ANNEX XII
Page 6 of 6
Attachment IV
CHINA
South West Mining District
Investment Funding (1985-88)
(In Million Yuan)
1985    1986    1987    1988       Total     2
Investment & Field
Maintenance Requirements                89      130     143      128       490   100
Financed by:
Construction Bank Loan               19       21      22       29        91    19
IBRD Loan                             4      24       31      -          59    12
Internally Retained Funds            66       85      90      99        340    69
of Which: Exploration &
Development Funds                42      54       58      66        220    45
Field Upholding Fund                 18      23       24      25         90    18
Renewal & Reform
Provisions                        6       8        8       8         30     6
Source: SWND & Mission



IBD 16436R3-
SO V I E T        U        N  I      N.
-~~~~~~6
*                                                                                                   m   &AF             NORTHEAST
* ULWDAtAA                                   ii-)
--S j2fi--> h                                                             t_    WS L                        S
M  O   N   G   0   L  I  A                j 
*~~ ~ ojoU )   kl* )                                                                           IJ
-< *-.. - S                                   =?                 -N  O  R  T  H             J                                 -
41  (                                   =-                                                                                            /   PIff 1I
".W                                                                                                                                            EPLMLIC *      /   'ORATIC
fwp.~     Gfft                                          AtA                                                                                    OF KOKA J  NO T T* S
mnw  -                                                   . vw t                                             cm/                                      J4LI
tIt wM  o'F ;  a
wft V.  WMe OAF. 
NAMS~~~~~~~CN -N b8_ ** *t ,I,,_.f  ;-
oift=famd OA It. U
W  IN                       AII                                   !                               t-
eV Nodwo in ft               -r MO
~~~~~~IGaI^IX_Xr \   VV-   w : . b . _
CHINA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~-
PETROLEUM PRODUCTION AND REFINERIES                                                    u
5  CIL FILMS
. f q TH~~~~~~~ASiNANU¢w+ S>t-;x
-6 am W$N
A- DiM SEiWO ftl  rUWCI
-    pWil OsAmm                              .                                                                                ~     -     m     q 
RIE41AfA?IA OIIAWIUL
PMOPgATlOkAL BOUMANIATI                            Lk -.-AJM Suah CPi
MAY 1955



.3\ 1                                                                                                                    3V- \ N t. r. g ,, IBRD_
14( w                                          I  _ ,s.' W,                                                                         W 
N    -tA,        -X%GAN
OING HAI                         .sA.tx
.4            t.,f                        /                                                         To 
XIZANG
U.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UE
/'BUiRMA\%                               '' 
KILOMdETERS                                                                                           C1A
____________or   __WEIYUAN GAS FIELD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
--  .*.v-.'   w                                                    -4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-4 -   rw. Fa
YUNNAN                                                        Pmalmd
ALtJ



