Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
\9c/42                          Report No.7407-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED (SNGPL)
CGtPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
JULY 12, 1990
Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit                      Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1.00                         -  Rs 21.50
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
1 barrel (bbl)                                -  0.159 cubic meters
1 metric ton of oil (0.85 specific gravity)  -  7.4 bbl
MCF                                           =  1,000 cubic ft.
MMCF                                          =  1 million cubic ft.
MMCFD                                         =  1 million cubic ft. daily
1 BCF                                         =  1 billion cubic ft.
1 TCF                                         =  1 trillion cubic ft.
1 ton of crude oil equivalent (toe)           =  1.0 ton of crude oil
= 41.2 MCF of natural gas
BHP                                           =  Brake Horse Power
kWh                                           =  Kilowatt hour
MW                                            =  Megawatt (1,000
Kilowatts)
Psi                                           =  Pounds per square inch
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB              -        Asian Development Bank
ARL              -        Attock Refinery Limited
BOC              -        Burmah Oil Company
BOT              -       Build-Operate-Transfer
CDWP             -        Central Development Working Party
CIP              -       Core Investment Program
DGG              -        Directorate General of Gas
ERG              -        Energy Review Group
ESL I            -        Energy Sector Loan I (Loan 2552-PAK)
ESL II           -        Energy Sector Loan II (Loan 3107-PAK)
ECC              -       Economic Coordination Committee
ECNEC            -        Executive Cormnittee of the National Economic Council
FY               -        Fiscal Year
GDS              -       Gas Development Surcharge
GOP              -       Government of Pakistan
ICB              -       International Competitive Bidding
IMF              -       International Monetary Fund
KESC             -       Karachi Electric Supply Company
LES              -        Long-Term Energy Strategy
LIB              -        Limited International Bidding
MPNR             -       Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources
MPD              -       Ministry of Planning and Development
MOP              -       Ministry of Production
MWP              -        Ministry of Water and Power
NDFC             -       National Development Finance Corporation
NEPC             -       National Energy Policy Committee
NFL              -       National Petroleum Limited
NRL              -        National Refinery Limited
OGDC             -       Oil and Gas Development Corporation
PEPA             -       Pakistan Environmental Protection Agency
PERAC            -       Pakistan Refinery and Petrochemicals Corporation
PFP              -       Policy Framework Paper
PGCL             -       Pirkoh Gas Company Limited
PIDC             -        Pakistan Investment Development Corporation
PMDC             -        Pakistan Mineral Development Corporation
POL              -        Pakistan Oilfields Limited
PPL              -        Pakistan Petroleum Limited
PRL              -        Pakistan Refinery Limited
PSEDF            -       Private Sector Energy Development Fund
PSO              -       Pakistan State Oil Limited
SCADA            -        Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
SNGPL            -        Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited
SSGC             -        Sui Southern Gas Company
WAPDA            -        Water and Power Development Authority
GOP's Fiscal Year (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED (SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..............................          i
I.    ENERGY SECTOR        ..............................               1
A.  The Economy .......................................          1
B.  Sectoral Setting ..................................          2
C.  Developments in the Sector, FY79-FY88 ..............         4
D.  Natural Gas Subsector .............................          5
E.  Bank Group's Role in the Energy Sector and
Experience with Past Lending ....................        10
II. THE BORROWER .11
III.  THE PROJECT .....................15
IV. FINANCIAL ASPECTS .27
V.  ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION .33
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .36
This report was prepa.ed by Messrs. A. Oduolowu (Senior Petroleum
Specialist), M. Sharma (Economist), C. Schroeder (Senior Financial Analyst),
M. Shirazi (Senior Gas Specialist) and M. Mengesha (Procurement Specialist-
Consultant). Secretarial assistance was provided by Mmes. Anne Haldar,
Young Hong and Hannah Pratt.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
Page No.
1.1      Organization  of  the  Energy  Sector  ..........................                                             40
1.2      Details  Relating  to  Long-Term  Energy  Strategy  (LES)                                  ........           41
1.3      Proven  Gas  Reserve  Estimates   ...............................                                             51
1.4      Summary  of  Probable  Gas  Reserves   ...........................                                            52
1.5      Summary  of  Gas  Analysis   ....................................                                             53
1.6      Historical  Trends  in  the  Consumption  of  Gas  by  Sectors ......                                         54
1.7   Historical Developments in the Consumption
of  Gas  (1971-1989) ........................................                                             55
1.8   Production Forecast by Fields ...............................                                                    56
1.9      Forecast  of  Transmission  System  Requirements  of  Gas .........                                           58
2.1   Composition of SNGPL's Equity Ownership .....................                                                    59
2.2   SNGPL - Organization Chart ..................................                                                    60
3.1   Detailed Project Description ................................                                                    61
3.2   Implementation Schedule .....................................                                                    72
3.3      Project  Cost ................................................                                                73
3.4   Disbursement Schedule .......................................                                                    75
3.5      Bank  Supervision  Input  Into  Key  Activities   .................                                           76
4.1       Income  Statements ...........................................                                               79
4.2      Balance  Sheets  .............................................                                                80
4.3   Sources & Applications of Funds .............................                                                    82
4.4   Projected Borrowing Requirements ................... ........                                                    84
4.5   Projected Investment Program ................................                                                    85
5.1   SNGPL's Actual and Forecast Sales of Gas ....................                                                    86
5.2   Assumptions and Calculation for the Rate of Return ..........                                                    87
6.0   Selected Documents in Project File ..........................                                                    91
MAP   IBRD No. 20961R1



- i -
PAKISTAN
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED (SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURINIG AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMNARY
Borrower:                Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited (SNG't)
Guaranto_:               Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount:                  US$130 million equivalent
Terms:                   Twenty years, including a five-year grace period, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Project Description:    The  proposed Project would cover three components:
Corporate  Restructuring  of  SNGPL,   Infrastructure
Development, and Consultancy Services and Training.
Corporate Restructuring of SNGPL would involve:   (a)
restructuring of SNGPL's ownership through issuance of
new additional equity shares to dilute public sector
ownership initially from 91% to 51%, and subsequently
to at most 40%; (b) restructuring SNGPL's Board of
Directors to reflect the new shareholding; (c)
establishing financial performance criteria to improve
its efficiency and ability to raise equity; and (d)
reviewing the regulatory functiors of t1-: Directorate
General of Gas. Infrastructure Developmeni. would provide
for:    (a)  installation  of  a  1 x  120  MKCFD  gas
purification plant at Sui; (b) expansion of the
transmission system capacity by about 300 MMCFD; (c)
expansion of the distribution network to supply natural
gas by FY96 to new domestic, commercial, and industrial
consumers, 2 fertilizer plants and the power station at
Kot Addu; (d) installation of a linepipe coating plant;
(e) installation of a telecommunication system for
monitoring the operations of the network; and (f)
procurement of compressors and construction equipment
required for the installation of the linepipe.
Consultancv Services and Training would cover:   (a)
safety and hazard assessment survey of the transmission
and distribution system; (b) upgrading the capability
of the Directorate General of Gas, and training of SNGPL
staff through a collaborative arrangement with a foreign
private gas utility; (c) development of SNGPL's financial
management information systems and data processing and
training in internal auditing of computerized accounting
systems; (d) designing the new formula for setting
SNGPL's prices net of the Gas Development Surcharge and



- ii -
performance criteria; (e) services of financial advisers
and an underwriter or consortium of underwriters to
manage the issuance of shares; and (f) design,
engineering and supervision of high pressure pipeline
construction at river crossings.
Benefits:                The proposed Project would assist GOP in restructuring
SNGPL with a view to increasing its autonomy and ability
to mobilize resources from the financial capital markets
and the general public, as well as expanding the
utility's transmission and distribution network at least
cost. Specific benefits under the proposed Project are
expected from: (a) increased private sector investment
in SNGPL, supporting GOP's fiscal reforms by restraining
the growth of public debt; (b) incremental sales of gas
to new consumers; (c) incremental consumer investment
contributions; and (d) substitution of gas for higher
value petroleum products which, at the margin, are
imported.
Risks:                   The main risks associated with the proposed Project are:
(a) inability of SNGPL to raise the required financial
resources from the capital markets;   (b) delays in the
implementation of the proposed Projen.t because of its
relatively large size compared to past investments
undertaken by SNGPL; (c) a decline in the productivity
of the gas fields to a level lower than forecast; and
(d) environmental impact from possible gas leakages.
These risks are being addressed through the provision
of:  (a) professional services of a financial adviser
and underwziters tc assist SNGPL in managing the
marketing of equity shares in the doLestic capital
market; (b) consultancy services for the engineering,
design and supervision of the construction of the high
pressure  pipelines  and  the  establishment  of  a
collaborative arrangement with an experienced foreign
private sector utility to assist SNGPL in project
implementation, as well as train its staff in pipeline
operation and maintenance and establishment of adequate
safety measures including the installation of a new SCADA
system to monitor gas flows and detect faults along the
system; and (c) technical assistance and consultancy
services under ESL II for the development of the Loti
field, and under Pirkoh III Development Project, financed
by the Asian Development Bank for the development of the
Pirkoh field, and assistance to OGDC under the proposed
Domestic  Resources  Development  Project,   for  the
accelerated development of new gas fields.



- iii -
Project Financing:
Rs Million                USS Million
Local  Foreign  Total    Local   ForIign  Total
IBRD                           -   3,089   3,089         -      130      130
Equity Issues              2,190        -   2,190       93        -       93
Local Loans                2,900        -   2,900      121        -      121
Internal Cash Gen.
including Consumer
Contributions and
Security Deposits        4.941        -             203
TOTAL                  10,031   3,089  13,120      417       130      547
Disbursements:
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
FY             1991      1992     1993      1994     1995      1996
Annual           12       33        25       31        21        8
Cumulative       12       45        70      101       122      130



PAKISTAN
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED- SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. ENERGY SECTOR
A. The Economy
1.01      Pakistan's economic performance during the period FY79-88 compares
favorably with that of many developing countries. Growth in GDP, averaging about
6.5% annually, was accompanied by a steady docline in inflation from 10% in FY79
to 6% in FY88. Despite these achievements, macroeconomic imbalances had become
a concern by FY88. Specifically, as public expenditures had increased faster
than revenues in the 1980s, the fiscal deficit increased from 5% of GDP in FY80
to 8.7% in FY88. Inflation also began to increase in that year, reaching 10%
in FY89. While merchandise export volume continued to grow, a deterioration in
the terms of trade and geneially accommodative domestic credit contributed to
an overall increase in the trade deficit. These developments together with the
continuing erosion in remittances from Pakistanis abroad brought the current
account deficit to about 4.3% of GNP in FY88.  More critically, the Central
Bank's gross foreign reserves at end-FY88 were equivalent to less than two and
a half weeks of annual imports of goods and services, and less than the external
short-term liabilities of the banking system.
1.02      As the emerging imbalances were likely to become a major impediment to
sustaining economic growth of about 5.5% or more annually, as was envisaged for
the Seventh Plan period (FY89-93), the Government of Pakistan (GOP), in
consultation with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the Bank, initiated
a medium-term macroeconomic adjustment and structural reform program aimed at
fostering strong economic growth while ensuring domestic and external financial
stability. The key requirements of the program, which initially covered the
period FY89-91, are: (a) a reduction of the fiscal deficit, through an enlarged
sales tax and other measures to broaden the tax base and the substantial
containment of the growth of expenditures; (b) implementation of additional trade
policy reforms with significant liberalization of non-tariff barriers; and (c)
initiation of reforms in key sectors, such as finance, agriculture and energy,
that will be important to improving the efficiency and growth potential of the
economy.  In support of GOP's program, the IMF's Executive Board approved on
December 28, 1989, a three-year arrangement under the structural adjustment
facility for a cumulative amount of SDR 347 million and a first annual
arrangement for SDR 109 million, as well as a 15-month stand-by arrangement for
an amount of SDR 273 million. The Bank's Executive Directors, discussed the
policy framework paper in December 1988.  The Bank approved an Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Loan for US$200 million in August 1988, a Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan for US$150 million in March 1989, and a Second Energy Sector Loan
(ESL II; Loan 3107-PAK) for US$250 million in June 1989. The proposed Project
fits into the overall framework of the ESL II program of structural reforms and



- 2 -
is designed to support the corporate restructuring of Sui Northern Gas Pipelines
Ltd. (SNGPL) and assist in expanding, at least cost, its transmission and
distribution capacity for the supply of gas to new consumers whose energy
requirements are currently being met by higher value petroleum products, the bulk
of which are imported.
1.03      Implementation of the policy measures tinder the FY89 adjustment program
has been broadly on track with respect to the liberalization of the trade regime,
tariff rationalization, industrial incentives, domestic credit restraint and the
flexible management of the exchange rate. Tnese policies have contributed to
an increase in private investment, a slowing of inflation toward the end of FY89,
and an increase in export volumes despite the severe floods, disturbances in
major industrial cities and the constraints on development expenditures.
However,  several economic problems surfaced in 1989.   The external current
account deficit instead of declining from 4.3% of GNP in FY88 to 3.4% of GNP in
FY89 as programmed, widened to 4.7%, and international reserves remained at a
very low level, mainly as a result of a deterioration in the terms of trade.
The fiscal deficit, while still falling from 8.3% of GDP to 7.3% of GDP in FY89,
was higher than the target of 6.7%.   Revenues increased as projected but
expenditures grew faster than originally foreseen, mainly because of increases
in subsidies linked to higher than projected import of wheat.  Consequently,
following a review in September 1989, the date for achieving the end-program
macroeconomic targets was extended by one year to FY92 with IMF and World Bank
concurrence, while the schedule for policy reforms remained unchanged.
1.04      During the first nine months of FY90, the second year of the program,
the macroeconomic situation has generally improved. Overall economic growth will
probably exceed 5%, industrial output has recovered, private investments appear
strong and a good wheat crop is expected. Inflation has been reduced to below
6%. Preliminary fiscal data reviewed by an IMF mission in May 1990 indicate that
the budget deficit for FY90 is likely to exceed the target by about 0.5% of GDP,
primarily because of larger than programmed defense spending. This expenditure
overrun is also expected to lead to a slightly larger external current account
deficit than targeted (by about US$0.1 billion or less than 0.2% of GDP) on
account of larger defense rela'Ued imports. Exports, other than rice and cotton,
on the other hand, are expected to be on target. While the IMF mission in nay
was unable to complete its work for the second review under the Standby
Arrangement, the IMF's management has agreed to extend the scheduled review from
end-June to end-November 1990 as GOP has initiated measures to comply with the
two end-March performance criteria and reiterated its commitment to achieving
the agreed overall fiscal deficit target of 5.5% of GDP in FY91.
B. Sectoral Setting
1.05      Energy Resources. Pakistan's commercially exploitable energy resources
consist of about 30,000 MW of hydropower potential, 16 trillion cubic feet (TCF)
of proven and 6.3 TCF of probable reserves of natural gas, 175 millioin tons of
proven and 725 million tons of probable reserves of coal and lignite, and 54
million tons of proven and 4 million tons of probable reserves of oil.  The
country also has a relatively large base of traditional fuels in form of fuelwood



and agricultural and animal waste, which play a crucial role in meeting the
energy needs of the rural consumers. However, as the consumption of fuelwood
is already in excess of what can be replenished through reforestation and the
supplies of biomass are diminishing on a per capita basis, the share of
traditional fuels in the overall supply of energy is expected to decline relative
to that of commercial energy resources. As a consequence, and given the modest
reserves of oil and the technical limits on the economic substitution of coal
and gas for petroleum products, as well as the long lead time and substantial
financial resources required to bring the major hydro sites on stream, Pakistan
is expected to remain dependent on imported energy over the foreseeable future.
The rate of growth of energy imports could be contained, however, by:
restraining the growth of demand for energy through price and non-price measures
including rehabilitation and retrofitting of power plants, refineries and energy
intensive industries; accelerating the development of smaller hydropower sites
and also of oil, gas and coal and encouraging the substitution of the latter as
well as that of imported coal for higher value petroleum products; and
strengthening implementation capabilities of entities involved in the sector.
1.06      Institutional Setting.  Four ministries share the responsibility for
the energy sector: the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources (MPNR), the
Ministry of Water and Power (MWP), the Ministry of Production (MOP), and the
Ministry of Planning and Development (MPD). Coordination between the ministries
on energy matters is provided by the Energy Wing of MPi, which acts as a
secretariat for the National Energy Policy Committee (NEPC) and Energy Review
Group (ERG). NEPC is responsible for the formulation of GOP's overall energy
policy. The review of the investment plans of the sector and the approval of
energy pricing proposals is under the Jurisdiction of the Economic Coordination
Committee (ECC).   The Executive Committee of the National S_onomic Council
(ECNEC) and the Central Development Working Party (CDWP) review and approve major
proposals and projects for all sectors, including energy.
1.07      The day-to-day management and operation of the energy sector is vested
in a number of public and private sector entities. The public sector entities
are: the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA), which is responsible
for developing Pakistan's water resources and for the construction, operation
and maintenance of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities
throughout the country, except the Karachi area; the Oil and Gas Development
Corporation (OGDC) for exploration and development of oil and gas; the Pakistan
Mineral Development Corporation (PMDC) for the exploration and development of
mineral resources; the State Petroleum Refinery and Petrochemical Corporation
(PERAC) and the National Refinery Limited (NRL) for processing crude oil; and
National Petroleum Limited (NPL) for a proposed hydrocracker project.   Also
involved in the energy sector are a number of semi-autonomous entities in which
GOP has, either directly or through public financial institutions, a controlling
interest.   These are:  Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC), which is
responsible for the construction, operation and maintenance of power generation
facilities, as well as the transmission and distribution for electricity supply
in the Karachi area; SNGPL and the Sui Southern Gas Corporation (SSGC) for the
transmission and distribution of natural gas; and Pakistan State Oil Limited
(PSO) for marketing and distribution of petroleum products.   Private sector
entities include:   a large number of Pakistani coal mining companies; two
refineries, the Attock Refinery Limited (ARL) and Pakistan Refinery Limited



. 4 -
(PRL); and several oil and gas development companies including Pakistan Petroleum
Limited (PPL), Pakistan Oilfields Limited (POL), the Fauji Foundation, Union
Texas, Occidental Petroleum Limited .id other international oil companies in
joint ventures with OGDC.  As shown in the organization chart of the energy
sector (Annex 1.1), all operational entities (public and semi-autonomous) are
under the jurisdiction of MPNR, except for WAPDA, KESC, NRL and PRL. MWP has
jurisdiction over WAPDA and KESC and MOP over NRI, and NPL.  In addition, the
Department of Forestry, in the Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for
afforestation and the Pakistan Environmental Protection Agency for issues
relating to the implementation of GOP's environmental policies.
C. Developments in the Sector. FY79-FY88
1.08      The Fifth Plan (FY79-FY83) ewphasized the accelerated development of
domestic energy resources and rationalization of energy prices. Financial and
implementation constraints, however, impeded the achievement of the supply
targets for all energy products except natural gas. The largest shortfall was
in the oil and power subsectors where only 64% and 50% of the output targets,
respectively, were achieved. These shortfalls, together with the rapid growth
of consumption, precipitated by GOP's policy of underpricing energy in an effort
to stimulate economic growth, increased the country's dependence on imported
energy. In recognition of the growing supply gap, GOP accorded high priority
to restructuring the sector during the Sixth Plan (FY84-FY88). Its objectives
were to accelerate and rationalize the development of energy, correct distortions
in energy pricing, streamline the institutions and agencies in the sector and
increase private sector involvement in the development, production and delivery
of energy.   However, as these objectives were not translated into concrete
policies and programs, in the first two years of the Plan, only one-half of the
planned investment program for the sector was implemented, energy prices were
allowed to decline in real terms, and the institutions in the sector remained
unresponsive to the pressing needs of the economy. These setbacks prompted GOP
to formulate a Long-Term Energy Strategy (LES), covering the period 1986-2010.
It calls for implementing integrated programs of structural reforms over five-
year intervals, corresponding to the planning cycle, in the areas of: resource
development and energy investments; pricing, resource mobilization and demand
management; and institutional development.
1.09      To assist GOP in implementing the reforms called for by LES, a series
of sector loans was envisaged by the Bank, each in support of a monitorable core
program of policy actions and priority investments, which would form the umbrella
for the Bank's lending for specific energy investments and for the more effective
coordination of external financing for the sector. The first phase of these
reforms was implemented successfully under the first Energy Sector Loan (ESL I,
Loan 2552-PAK) during the last three years of the Sixt'. Plan (FY86-88). Support
for implementing the second phase, which constitutes an integral part of the
medium-term structural adjustment and policy reform program, is being provided
under ESL II (para 1.02), covering the first three years of the Seventh Plan
(FY89-92).   Details relating to LES and review of the progress made in its
implementation under ESL I and ESL II are presented in Annex 1.2.



- 5 -
D.  Natural Gas Subsector
Organization of the Subsector
1.10      MPNR has overall responsibility for the development of the oil and
natural gas subsector. The downstream activities for the natural gas subsector
are discharged through the Directorate General of Gas (DGG), one of the five
Directorates in the Ministry.   DGG functions as a regulatory body and, in
accordance with the Natural Gas Ordinance of 1967, is responsible for overseeing
the operations of the gas transmission and distribution companies which, inter
alia, include a review of their investment programs, as well as the harmonization
of their forecasts of demand for gas.   DCG, together with the Ministry of
Finance, also reviews the financial performance of the transmission and
distribution companies and assists them in mobiliz.ng resources for their
investment programs. In addition, DGG recommends changes in the procedures for
allocating gas to regions and consumer categories and in the level and structure
of the consumer price of gas.   These recommendations, however, require the
approval of ECC and the Cabinet prior to implementation (para 1.06).
1.11      Pakistan has two principal gas transmission systems, the northern and
southern systems. The northern system, managed by SNGPL, supplies gas to the
cities of Multan, Faisalabad, Lahore, Gujranwala, Islamabad and Peshawar from
the Sui gas field and other gas fields in the Potwar area. The southern system,
managed by SSGC, runs south from the Sui Field to serve both sides of the Indus
river valley and the major cities of Karachi and Hyderabad. In addition, there
are three smaller systems: (a) the Quetta pipeline, owned by SSGC, transports
gas from the Sui field to the city of Quetta; (b) the Mari system, ow;red by the
Fauji Foundation, supplies gas to three fertilizer plants; and (c) two separate
pipelines owned by WAPDA transmit gas from the Sui, Mari and Kandkhot fields to
the Guddu power station.
Gas Reserves
1.12      Natural gas was first discovered at Sui in 1952.  Since then several
other fields have been discovered, including the non-associated gas fields at
Mari, Khandkot, Pirkoh, Loti, Qadirpur and Kadanwari; the condensate fields at
Dhodak, Dhurnal, Dakhni and Adhi; and low quality gas fields at Uch, Panjpir and
Nandpur. As noted (para 1.05), proven recoverable reserves of gas are estimated
at about 16 TCF (400 mtoe) and probable reserves at about 6.3 TCF (156 mtoe)
(Annexes 1.3 and 1.4). All of the non-associated gas fields are located around
the Sui region in the central part of the country. These fields account for
about 80% of total recoverable reserves.  The quality of gas in Pakistan, in
terms of heating value, varies from field to field. The location of the main
gas fields is shown on the attached map (IBRD No. 20961R1) and the average
composition of the gas from the major fields is given in Annex 1.5.
Historical Developments in the Consumption and Supply of Gas
1.13      Consumption of gas increased between FY71 and FY89 at an average annual
rate of 7.5%, from 294 MMCFD to 1,081 MMCFD (Annex 1.6). However, the rate of
growth of consumption has declined significantly since FY82, from an average of
9.3% between FY71 and FY82 to 4.7% between FY82 and FY89.   This decline is



attributable to supply constraints caused by GOP's past policy of setting
producer prices for gas at levels which failed to provide producers the
incentives needed to increase output from existing fields and bring into
production already discovered fields (para 1.19). Moreover, as GOP's consumer
pricing policy was inappropriate for restraining the growth of demand, shortages
of gas started to emerge in 1981 (para 1.08). In response to these shortages,
GOP initiated a number of measures aimed at rationalizing the consumption and
supply of gas. On the demand side, a gas allocation procedure was adopted to
promote the substitudion of fuel oil and coal for gas.  Accordingly, gas was
released from the cement industry for use by households and its supply to other
new industrial consumers was curtailed to nine months each year. The supply of
gas to the power subsector was also fixed as was the number of connections to
be provided to domestic and commercial consumers.   The allocation of gas,
together with a nearly three-fold increase in the consumer price of gas between
FY81 and FY89 (para 1.20), resulted in a marked shift in the shares of gas
consumed by the main sectors of the economy, especially the residential sector
and the cement and power subsectors. As shown in Annex 1.7, between FY82 and
FY89, the share of the cement subsector declined from 9.2% to 1.3%, while those
of the residential sector and the power subsector increased from 8.3% and 28.8%
to 13.0X and 36.0%, respectively. As for the other sectors, their shares have
remained virtually unchanged and as of FY89, these were about 2.8% for the
commercial sector; 26.4% for the fertilizer industry; and 21% for the industrial
sector.
1.14      On the supply side, GOP concluded agreements on gas producer prices
with PPL and the Fauji Foundation in 1982 and 1984, respectively, to provide
these producers additional incentives to increase their output from the Sui and
Mari gas fields.   Under ESL I a new gas producer formula was adopted and a
three-year Core Investment Program (CIP) for exploration and development was
outlined (para 1.19). It covered three main elements: (a) the appraisal and
development of fields to be undertaken by OGDC using its own resources and
budgetary  allocations;  (b)  exploration  and  development  activities  to be
undertaken through existing joint ventures;  and (c) new joint ventures in
prospective areas for which further effort was to be made in mobilizing private
sector participation.   The joint ventures were intended to supplement OGDC's
technical capabilities and mobilize resources for exploration and development.
The implementation of these measures has enabled GOP to conclude twenty-one new
joint venture contracts; accelerate the development of Pirkoh, Loti, Dakhni,
Nandpur and Panjpir fields; increase the recoverable reserves by about 4.63 TCF,
and the output of gas from about 300 BCF (7.5 mtoe) in FY83 to about 395 BCF (9.5
mtoe)  in FY89.   Moreover,  in order to further encourage private  sector
involvement in petroleum exploration and development in Pakistan, GOP promoted
the available acreages for exploration in December 1988 in Houston and London.
As the response of private sector to the promotion was highly favorable, GOP has
further revised the gas producer price formula for new offshore concessions to
sustain this momentum (para 1.19).
Forecast of Supply and Demand for Gas
1.15      The gas supply and demand forecast for the period FY90-FY2006, prepared
by GOP in the context of a gas utilization and demand management study completed
in December 1987, was revised by GOP under ESL II to take into account the recent



- 7 -
developments in the subsector. On the basis of the proven recoverable reserves
and the reservoir characteristics of the already discovered fields, output of
gas is forecast to increase gradually from about 1,200 MMCFD in FY90 to about
2,000 MMCFD in FY2006, representing an average annual increase of about 3.5%.
This would allow GOP to maintain a reserve to production ratio of at least twenty
years.  The production profile is presented in Annex 1.8.  According to the
forecast production of gas from existing and already developed fields, supply
will fall short of unconstrained demand, which is forecast to increase at an
average annual rate of about 5.2%. In recognition of these supply constraints,
GOP with Bank assistance has outlined for the Seventh Plan period a gas
allocation procedure for meeting the requirements of gas for the priority sectors
which maximizes the benefits to the economy. Specifically, the procedure calls
for allocating incremental supplies of gas to various consumer categories in the
following descending order based on the "net-back" value of gas to each category
of consumer: (a) fertilizer industry to which priority has been accorded because
of major bottlenecks in port handling facilities and the infrastructure for
inland transportation; (b) residential and commercial consumers, as a substitute
for higher value kerosene; (c) the power subsector for use in combined cycle
power plants, as a substitute for diesel oil; (d) general industries, except
steel and cement, to displace fuel oil; and (e) the power subsector as a
substitute for fuel oil for base load thermal power plants.
1.16     Based on the projectec  availability of gas and its allocation to
various consumer categories, the revised forecast calls for sales increasing at
an average annual rate of about 3.5%, from 1,098 MMCFD in FY90 to 1,897 MMCFD
in FY2006.  However, as shown in Table 1.1 below, the allocation procedures
together with the agreements reached under ESL II on measures to rationalize the
level and structure of consumer price of gas (paras 1.20 and 1.21) are expected
to release gas for higher value uses. Accordingly, the residential sector would
experience the highest rate of growth, averaging about 6.6% annually, followed
by commercial consumers (4.6%), fertilizer and general industries (3.2%) and
power (1.8%).
Table 1 1:  Forecast of Gas Demand and Supply  FY9O-FY2006
(MMCFD)
% of Total   Average
Consumption Growth Rate
Sector      FY90    FY92   FY97   FY2002  FY2006     FY90 2006  FY90-2006
Residential    161   182    243     400    450        14.6 23.7     6.6
Commercial   39      43      54     70    80           3.6  4.2     4.6
Gen. Industries  259  294    297    420    430        23.6 22.7    3.2
Cement       15      16    16        16    16          1.4  0.8     0.4
Fertilizer   294     331    400     485    485        26.8 25.6     3.2
Power       330      333    436     436    436        30.0 23.0     1.8
TOTAL SALES  1098    1199   1446    1827   1897     100  100      3.5
SUPPLY PROFILE 1200    1385   1550    1957   1997
Moreover, the share of gas absorbed by the residential and commercial sectors
together would increase from 18.2% in FY90 to about 27.9% in FY2006.   By
contrast, the share of gas consumed by the fertilizer industry and the power
subsector would decline from 26.8% and 30% to 25.6% and 23.0%, respectively.



-8-
Gas Development Program
1.17      GOP's medium term development program for the gas subsector calls for:
(a) drilling of about 250 wells by both the private and the public sectors to
accelerate the appraisal and development of the gas fields at Loti, Sui, Pirkoh,
Khandkot, Bad.in Block, Mari, QadiPpur and Kadanwari, the condensate fields of
Dhodak, Dakhni and Adhi, and the low quality gas fields of Uch, Panjpir and
Nandpur; and (b) expanding the infrastructure for the purification, transmission
and dist:ibution of gas. In particular, SNGPL's capacity would be increased to
about 800 MMCFD; transmission pipelines would be extended and reinforced to:
(a) connect the Dhodak, Adhi and Dakhni fields; and (b) supply the combined cycle
power station at Kot Addu (paras 3.02 and 5.02).   The capacity of SSGC's
transmission line on the right bank of the Indus would be increased to transport
an additional 100 MMCFD of gas from the Badin fields.   The projected gas
requirements for both the SNGPL and SSGC transmission systems are given in Annex
1.9. The development program for the gas subsector which constitutes an integral
part of the CIP for the Seventh Plan, will receive priority in telms of resource
allocation and implementation will be monitored under ESL II (para 1.02).
1.18      To implement this program, Rs 38 billion would be invested during the
Seventh Plan in the development of oil and gas subsector by both the public and
private sectors for exploration drilling, appraisal and development of discovered
oil and gas fields, and the expansion of the gas transmission and distribution
retwork. Investments amounting to Rs 14.9 billion would be undertaken by OGDC,
Rs 4.4 billion by SSGC, and Rs 6.5 billion by the private sector. As for SNGPL,
its investments are expected to amount to Rs 12.2 billion during the Seventh Plan
and about Rs 7.8 billion would be incurred between FY94-96 (para 4.08). This
program includes, inter alia, about Rs 13 billion for the proposed Project, and
about Rs 3 billion for extending the distribution network which constitute a part
of' the Government's social development program.  The Bank has reviewed the
investment program and advised GOP that it is large relative to the availability
of resources and the implementation capacity of SNGPL and, hence, should be
reviewed annually (para 4.06).   Furthermore,  in order to ensure that the
distribution network to connect new town is not extended in an ad hoc fashion,
specific economic criteria are to be developed and reviewed with the Bank for
the selection of the new towns to be connected (para 3.11).
Gas Pricing and Demand Management
1.19      Producer Price of gas refers to the price per unit of gas at the well-
head and covers the financial cost of extraction and a return to investors. The
formula for setting this price was changed under ESL I as the formula that had
been in place since 1981 had not succeeded in increasing the private sector's
involvement in the exploration and development of gas for two reasons: (a) the
12% rate of return it guaranteed was low relative to the returns secured by the
oil industry elsewhere; and (b) it required that the well-head price of gas be
set after discovery, which entailed a higher risk for investors given the
likelihood of protracted negotiations once discovery was made. To address these
shortcomings, the new formula links the producer price of gas to two-thirds the
border price of fuel oil, less a discount to be negotiated prior to discovery
based on the geological and market conditions of the concession involved. In



- 9 -
1987, a year after it was adopted, GOP on its own accord, expanded the
applicability of this formula to cover not only new concessions but also the
already discovered fields, provided the concessionaires were willing to
renegotiate their entire contract. The private sector has responded favorably
to these initiatives and so far exploration contracts have been signed for 21
new onshore concessions and negotiations are underway for several others (para
1.14). In addition, new gas fields have been discovered at Qadirpur by OGDC and
at Kadanwari by the joint venture of OGDC and IASMO, and the production of gas
has increased by about 25%, with OGDC doubling its output. Notwithstanding these
generally satisfactory developments, the downturn in the international price of
oil has made exploration in new high cost concession areas, particularly in
remote and offshore areas, less attractive to the private sector under the
prevailing producer price formula. Therefore, with the objective of providing
additional stimulus to the private sector to increase its involvement in the
exploration and development of gas, under ESL II, GOP has revised the producer
price formula for new offshore concessions granted after July 1, 1989, by linking
the well-head price of such gas to full parity with the border price of fuel oil,
less a negotiated discount for geological and market conditions.
1.20      Consumer Price of gas refers to the price per unit of gas paid by the
end-use consumers and covers the producer price, the utilities' costs of
transmission and distribution and their financial returns, as well as a gas
development surcharge (GDS), which accrues to GOP as rent. GDS represents the
difference between the consumer price and the utilities' costs including the
producer price and returns. Prior to 1981, GOP maintained the consumer price
of gas at levels lower than those of its substitutes to encourage the use of gas
and buffer the economy from the adverse impact of a higher bill for energy
imports. As this was resulting in the uneconomic use of gas and was denying the
subsector  the resources needed to  implement  an expanded exploration and
development program, GOP agreed under the First Structural Adjustment Loan to
raise the weighted average consumer price of gas to two-thirds the border price
of fuel oil, a commitment that was reaffirmed under ESL II. In keeping with this
agreement, gas prices were increased six times between FY81 and FY89 by an
average of about 23% in nominal terms. As of December 1989, the weighted average
consumer price of gas was slightly higher than the then prevailing border price
of fuel oil (Rs 41.6/MCF compared to Rs 40.7/MCF) and well above the target of
66% originally agreed to with the Bank.
1.21      The progress made by GOP in adjusting the level of the consumer price
of gas, however, was not accompanied by corresponding realignments in its
structure, where distortions were relatively widespread. Specifically, the price
of gas to consumers, other than general industries, the cement subsector and the
commercial sector, was lower than the price of petroleum products it was
displacing. The price paid by WAPDA in FY89 for pipeline quality gas was at full
parity with the domestic price of fuel oil, but for direct purchases of gas from
producers it was only at 25% of fuel oil parity.   Likewise, the 10% of the
households in the country with access to gas were paying only 24% of the domestic
price of kerosene and only 22% of the domestic price of fuelwood, both of which
are used by the remaining 90% of the households. Unlike the general industrial
consumers and the cement subsector, the fertilizer industry was paying for
pipeline quality gas only 32% of the domestic price of fuel oil. In view of the
prevailing supply constraints, which augment the need for rationalizing the



- 10 -
consumption of gas and mobilizing financial resources for implementing the
development program of the subsector, GOP agreed under ESL II to implement
measures required to address these distortions, including increases in the price
of gas to households and the power subsector (para 4.06). As for the fertilizer
industry, which is a major consumer of gas and has important links to the
agricultural sector, GOP agreed to complete by March 31, 1991, a study to assess
the impact of higher gas prices on the ex-factory prices of fertilizer and
identify investments in retrofitting and changes in technology to improve the
efficiency of gas utilization.
1.22      The demand for gas in Pakistan varies significantly by time of day and
season. This, together with the supply constraints that have persisted since
1981, has induced GOP to curtail the supply of gas to new industrial consumers
to nine months each year (para 1.13).  As a result, for the remaining three
months, these consumers shift to the use of higher-value petroleum products such
as kerosene and diesel which, at the margin, are imported. As this is contrary
to the objectives of LES, GOP needs to adopt a load management strategy that
would balance the supply and demand of gas and promote allocative and operational
efficiency. Such a strategy would require storing the excess gas underground
and producing it to meet peak demand. The Bank, in consultation with GOP and
SNGPL, has ascertained that sufficient gas is available for storage particularly
during the summer months.   The Gas Utilization Study has identified the now
depleted Dhtilian field as a suitable candidate for creating such a facility,
subject to completion of a detailed feasibility study to assess its viability.
Moreover, as the domestic price of diesel oil and kerosene is at present
substantially higher than that of gas, the willingness to pay of consumers who
substitute the former for the latter during peak periods, is substantially higher
than what they are currently paying for pipeline quality gas. As the surplus
captured by such consumers could be mobilized by GOP through better demand
management including the implementation of time of day and seasonal tariffs, GOP
agreed under ESL II to recruit consultants under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank to complete, by March 31, 1991, a study to: (a) assess
the potential for peak shaving of gas consumption; (b) formulate a structure of
tariffs for gas which would promote peak shaving; and (c) prepare a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank for the implementation of the new tariff structure.
E. Bank Group's Role in the Energy Sector and Experience with Past Lending
1.23      The Bank Group's involvement in Pakistan's energy sector started in
1955, with a loan to KESC for the construction of a thermal power station. Since
then, it has assisted in the implementation of projects in all energy subsectors.
Prior to 1985, the Bank Group had made 16 loans/credits to Pakistan for energy
projects: in the power subsector, the Bank participated in the Indus Basin
Development Projects, and provided a series of four credits/loans to KESC and
three to WAPDA; in the petroleum subsector, the Bank's involvement included five
loans to SNGPL for the expansion of the infrastructure for the transmission and
distribution of gas, three to OGDC for exploration and development of oil and
gas and one to NRL for improving its energy efficiency. All of these projects
have been or are about to be completed.



- 1i -
1.24      In addition to ESL I and ESL II, the Bank Group has made eight loans
and a credit in the energy sector since 1985. These include: WAPDA IV (Loan
2499-PAK) and WAPDA V (Loan 2556-PAK) for the least cost extension and
reinforcement of the secondary and high voltage transmission grid; the Petroleum
Resource Joint Venture Project (Loan 2553-PAK) to assist GOP in mobilizing
private sector involvement in exploration and development of oil and gas; the
Kot Addu Combined Cycle Project (Loan 2698-PAK) to add another 250 MW of
generating capacity through the conversion of combustion turbines to combined
cycle operation; the Power Plant Efficiency Improvement Project (Loan 2792-PAK)
for the rehabilitation of existing power plants and conversion of combustion
turbines to combined cycle operation; the Refinery Energy Conservation and
modernization Project (Loan 2842-PAK) for restructuring product output and
streamline existing systems; the Private Sector Energy Development Project (Loan
2982-PAK), the first of its kind to be processed by the Bank with the objective
of increasing private sector involvement in energy development; the Transmission
Extension and Reinforcement Project (Loan 3147-PAK) supports the continuation
of work on least cost expansion of the high voltage transmission grid; and the
Rural Electrification Project (Credit 2078-PAK and Loan 3148-PAK) which is aimed
at improving rural productivity and quality of life of the rural population.
1.25      The proposed Project would be the Bank's sixth operation with SNGPL.
The first five have been completed successfully.   The Bank through this
relationship has contributed to expanding SNGPL's gas transmission and
distribution network and to strengthening its financial, management and technical
capabilities. The Project Completion Report (PCR) for SNGPL IV Project (Loan
1107-PAK), however, noted that separate financial and managerial objectives to
be developed for the Project's Department of the Company were not adopted fully.
Likewise, the SNGPL V Project for which the PCR is under preparation has further
confirmed that, despite the autonomy granted so the corporation under the
Companies Act, GOP exercises substantial control in the day-to-day management
of SNGPL, including the appointment of senior staff. Such control is neither
corducive to the efficient operation of the company, nor does it foster
accountability, issues that are likely to gain especial significance in view of
the planned investments which would more than double the assets of the company.
The measures to be implemented under the proposed Project are aimed at, inter
alia, restructuring SNGPL along commercial lines and increasing accountability
and autonomy.
II. THE BORROWER
Background
2.01      SNGPL, the Borrower of the proposed Loan, was incorporated in 1963
under the Companies Act as a private limited company and converted in 1964 to
a public limited company.   Originally established as a gas transmission and
distribution company, its activities have expanded and currently include the
construction and operation of pipelines, both for itself and other organizations.
It has an authorized capital of Rs 400 million, of which Rs 383 million has been
issued and paid up.



- 12 -
2.02      Until 1970, SNGPL's shares were held in equal proportions by Burmah Oi'L
Company (BOC), the Pakistan Industrial Development Corporation (PIDC) and the
general public. liowever, through equity contributions and subsequently through
the acquisition of shares sold by BOC, GOP became in 1973 the majority
shareholder in SNGPL. As of May 1990, about 91% of SNGPL's shares were owned,
directly or indirectly, by GOP, followed by BOC (6.7%) and the general public
(2.3%).   The company's shares are traded on the Karachi and Lahore stock
exchanges. Details relating to the current ownership of SNGPL are presented in
Annex 2.1, and summarized below.
I          %
GOP (direct holding)      51.0       51.0
Indirect Government Holdin&s
Pakistan Investment Development
Corporation              9.7
State Life Insurance Corporation  5.3
Pakistan Insurance Corporation    2.2
National Development Finance
Corporation               1.8
Pakistan Industrial Credit and
Investment Corporation   4.3
Other GOP controlled institutions _..2
Subtotal                           24.5
Other Public Sector Shareholding
National Investment Trust  9.0
Investment Coiporation of Pakistan  6.5
Subtotal                            15.5
Private Sector
Burmah Oil Company of UK   6.7
General Public             2,3
Subtotal                             9.0
TOTAL                              100.0
Organization and Management
2.03      As a public limited company, SNGPL operates under the provision of
the Company Ordinance of 1984.   Ownership is conferred through ordinary
shareholding, and control is exercised through a Board of Directors who are
elected by the shareholders for a period of three years and are eligible for
reapiointment. The Company Ordinance, however, provides for the appointment of
directors to the Board to protect creditors interests. Currently, SNGPL's Board
consist of 14 members, 12 of whom are elected by the respective shareholders.
As majority shareholder, GOP exercises the prerogative of appointing eight
members to the Board including the Chairman. In addition, it appoints two other
directors who represent GOP controlled banks and development finance
institutions, the creditors of the company. Of the remaining four directors,
one is from the Pakistan Investment Development Corporation, a wholly-owned
government enterprise; one each from the government-owned and controlled mutual
funds, the National Investment Trust and Investment Corporation of Pakistan; and
one from the BOC.  The Board is responsible for the formulation of long-term
policy, though all major decisions currently require Government approval prior
to implementation (para 1.10).   Consequently, the day-to-day management and



- 13 -
decision making of the company are strongly influenced by the Government, and
its investment program often reflects Government's priorities.
2.04      The Managing Director, who is appointed by resolution of the Board,
after confirmation by GOP, is responsible for the day-to-day management of the
company. He is assisted by three (financial, technical and commercial) General
Managers, and six senior managers, including managers for Telecommunications,
Audit,. Corporate Planning, Data Processing, Systems and Procedures, the Company
Secretary and a Special Assistant. The ;nior management is qualified, competent
and well-experienced.  However, in light of the strong influence in the day-
to-day running of the company by the government, the authority of the company's
management is limited, which is not conducive to quick decision-making and smooth
operation. The proposed Project, through the restructuring of the ownership and
management of the company would promote the autonomy and independence accorded
to SNGPL under the Companies Act (paras 3.05 and 3.07). The current organization
chart is presented in Annex 2.2.
Sources of Gas Supplies and Existing Facilities
2.05      As of January 1990, the major  source of 4as for SNGPL was the Sui
field, which is operated by PPL with whom it has two long-term contracts with
dedicated reserves: one for purchases of up to 428 MMCFD until the year 1999,
and the other for purchases of up to 55 MMCFD until 1998 (para 3.06). Other
sources of gas include about 7 MMCFD from the Toot field, operated by OGDC and
18 MMCFD from Meyal field, operated by POL. SNGPL has also negotiated contracts
for additional gas supply with: OGDC for the purchase of about 225 MMCFD of gas
from Pirkoh (130 MKCFD), Loti (70 MMCFD), and Dakhni fields (25 MMCFD); with the
POL/OGDC joint venture for the purchase of about 21 MMCFD from the Adhi field;
and with the Oxy/OGDC Joint Venture for 37 hMCFD from the Dhurnal field (para
3.14). Negotiations are also underway with: OGDC for 50 MMCFD from the Dhodak
field, and 40 MMCFD from Qadirpur; and the Lasmo/OGDC Joint Venture for 60 MMCFD
from the Kadanwari field (Annex 3.1).
2.06      The main transmission and distribution system owned and operated by
SNGPL consists of: (a) 2,446 km of high pressure pipeline of varying diameter
to transmit the gas from Sui, Toot and Meyal field to cities in Punjab and the
Northwest Frontier Pi.ovince via Multan and Faisalabad; and (b) 8,722 km of
varying diameter pipelines to distribute this gas to a large number of cities
and towns including Lahore, Faisalabad, Islamabad, Peshawar, Gujrat and Sialkot.
In addition, SNGPL owns and operates several compressor stations (Map IBRD
20961R1) to facilitate the movement of the gas along the system; purification
plants at Sui with a total capacity of 450 MMCFD; and an LPG plant at Dhurnal.
SNGPL's existing system supplies gas to about 23,781 commercial consumers, about
540,000 domestic consumers, and about 2,860 industrial consumers including 5
fertilizer plants and WAPDA for power generation.   Over the next six years
SNGPL's system capacity is expected to be increased from 450 MMCFD to about 800
MKCFD (para 3.14).
Corporate Planning
2.07      SNGPL's Corporate  Planning Department  is staffed by  two senior
engineers and a junior accountant. The primary function of this department has



- 14 -
been to prepare SNGPL's medium-term investment program over a five year span on
the basis of gas allocated by the Government, and also project implementation
and financing plans (generally referred to as PC-1) for the investment program
for  goverrnment  clearance  and approval.    It also  liaises with  financial
institutions such as the Bank for identifying sources for financing its
investment program. In view of the envisaged expansion of SNGPL's activities
to be undertaken under the proposed Project, the capability of the Corporate
Planning department would be strengthened in the areas of economics, finance
and system planning (para 3.21).
Project Engineering and ImDlementation
2.08      SNGPL has a separate department for project design and implementation.
It is headed by the Manager Projects, who reports to the Technical General
Manager.   The department has successfully implemented a number of projects,
including the SNGPL IV Project (Loan 1107-PAK) and the SNGPL V Project (Loan
2324-PAK), and those for other entities in Pakistan such as WAPDA. The company
carries out its own design, engineering and construction of transmission and
distribution pipelines, except for pipelines across large rivers for which
SNGPL's inhouse expertise is limited.  As the prJposed Project involves the
construction of pipelines across two rivers (Ravi and Sutlej rivers), consultants
will be recruited to assist SNGPL in the design, engineering and supervision of
the construction of pipelines across rivers (para 3.10).
0rieration and Maintenance
2.09      SNGPL has  competent personnel  to operate  and maintain  its gas
transmission and distribution network. Currently its methods and procedures for
operation and maintenance are satisfactory. However, with the expansion of the
system, SNGPL would need to monitor more closely the gas supply flow pattern
within its system to respond more effectively to changes in demand, particularly
during peak periods. This would require the installation of a modern Supervisory
Control And Data Acquisition (SCADA) system. The implementation of the first
phase of the SCADA system was initiated under ESL I and would be completed under
ESL II (para 1.02).   The second phase of the SCADA system required for the
envisaged expansion of the network would be implemented under the proposed
Project (para 3.02).  In view of recent increases in losses due to pipeline
corrosion, there is a need for improving the procedures for the coating of the
linepipes, and upgrading SNGPL's procedures for monitoring safety and detecting
possible gas leakages. Provision has been made under the proposed Project, for
the installation of a new up-to-date coating plant and for a collaborative
arrangement with an internationally reputable gas utility to undertake a safety
and hazard assessment survey of SNGPL's entire transmission and distribution
system with the objective of establishing and implementing appropriate safety
measures (para 3.21).
Personnel and Staffing
2.10      Personnel management  and staffing  is the  responsibility of the
Personnel Manager, who reports to the Commercial General Manager. Since 1983,
SNGPL has adopted a relatively cautious approach to recruitment and, as a result,
its staff has increased annually by only about 2%, from 3,800 in 1983 to 4,352



- 15 -
by June 1990. This approach, in turn, has enabled SNGPL to substantially improve
the consumer-employee ratio which, in June 1990, was about 142:1 compared to
101:1 in June 1983. On the basis of the configuration and level of complexity
of the SNGPL's system, this ratio compares favorably with those of other well
developed gas distribution systems. Of the total staff employed by SNGPL, 381
(9%) are engaged in project construction and the remaining 3,971 (91%) in
operations. SNGPL's clerical and support staff is represented by a union, which
negotiates the terms and conditions of employment. A two-year contract, covering
the period July 1, 1989 to June 30, 1991, was ratified by the Sui Northern Gas
Employees Union and SNGPL on October 21, 1989. The overall relationship between
labor and management is good and the total package of wages and benefits offered
by SNGPL is considered attractive by local standards.
Training
2.11      Training of staff is the responsibility of the Personnel Manager and
line managers. Under the Fourth and Fifth SNGPL Projects (Loans 1107-PAK and
2324-PAK), the Bank assisted SNGPL in upgrading the technical and managerial
capabilities of its staff through overseas training in selected aspects of gas
utility management and operations.   SNGPL has recently appointed a full time
Training Coordinator under the Personnel Manager for the coordination and
implementation of all training programs. However, given the growth and diversity
of operations envisaged under the proposed Project, especially the shift from
single to multiple sources of gas supply, SNGPL has requested the Bank to finance
a collaborative arrangement with an internationally reputable private gas
utility.  Through this arrangement, assistance would be provided to SNGPL to
upgrade its operational procedures and allow its staff to obtain on-the-job
training overseas or in Pakistan, in the areas of long term planning, operation
and maintenance, inventory control, corporate planning, project implementation,
safety and industrial emergency prevention (para 3.21).
III. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
3.01      The objectives of the proposed Project are to:  (a) assist GOP in
restructuring SNGPL's equity ownership to make the utility more autonomous and
enhance its resource mobilization capability by enabling it to tap new sources
of financing including private sector financing; (b) expand SNGPL's
infrastructure for purification, transmission and distribution of gas at least
cost; (c) promote the substitution of gas for higher value petroleum products
in the northern part of the country; (d) rationalize the consumption and supply
of gas through pricing and demand management; and (e) strengthen SNGPL's
capabilities in long-term planning, project implementation, inventory control,
operation and maintenance and safety.



- 16 -
Proiect DescriRtion
3.02      Over a period of six years, the proposed Project would support three
components, Corporate Restructuring of SNGPL, Infrastructure Development and
Consultancy Services and Training. Details of the proposed Project are presented
in Annex 3.1 and summarized below:
A. CorRorate Restructuring of SNGPL. This would involve:
(a) Restructuring of SNGPL's Ownership: Presently, GOP owns directly about
51% and indirectly, through GOP-owned institutions, about 40% of
SNGPL's shares. The restructuring of the ownership involves mobilizing
resources from the private sector through issuance of additional equity
shares, initially to dilute public sector ownership from 91% to 51%,
and subsequently to at most 40% (para 3.05);
(b) Restructuring of SNGPL's Management, which would include the
reconstitution of the Board of Directors of the company to reflect the
new shareholding in the company. In order to ensure reduced Government
involvement in the management and decision making of the company, the
Chairman and Managing Director and other key personnel of the company
would be appointed by the Board of Directors (para 3.07);
(c) Establishment of Financial Performance Criteria to include a new basis
for setting SNGPL's prices net of the Gas Development Surcharge
collected on behalf of GOP (Prescribed Prices) and providing for, inter
alia, the capping of SNGPL's prices rather than of its rate of return
on fixed assets, for the purpose of improving the efficiency of the
borrower and enhancing its ability to raise equity from capital markets
(para 4.03); and
(d) Reviewing the Regulatory Functions of the Directorate General of Gas
(DGG). Currently, DGG is responsible for: establishing the guidelines
and commercial objectives for the development of the gas subsector;
allocating gas and setting gas tariffs for the utilities and monitoring
their activities. The planned expansion of the gas transmission and
distribution systems throughout the country and in particular the
proposed expansion of the SNGPL system and restructuring of the Company
under this Project, makes it necessary to upgrade the capabilities of
DGG to enable it to act effectively as a regulatory authority. Under
the proposed Project, the role of DGG would be reviewed and
recommendations made on how to improve its regulatory functions (para
3.08).
B. Infrastructure DeveloRment. This would provide for:
(a) installation of a 1 x 120 MMCFD gas purification plant at Sui for
purifying the additional gas from Pirkoh, Loti, and the newly
discovered gas fields of Kadanwari and Quadirpur;
(b) expansion of SNGPL's transmission system capacity by about 300 NMCFD
including the construction of approximately 215 kms of 30-inch diameter



- 17 -
pipeline between Sui and Multan and installation of 6x4000 BHP
compressor units to enable SNGPL evacuate the additional gas from the
gas fields in the Sui region;
(c) expansion of SNGPL's distribution system to supply gas to the power
station at Kot Addu and two fertilizer plants to be constructed between
Sahiwal and Lahore, and to connect during FY93-96 approximately 330,000
domestic, 6000 commercial and 400 industrial new consumers;
(d) installation of a linepipe coating plant, to improve the coating
process, extend the life of the linepipes and improve operational
safety during construction;
(e) installation of a telecommunication system (SCADA) for monitoring the
operations of the transmission and distribution network; and
(f) procurement of compressors and construction equipment for installation
of the linepipe.
C. Consultancy Services and Training. This would cover:
(a) a safety and hazard assessment survey of the transmission and
distribution system;
(b) upgrading the capability of the Directorate General of gas, and
training of SNGPL staff in the areas of long-term planning, project
implementation, pipeline system operations and maintenance, inventory
control and safety through a collaborative arrangement with a foreign
private gas utility;
(c) further development of SNGPL's financial management information systems
and data processing including definition of its computer hardware and
software needs, and a review of its billing cycle; and training in
internal auditing of computerized accounting systems;
(d) designing the new formula for setting SNGPL's Prescribed Prices and
performance criteria referred to in the description of the Corporate
Restructuring program in para 3.08;
(e) services of financial advisers and an underwriter or consortium of
underwriters to manage the issuance of shares; and
(f) design, engineering and supervision of high pr'ssure pipeline at river
crossings.
Project Cost
3.03      The total cost of the proposed Project, including physical and price
contingencies and interest during construction, is estimated at US$546.5 million
equivalent, of which taxes and duties amount to about US$103.9 million. Of the
total cost, about US$129.9 million would be in foreign exchange and about
US$416.6 million equivalent in local costs.   The cost estimate is based on



- 18 -
quotations for similar works and equipment in Pakistan, and reflects January
1990 prices. Physical contingencies have been estimated at 10% of the base cost.
Price escalation for local costs has been assumed at 6.8% for FY91 and 6%
thereafter. Price escalation for foreign costs has been assumed at 4.9X p.a.
for FY91-95 and 4.3% for FY96. The resulting total local and foreign costs for
each year have been converted into/from USDollars at the estimated average
exchange rate for that year.  The cost estimate for the proposed Project is
summarized in Table 3.1 below.
Table 3.1: Summarv of Project Cost Estimate
Rs  Million                 USS Million
L.C.  F.C.    Total      L.C.    F.C.   Total
Transmission Lines                 4,558    987   5,545      212.0   45.9   257.9
Purification Plant                   124    192      316       5.8    9.0    14.8
Compression (New and
Restaging)                         216    228     444        8.6   10.7    19.3
Coating Plant                         36     71     107        1.7    3.4      5.1
Construction Equipment               266    300      566      12.4   14.0    26.4
Telecommunications                    75     63      138       3.5    2.9      6.4
Distribution Development           1,541    272   1,813       71.7   12.8    84.5
T.A. & Training                      11   . 54        65       0.5    2.4      2.9
Total Base Cost                 6,827  2,167   8,994       316.2  101.1   417.3
Physical Contingencies               683    216     899       31.6   10.1    41.7
Price Contingencies              1.961    706   2.667        45.4   18.7    64.1
Total Project Cost            9,471  3,089  12,560       393.2  129.9   523.1
IDC                                  560      0     560       23.4  0.0   -23.4
Grand Total                    10,031  3,089  13,120       416.6  129.9   546.5
Of which Taxes & Duties       2,472       -   2,472      103.9     -    103.9
Project Financing
3.04      The financing plan for the proposed Project is based on the framework
for the restructuring of SNGPL which calls for reducing GOP's direct and indirect
shareholding in SNGPL from 91% to at most 40% through share issues to the general
public (para 3.05). The proposed Loan in the amount of US$130 million equivalent
would cover the total foreign exchange required for the Project and would be made
directly to SNGPL, with GOP as guarantor. SNGPL would cover the foreign exchange
risk.    New  equity  issues  and  local  loans would  cover  local  costs  of,
respectively, US$93 million and US$121 million equivalent. The remaining local
costs, US$203 million equivalent, would be financed by SNGPL from internal
sources, including customer contributions and security deposits. The financing
plan for the proposed Project is summarized below in Table 3.2.



- 19 -
Table 3.2:  Financing Plan
Rs Million                     USS Million
Local     Foreign   Total      Local    Foreign   Total
IBRD                     -     3,089      3,089          -      130        130
Equity Issues        2,190          -     2,190         93        -         93
Local Loans          2,900          -     2,900        121        -        121
Internal Cash Gen.
including Consumer
Contributions and
Security Deposits 4.941            -    4,941       203                  2 203
TOTAL               10,031     3,089    3,120        417       130        547
Project PreDaration and Implementation
3.05      Restructuring of SNGPL's Ownership.  The timetable and actions to be
implemented to achieve the corporate restructuring of the entity was discussed
in relative detail by the Bank with the Government - the current ma'ority
shareholder of SNGPL. It was agreed that the reduction of GOP's shareho'ding
to not more than 40% would be by dilution through the issuance of about 219
million new equity shares of SNGPL to the general public over a period of five
years (1991-1996) (Annex 3.1). The first issue of about 57.5 million new equity
shares would be implemented not later than June 30, 1991. In order to achieve
the reduction of GOP's direct and indirect shareholding from 91% to 51%, GOP
must refrain from purchasing directly or indirectly any of these shares. The
remaining shares would be issued in series annually depending on the financial
requirements of SNGPL to fund its investment program. Therefore GOP has agreed
to reduce its direct and indirect shares in the company to not more than 51%
through  _he issuance of 57.5 million new eguity shares to be implemented not
later than June 30. 1991 and not exercise- its right to purchakse or otherwise
acquire. either directly or indirectly. any of the new eguity shares. if at any
time. the total of any such shares sought to be purchased or other-wise acquired.
when added to GOP's direct and indirect shareholding in SNGPL would cause its
direct and indirect shareholding to exceed 40% (Rara 6.01(a)).  In addition.
SNGPL has agreed to issue: (i) not later than June 30. 1291. 57.5 million new
equity shares to the general public: (ii) not later than June 30, 1992. about
37.5 million new eauitv shares: (iii) not later than June 30. 1993. about 50
million new equity shares: (iv) not later than June 30. 1994. about 57 million
new equity shares: and (v) not later than June 30. 1995 about 17 million new
eauity shares (nara 6.03(a)!.
3.06      SNGPL's finance department will be responsible for implementing the
issuance of new equity shares.  However, before shares can be issued to the
public, the issue must be authorized by SNGPL's board of directors and
shareholders (increase of Authorized Capital) and by the Controller of Capital
issues. It should then be underwritten by one or several of the specialized



- 20 -
private sector financial institutions. As SNGPL has no experience in marketing
such issues, it would require the assistance of a financial adviser to manage
anG market the issues (para 3.05). In order to ensure that the process for the
issuance of the equity shares is implemented in a timely fashion, SNGPL agreed
to: (a) provide not later than December 31. 1990. evidence satisfactory to the
Bank that it has obtained all necessary consents and clearances for the marketing
of the new equitv shares (nara 6,03(b)): and (b) aRpoint not later than January
31, 1991. an underwriter or a consortium thereof. satisfactory to the Bank on
afully committed basis to market the new eauity shares (6.03(c)).   Of the
sizeable local currency loans (US$121 milijon equivalent) required for the
project, SNGPL intends to contract loans totalling Rs 1.5 billion (approximately
US$70 million equivalent) from various local financial institutions in 1990.
To ensure timely availability of the funds required for implementation of the
proposed Project, the following have been set as conditions of effectiveness
of the proposed Loan:  (a) appointment by SNCPL of financial advisers, whose
oualifications. exgerience and terms of reference are satisfactory to the Bank.
to manage and implement measures for raisinig the reguired resources through
eauity issues and loans (para 6.04(a')): and (b) submission of evidence of
concluded loan agreements totalling Rs 1.5 billion with local financial
institutions (nara 6.04(b)).
3.07      Restructuring of SNGPL's Management.  The reconstitution of the Board
of Directors would be implemented not later than March 31, 1992, after the
issuance of the first set of new equity shares.   In order to increase the
autonomy of the management of the company, the appointment of the Chairman and
Managing Directors and other key senior staff of SNGPL, which is currently the
prerogative of GOP, is now to be made by the Board of Directors as provided for
in the Company's Ordinance and, until such time that the Government shareholding
is reduced to a minority position, the Bank shall be given an opportunity to
offer its views on proposed appointments by the Board of Senior Staff.
Furthermore, as part of the assistance to be provided under the collaborative
arrangement between SNGPL and a reputable international private sector gas
utility, the Corporate Planning Department and the operational management of
SNGPL would be reviewed with the intention of upgrading its capabilities.
Therefore SNGPL has agreed:  to appoint to the staff of the Corporate Planning
Department by not later than March 31. 1991, an economist. financial analyst and
system planner all with approRriate gualifications and experience (Rara 6.03(d)):
and (ii) reconstitute its Board of Directors not later than March 31. 1992. to
reflect the new ownership of the Company (Rara 6.03(e)).
3.08      Review of the Regulatory Functions of DGG.  As mentioned in para 3.02
(A)(d), provision has been made under this project for GOP to undertake a study,
with the objective of reviewing the regulatory role of DGG and recommending
actions to be taken to upgrade its capabilities. Therefore GOP has agreed to
initiate not later than October 1. 1991 and complete not later than March 31.
1992. a study, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. to upgrade the
regulatory caRabilities of DGG: furnish to the Bank the findings and
recommendations of such study for review and comments: and thereafter taking into
account the Bank's comments. implement the findings and recommendations of such
study not later than March 31. 1993 (para 6.01(b)).



- 21 -
3.09      Design  and Engineering.    With  regard  to  the expansion of  the
transmission and distribution network, SNGPL undertook an in-house study in 1987,
to identify the least cost option for increasing its transmission and
distribution capacity from about 450 M1ICFD to abeut 80) MMCFD by 1996, based on
a GOP approved allocation of about 200 MUFD of additional gas from Pirkoh and
Loti fields, and about 100 MMCFD from other new fields. Three pipeline options
were evaluated by SNGPL for increasing the capacity of its system by 300 MMCFD.
These include replacing the existing pipeline with either a 24-inch, 28-inch or
a 30-inch pipeline.   The combination of the length,  size and associated
compression required was optimized. The study concluded that the 30-inch option
is least cost for expanding the capacity to transport about 800 MMCFD of gas
without compromising operational safety and flexibility.   SNGPL has already
prepared the detailed design and technical specifications for this option. The
Bank has reviewed the results of the optimization study and the design and
technical specifications, and found them satisfactory.
3.10      As part of the high pressure 30-inch pipeline to be installed would
cross two rivers, Ravi and Sutlej, consultants with proven expertise would be
required to assist in the design, engineering and supervision of construction
of the pipeline across these rivers  (para 2.08).   About 30 manmonths of
consultancy services would be required. SNGPL has agreed to recruit consultants
by October 31. 1991. under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. fo.
the Rreparation of the detailed design and engineering and suRervision of
construction of the high pressure pipeline across rivers Ravi and Sutlei (Dara
6.03(f)).
3.11      The distribution component of the proposed Project is part of SNGPL's
plan for the development of the distribution network in the northern part of the
country (para 5.02).   The plan calls for connecting about 584,000 domestic,
11,700 commercial and 800 industrial consumers, including the Kot Addu power
plant and two new fertilizer plants and, an estimated 150,000 consumers in new
towns between 1990 and 1997 (Annex 3.1). Of these, about 330,000 domestic, 6,000
commercial and 400 industrial consumers, and the power plant at Kot Addu and two
new fertilizer plants to be built along the Multan-Sahiwal-Lahore route, would
be connected under the proposed Project during 1993-1996 (Annex 3.1).  The Bank
has reviewed this component of the distribution plan, including the investment
required and the specifications of the equipment and materials to be procured,
and found them  satisfactory.    This  target  is achievable,  given  SNGPL's
performance in 1988 and 1989, when about 80,000 new consumers were connected
annually. With regard to the new towns, SNGPL is currently finalizing its map
of the new towns and developing economic criteria for the selection and ranking
of the towns with regard to their nearness to the major transmission lines and
the numoer of consumers and amount of gas to be provided. These new towns will
not be financed under the proposed Project as GOP has promised to provide SNGPL
about Rs 3,000 million during FY91-96 for the new towns from the Peoples
Development Fund (PDF) established for social development programs. However,
in order to ensure that the distribution development plan is implemented
satisfactorily, SNGPL agreed to complete the Rlan for distribution of gas to new
towns and in consultation with GOP establish not later than June 30. 1991.
criteria satisfactory to the Bank. for the ranking and selection of the new towns
to be connected (Rara 6.03(g)).



- 22 -
3.12      SNGPL would utilize its Project and Distribution Departments for the
implementation of the system expansion component of the proposed Project. These
Departments would be responsible for the construction of the transmission and
distribution networks, design, engineering and application of cathodic protection
and for the inspection of the coating and wrapping of linepipes. Since most of
this work would be carried out while the system is in operation, SNGPL would be
assisted by consultants under the proposed collaborative arrangement to ensure
close coordination between construction and operating units of SNGPL and also
to ensure that shutdowns and tie-ins to the existing system are carried out
efficiently and with minimum disruption in gas supply.   As the Project and
Distribution Departments have acquired substantial experience in carrying out
such work under similar operating conditions, especially through their
involvement in the Fourth and Fifth SNGPL projects (para 2.08), the proposed
arrangement is satisfactory.
3.13      In addition to its own staff, SNGPL intends to utilize qualified local
contractors and consultants to undertake the civil works, such as trench digging
and backfilling, for the distribution network and to inspect pipeline welding,
respectively. To complement its limited experience in the design, engineering
and construction of pipelines across river crossings, the proposed Project
provides for consulting services for tile supervision of construction of pipelines
across the rivers Ravi and Sutlej (para 3.10).
3.14      Gas Supplv Contracts.   The proposed Project was prepared by SNGPL
based on the approved allocation of about 728 MMCFD of gas, consisting of 130
MMCFD from Pirkoh, 70 MMCFD from Loti, 100 MMCFD from other fields, and 428
MMCFD from Sui gas fields supplied under an existing contract with PPL.  OGDC
undertook a study in 1989 with the assistance of consultants to evaluate the
production capability of the Loti and Pirkoh fields. The study confirms that
about 250 MMCFD of gas can be produced for the next 20 years from Pirkoh and
about 70 MMCFD from Loti field. OGDC, however, would have to drill 35 additional
wells at Pirkoh and 9 wells at Loti to achieve this level of production.
Currently, about 165 MMCFD of gas is being produced from Pirkoh field and 40
KMCFD from Loti field. The development of Pirkoh is being financed by the Asian
Development Bank under the Pirkoh III Development Project, currently ongoing,
while Loti field development is being financed under the Bank's ESL II Project
(Loan 3107-PAK). Bank staff have reviewed these development programs and found
them satisfactory. On this basis, SNGPL signed new supply contracts with OGDC
for the purchase of 200 MMCFD of gas from Pirkoh and Loti fields (para 2.05).
The Bank has reviewed the contracts, and found them satisfactory, and in
compliance with industry standards. Contracts for additional gas from the new
fields are currently being negotiated with OGDC and its joint venture partner,
Lasmo oil company. In order to ensure that adequate volume of gas is available
and allocated to SNGPL for this project, the following confirmations have been
received from GOP and SNGPL: (a) a letter from the Government confirming that
the gas allocated to SNGPL from the Sui region will be increased starting from
January 31, 1992, in accordance with SNGPL's requirements, to reach not less than
728 MMCFD by June 30, 1995 and thereafter maintained at not less than this level
for the next 15 years; and (b) (i) a ratified gas contract between Pirkoh Gas
Company Ltd. and SNGPL for the supply of up to 130 MMCFD of gas from Pirkoh field
for at least 20 years starting not later than January 31, 1992; (ii) ratified
gas contracts between OGDC and SNCGL for the supply of up to 40 MMCFD of gas from



- 23 -
Loti field not later than January 31, 1992, to be increased to 70 MMCFD by
January 31, 1994, for the next 20 years.   In addition, SNGPL is currently
negotiating with OGDC and its joint venture partners for the supply of additional
gas from the newly discovered gas fields of Qadirpur, Kadanwari and Dhodak (para
2.05).
Right of Way
3.15      The high pressure gas transmission pipelines would be constructed, for
the most part, on rights of way of existing pipelines, except for the 18 inch
line from Qadirpur to Lahore, which would require new rights of way. In the past
SNGPL has not experienced any major difficulties in obtaining rights of way.
As per the construction schedule of the proposed Project, the rights of way for
the new lines would not be required until December 1991, but delays beyond that
date would adversely affect the proposed Project. Therefore. in order to ensure
the timely implementation of the proposed Project. SNGPL agreed to take all
necessary actions to commence not later than December 31. 1990. the process of
acquisition of the land reguired for the construction of the high pressure gas
transmission pipelines (Rara 6.03(h)).
Procurement
3.16      Procurement of goods, materials and services financed by the Bank would
be  in  accordance  with  the  Bank's  guidelines.    Contracts  amounting  to
approximately US$114.5 million equivalent to be financed under the proposed Loan
would be awarded through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). This amount
includes about US$58 million for importing portions of the 30-inch and 24-inch
diameter linepipes to be used at river crossings since the specifications for
these cannot be manufactured locally.   Domestic preference of 15% or the
applicable custom duties, whichever is less, would be given to local
manufacturers competing for supply of goods under ICB. In order to standardize
equipment, some items including spare parts would be procured through Limited
International Bidding (LIB) in accordance with Bank guidelines.  The list of
equipment and materials to be procured through LIB under Bank financing and all
related procurement documents would be approved by the Bank and the total value
of such items would not exceed US$4 million.   Direct contracting (DC) for
compressor units, which for reasons of standardization can only be procured from
one supplier would amount to about US$8.5 million. The civil works component
of the proposed Project is estimated at about US$122 million, of which US$60
million equivalent for implementing a portion of the transmission system as well
as the distribution development program would be contracted out under local
procurement procedures; the Bank would not finance contracts awarded under such
procedures. The remaining US$62 million equivalent would be for the construction
of the high pressure transmission line, for which SNGPL's Project Department work
force would be used, as this work would be carried out in sections over a widely
scattered area without disrupting  existing operations.    Locally supplied
materials and equipment worth US$251 million include reserved procurement for
which no Bank financing would be required. This includes about US$120 million
for the portion of the 30-inch diameter steel linepipes to be manufactured
locally, and for which local manufacturers have been prequalified. This amount
has been excluded in establishing the amount of the proposed Loan.  Neither
reserved procurement nor local procedures will have an adverse effect on project



- 24 -
cost  or  implementation  schedule.    Table  3.3  summarizes  the procurement
arrangements for the proposed Project. Documents for each Bank-financed contract
with an estimated value of US$1 million equivalent or more would be subject to
prior review by the Bank.  Such prior review will apply to more than 70X of
Bank-financed contracts. The remainder would be subject to selective post-award
review. It is expected that there would be about 50 bid packages. Consultancy
services for technical assistance and training (US$3.0 million approximately)
would be procured using Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. The studies
are expected to require approximately 110 manmonths at an estimated cost of
US$2.0 million.  Expenditures of up to US$12 million for heavy construction
equipment and compressors to be used cn the spur to Kot Addu for which SNGPL
expects to make an early start, committed under Advanced Contracting would be
eligible for retroactive financing.
Table 3.3: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million)
R1iUKct Element                          Procurement Method     h
ICB        LIB       DC          OteaTtal
Materials & Equipment       114.5          4        6.5        251     378
(114.5)       (4)      (8.5)
Civil Works                                -                   122     122
Engineering & Design                       -        -           20     20
Training & Technical
Assistance                                       -           3       3
Total/C                    114.5                   8.5       395     523
(114.5)       (4)      (8.5)       (3)   (130)
Ia Includes reserved procurement, SNGPL's work force, civil works contracted
locally, and Technical Services for which Bank guidelines for consultants
use would apply.
/b Excludes Interest During Construction (IDC) of about US$23 million.
/c Includes duties and taxes about US$104 million.
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank Loan.
3.17     Bidding documents have been finalized for the procurement of materials
and equipment that require a long lead time to manufacture. Procurement of these
items is expected to begin in August 1990 in order for the proposed Project to
be completed within the estimated period of about 72 months. In view of the
urgency of bringing onstream the additional gas handling facilities, the Bank
has approved the bidding documents for construction equipment required for the
installation of the 30 inch pipeline. As the contracts for these are expected
to be awarded by March 1991, financing should be in place by not later than
September 1990, which is about 90 days after the scheduled date for Board
Presentation. The implementation schedule for the proposed Project is shown in
Annex 3.2.  SNGPL is, at present, finalizing the project document (PC-1) for
ECNEC approval. In order to ensure that project implementation is not delayed,
the aRproval by ECNEC of the PC-1 document would be a condition of effectiveness
of the proRosed Loan (para 6.04(c)).



- 25 -
Disbursements
3.18      The Bank funds would be disbursed against:  (a) 100% of CIF cost of
imported goods or ex-factory cost of domestically manufactured goods subject to
ICB; (b) 100% of the cost for training; and (c) 100% of the foreign expenditures
and 80% of local expenditures for engineering and consulting services.
Disbursements would also be made against the CIF cost of goods procured of up
to US$4 million through LIB and up to US$8.5 million through direct contracting
for proprietary items.   Disbursements would be fully documented except for
payments not exceeding US$100,000.   Such disbursements would be made against
statements of expenditure (SOEs), the documentation of which would not be
submitted to the Bank but retained for inspection by the supervision missions.
Standard procedures for auditing SOEs would apply (para 4.11).  In order to
facilitate disbursements, a special account would be established in a commercial
bank in Pakistan, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  The
initial deposit in the special account would be about US$5 million, representing
tLe estimated average expenditures for a four-month period for the items financed
by the Bank. The estimated expenditures expected over the implementation period
of the proposed Project are shown in Annex 3.3. The schedule of disbursements
for the proposed Bank Loan is presented in Annex 3.4. The disbursement profile
of the proposed Project is similar to that used for the ongoing SNGPL V Project
(Loan 2324-PAK), and complies with profiles for Bank-financed gas pipeline
projects. The closing date for the proposed Loan would be December 31, 1996,
six months after the estimated physical completion of the proposed Project.
Environmental AsRects
3.19      The proposed Project would promote the increased use of natural gas,
a clean burning fuel, whose use would contribute to the alleviation of the
pollution that would otherwise result from greater use of petroleum products,
particularly high sulphur fuel oil. A secondary benefit of the proposed Project
would be a reduction in the use of fuel wood by residential gas users which would
decrease pressure on forest resources in the project area. However, in order
to ensure that the provisions of Government of Pakistan Ordinance XXXVII of 1983,
"Control of Pollution and Protection of the Environment" are adhered to fully,
the submission by SNGPL of evidence that the pro forma Environmental Impact
Assessment has been approved by the Pakistan Environmental Protection AgenQ
(PEPA) has been set as a condition of effectiveness of the proRosed Loan (para
6.04(d)).
3.20      The proposed Project is an expansion of an existing gas transmission
and distribution system. The standards for equipment and installation procedures
would conform to international works. The main transmission pipelines would be
installed underground in previously acquired rights of way owned by SNGPL, except
at river crossings where pipelines cross on bridges or flyover. In areas where
the pipelines could be exposed to scouring and may be subject to physical damage
by flooding water currents, special precautions would be taken, including coating
of the linepipes with water resistant materials to minimize erosion. Supervision
would be provided during construction by the SNGPL Projects Department, and a
continuous inspection procedure would be adopted to protect the pipelines before
an emergency develops.



- 26 -
3.21      The gas to be supplied for the proposed Project from Pirkoh and Loti
has no sulphur compounds.   The new purification plant would be capable of
removing Hydrogen Sulphide (H2S) and Carbon dioxide (CO2) from Sui gas and CO.
from the Pirkoh and Loti gases. H2S would be burnt in a flare stack which would
be designed in compliance with the current World Bank emission guidelines which
require that emissions not exceed 100 micrograms per cubic meter of sulphur
oxides on an annual average basis and not exceed 500 micrograms per cubic meter
of sulphur oxides on a peak daily basis. Since OGDC would dehydrate the gas from
Pirkoh and Loti at source, carbonic acid would not be generated as a by-product.
The new purification plant would be an addition to the existing purification
facilities at Sui and would be fenced in. In addition, the proposed plant site
is located far from any residential area. With proper operation and maintenance
of the plant, there would be no significant concentration of gases at ground
level even within the plot limits of the plant. To ensure the safety of workers
and local residents, an air quality monitoring system satisfactory to the Bank
would be installed at the plant and personnel trained to operate the system.
Assurances have been provided that an adequate safety zone would be maintained
around the plant, to avoid either formal or informal settlements being at risk
to an industrial accident. In order to ensure that under the proposed Project
the development and implementation of a training program which, inter alia, would
include industrial emergency prevention, planning and management at the plant
would be undertaken, SNGPL agreed to finalize by June 30. 1991. the contractual
arrangement for a collaborative arrangement under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. with an internationally reRutable nrivate sector gas
utility with proven experience in gas transmission and distribution for the
purRose of providing technical assistance and training to its staff in the areas
of long-term Rlanning. pipeline system operations and maintenance. invento_ry
control and safety (para 6.03(i)).
Project Risks
3.22      The main risks associated with the proposed Project are:  (a) inability
of SNGPL to raise the required financial resources from the capital markets;
(b) delays in the implementation of the proposed Project because of its
relatively large size compared to past investments undertaken by SNGPL; (c) a
decline in the productivity of the gas fields to a level lower than forecast;
and (d) environmental impact from possible gas leakages. These risks are being
addressed through the provision of: (a) professional services of a financial
adviser and underwriters to assist SNGPL in managing the marketing of equity
shares in the domestic capital market;   (b) consultancy services for the
engineering, design and supervision of the construction of the high pressure
pipelines and the establishment of a collaborative arrangement with an
experienced foreign private sector utility to assist SNGPL in project
implementation, as well as train its staff in pipeline operation and maintenance
and establishment of adequate safety measures including the installation of a
new SCADA system to monitor gas flows and detect faults along the system; and
(c) technical assistance and consultancy services under ESL II for the
development of the Loti field, and under Pirkoh III Development Project, financed
by the Asian Development Bank for the development of the Pirkoh field, and
assistance to OGDC under the proposed Domestic Resources Development Project,
for the accelerated development of new gas fields.



- 27 -
3.23      The pipelines would be buried and protected against corrosion. The new
SCADA system to be installed would improve the monitoring of the gas flows and
detection of faults along the system (para 3.02). In addition SNGPL has a 24-
hour emergency maintenance service for any reported gas leaks in the network or
in the household premises and their connections. Previous records have proved
that the system is operating satisfactorily.   Nevertheless,  in view of the
envisaged expansion of SNGPL's network, provision has been made under the
proposed Project for the training of the company's staff in safety measures
through a collaborative arrangement with an experienced private gas utility (para
3.21).
Project Monitoring
3.24      SNGPL's record under previous Bank projects of furnishing required
reports on project implementation has been satisfactory in terms of scope, detail
and frequency. Under the proposed Project, SNGPL would be required to submit
to the Bank quarterly reports, covering physical progress, consultancy services,
project cost, disbursements and administrative aspects of the project.   In
addition, SNGPL would be required to prepare and furnish to the Bank, within six
months after the closing date, or such later date as will be agreed for this
purpose, a Project Completion Report of such scope and detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank would supervise the proposed Project twice each
year during the scheduled implementation period, FY91-FY97. However, because
of the corporate restructuring component and the relative inexperience of GOP
and SNGPL in this area, the Bank staff input for supervision would be higher than
the overall average for investment operations. The staff-inputs required for
supervision are estimated at about 18 staffweeks for each of the first two years
and 12 staffweeks for each of the subsequent years. Details of the staff inputs
required are presented in Annex 3.5.
IV. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Introduction
4.01      The financial and accounting affairs of SNGPL are governed by the
Companies Ordinance of Pakistan which, among other things, broadly stipulates
the accounting system, disclosure requ'rements, audit procedures, and accounting
for deferred taxation.   However,  since SNGPL is a utility which has the
distribution monopoly for natural gas, a scarce resource, in the northern part
of the country, GOP stipulates both the volume of gas sales and the sales prices
for each customer category, and levies a "Gas Development Surcharge" (GDS) on
SNGPL's sales revenues designed to transfer to the Budget all income other than
that which is required to provide the agreed rate of return to SNGPL's
shareholders. The net sales prices corresponding to the revenues retained by
SNGPL after deduction of the GDS, are known as its "Prescribed Prices". The
objective of SNGPL's agreed rate of return is to ensure a sound financial
condition for SNGPL and an adequate return for its shareholders, but it is not
a determining factor in setting gas prices, because the ultimate consumer price
is far in excess of the cost of gas to the utility and the cost of transmission



- 28 -
and distribution. In addition to SNGPL's tariffs, its investment programs as
well as borrowings also require COP's approval (para 2.03).
Past Financial Performance
4.02          SNGPL's detailed financial  statements for the period FY86 to FY89 are
presented in Annexes 4.1 - 4.3, and its operating performance is summarized in
Table 4.1 below.
Table 4.1: SNGPL's Oneratinx Results. FY86-89
FY86        FY87       FY88       FY89
Avg. Daily Gas Purchases (1MCFD)                   394         386         426        451
Annual Gas Purchases (MMCF)                    143,670     140,835    155,398    164,790
Gas Throughput (Purchases Net of Purifn.
fu'1 and Stock Variations) (MMCF)           140,080     136,899    150,556    159,401
Internal Consumption (X)                           3.2         2.8        2.8         2.3
Unaccounted Losses (X)/a                          2.0          3.1        4.1        4.2
Annual Gas Sales (MMCF)/h                      131,370     128,799    140,300    149,084
Avg. Tariff (Rs/MCF)                             35.95       31.89       36.59      37.52
Gas Development Surcharge (X of tariff)             43          25          38         50
Gas Sales Revenue (Rs million)                   4,723       4,108      5,134       5,593
Gas Developt Surch.(Rs million)                  2,049       1,039       1,947      2,782
Net Gas Sales Revenue (Rs million)               2,674       3,069      3,187       2,811
Net Income (Rs million)                            123         109          76        134
Rate of Return (x):
On net fixed assets in service /S
- valued at historical cost                     20.6        19.1       19.4        18.7
- revalued through June 30, 1985/d              10.1        10.3       12.0        12.0
- revalued through June 30, 1989                 9.0         8.9        9.4         8.1
On share capital & reserves/I                  18.8         15.7       10.8       18.4
Internal Cash Generation (M)/t                    33           31         49         32
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                        2.3         2.0        2.0         1.5
Debt/Equity Ratio                                45/55       49/51       54/46      53/47
Current Ratio (excldg. stores and spares)          1.3         1.4         1.3        1.1
/a  Transmission and distribution losses during FY87-FY89 were abnormally high
due to leakages from corroded pipes and defective metering.  Replacement of
corroded pipes and defective meters is in process.
/b FY90 sales represents the latest forecast based on the actual sales for the
first half of the fiscal year.
/c Average net fixed assets in service, net of unamortized consumer contributions.
/4 Value shown in Company's balance sheets.
/e Excluding revaluation surplus and deferred consumer contributions.
/1 Including consumer contributions and deposits, and net of non-cash working
capital requirements and other cash outflows.
4.03          Under the Fifth Sui Northern Gas Project (Loan 2324-PAK),  SNGPL was to
achieve in each year a minimum rate of return of 10% on its average revalued
net fixed assets in service. As shown in Table 4.1 above, this target has not
been met if revaluation of fixed assets after FY85 is taken into account, because
of flaws in the application of the formula. The principle of revaluing fixed
assets has never been fully accepted in Pakistan, and SNGPL has been the only
company in Pakistan which, at the Bank's insistence, has applied it, albeit
reluctantly and in an inconsistent manner.    In order to put the performance of
the utility on a basis consistent with what private sector investors would seek
in terms of a sufficiently attractive return on shares in the context of GOP's
restructuring of SNGPL (paras 3.04 and 3.06), it is proposed to introduce by
July 1, 1993 a formula similar to that recently introduced in the gas and
telephone industries in Britain and the USA, under which the utility's prices



- 29 -
rather than its rate of return would be capped, thus providing upside/downside
potential for greater/inadequate operating efficiency. To this end and as part
of the proposed Project, SNGPL would engage consultants to define an appropriate
formula, and undertake to implement this formula within three years (para
3.02(c)). In the meantime, since SNGPL's rate of return is not a determining
factor in setting consumer prices (para 4.01), it is proposed to accede to
SNGPL's request to replace the existing rate of return requirement of 10% on
revalued assets by a minimum rate of return requirement of 17.5% on fixed assets
valued at historical cost in order to overcome the difficulties encountered in
the application of the fixed asset revaluation formula.   As shown in the
projections in Table 4.2, a 17.5% rate of return on SNGPL's fixed assets at
historical cost during the period FY91-96 would be roughly equivalent to a rate
of return on revalued assets of 10%. Furthermore, in order to ensure that any
gross revenue increases from gas sales to consumers over and above the amounts
presently projected will contribute to the financing of the proposed Project,
the Gas Development Surcharge would be set at no more than 32% of gross revenues
in FY92 and at no more than 28% thereafter. In consequence of the foregoing.
GOP and SNGPL have agreed to appoint. no later than June 30. 1991. consultants
satisfactory to the Bank to establish a new formula for setting SNGPL's prices
net of the Gas Development Surcharge collected on behalf of GOP ("Prescribed
Prices"), and take all necessary measures to ensure that the said formula shall
be applied by SNGPL not later than July 1. 1993 (para 6.02(a)): and. in the
meantime. to take all measures necessary to enable SNGPL in each fiscal year to
earn a rate of return of at least 17.5% on net fixed assets in service valued
at historical cost (para 6.02(b)).   Furthermore. GOP has agreed to take all
measures necessary to: (a) set the Gas Development Surcharge at not more than
32% of the gross revenue from gas sales to consumers in FY92 and at not more than
28% thereafter (para 6.01(c)): and (b) notify SNGPL of: (i) the final Prescribed
Prices applicable for FY90: and (ii) the provisional increase in Prescribed
Prices for FY91 to ensure that for FY91 the 17.5% rate of return on net fixed
assets in service valued at historical cost will actually be achieved (para
6.01(d)).
4.04      Under Loan 2324-PAK, SNGPL may not incur, except as otherwise agreed
with the Bank, any additional debt if its debt/eauity ratio is higher than 60:40.
SNGPL's indebtedness has been below this limit in recent years (Table 4.1).
Because of SNGPL's large capital investment program and borrowing needs during
the next six years, it is now proposed to raise the limit to a ratio of 70:30,
which is still considered acceptable.    SNGPL has agreed to seek the Bank's
aRproval before incurring additional long-term debt if after the incurrence of
such debt its debt/eguity ratio would be greater than 70:30 (para 6.03(j)). As
shown in the projections summarized in Table 4.2 below and detailed in Annex
4.2, SNGPL is expected to remain below this ratio in all years.
4.05      Also under Loan 2324-PAK, SNGPL is to declare dividends for any one
year only if after payment of the dividend, SNGPL's current assets excluding
stores and spares would not be less than its current liabilities. As shown in
Table 4.1 above, SNGPL's current ratio has been satisfactory, and it is expected
to remain so (Table 4.2). SNGPL has agreed to continue to declare dividends only
if after payment of the dividend SNGPL's current assets excluding stores and
sRares would not be less than its current liabilities (Rara 6.03(k)).



- 30 -
Future Financial Performance
4.06      SNGPL's financial projections for the period FY90 to FY96 are presented
in Annexes 4.1 - 4.5 and summarized in Table 4.2 below. The projections are
based on the sales forecast by the Company and the Bank and assume that the price
of gas used by households will reach 50% of the domestic price of kerosene by
June 30, 1993, and 100% by June 30, 1998 in accordance with the various
provisions concerning gas pricing, which are now included in the agreements
pertaining to ESL II (para 1.21) and to which the Government has reaffirmed its
commitment that: (a) beginning in FY91. annually increase the price of gas to
households so as to achieve full Rarity with the border price of fuel oil by June
30. 1993 (Rara 6.01(e)): (b) annually increase the develoDment surcharge on the
sale of gas to power Droducers so that by June 30. 1995. the Rrice of such gas.
including such development surcharge. shall achieve full Rarity with the domestic
Drice of fuel oil, less discounts for the gas transmission investments made by
the Rower oroducers (para 6.01(f)): and (c) continue to maintain the Rrice of
gas supplied as fuel by the gas transmission and distribution companies to the
industrial. Rower and commercial sectors at least at fully parity with the
domestic price of fuel oil (para 6.01(g)).  The projections also assume that
SNGPL's average sales revenue net of the Gas Development Surcharge payable to
GOP, will cover the purchase price for gas, plus the cost of transmission and
distribution and secure a 17.5% rate of return on SNGPL's net fixed assets in
service valued at historical costs (para 4.03). In order to ensure that SNGPL
achieves the agreed financial performance targets in each year, GOP and SNGPL
have agree' to furnish to the Bank by December 31 of each year. a reRort on the
company's actual and forecast oRerating and financial Rerformance for the
previous and current financial year. specifying the actions that will be taken
to fulfill the financial covenants (Rara 6.02(c)). Furthermore SNGPL has agreed
to oreRare and furnish to the Bank for review and comment. not later than June
30. 1991. a revised corporate investMent and financing plan. and annually revise
such Dlan and furnish it to the Bank for review and comment (para 6.03(1)).



- 31 -
Table 4.2: SNGPL's Proiected Onerating Results. FY90-FY96
FY90       FY9I       1           FY93      FY94      EXQS        FY96
Avg. Daily Gas Purchases (MMCFD)                445        460        536          628       671       710        757
Annual Gas Purchases (MtCF)                 162,582   167,754   195,685    229,305  245,043  259,184   276,124
Gas Throughput (Purchases Net of Purifn.
fuel and Stock Variations)(MMCF)         158,347   162,818   188,947    221,408  236,565  250,216   266,569
internal Consumption  MX)                       2.3        2.3        2.3         2.3       2.3        2.3        2.3
Unaccounted Losses (X)                          3.8        3.8        3.3          3.3       2.9       2.9        2.9
Annual Gas Sales (MMCF)                     148,678   152,839   178,247    208,914  224,293  237,250   252,773
Avg. Tariff (Rs/MCF)                          37.81      42.97      49.32        49.56   54.68    60.75         65.92
Gas Development Surcharge (C  of tariff)         31         27         32            28       28        28         28
Gas Sales Revenue (Rs million)                5,621      6,567      8,791      10,354   12,264   14,414    16,661
Gas Dev. Surch. (Rs million)                  1,768      1,780      2,813       2,899    3,434    4,036         4,665
Net Gas Sales Revenue (Rs mil',on)            3,853      4,787      5,978       7,455    8,830   10,378    11,996
Net Income (RB million)                         135        239        317          447       572       652        801
Rate of Return (ROR):
On net fixed assets in service /a
- valued at historical cost                 17.5        17.5       17.5        17.5      17.5      17.5       17.5
- revalued through June 30, 1985/b          12.5       13.9        14.7        15.4      15.7      16.0       16.4
- revalued through end of projections    8.6             9.8        9.6        10.1      10.1      10.0       10.1
On share capital and reserves /c             17.2       20.2       18.0        19.6      19.4      19.0       21.8
Internal Cash Generation (X)                  33.4       34.1       41.2         38.0      48.5      56.2       56.9
Debt Service Cover. Ratio                       1.8        1.8        2.0         2.1        2.3       2.1        1.6
Debt/Equity Ratio                             53/47      52/48      55/45       55/45    55/45    57/43         56/44
Current Ratio (excldg. stores and spares)  1.1             1.2        1.1          1.1       1.0       1.0        1.0
7'! Average net fixed assets in service, net of unamortized consumer contributions.
/b Value shown in Company's balance sheets
I Excluding revaluation surplus and deferred consumer contributions.
IS Including consumer contributions and deposits, and net of non-cash working
capital requirements and other cash outflows.
Future Investment and Financing Plan
4.07           In line with the Core Investment Program (CIP) agreed with GOP in the
context of ESL II (Ln. 3107-PAK) presented to the Bank's management in June
1989, SNGPL would invest about Rs 10.3 billion (US$454 million) during the
remainder of the Seventh Plan (FY89-93) and an additional Rs 9.8 billion (US$397
million) during FY94-96. SNGPL's financing plan for this investment program is
summarized in Table 4.3 below (For details, see Annex 4.5).
Table 4.3: SNGPL's Investment and Financing Plan. FY9O-FY96
(in Millions of Rupees and of US Dollars)
Rs Mn.   US8 Mn.                                  Rs Mn.    x       USS Mn.
Capital Investments                                  Sources of Finance
SNGPL V                          206       10        Internal Cash Generation    5,897          29      250
SNGPL VI - Phase I               185        9        Consumer Contributions          1,630       8       69
SNGPL VI - Phase II:                                 Cons. Security Deposits           716       4       30
Restructuring Project(&)  13,120         547                                        8,243      41      349
Distribution Development
(before Restrtg. Project)  1,245          56
New Towns                      3,000      124
Dakhni Project                    56        3        Share Issues                    2,190      11       93
Adhi Project                     144         7       Foreign Loans
Dhodak Project                   895       39           IBRD                         3,501      17      149
Metering, System Control
and Protection                  460       20        Local Loans                     6,229      31      260
Other                             852       36
20,163      851                                      20,163    100       851
(a) Including interest during construction of Rs 601 million (US$27 million).



- 32 -
4.08      The financing for the foreign cost of the investment program
(Rs 3,687 million/US$158 million), would consist of: (a) the balances of the
SNGPL V Loar. (2324-PAK) and ESL I (2552-PAK) disbursed during FY90 (approximately
US$5 million); (b) the Bank loan of US$130 million for the proposed Project;
(c) approximately US$14 million (for the Dhakni and Adhi projects and for
metering, system control and protection equipment) from ESL II (Loan 3107-PAK)
to finance extensions of work carried out under ESL I or SNGPL V (para 1.25);
and (d) approximately US$8 million equivalent internal cash generation, for the
purchase of foreign exchange for distribution development before the proposed
Project.    Internal  cash  generation,  including consumer contributions .Lnd
deposits, would finance 49% of the local costs of the investment program %'Rs
16,477 million/US$693 million), share issues 13%, and local loans (para 3.03)
the remaining 38X.
Accounting and Audits
4.09      Accounting:    SNGPL has a centralized accounting system based on
commercial accounting principles and the requirements of the Companies Ordinance
of Pakistan. The accounting system includes fairly comprehensive information
subsystems for financial, commercial and technical operations, and capital works.
The billing of all consumer categories has been computerized, except for the
billing of industrial consumers in areas other than the Lahore and Islamabad
regions.   SNGPL has prudent receivables collection practices, which include
charging interest at 2% per month for delayed payments and disconnection of
supply of seriously delinquent customers. SNGPL's overall accounts receivable
position has been satisfactory. In view of the expected growth in the company's
operations, provision has been made under the proposed Project for consultancy
services for: (a) formulatien of a strategy for further development of SNGPL's
financial management informaLion systems and data processing, including
definition of its computer hardware and software needs; (b) a review of the
company's billing cycle; and (c) training of SNGPL's staff in computer auditing
(para 4.10).   SNGPL has agreed to appoint by March 31.  1991 consultants
satisfactory to the Bank for the studies and training (a. b and c above). under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. and to submit the comDleted studies.
recommendations and an imRlementation plan. to the Bank no later than June 30.
1992 (Rara 6.03(m)).
4.10      Internal Audit:    SNGPL has an internal audit group which reports
directly  to  the  Managing  Director.    The  internal  audit  procedures  are
satisfactory. However, the group lacks staff trained in auditing computerized
accounting systems. Training in computer auditing is, therefore, included as
a component in the proposed Project (para 3.02).
4.11      External Audit:   SNGPL's accounts are audited by a firm of Chartered
Accountants in accordance with guidelines prescribed in the Companies Ordinance
of Pakistan. As agreed under SNGPL V (Loan 2324-PAK), the company has furnished
the audit reports on its accounts and on compliance with the Bank's loan
covenants, to the Bank within six months of the end of its financial year. The
quality of the audit reports has been satisfactory. SNGPL has agreed to continue
to furnish the auditor's roprts on its annual accounts and on compliance with
Bank covenants to the Bank within six months of the end of each financial year.
In addition. the auditors' annual reRorts will be extended to cover the sRecial



- 33 -
account (para 3.18) and all statements olf  expenditure on the basis of which
withdrawals are made for the proRosed Proiect (para 6.03(n)).
Insurance
4.12      SNGPL carries  adequate  liability  and property  insurance  on  its
facilities, including a collective fire and consequential loss of profit policy
and a public liability policy.   The major insurance policies are with the
state-owned National Insurance Company.   These policies conform to ind.stry
practice in Pakistan and are considered adequate.
V. ECONONIC JUSTIFICATION
Actual and Forecast Sales of Gas
5.01        SNGPL's gas sales increased from 246 MMCFD in FY79 to 400 MMCFD in
FY89, representing an average annuial rate of about 5%. However, as noted (para
1.29), because of supply constraints resulting from GOP's pricing policies in
the past, the rate of growth of sales declined after FY82 from an average of
about 11% between FY79 and FY82 to about 2.4% between FY82 and FY89. In order
to address this imbalance, GOP initiated a number of measures aimed at
rationalizing the consumption and supply of gas. These include the adjustments
in producer and consumer prices of gas and the introduction of an allocation
procedure to release gas from the cement and steel industry to displace higher
value kerosene in the residential and commercial sectors and high speed diesel
in combined cycle power plants. It was largely because of these measures that
the rate of growth of sales between FY82 and FY89 was virtually stagnant for the
industrial sector and higher than the average for that period for residential
(10.6%) and commercial (3.3%) consumers and the power subsector (4.8%). As for
the sales of gas to the fertilizer industry, these continued to increase but at
a lower rate of growth than the average for the period FY82-FY89, 1.5% compared
to 2.4%. Details relating to SNGPL's actual and forecast sales of gas for the
period FY79-FY97 are presented in Annex 5.1 and summarized in Table 5.1 below.
Table 5.1: Actual and Forecast Sales of Gas by SNGPL
FY79-FY97
Average Annual Growth Rate (%)
Actual              Forecast
FY79-FY89  FY82-FY89       FY90-FY97
Residential     17.0        10.6             7.9
Commercial       6.6         3.3             5.4
Industrial       0.1        -0.1             2.1
Power           10.4         4.8           15.4
Fertilizer       2.7         1.5           10.5
Total Sales      5.0         2.4             8.2
5.02        SNGPL's sales are forecast to increase between FY90 and FY97 at a
higher rate of growth than was the case between FY82 and FY89, averaging about



- 34 -
8.2% compared to 2.4% annually. The acceleration in the rate of growth of sales
is due to the overall increase in allocation of gas approved by GOP for the
northern region.  On the basis of the availability of additional gas and the
proposed adjustments in the level and structure of the consumer price of gas,
which are expected to rationalize the consumption of this resource, SNGPL has
prepared an investment program fox meeting the requirements of the priority
sector (para 1.18).  As shown in Table 5.1, the targets associated with the
program call for the power subsector experiencing the highest rate of growth,
averaging about 15.4% annually, followed by the fertilizer industry (10.5%), the
resident!al consumers (7.9%), the commercial consumers (5.4%) and the industrial
sector (2.1%).   These rates of growth imply that the relative share of the
industrial sector in total sales would decline from 32% in FY89 to 22% in FY97,
while those of the other sectors, except commercial consumers would increase
correspondingly: from 19% to 23% for residential consumers, from 19% to 22% for
the power subsector and from 24% to 27% for the fertilizer industry. As for the
commercial consumers, their relative share of total sales is expected to remain
unchanged at about 4%. These shifts in the shares of gas consumed by the various
sectors are generally consistent with the objectives of LES, that of substituting
gas for higher value petroleum products.
5.03        SNGPL's investment program is designed to supply gas to priority
sectors. In addition to ongoing work on the operation and maintenance of the
system, it calls for:  (a) the development of the distribution network until
FY92; (b) the implementation of the proposed Project which includes the extension
of the distribution network between FY93-96; (c) the constructiolL of a dedicated
pipeline for the supply of gas from the Dhodak field to the combined cycle power
plant at Kot Addu; and (d) the extension of the gas supply network to new towns.
SNGPL's current forecast of gas sales is based on the first three components of
the investment program, which respectively account for 19 MMCFD, 240 MMCFD and
50 MMCFD of incremental sales. The sales associated with the fourth component,
have not been included in the current forecast because the towns in question have
not yet been identified. The contribution of this component to overall forecast
of sales is expected to be marginal, as the prevailing resource constraints are
likely to be an impediment to the envisaged accelerated expansion of the
distribution network in new towns. Nevertheless, in order to ensure that the
extension of the gas supply network is not carried out in an ad hoc fashion,
agreement has been reached under the proposed Project on the establishment by
June 30, 1991, of criteria for selecting new towns to be connected and on an
annual review of SNGPL's investment program which would allow for, inter alia,
an assessment of adherence to such criteria (paras 3.11 and 4.06).
Least Cost Alternative
5.04        In addition to restructuring SNGPL's ownership to make the utility
more autonomous, the proposed Project provides for expanding its infrastructure
for the purification, transmission and distribution of gas, which would displace
higher value petroleum products. For the least cost analysis, therefore, two
options were considered: with and without the proposed Project. This involved
comparing the cost of supplying petroleum products to be displaced by gas with
the cost of the proposed Project, including the incremental cost to be incurred
by OGDC on increasing the output from the Pirkoh and Loti fields and on
developing the Kadanwari field. The petroleum products were valued at the CIF



- 35 -
price of fuel oil plus the cost of inland transportation, as at the margin, it
is this fuel that would be displaced by gas. Details relating to the assumption
and calculations, which are on project file, show that the proposed Project is
the least cost alternative.
Internal Economic Rate of Return
5.05        The internal economic rate of return (IERR) for the proposed Project
is about 24.8%. It is based on the measurable costs and benefits associated with
the proposed Project shown in Annex 5.2. The measurable costs include: (a) cost
of capital and labor required to implement the proposed Project; (b) operation
and maintenance cost which were estimated at 3% of the capital cost of the
proposed Project; and (c) the current producer price of gas of Rs 15.38/MCF,
which was negotiated by OGDC for the Pirkoh gas field.   It represents the
marginal cost of gas in terms of future supply of gas to SNGPL, and is based on
the formula agreed to under ESL I which links the producer price of gas to two-
thirds the border price of fuel oil less negotiated discounts for the geological
and market conditions of the concession involved. Although not financed under
the proposed Project, expenditures on conversion of consumer facilities,
amounting to Rs 1,194 million equivalent, are incurred by consumers and therefore
are included in the calculations of the rate of return. The measurable benefits
include: (i) incremental revenues associated with the forecast sales based on
the weighted average consumer price of gas of Rs 41.6/MCF'/ for pipeline quality
gas, which was taken as a proxy for the consumers' willingness to pay; and (ii)
consumer contributions, which are paid by consumers at the time of connection
to the SNGPL system. These are distributed over the period FY93-FY96 and, are
estimated to amount to Rs 1,037 million, in January 1990 prices. Both the costs
and benefits attributable to the proposed Project were expressed in their
equivalent border prices using appropriate conversion factors. Details of the
assumptions used and the calculations are presented in Annex 5.2.
5.06        The IERR of 24.8% for the proposed Project is significantly higher
than the opportunity cost of capital of about 11%, reflecting that the price
consumers are currently paying for gas is substantially in excess of the costs
associated with meeting their demand, which include the average incremental costs
of production, transmission and distribution plus a return to the utilities of
about 17.5%. The surplus, representing the rent, is captured by GOP through a
GDS as a means of mobilizing resources (para 1.20).
5.07        Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The proposed Project is an integral
part of the proposed ESL II program, which provides the umbrella of priority
investments and policy reforms to oe implemented during the period FY89-93. The
proposed ESL II is aimed at assisting the Government in implementing LES and
achieving a crucial objective of the medium-term macroeconomic framework agreed
to with the Fund and the Bank, that of reducing the fiscal deficit to sustain
the economy's growth momentum and control inflation, and enhancing the role of
private sector in energy development. The Bank's support for this Project is
'/ Reflects the national average, which is higher than the average for
SNGPL because of differences in the composition of consumers served.



- 36 -
to be viewed in the context of its continuing role in promoting both
privatization and the corporate restructuring of revenue-earning entities and
in assisting GOP in mobilizing cofinancing from donors including those from the
private sector.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      Agreements and assurances have been obtained from the Government that
it will:
(a) reduce its direct and indirect shareholding in SNGPL to not more than
51% by June 30, 1991 through the issuance of 57.5 million new equity
shares and not exercise its right to put_hase or otherwise acquire
directly or indirectly, any of the new equity shares to be issued by
SNGPL, if at any time, the total of any such shares sought to be
purchased or otherwise acquired, when added to its existing direct and
indirect shareholding of SNGPL would cause its direct and indirect
shareholding in SNGPL to exceed 40% (para 3.05);
(b) initiate not later than October 31, 1991, and complete not later than
March 31, 1992, a study, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, to upgrade the regulatory capabilities of the DGG; furnish to
the Bank the findings and recommendations of such study for review and
comments; and thereafter taking into account the Bank's comments,
implement the findings and recommendations of such s"udy not later than
March 31, 1993 (para 3.08); and
(c) take all measures necessary to set the Gas Development Surcharge at not
more than 32% of the gross revenue from gas sales to consumers in FY92
and at not more than 28% thereafter (para 4.03).
(d) take all measures necessary to notify SNGPL of:   (i) the final
prescribed prices applicable for FY90; and (ii) the provisional
increase in Prescribed Prices for FY91 to ensure that for FY91, the
17.5% rate of return on net fixed assets in service valued at
historical cost will actually be achieved (para 4.03).
(e) beginning in FY91, annually increase the price of gas to households so
as to achieve full parity with the border price of fuel oil by June 30,
1993 (para 4.06);
tf) annually increase the development surcharge on the sale of gas to power
producers so that by June 30, 1995, the price of such gas, including
such development surcharge, shall achieve full parity with the domestic
price of fuel oil, less discounts for the gas transmission investments
made by the power subsector (para 4.06);
(g) continue to maintain the price of gas supplied as fuel by the gas
transmission and distribution companies to the industrial, power and



- 37 -
commercial sectors at least at full parity with the domestic price of
fuel oil (para 4.06);
6.02      Agreements and assurances have been obtained from GOP and SNGPL that
they will:
(a) appoint no later than June 30, 1991, consultants satisfactory to the
Bank to establish a new formula, for setting SNGPL's prices net of the
Gas Development Surcharge collected on behalf of GOP (Prescribed
Prices), and take all necessary measures to ensure that the said
formula shall be applied by SNGPL not later than July 1, 1993 (para
4.03);
(b) take all measures necessary to enable SNGPL in each fiscal year to earn
a rate of return of at least 17.5X on net fixed assets in service
valued at historical cost (para 4.03); and
(c) furnish to the Bank by December 31 of each year, a report on the
company's actual and forecast operating and financial performance for
the previous and current financial year, specifying the actions that
will be taken to fulfill the financial covenants (para 4.06).
6.03      Agreement has been obtained from SNGPL that it will:
(a) issue (i) not later than June 30, 1991, 57.5 million new equity shares
to the general public; (ii) not later than June 30, 1992, about 37.5
million new equity shares; (iii) not later than June 30, 1993 about 50
million new equity shares; (iv) not later than June 30, 1994 about 57
million new equity shares and (v) not later than June 30, 1995, about
17 million new equity shares (para 3.05);
(b) provide not later than December 31, 1990, evidence satisfactory to the
Bank that it has obtained all necessary consents and clearances for the
marketing of the new equity shares (para 3.06);
(c) appoint not later than January 31, 1991, an underwriter or a consortium
thereof, satisfactory to the Bank on a fully-committed basis to market
the new equity shares (para 3.06);
(d) appoint to the staff of the Corporate Planning Department by not later
than March 31, 1991, an economist, financial analyst and system planner
all with appropriate qualifications and experience (para 3.07);
(e) reconstitute its Board of Directors, not later than March 31, 1992 to
reflect the new ownership of the Company (para 3.07);
(f) recruit consultants by October 31, 1991, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, for the preparation of the detailed design
and engineering and supervision of the high pressure pipeline across
rivers Ravi and Sutlej (para 3.10);



- 38 -
(g) complete the plan for distribution of gas to new towns and in
consultation with GOP establish, not later than June 30, 1991, criteria
satisfactory to the Bank, for the ranking and selection of the new
towns to be connected (para 3.11);
(h) take all necessary actions to commence not later than December 31,
1990, the process of acquisitions of the land required for the
construction of the high pressure transmission lines (para 3.15);
(i) finalize by June 30, 1991 the contractual arrangement for a
collaborative arrangement, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, with an internationally reputable private sector gas utility
with proven experience in gas transmission and distribution for the
purpose of providing technical assistance and training to its staff in
the areas of long-term planning, pipeline system operations and
maintenance, inventory control and safety (para 3.21);
(j) seek the Bank's approval before incurring additional long-term debt
if after the incurrence of such debt its debt/equity ratio would be
greater than 70:30 (para 4.04);
(k) continue to declare dividends only if after payment of the dividend
SNGPL's current assets excluding stores and spares would not be less
than its current liabilities (para 4.05);
(1) prepare and furnish to the Bank for review and comments, not later than
June 30, 1991, a revised corporate investment and financing plan, and
annually revise such plan and furnish it to the Bank for review and
comments (para 4.06);
(m) appoint by March 31, 1991, consultants satisfactory to the Bank and
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, for implementing
studies for: (i) formulation of a strategy for further development of
SNGPL's financial management information systems and data processing,
including definition of its computer hardware and software needs; (ii)
reviewing the company's billing cycle; and (iii) training of SNGPL's
staff in computer auditing, and to submit the completed studies
recommendations and an implementation plan to the Bank, no later than
June 30, 1992 (para 4.09); and
(n) furnish auditor's report on its annual accounts and in compliance with
Bank covenants to the Bank within six months of the end of each
financial year.  In addition, the auditor's annual reports will be
extended to cover the special account and all statements of expenditure
on the basis of which withdrawals are made for the Project (para 4.11).
6.04      It was agreed with GOP and SNGPL that the following would be conditions
of effectiveness of the proposed Loan:
(a) appointment by SNGPL of financial advisers, whose qualifications,
experience and terms of reference are satisfactory to the Bank, to



- 39 -
manage and implement measures for raising the required resources
through equity issues and loans (para 3.06);
(b) submission of evidence of concluded loan agreements totalling Rs 1.5
billion with local institutions (para 3.06);
(c) approval by ECNEC of the PC-1 document (para 3.17); and
(d) submission of evidence that the pro-forma Environmental Impact
Assessment of the Project has been approved by the Pakistan
Environmental Protection Agency (para 3.19).
6.05      On the basis of the project justification and the agreements reached
with GOP and SNGPL, it is recommended that the Bank support the proposed Project
with a loan of US$130 million to SNGPL for a term of 20 years, including a five-
year grace period.
EMlEG
July 12, 1990



PAKISTAN
SUI 'NORTUERN GAS PIPELINES LTIITED CSNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
Organization of the Energy Sector
*         I                 I            I cc  1                                 1El
pw__ "_mmc                  - d_                              CA
0~4rumo_                                                                COWS"mod >u ft C_
_ & _i                                       ft.w *_f
I      )                                                 -        dGi
Sw           Ca           FM                                                                       5~S
OGOc                        in       Oft  4wdOO    led     C             an
_                         US      A   Mm*                        |SC _d   |
_* ------- S  _
Co  - clcin     ICmanm              0" - ofalf%v"oco too    ~        m&. -            m    c
to  -                  <- P ,                       .             r- a s               r   4_o   ems 
f" Sftl  Ca.l~ldCV - A114341                                       l`    -                  
o"-   -awsmm                        - - f9A1ft1 -MGbP4s5VC=s1
w    - "tnMc*cM                     i -                                   -A        min W'CA,                                                 x
-                                   C_ _ .~S                         .34Ww   .~ug  4 1,sm r_-m
*.3            .             .            .   ft.ms.a              .ux              .              .               .        .
- WX SCo  m^                      K- dm       ~        ~
tzl_t   ND           _         e_s*                                                    t~~ft~ 



-41-                                 Annex 102
Page 1 of 10
PAKISTAN
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED (SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTUR'NG AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
A. Long-Term Energy Straregy (LES)
Naior Trends in the ConsumDtion and SURP1l of Energy
1.        Pakistan's consumption of commercial energy increased between FY79 and
FY88 at an average annual rate of about 8.1%. During this period the relative
shares of coal and hydropower in the total supply of snergy have remained
virtually unchanged at about 7% and 16.5%, respectively, while those of gas and
petroleum products,  the bulk of which are imported, varied markedly.   In
particular, the share of gas after having increased from 39% in FY79 to 42% in
FY83 dropped to about 39% in FY88, mainly because of supply constraints.
Reflecting the balancing role of petroleum products in the mix of fuels consumed,
their share declined from 38% in FY79 to 36% in FY83 and, since, has risen to
about 39% in FY88.   Moreover, despite the recent threefold increase in the
domestic output of oil, nearly 80% of the petroleum products consumed in FY88
were imported.
2.        The forecast for the period 1989-2010 calls for demand increasing at
an average annual rate of about 7% up to the mid-1990s and declining gradually
thereafter to about 6%.   Although the output of domestic energy resources,
especially of coal and hydropower and, to a lesser extent of oil and gas, is
forecast to increase, their share in total supply is expected to decline relative
to that of imported energy. Consequently, In order to meet. the forecast demand
at least cost, the share of coal, both imported and domestic, in total
consumption is forecast to increase from 7% in FY88 to about 21% in FY2010 to
substitute for higher value petroleum products and gas. Despite this, the share
of petroleum products would increase from the present level of 39% to 50% by
FY2010. By contrast, the share of gas is expected to decline to about 12% and,
given the long lead time and resources required to develop the country's major
hydro sites, the share of hydropower in the overall supply of energy is expected
to increase only marginally to about 20%. LES accommodates these trends through
the implementation of integrated programs of structural reforms over five-year
intervals, corresponding to the planning cycle.  These reforms are discussed
below  under  the  following  subheadings:    resource  development  and energy
investments; pricing, resource mobilization and demand management; and
institutional development.
Resource Development and Energy Investments
Primary Energy
3.        Of the country's 30,000 MW of hydropower potential, only 2,897 MW have
been developed, and another 1,928 MW are at an advanced stage of implementation.
This relatively low level of development is attributable to delays in site
selection, inadequate preparation and shortage of financial resources. LES calls
for the development of another 8,700 MW by the year 2010. Of this, 7,700 MW
would be in large schemes of between 1,000 MW and 3,000 MW to be implemented in



-42-                              Annex 1.2
Page 2 of 10
sequence, and the remaining 1,000 MW in relatively small schemes of between 100
MW and 300 MW to be implemented concurrently with the large schemes. In order
to initiate the implementation of LES, GOP completed, in 1985, a feasibility
study, followed by detailed project preparation for Kalabagh (2,400 MW) under
financing from United Nations Development Program (UNDP). Also, under financing
from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), a study to evaluate
and rank the remaining unexploited potential hydro sites in the country of more
than 200 MW was completed in 1985.  The hydro ranking study recommended the
development of Basha (2,400 MW and ultimately 3,600 MW) after Kalabagh.   A
prefeasibility study for Basha was undertaken concurrently with the hydro ranking
study and also completed in 1985. In addition, GOP completed, in 1987, a study
to evaluate the hydro sites of less than 200 MW under financing from KfW of
Germany.
4.        Coal is one of Pakistan's principal domestic energy resources. Despite
the suitability of this coal for the production of electricity and industrial
steam, its share in the supply of commercial energy has remained virtually
stagnant, at about 7%.  The stagnation is attributable to the energy pricing
policy pursued by GOP in the past, whereby the prices of competing fuels, i.e.,
fuel oil and natural gas, were maintained at a lower level than the market
determined price of coal.   This induced industry, the power subsector and
household consumers to shift from coal to natural gas and fuel oil. Presently,
97% of the coal produced in Pakistan is used by brick kilns, mainly because of
technological constraints. Since 1985, GOP has increased the prices of natural
gas and petroleum products. As a result, the present price of domestic coal,
in terms of thermal equivalency, is competitive with the prices of substitute
fuels. However, despite the realignment of relative prices, coal production
remains sluggish because of:  (a) the absence of a stable market for its use
other than for the manufacture of bricks; (b) the inadequacy of the laws
governing coal exploration and development by the private sector which holds 75%
of all the proven reserves in Pakistan; and (c) PMDC's limited technical,
managerial and financial capacity to sustain the implementation of programs for
the development of publicly-held concessions.   LES calls for assessing the
reserves held by PMDC to delineate tracts suitable for exploration and
development, and the introduction of a framework for allowing PMDC to enter into
joint ventures with local and international private companies to overcome its
technical, managerial,  and capital constraints.   LES also calls for coal
concessions to be put on an equal footing with those in the oil and gas
subsectors. This would allow for their termination should concessionaires fail
to invest in resource assessment and development within a specified period of
time, rather than continuing the present practice of holding concessions
indefinitely irrespective of the investment undertaken. In order to provide a
stable market for coal, the construction of power plants based on fluidized bed
technology of appropriate sizes would be pursued, and incentives to stimulate
investments by the private sector in the modernization of the coal mines would
be introduced. Since current projections show that, despite a more efficient
and systematic exploitation of Pakistan's proven reserves production would not
be adequate, coal imports would be required to ensure that future demand for
energy is met at least cost. Accordingly, LES calls for increasing the annual
imports of coal from 0.5 mtoe to 5 mtoe by the year 2010 as a substitute for
a:annexl-2 (chapS disk)



Annex 1.2
Page 3 of 10
higher value fuels, i.e. petroleum products and natural gas, and the development
of the infrastructure for coal handling.
5.        The rate at which gas and, to a lesser extent, oil are being developed
is slower than the resource base warrants. LES calls for the formulation of a
program to identify:   geologically risky areas where exploration would be
undertaken through joint ventures with the private sector, which would provide
risk capital and know-how to supplement the financial and technical capabilities
of OGDC; areas where OGDC would take the sole responsibility for exploration and
development; arr', areas which would be developed through work programs,
subcontracts,  erc. with private sector entities.   LES also calls for the
accelerated development of already discovered oil and gas fields and of the
dormant low quality gas fields for use in the generation of electricity.
6.        The share of traditional fuels in rural energy consumption is declining
because of deforestation, caused primarily by the unrestrained use of fuelwood
and the absence of a national program for afforestation to replenish supply.
As a result, the availability of fuelwood has declined, forcing its price
significantly above the price of kerosene, both measured in terms of thermal
content. This has had an adverse impact on the income of the rural low-income
households.  Accordingly, LES proposes a household energy survey to determine
the pattern of enerry consumption, the potential for substitution between
traditional and commercial fuels, and the means for meeting the energy needs of
the rural poor at least cost. It also calls for an assessment of the potential
for the increased use of solar energy for meeting low-temperature hot water needs
and for the formulation of a national afforestation program to be implemented
as a part of the Five-Year Development Plans.
7.        Secondary Energy.  LES calls for the formulation of long-term least
cost development plans for the production, transport and distribution of
electricity, coal, gas and petroleum products to be implemented in successive
five-year  intervals,  corresponding to the planning cycle.   In the power
subsector, investments would move towards increased reliance on domestic energy
resources, such as coal and hydropower, and the use of petroleum products and
gas only when deemed economic. In this respect, the use of natural gas would
shift from conventional base load plants to combined cycle and peaking plants.
Domestic coal production would be increased to substitute for petroleum products
and gas in the power and industrial sectors. In order to supplement domestic
coal, future increases in the thermal generating capacity for base load plants
would be based on imported coal.   The least cost expansion plan for power
generation for the period 1989-2010 calls for the development of about 28,500
MW of generating capacity, approximately 8,700 MW (30X) of which would be based
on hydro. The remaining 19,800 (70%) would be thermal capacity, of which about
9,300 MW (33%) would be based on imported oil and 4,500 MW (16X) on domestic gas.
Generation capacity based on coal would provide about 6,000 MW (221), including
4,600 MW based on imported coal. Approximately 30% of the proposed capacity,
amounting to 8,500 MW, is expected to be added by the private sector.
8.        LES also calls for the implementation of a long-term plan for the
reinforcement and extension of transmission and distribution networks to ensure
that  power  is  transported and delivered  efficiently.    The  transmission
a:annexl-2 (chap6 disk)



-44-                              Annex-1.2
Page 4 of 10
development program would involve the extension and reinforcement of the 500-kV
network to efficiently evacuate electricity from the major hydropower stations
in the north (Tarbela and Mangla) to the south during the rainy seasons, and
transport power from the major thermal stations in the south to the north during
the dry seasons. In addition, the efficient operation of the integrated power
system requires a dispatch system that would optimize the operation of the power
stations to meet the demand at least cost. The secondary transmission network
would also be extended and reinforced to reduce technical losses. As for the
distribution system, substantial investment would be undertaken to ensure its
extension at least cost to reduce losses and integrate the rural areas into a
national low voltage network.
9.        As the demand for petroleum products and production of oil from
existing fields increase, the refining capacity would need to be expanded to meet
the demand at least cost. LES calls for increasing the refining capacity between
1989 and 2010 by 5 million tons, of which one million tons would be in the form
of secondary refining to crack fuel oil.   In addition, there is a need for
increasing the storage and handling facilities for petroleum products. As for
the infrastructure for natural gas, LES calls for the expansion of the gas
processing capacity and the reinforcement and extension of the transmission and
distribution networks in the urban areas to meet the increased demand , based
on a long-term plan whose implementation would be phased over successive
five-year plans.
Pricing. Resource Mobilization and Demand Management
10.       LES calls for rationalizing energy prices to promote efficiency and
resource mobilization. To achieve this objective, prices of tradeable energy
products, such as oil and petroleum products would be set, at a minimum, at their
equivalent border prices plus the cost of inland handling. As for electricity,
lignite and gas, which in the case of Pakistan are considered non-tradeable,
their prices would be set to cover the economic cost of supply, including a
premium for depletion when applicable, and finance at least 40% of the investment
program of each entity from internal sources. Moreover, the structure of prices
for gas, coal and electricity would be realigned to reflect the structure
dictated by the economic cost of supply. As the demand for gas exceeds supply,
economic pricing of this resource dictates that in order to rationalize its
consumption and mobilize resources for GOP, its price to various consumer
categories should be adjusted to reach parity with the petroleum products it
displaces.   In addition the structure of gas tariffs should be revised and
seasonal tariffs introduced to rationalize demand.
Institutional Development
11.       LES calls for improving the efficiency of the entities in the sector
by decentralizing decision making and moving towards financial and administrative
autonomy. KESC's finances would be restructured to ensure that revenues cover
all costs and at least 40% of its investment program.   As for WAPDA, its
dependence on annual allocations under the budget would be phased out through
greater reliance on the commercial markets for mobilizing financing. In the area
of planning, the strategy calls for strengthening the capabilities of the Energy
a:annexl-2 (chap6 disk)



-45-                             Annex 1.2
Page 5 of 10
Wing in MPD to assume the lead role in integrating the plans of the entities in
the sector into a comprehensive energy development plan dictated by national
priorities, taking into account financial and resource constraints. In the power
subsector, LES calls for the integrated operation of WAPDA and KESC in investment
planning and operations to ensure that demand for electricity is met at least
cost. PMDC would be restructured to assume a more active role in the development
of its coal reserves through joint ventures with the private sector for the
purpose of developing specific proven reserves. In the oil and gas subsectors,
OGDC would become increasingly self-reliant in financing its exploration and
development program, through joint ventures, internal resources and the credit
market, and its technical and managerial capabilities strengthened to evolve
into a company whose operations are based on internationally accepted industry
standards. Government involvement in SNGPL and SSGC would be reduced to allow
for a greater role for the private sector.
12.       The implementation of the investment plans in the energy sector
continues to be constrained by the shortage of financial resources and, to some
extent, the lack of technical know-how. The implementation capabilities of the
public sector and semi-autonomous entities in the sector are also taxed and,
consequently, their ability to achieve the targets under the five-year
development plans are hindered. LES calls for GOP to outline and introduce an
institutional framework aimed at providing the security and incentives for the
private sector to increase its involvement in the development of energy to
complement the investments of the public sector. Although the private sector
has been involved in the development of the oil and gas for several years, its
role would be further strengthened with the introduction of a better compensation
package and fiscal incentives. As for the power and coal subsectors, LES calls
for reducing the investment outlays of public sector entities and delineating
specific investments that would be earmarked for consideration by the private
sector to provide about 30% of the total installed power generating capacity by
the year 2010, and contribute at least 50% of the incremental annual production
of domestic coal.
B. ImRlementation of LES: Progress under ESL I and ESL II
13.       Energy Investments.  As a first step towards rationalizing investments
and minimizing the shortfalls in energy supply, a Core Investment Program (CIP)
of priority projects was agreed to under ESL I, including the sources of
financing for its implementation such as the contribution of GOP through the
Annual Development Plan and that of the sector entities from their internally-
generated funds. In keeping with this agreement, GOP took all necessary actions
required to mobilize resources for the implementation of the priority proje.;ts.
As a result, actual investments between FY86 and FY88 were only 8% lower than
envisaged,  Rs 46 billion compared to Rs 50 billion.   This represents  a
substantial improvement relative to the past, when deviations between planned
and actual investments were as high as 50%.
14.       To ensure consistency between the sectoral and the medium-term policy
framework targets, a detailed forecast of demand for energy for the Seventh and
Eighth Plans (FY89-98) was prepared under ESL II, based on the projected rates
a:annexl-2 (chapS disk)



-46-                             Annex 1.2
Page 6 of 10
of growth for the main sectors of the economy and increases in the domestic
prices of energy products. The ongoing and new projects required to meet the
forecast demand were identified and their financial requirements were matched
with the implementation and self-financing capabilities of the public sector and
semi-autonomous entities. Projects in excess of those to be undertaken by the
public entities were earmarked for implementation by the private sector to reduce
potential shortages in energy supply. The CIP for ESL II comprises ongoing and
new projects to be implemented during the first three years of the Seventh plan
by both the public and private sectors. Progress in the implementation of the
CIP for FY89 and FY90 has been satisfactory in terms of both mobilization and
allocation of these resources for the agreed priority projects.
15.       Resource Development,   In keeping with the objectives of LES o;
developing 8,700 MW of new hydropower potential by the year 2010, GOP apj  -
under ESL I to initiate by December 1986 a feasibility study for Basha I ,0
MW), which was to be developed after Kalabagh (2,400 MW). This study, ho aver,
could not be implemented because WAPDA's views concerning the scope and timing
of the work to be undertaken differed markedly from those of the consultants who
had prepared the prefeasibility study for Basha. To resolve these differences,
an international panel of experts was appointed by GOP in 1988 at the behest of
the Bank. Based on a review of the prefeasibility study, the panel outlined a
work plan which has been approved by GOP and the Bank.   The appointment of
consultants for the preparation of the feasibility study for Basha has been set
as a condition of release of the second tranche of ESL II. Moreover, as the
implementation of Kalabagh has also been delayed because of unresolved issues
concerning the allocation of water between provinces and compensation for land
to be inundated, the development of sites at Chashma (240 MW), Taunsa (110 MW),
Jinnah (110 MW) and Ghazi Ghariala (1,000 MW) is being accelerated under ESL II
to offset, at least partially, the 2,400 MW shortfall in hydrocapacity resulting
from this delay.
16.       Under ESL I, two studies were completed on issues relating to the coal
subsector. The first identified the main operational constraints impeding the
development of coal and outlined a comprehensive program to assess the reserves
at Lakhra and Sonda Thatta. The assessment of PMDC's lease area at Lakhra was
completed in 1986 and proven reserves sufficient to produce 4 million tons
annually were identified. The second study outlined a strategy for restructuring
PMDC to promote the more efficient operation of mines in the public sector, and
provided a basis for reviewing the role of the public sector in coal mining.
The recommendations of this study have been reviewed under ESL II and GOP has
agreed to prepare and submit to the Bank an action plan for improving the
operational efficiency and financial viability of PMDC. Moreover, to comply with
a condition of effectiveness of ESL II, GOP has also approved the development
of the proven reserves at Lakhra through a joint venture between PMDC and the
private sector and has issued an invitation for the latter to submit proposals.
Finally, GOP has submitted to the Bank terms of reference for a study which would
review the institutional arrangements for granting coal concessions and the
existing fiscal incentive framework with a view to encouraging investments by
the private sector in the development of coal.
a:annexl-2 (chap6 disk)



_47-                               Annex 1.2
Page 7 of 10
17.       In keeping with the objectives of LES of accelerating the exploration
and development of oil and gas, a new gas producer pricing formula was adopted
(para 1.35) and a national policy aimed at increasing the level of foreign and
local private equity investment and balancing the role of the public and private
sectors in the exploration and development of oil and gas was outlined under ESL
I. As a result, new oil and gas fields were discovered and a number of already
discovered oil fields and non-associated gas fields were developed. In addition,
a detailed Hydrocarbon Habitat Study of all onshore basins in the country was
completed and a concession promotion map of the high priority and accessible
areas was prepared. Areas where exploration would be undertaken by OGDC and the
private sector were identified and successfully promoted to the latter in London
and Houston, in December, 1988. Under ESL II, GOP agreed to further accelerate
the development of already discovered fields and review periodically with the
Bank, the progress made in exploration by both the private and public sectors.
The first such review was completed in February 1990.
18.       Households are the single largest consumers of energy in Pakistan,
accounting, for approximately 45% of total energy consumed. The decline in the
supply of fuelwood to households, together with the increase in the use of other
biomass fuels suggests that the forest cover is being rapidly depleted with
attendant adverse environmental consequences. However, the existing data are
inadequate for formulating a policy aimed at optimizing the mix of biomass and
modern fuels for household consumption. Under ESL II, GOP has initiated with
financing from UNDP the development of a comprehensive database on household
energy use patterns and formulation of a household energy strategy. In addition,
GOP agreed to review the ongoing work on forestry inventory, identify gaps in
the work program and formulate a long-term reforestation program.
19.       Pricing. Resource Mobilization and Demand Management.   To restrain
the growth of demand for energy and mobilize resources for priority projects,
agreement was reached under ESL I on the rationalization of both producer and
consumer prices.   In accordance with this agreement a new formula for the
producer price of gas was adopted and the consumer Rrice of gas was adjusted to
reach the target of two-thirds the border price of fuel oil by FY88. Details
relating to the developments in the price of gas are discussed in paras 1.35-
1.37.
20.       Electricity Tariffs, which had remained virtually unchanged in the
four years up to FY85, were increased under ESL I by an average of 6.5% per year
in nominal terms between FY86-89. These increases, together with the extension
in FY87 of the applicability of the fuel adjustment surcharge to residential
consumers whose consumption is more than 300 kWh/month, raised the average
revenue from Rs 0.74'/kWh in FY86 to Rs 0.94/kWh in FY89 and enabled WAPDA to
finance in each of those four years abou. 40% of its investment program from
internal sources as agreed under ESL I.  In addition, as a first step toward
integrating the operations of WAPDA and KESC and ensuring equity among consumers
of electricity throughout the country, the tariffs of the two systems were
unified in FY88 and measures aimed at rationalizing the structure of tariffs were
also introduced, including a higher than average adjustment in tariffs for
residential and agricultural consumers. To sustain this momentum, under ESL II
tariffs were increased again on September 1, 1989, by 16%.   Presently, the
a:annexl-2 (chap6 disk)



-48-                               Annex 1.2
Page 8 of 10
average tariff level of the combined WAPDA and KESC systems is approximately 74%
of the long run marginal cost. The implementation of another increase to enable
WAPDA to self-finance 40% of its investment program for FY91 has been set as a
condition for the release of the second tranche of ESL II. Moreover, as a means
for further rationalizing consumption, GOP also agreed under that loan to
introduce peak/off-peak pricing for the 300 largest industrial consumers who
account for about 20% of the total electricity sales.
21.       With the objective of providing incentives to refineries to improve
their product-mix and efficiency, a new formula for ex-refinery pricing was
introduced in 1988 for the two refineries in Karachi. This formula, however,
was not appropriate for the Attock refinery, as it has access only to locally-
produced crude oil, the production and specification of which varies from year
to year leading to widely fluctuating costs of refining per unit of output.
This, in turn, results in widely fluctuating profit levels. To accelerate the
implementation of a new and equitable system for setting ex-refinery prices of
petroleum products, GOP agreed under ESL II, to develop and install a detailed
refinery processing simulation model within the Directorate General Oil, MPNR,
with assistance from consultants, to review the experience of the two Karachi
refineries with the new pric.ng formula and on the basis of this review, revise
the new pricing formula for ex-refinery products for the Attock refinery. The
first such review was completed in February 1990 and the second review is
scheduled for December 31, 1990.
22.       In 1981, GOP adopted a policy of passing on the increases in the
international price of petroleum products to final consumers. The policy was
not applied uniformly in that the prices of kerosene and fuel oil were kept
below their economic cost of supply, while prices of the other products were
maintained substantially higher than their correcponding border prices.  The
decline in the world market price of oil since 1986, and the fact that domestic
retail prices were only marginally reduced ir. response to this decline brought
the level of domestic prices of all petroleum products above their border prices.
As a result of this policy, the petroleum subsector continues to be the principal
contributor to the national budget, and distortions in the relative prices among
products have been reduced.   However, in order to ensure that the resource
mobilization potential of the petroleum subsector is not eroded in case the CIF
rupee price of crude oil rises above the level it was when the retail consumer
prices of petroleum products were last adjusted, GOP agreed under ESL II to
recover from consumers the resulting difference in the price of crude oil. In
accordance with this agreement, GOP increased the weighted average consumer price
of petroleum products by about 11% in March 1990.   The prevailing weighted
average retail price is at about 180% of the weighted average border price, with
the prices of all products being higher than their respective border prices.
23.       Unlike the prices for electricity, gas and oil, the prices of coal
are not regulated by GOP, but determined by market forces. On a price basis
alone, coal is competitive with fuel oil and also with wood and charcoal.
Accordingly, no action on coal pricing policy was sought under ESL II.
24.       To serve as the focal point for all conservation activities, a National
Energy Conservation Centre (ENERCON) was established under ESL I. In keeping
a:annexl-2 (chap6 disk)



_49_                             Annex 1.2
Page 9 of 10
with its mandate, ENERCON has initiated training and outreach programs, and
completed audits in 43 private and 27 public sector industrial plants.   In
addition, a Building Energy Code has been drafted and a program to audit 300
tubewells and retrofit 100 of them has also been launched.  To sustain this
momentum, GOP has furnished to the Bank, as agreed under ESL II, an action plan
for undertaking detailed engineering and feasibility studies in about 20 of the
largest industrial energy consuming plants in the private sector and financing
energy conserving investments and related studies for about 20 of the largest
energy consuming plants in the private sector. In addition, GOP has furnished
to the Bank TORs for a study to be completed with assistance from consultants,
to identify the constraints to conservation arising from tax, industrial and
trade legislation and formulate a package of incentives to promote energy
conservation.
25.       Institutional Development.  In order to streamline the decision-making
process and improve the operating efficiency of the power subsector, a study
aimed at reorganizing WAPDA was completed by GOP under ESL I with the assistance
of consultants financed by USAID.   The study recommended the separation of
WAPDA's  distribution  function  from  generation  and  transmission.    This
recommendation has been accepted, in principle, and, as agreed under ESL II, GOP
has furnished to the Bank an action plan for the establishment of a distinct and
self-contained distribution wing within VAPDA.
26.       Presently, KESC is not in a position to mobilize the large amount of
resources required to rehabilitate its distribution system, where technical
losses are in excess of 30% of gross generation and the quality of service is
poor and eroding.  In order to address these problems, under ESL II, GOP has
appointed an inter-ministerial committee for overseeing the preparation by
consultants of a financial and organizational restructuring plan for KESC.
27.       As OGDC was expected to assume an expanded role in oil and gas
development during the Sixth Plan, GOP agreed under ESL I to strengthen its
managerial capabilities and move towards financial self-refinance. Accordingly,
the corporation's investment program for FY86-88 was rationalized and, more
recently, a decision was made to remove OGDC from the budget and reorient its
operations along commercial lines. In addition, as agreed under ESL II, GOP has
appointed consultants to implement a financial restructuring plan for OGDC and
international auditors to audit its financial operations for FY90 and FY91.
28.       The office of Energy Planning (ENERPLAN) was established under ESL I
with USAID financing.   In 1986, ENERPLAN was merged with the existing Energy
Wing in MPD. Since its establishment, the Energy Wing has been involved in all
aspects of planning, including the preparation of the energy. chapter of the
Seventh Plan. It has also successfully served as the main interlocutor between
the Bank and GOP under ESL I as well as coordinator of all energy sector entities
under that operation, a function it retain under ESL II. Under ESL II, GOP has
initiated the steps to replace its contract personnel by regular employees on
a permanent basis and to strengthen its finance and economic sections.
29.       Environmental AsRects.    Following the approval of the Pakistan
Environmental Protection Ordinance in 1983, GOP established the office of
a:annexl-2 (chap6 disk)



-50-                             Amex 1.2
Page 10 of 10
Environmental and Urban Affairs Division in the Ministry of Housing and Works.
Similar provincial agencies have been established in Punjab and Sind, and steps
are currently being taken to establish these in Baluchistan and North West
Frontier Province. To address the prevailing environmental problems GOP agreed
under ESL II to develop a monitorable Environmental Action Plan, which would
provide for inter alia: (a) adoption of environmental standards and guidelines
for assessment of energy projects; (b) development of environmental capacity in
key institutions in the sector; and (c) adoption of improved health and safety
and emergency management standards. The action plan is presently being reviewed
by the Bank.
a:annexl-2 (chapB disk)



-51-                                                       Annex 1.3
PAKISTAN
SUI NORThERN GAS PIPLLI;;,S 'LITv (SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
Proven Gas Reserve Estimates
U om            GM" G"a
aft"       Cuuu10a.o    *ioaa                                     44"*g
Ukla.m      ftedotao        Um.".                      SNL
A4fth                   15.061        6.            4.6l          64016      1.11           841 141        9*01
L (;Wou               311.215       224 6600 1fl                lsI          88715        29688          *14 So?
cm"                    19.0                                                 8.61          67846           41r3
L Aoaaas               48 WS6       801.4411          0          0 onm        Igo0         24800          6468
to                   -1.alm         803.!           1 0810                                8*43w           9 i41
Taj                      0.US        2*52              0          69.66                    349.41111      863.66
Oa'ofo                  289316       110601        245,           2-1,766     L.20         8-013          12301
Na15ba                 25.156      8O.3165           10274                                               to "8
!Kot                                 O3X              wQ0btm                    9     *       0           *795  910S
SML                  8lt131        138042S            0         38065 .13    I7           m1
-r_  2a.I                        8 I6                 o I   81*100             3            liI            9
Sla                    IN0700       262410            0                                       I146  t8   *8WJ.jI
hib                   J.            312 a*0           0         J129?0        let         in 704          I 9.
L lhl"ke               I^lOe         IlJt0            O          12120  0  11.80          4861182         464a
L. K.nn"o B          Sm"uVW       5 414000       538 71       4 64424?         - 1J      i lBo $Is        j4l06
SdOilmfa                 352          25.511111        0          32           91"          21.45?         219
rL-,01                 $61 a"        311.t1      86.980    O 864.3.15         8 Itls     8I9 o0          8163.
4oaw                   236.83        891646            0    '     111.4          S          SU *31 11       .2
P'sw                    II1.52        74.616           0          74106        136 4o65                    39214
8 PA""                 335          M64S,         82.66         51 10 W31.600                            t18.06
Ps                   IU p Z                       086s  2    ...e.            6o          7643.83     ?. 1..
t"                    I no-n8 .     8.16.1101 S1.66            1.18.45                   i.084.63        961"
1ao                     814446         9430             O           .4        1.111         88.081          ,.t
41ML                  21602       952   2706665o= 3m           452406         let        606140         1.S6Its
SUL                 820Eo71                       9811          787666 a       1          1476 On1
Toaal                81 466        0611i 089     36008-24       666.5                     6176.3         6280.A6
To3                                                               88.824      1.181         I3.I83         10.348
SUIL .260O l60                        6              0          18611        3S           68.824         1403
Gva   ow             n"iY.l.     11.6118,5       4.8691       14646" l                   ltBiam         11.47619
Source:  DeGoLYOr and wAcNsuxhtOftjG&2 VtLsattofl StWLY L987



-52-
PAKISTAN                                Annex 1.4
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED (SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PR TIL f
Summary of Probable Gas Reserves
as of January 1, 1987
Gross                                Net
Ultimate               SML         Hydrocarbon
Gas in Place       Recovery            Equivalent         Gas
Field       .  {~~M-cf          -(M5Cf )               Mf?         _ (MMfAfEk)_
Adhi                98,000             49,000              60,541         47,972
Badin Block         87,128            61,311               75,752         58,767
Dakhni               3,574              2,447               2,576          2,136
Dhodak              91,936            66,471               80,381         62,476
Dhurnal              9,755              6,699               8,,02          6,588
Jandran              28284             28,385              19,274         16,899
Kandhkot         1,476,719           998,496              837,506        756,963
Loti               116,800             1,760              72,644         61,869
Mazarani            36,000             25,000              25,657         22,925
Nandpur             32,803            25,124               10,381          9,718
Panjpir             28,329            20,655               11,598         10,891
Pirkoh             896,660           672,495              615,217        574,984
Rodho               14,448              9,430              11,017          8,934
Uch               Zff0p204          1IP9, .22             61,124
TOTAL            3,217,240         2,238,506            1,903,191      1,705,042
Source:  DeColYer aad aelauahton. GsGUtlization Stufdy 197



PAKISTAN
SUI NORTHEUN GAS PI%LIN-iS  -LuiITED  (S.iGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM  EXPANSION  PROJECT
Summary of Gas Analysis
(mol %)
Composition                                                                                        _tKarndkhot                           otl _
of Gee                 Adhi    Badin Mock        )akbhn     Dbodak       Dhurnal    Jandran       ISMI.)   ISUL)    Khothar    IPab)    (Buli
Methane                 7400         8262           7932       7947         7578        8799        7131      7553       7905       7823      8631
Ethane                   a8 l          74            2 90       784         17 94        199         164       151        399        046      O:I
Prqane                   3 95         278            1 52       357          345         050         0 57      0 46       181        009      012
Butane Plus             1177          351            381        311          116         143         053       0 39       058        002      u003 'n
Oxygen                   000          000            000        000          000         000         000       0 00       000        000       0 W
Nitrogen                 163          215            042        4 31        0 39         4 75       21 58     14 85      1339       12 58     5 29
CarbonDioxide            0 47         200            4.35       170          1 27        3 34        4 31      726       1318        862       7 88
Hydrogen Sulphs4e
Ipa7saneaIOcuRtl         000          000         4.812 00      000          000         000        37 60      000        000        000       0 00
Grm Heeting Value
(BtuSCD                 1.176        1.176          1.001      1,150        1.207         997        783       015         930       So1       82
Net llydrocarbon Gas    97 90        95 65          87 29      9399        9634         91 91       74 05     77 89      85 43      78 80    86 81
Source:  DeGoliyer  and MacNaugton Gas UtiliZatio!! Su4y  1987



-54-
PAKISTAN
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED (SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
Historical Trends in the Consumption of Gas by Sectors
(MMCFT)
General
Year                Residential  Commercial  Fertilizer  Cement  Industry          Powr        Total
1959-60                   30           247                   5,682     4,618        5,134       15,711
1960-61                   78           324                  5,617      5,322        5,780       17,031
1961-62                  136           369                  6,103      6,126        6,754       19,488
1962-63                  209           443                  6,120      6,972        7,365       21,109
1963-64                  298           509        2,532      8,571    10,921       17,453       40,248
1964-65                  407           500        2,919     9,977    14,588        31,393       59,884
1965-66                  528           715        2,633    10,023    14,475        29,711       58,085
1966-67                  651           953        2,982    12,746    18,357        27,774       63,463
1967-68                  771         1,110        3,228    14,817    20,166        27,241       67,333
1968-69                  957         1,376        8,188    17,031    21,417        38,164       87,133
1969-70                1,287         1,687       12,991    16,889    23,473        42,397       98,724
1970-71                1,752         1,708       14,484    18,485    26,885        43,343      106,657
1971-72                2,273         1,948       22,286    16,399    27,832        40,793      111,531
1972-73                2,987         2,313       26,680    20,888    31,225        43,330      127,423
1973-74                3,943         3,016       30,030    23,054    36,766        48,549      145,358
1974-75                5,065         3,571       31,202    24,668    40,491        51,801      156,798
1975-76                6,206         4,213       31,623    23,8U      41,515       49,515      156,920
1976-77                7,614         4,655       31,801    22,527    41,665        60,837      169,099
1977-78                9,731         5,287       31,873    24,223    47,960        60,328      179,402
1978-79               11,997         6,012       39,749    24,208    49,476        60,758      192,200
1979-80               14,312         6,489       46,375    25,149    54,840        80,431      228,196
1980-81               17,288         7,466       65,749    26,026    62,705        84,743      263,977
1981-82               23,596         8,265       77,283    26,271    67,596        82,087      285,098
1982-83               30,012         8,728       96,315    21,229    70,664        74,295      301,243
1983-84               33,243         9,033       98,540    10,110    73,427        77,927      302,280
1984-85               36,625         9,448      100,083     8,271    74,335        88,906      316,389
1985-86               42,120         9,775      111,846      7,270    74,255      103,262      348,528
1986-87               45,761         9,878      103,131     5,496    75,305       118,098      357,669
1987-88               47,443        10,282      102,853     5,262    78,741       142,750      387,331
1988-89               51,278        10,829      104,195     5,255    81,421       142,070      395,048



-55-                              Ann-ex 1.Z
lAKISTAN
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED (SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
Historical Developments in the Consumption of Gas
(1971-1989)
FY71           FY82           FY89        Growth Rate (X)
X              X               Z    FY71-  FY82-  FY71-
MMCFD  Share   MMCFD  Share   MMCFD  Share  FY82   FY89   EY89
Sectors
Domestic      5       1.7      65    8.3      140    13.0   26.3   11.6   20.3
Commercial    5       1.7      23    2.9       30     2.8   14.9    3.9   10.5
Cement       51      17.3      72    9.2       14     1.3    3.2  -20.9   -6.9
Fertilizer   40      13.6     212   27.1      285    26.4   16.4    4.3   11.5
Power       119     40.5      225   28.8      389    36.0    6.0    8.1    6.8
General
Industries  7Z4    25.2      185   23.7      223    20.6    8.7    2.7    6.3
TOTAL    294    100.0      782  100.0    1081   100.0    9.3    4.7    7.5
_       ..   ..          =    .           -,,  ,     . ..  .__



PAKISTAN
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED (SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
Production Forecast by Fields
M     _s se- DAT
eer          A"dM      Soft Obk        Dabd       D-odhk    Daudu                      Kumdhik       Rbos        Loll    Mail    Mausd sm
1967                                                             a                         90                             300                    2
low                         30                    'ST                                     100                             350                     30
1969          1i            so                       30          47                      1I0                      40      400                     36
1990           16          100           3           60          40          10           150           0          60     400                     SG
191            12          too100        10          s0          33          10           180                       o     400         10          50
1 "2           to          too           10          B0          29         1t            150           6         100     400         10          0
1993                       100           atD1        50          24           7           150           6         tOO     400         10          60
199             4           59           17          60          21           6           ISO           a         100     400         10          40
1996            3           J0           12 3                    17           3           150           2         100     400          a          32
1996                        14            S          44          14           2           160           2         100     400          7          24
1997                                                 so          12           2           160           1         100     400          a         1i
1996                                                 30                       1           160                     94      400          4          13
1999                                                 26                                   Iso                      85     400          2         10
2000                                                 22                                   160                      76     400          1          S
2001                                                 1                                    160                      6      400                      6
2002                                                 16                                  t15                       58      400                     6
2003                                                 14                                   150                      51      400                     5
2004                                                 13                                   150                      46     400                      4
2005                                                 11                                   142                      40     400
2006                                                 10                                   128                      35     400
I 0
0.



SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED  (SNGPL)
CORPORATED RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTE:M EXPANIS10LN PROJECT
Productiom Forecast by Fields
StRct ow DAY                                                             _____
TOW  meon                    ~8id    SW                                                     D                  D"
___________________ R_o_                                                                                           Alue fUa  To"  VA  .  D l M O Do"
Ios"                                             -                       SL          BUl        __         _         TOW          Rmmel          (MMeD
1A6                                              s                       760          50         6                   1.259        459.535       415.470
lw6                                               65                     stO          75          6                   1.542       5642,830       508.8o
1963                                            145                      a10         10          *                   1,856       677,440        612.480
1800                 59           2S            200                      t10         100          3                  2.084        70.660        687.720
11                   0             35           300           a          810         100          3                  2,124        775,260        700,920
1900                 50            i            20            5          81O          100         2         30       2,167        790.9 -        716,1to
1996                60             25           200           1          81o         100         2          30       2,147        783,666       706,510      w
194                  60            25           200           4          810         100          2         30       2.082        759.930       687.060
1995                 s0            19           200           3          810         100          1         30       2.020        737,300       666.600
1396                 l0 16                      200           2          610         100          1         30       1,74         720,610       651,420
1998                 50            14           200           2           10         100          1         30       1,931        7G4,815       637"230
1396                 43             9           200                      610         100                    30        1887        688.766       622.710
29U                  25             9           200                      8O          100                    so        1,57        677,8         612.810
200O                211             a           174                       810         100                   30        1,86        659,190        5960
2001                 16             2           14                        810         100                   30        1,749       638.385        577.170
200                                 2           1                         810         100                   30        1.701       6w06           561,330
200                   5                         1a                        810         1028                            1              ,725        549.450
2004                                             85                       714         89                    24        1.624       51.260        60.920
2005s 71                                                                  684         76                    21        1,345       490,925       43.850
2006                                             60                      482          6                     t1       1,200        438,000       396.000
e1>
b 1



-58-
Annem 1.9
PARISTAN
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED (SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM EXPANSION
Forecast of Transmission System Reguirements of Gas (fMCFD)
(FY90-97)
[S F1    En&       EX2n  3     j       _FY9S      FY96     FY97
(A) Northern System
(SNGPL)
(a) Residential                88        95        97        105      115       125       137      145
(b) Commercial                 20        21        21         22       24        25        26       29
(c) Industrial                136       140       146        145      145       151       157      162
(d) Power                      61        61       119        167      167       167       167     167
(e) Fertilizer                102       102       105        133      164       182       206     206
Subtotal
(Daily Average)          407       419       488        572       615      650       693      709
Daily Maximum             711      774       838        873       900       923      946      950
(B) Southern System
tSSGC)
(a) Residential                73        78        84         89       95       100       106      110
.b) Commercial                 19        21        22         24       25        27        30       31
Ce) Industrial                138       141       144        147      150       153       156     160
Cd) Power                      90        90        90         90       90        90        90       90
(e) Fertilizer                 12        12        12         12        12       12        12       12
Subtotal
(Daily Average)          332       342       352        362       372      382       394      404
Daily Maximum            358       368       379        389       400       411      422      435
(C) Other
(a) Fertilizer (Ex.Mari)  180           180       180        180      180       180       180     180
*b) Power (Ex.Sui,
Kandkot, Mari)            179      179       179        179       179       179       179     179
Subtotal
(Daily Average)          359       359       359        359       359      359       359      359
Daily Maximum            455       455       572        ;72       572       572      572      572
GRAND TOTAL
(Daily Average)          1098      1120      1199       1293      1346     1391      1446    1472
Daily Maximum             1524     1597      1789       1717      1755      1789     1940    1957
Source:  Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources - February 1989



. -59-                              Annex 2.1
PAKISTAN
SUl _Iq   PELINES LIMITED (
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
Composition of SNGPL's Equity Ownership
(as of June 30, 1987)
Number                Shareholding                   Total
of share-   FROM                      T        Shares held    Percentage
holders
1145              1                    100      62,744           0.16
983            101                    500     217,028           0.57
183            S01                  1,000     134,992           0.36
226          1t001                  5,000     227,550           0.59
6          S,001                 10,000     47,401            0.12
3         lUt001                 l590030    399745            0.10
2         15,001                 2Uv000     38,700            0.10
2         20,001                 25,000     42,600            0.11
I      Muslim Commercial Bank Ltd           31.039            0.08
i      The Dawood Foundation                41,700            0.11
I      UWit0d Bank Limited                  80,745            0.21
i      Adamjee Insurance Co.Ltd            105,940            0.28
1      Pakistan Industrial Credit        1,652,653            4.32
and Investment Corporation
1      Southern Gas Company Ltd.           236,000            0.b2
I      National Development Finance        700,000            1.84
Corporation
I      Pakistan Insurance Corporation      59,300             2.22
1      State Life Insurance Corp.        2,013,965            5.26
of Pakistan
%      Investment Corperation of         2,504,192            6.54
Pakistan
1      The Burmah Oil Public Limited    2,580,499             6.74
Company
I      National Bank of Pakistan         3,426,541            8.94
(Trustee Department)
I      Pakistan Industrial Development  3,730,805             9.74
Corporation(Private)Ltd.
1      The President Islamic Republic  19,5349861            51.00
of Pakistan
2464                                       38,300,000          100.00
.~~~~~~~~~~~smm mum                         ,  .....  ..........u... ....



-60-
PAKISTAN
SUI NORTHERN  GAS  PIPELINES  LIMITED  (SNGPL)                              Annex  2.2
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
S.NGPL - Organization Chart
| oare of Directors    ]
Managing Director
Prjet                      D ismclullon             Tra nonsmission   |         eiecom 
Manager    lManagr                                Manager                  _. _nra M. e
Moragw  manogw                  Manogw                   (T~~~~~~nonef McnogsrW
E  1             ngvl    4^nartDeUa  |    g                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~(LPG) l
P.M.                 Chief Engnerw
Multan               (Qualitv Control)
P.M.          ~~Chief Engineer         M__rK____
FP.M. .k                (Ope.at_ons)
Faisaia~ ~ ~~claododmonogerAdnW&
capomft
P.M.
Lahore                                            special
Aisitot to                SO I
mmangb                     ange
P.M.                                             oi.ct                          .
.u         .                               _aa     Cnanv                      Ch
Chief Engineer~~Ch
|    R.R       i.
CMI Cons?.
Waft Bv*-41380



Annex 3.1
-61-                           Page 1 of 11
PAKISTAN
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED (SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
Detailed Proiect Description
1.          Bank involvement with SNGPL began in 1964, the year it became a
public limited company under the Companies Act. The Bank, through a series of
five loans, assisted SNGPL in expanding its gas handling facilities and in
strengthening  its  operational  and  institutional  capabilities.    GOP  and
government-owned institutions currently owns about 91% of SNGPL's shares.
Substantial control is therefore exercised by GOP in SNGPL's management and
operations and, in the appointment of senior staff.  As part of its dialogue
with GOP in the objectives of LES, the Bank has recommended for the increasing
of private sector involvement in revenue earning entities like SNGPL and a
corresponding reduction in Government control to provide greater financial ar.d
operational autonomy to such entities. As a prelude to full privatization at
a later date, GOP has now agreed to substantially reduce its direct and indirect
shareholding in SNGPL with a corresponding increase in the ownership of the
company by the private sector as part of a Corporate Restructuring plan to
increase the autonomy of the entity. The increase in private sector investment
in the company and corporate restructuring would facilitate the mobilization of
foreign and local resources from the private sector and enhance the autonomy of
SNGPL's decision making process and efficiency.
2.          Currently, about 38.3 million shares of SNGPL are traded in the
Karachi stock exchange market. Of this, GOP directly owns about 19.5 million
shares (51%) and indirectly through Government-owuned financial institution about
15.3 million shares (40%). Burmah Shell Company of UK owns about 2.5 million
shares (6.7%) and the general public about 800,000 shares (2.3%).
3.          The  corporate  restructuring  program  will  consist  of:    (a)
restructuring of the ownership of the company through the issuance to the general
public of about 219 million new equity shares, to be implemented in phases during
1991-96; (b) reconstitution of the Board of Directors to reflect the new
ownership of the company; (c) establishing financial performance criteria; and
(d) reviewing the regulatory function of the Directorate General of Gas.
4.          Restructuring of Ownership of SNGPL.  Prior to issuing new equity
shares, the company would issue bonus shares to current owners on a one-to-one
basis.   This implies that although the number of shares would initially be
doubled to 78 million shares, the percentage of ownership would not change.
The bonus shares are expected to be issued before December 31, 1990. The first
issuance of about 57.5 million shares to the general public would be implemented
not later than June 30, 1991.  In order to reduce GOP's direct and indirect
shareholding of the company from 91% to 51%, GOP must refrain from purchasing
directly or indirectly any of these shares. The remaining 161 million new equity
shares would be issued in series annually as follows: 37.5 million shares by



-62-                           Annex 3.1
Page 2 of 11
June 30, 1993; about 50 million shares by June 30, 1993; about 57 million new
equity shares by June 30, 1994; and about 17 million new equity shares by June
30, 1995.  These volume of shares are based on the financial requirements of
SNGPL for implementing the project.  Although GOP can directly or indirectly
purchase from these new equity shares, its total purchase must be such as to
ensure that its direct and indirect shareholding will not be more than 40%.
Assuming that GOP purchases just enough shares to maintain its ownership at not
more than 40%, the changes in the status of ownership as a result of the new
equity shares to be issued would be as shcvn in the Table 3.1 below.
Table 3.1: Composition of SNGPL's Equity Ownership
(Millions of Shares)
1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
GOP (Direct and
Indirect)       34.8    69    69    69    86   108   115
Private Sector    3. .5     7   57.5 106.5  128   163   173
TOTAL             38.3    76  126.5 166    214   271   288
From Table 1 above, it implies that GOP's direct and indirect share ownership
would reach a level of about 40% by 1992.
5.          Restructuring of SNGPL's Management.   The reconstitution of the
Board of Directors would be implemented not later than March 31, 1992, after
the issuance of the first set of 57.5 million new equity shares when GOP's direct
and indirect shareholding has been reduced to about 51%. Future reconstitution
of the Board would be carried out annually to reflect the changes in ownership.
It is expected that by January 31, 1993, when GOP's ownership has been reduced
to about 40%, its number of directors in the Board of 13 members would be reduced
from the current level of 10 to about 5 members and the remaining members would
be appointed by the private sector.   Furthermore,  the appointment of the
Chairman, Managing Director and key officials of SNGPL, which in the past has
been the prerogative of GOP would now be made solely by the Board of Directors.
6.          Establishment of Financial Performance Criteria.   The financial
performance criteria consisted of maintaining the price of gas paid to SNGPL
(Prescribed Price) on the basis of ensuring that SNGPL achieved a rate of return
of not less than 10% on revalued assets.  This has been difficult and cumbersome
to apply and besides the fact that it does not provide adequate incentives to
the company to maintain an efficient operation as well as provide it
opportunities to raise equity from capital market, the principle of revaluing
fixed assets has never been fully accepted in Pakistan and SNGPL has been the
only company in Pakistan applying it. It is now proposed that a study be done
with the assistance of consultants under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank to establish a formula for setting SNGPL's consumer prices net of the Gas
Development Surcharge collected on behalf of GOP (Prescribed Price) and
providing, inter alia, the capping of SNGPL's prices rather than of its rate of
return on fixed assets, for improving the efficiency of SNGPL and enhancing its



-63-                             Annex 3.1
Page 3 of 11
ability to raise equity from capital markets. This will put the performance of
the utility on a basis consistent with what private sector investors would seek
in terms of a sufficiently attractive return on their investment in the company.
In the meantime the prescribed price of gas would be set to ensure that SNGPL
achieves a rate of return of 17 1/2% on a historical valued assets and an
internal cash generation of 40% in order to make it financially viable and reduce
to a manageable limit, the level of borrowing. These criteria would be reviewed
annually in light of financial requirements of SNGPL.
7.          Reviewing the Regulatory Function of the Directorate General of Gas.
DGG is responsible for establishing the guideline and commercial objectives for
the development of the gas subsector, allocating gas and setting gas tariffs for
the utilities and monitoring their activities. The proposed expansion of the
SNGPL's system and restructuring of the company under this project, and the
possible privatization of SSGC in future, make it necessary to upgrade the
capabilities of DGG to enable it act effectively as a regulatory authority.
Under the proposed Project, a study would be undertaken to review and recommend
steps to be taken to improva regulatory function of DGG.
Part II - Infrastructure Development
8.          In line with the objectives of LES (Annex 1.2), exploration and
development of oil and gas resources have been accelerated. This has resulted
in the discovery of several oil and gas fields in the country particularly around
the Sui region. The new fields being developed include Pirkoh, Loti, Kadawari,
Quadirpur, Adhi, Dakhni and Dhurnal from which about 246 MMCFD additional
pipeline quality gas is expected to be available as from 1992 and would increase
to about 346 MMCFD by 1995. Of this, about 300 MMCFD has been allocated to SNGPL
and the balance to SSGC.  These allocations and the sources of the gas are
summarized in Table 3.2 below.
Table 3.2: Incremental Gas SupplY
Current Allocation    Future Allocation
(in MMCFD)        (in MMCFD)
FIELDS           SNGPL SSGC TOTAL  SNGPL SSGC TOTAL
Sui                  428  280  708    428  280  708
Pirkoh                55  110  165    130  110  240
Loti                  40    -   40    70    -   70
Dakhni                 -    -    -      25    -   25
Adhi                   -    -    -      21    -   21
Dhurnal               37    -   37    37    -   37
Meyal                 18    -   18    18    -   18
Toot                   7          7      7    -    7
Sam Hundi & KotIsr     -    -    -       -    11  11
Dhodak                 -    -    -      40    -   40
Nazarani               -    -    -       -    13  13
Badin                  -    68  68       -   113  113
New Fields             -    -    -      60   40  100
Total            585  458  1043    836  567  1403
9.          In addition to the incremental gas from the new fields, the low
quality gas fields of Nandpur, Panjpir and Uch would be developed during the



-64-                            Annex 3.1
Page 4 of 11
Seventh Plan period and the incremental gas purchased would be dedicated to
power generation by the private sector and WAPDA. Table 3.3 below summarizes
the proposed gas allocation from these fields.
Table 3.3: Gas Allocation for Power and Fertilizers a/
Current Allocation    Future Allocation
(MMCFD)           (MMCFD)
1990 - 1992       1992 - 2006
FIELDS           NORTH  SOUTH TOTAL  NORTH  SOUTH TOTAL
Sui (Guddu Power Stn)  -   103  103       -   10?  103
Mari (Fertilizer)      -   152  152       -   267  267
(WAPDA)            -    76  76        -    40  40
Kandkhot (WAPDA)       -    65  65        _    65  65
Nandpur (Power Stn)    -    -    -       26    -   26 **
Panjpir (Power Stn)    -    -    -        8    -    8 **
Uch (Power Stn)       _    _                   63  63**
Total               -   396  396     34  538  572
j/ This gas is for non-SNGPL and SSGC system but to the respective
captive fertilizer and power plants.
** Low quality gas from these fields are for power stations proposed
to be built and financed through BOT arrangements by the private sector.
10.         SNGPL's transmission capacity from Sui to the northern part of the
country is about 450 MMCFD, which is currently adequate to handle the allocation
of about 428 MMCFD from the Sui. In order to transmit the additional 300 MMCFD
of gas to be available by 1991, the transmission capacity needs to be expanded
to about 800 MMCFD. However, the efficient transport of this gas would require:
improving SNGPL's dispatch and gas flow monitoring system to reduce losses In
the network which, with the full utilization of available capacity, have doubled
from 2% in FY85 to about 4% in FY89; and strengthening SNGPL's capabilities in
system operations and maintenance, in line with the expansion of the gas handling
facilities.
11.         The Infrastructure Development to be undertaken under the project
would include: Installation of a 1 x 120 MMCFD purification plant; expansion
of the transmission system capacity by 300 MMCFD; expansion of the distribution
system; installation of a pipeline coating plant; and installation of a
telecommunication and gas flow monitoring system.
12.         Purification Plant.  The gas purification facility installed at Sui
is jointly owned by SSGC and SNGPL. At the completion of SNGPL V project (Loan
2324-PAK), the capacity would be increased by about 120 MMCFD from SSGC
respectively; leaving 197 which 428 MMCFD is for SNGPL; and 290 MMCFD for SSGC
respectively; leaving 197 MMCFD as surplus capacity, of which 60 MMCFD would be
for standby and 137 MMCFD as the effective surplus capacity.   The Sui gas
purification facility would then be comprised of eleven parallel banks with the
following capacities:



-65-                              Annex 3.1
Page 5 of 11
No. of Units           Capacity/Unit           Total Capacity
MMCFD                    MMCFD
5                       50                      250
2                      100                      200
2                      110                      220
2                      240                      240
11                                               910
13.         The capacities shown  are the net product gas capacities leaving
the purification plant.   The raw gas delivered to the purification plant is
reduced after treatment by approximately 7%, which is known as shrinkage. The
supply pressure to the purification plant is 1150 psig and the pressure delivered
to the transmission system is 1070 psig.  In view of the fact that under the
proposed project about 200 MMCD of gas from Loti and Pirkoh would have to be
purified, since this gas though free of H2S, would be blended with raw Sui gas
rich in H2S, the current excess purification capacity of 37MMCFD would not be
adequate. Under the proposed project, SNGPL would install a
1 x 120 MMCFD purification capacity at Sui to increase total purification
capacity to 1030 MMCFD which would be adequate to handle SNGPL and SSGC
requirements and still leave adequate capacity for maintenance and standby.
The plant will use MEA (mono-ethanol-amine) process which absorbs sulphur
compounds and carbon dioxide similar to the process currently being used in the
gas treating facilities at Sui.
14.         Raw gas from Sui main limestone contains sulphur compounds (mainly
hydrogen sulphide) and carbon dioxide plus condensate.  Raw gas is cooled to
separate the condensate before entering purification plant.   The gases are
currently treated in 10 parallel banks suing MEA (mono-ethanol-amine) which
absorbs the sulphur compounds and carbon dioxide.   The wet gases are then
dehydrated using glycol to produce pipeline quality dry gas suitable for use in
domestic and commercial applications.  The MEA and glycol are recovered in a
regeneration section and recycled again for future continuous use.
Transmission Pipeline
15.         The high pressure transmission expansion to be undertaken under the
proposed Project, would increase the transmission capacity of gas from the Sui
region (including Loti and Pirkoh) to 750 MMCFD with the added flexibility of
further increasing the capacity to 800 MMCFD with minimal incremental investment
and no increase in compression. The capacity of the various sections of the high
pressure system when completed would be as follows.
a)    Sui - Multan                                800 MMCFD
b)    Multan - Qadirpur Rawan
c)    Qadipur Rawan - Faislabad                   440
d)    Qadipur Rawan - Lahore                      130
e)    Faisalabad - Lahore                         240
f)    Faislabad - Gali Jagir                      150
g)    Wah - Nowshera                               75



-66-                                Annex 3.1
Page 6 of 11
The operating pressure along the high pressure pipeline system would
vary from 900 psig to 1235 psig. Heavier wall pipes will be used down stream
of the compressor station (within the high pressure region), in order to avoid
stress corrosion cracking. Discharge gas cooling equipment being installed under
the ESL I (Loan 2552-PAK) would also help to achieve this objective.   The
standard grade of steel linepipe to be used under the proposed project is given
below:
API 5L--56 for    24"x.438 diameter;
24"x.344 diameter; and
24"x.563 diameter
API 5LX-60 for    30"x.438 diameter
Comoression Ratio:   The ratio of delivery pressure  to suction
pressure for compression on the high pressure transmission pipeline would vary
from 1.2 to 1.40. This is within industry standards.
16.          ,h.e (i.xisting high pressure  transmission system  is designed to
transmit 450 MMCFD to 800 MMCFD from Sui to field. The proposed project will
expand the system capacity from 450 to 800 MMCFD from Sui to Multan. The new
consumers will be located downstream in the new towns, along the proposed 18"
diameter pipeline from Qadirpur Rawan to Lahore, as well as the Lahore city,
Faislabad, Islamabad, Peshawar, and Kotri. By using larger diameter pipeline
sizes, the pressure along the pipeline would be reduced, thereby improving
compression ratio, and hence, a minimal amount of compression 31700 BHP would
be required in Pirkoh-Loti fields and on the Sui to Multan section. The proposed
system expansion will comprise of looplines (refer to Map IBRD No. 20961R1 as
tabulated below.
Pipeline                                              Length of
Diameter                                               Pipeline
(in inches)         From                  To          (in miles)
30             Sui                    AC-1           37.50
30             AC-1                   AC-4          101.78
30             AC-4                   AC-6           75.60
24             AC-6                   AC-7           13.88
18             AC-6                   Lahore        200.00
16             CC-3                   Wah            60.00
16              in various sections                 155.80
including to NWF
Total:        644.55
17.         The construction of the transmission pipelines will be carried out
in three phases. Phase I will consist of replacing the existing 18" line with
the 30 inch loopline from Sui to the Sutlej River during 1990 - 1991 parallel
to the existing 24" line.  In Phase II, the 18" pipeline replaced by the 30"
diameter loopline, will be used to construct the new Qadirpur Rawan - Lahore
18" diameter section and scheduled to be completed by 1992.  Phase III will
comprise of constructing the remaining 30" loopline north of the Sutlej River.



-67-                              Annex 3.1
Page 7 of 11
Distribution Network Expansion
18.         SNGPL is in the process of completing a gas distribution masterplan.
Part of this plan to be implemented under the proposed Project would consist of
construction of about 1,356 miles (2,183 kms) of different diameter pipelines
and the installation of customer service connection and meters and regulating
stations to supply gas to an estimated additional 584,000 domestic consumers,
11,700 commercial consumers, 800 industrial consumers and two fertilizer plants.
In addition, and as part of the Government social sector development program,
about 150,000 new consumers are to be supplied gas in new towns which have not
yet been supplied with gas.   SNGPL is currently completing  the map and
establishing the criteria for ranking and selection of towns to be connected.
In order to ensure that the distribution plan is not implemented in an ad hoc
fashion, SNGPL has agreed to review the map and the criteria to be used with the
Bank when completed.  Under the proposed Project, about 330,000 new domestic
consumers,  6,000  commercial  consumersa,  400  industrial  consumers  and two
fertilizer plants will be connected by 1996. According to this plan, the gas
market in SNGPL area would increase by about 300 MMCFD by 1996. About 100 MMCFD
of this gas would be supplied from the northern fields, and the balance of
approximately 200 MMCFD from the Sui region would be transmitted toward Multan
and Lahore through the additional transmission capacity provided under the
proposed Project.   The plan for connecting the new consumers to the network is
shown in the Table 3.4.



Table 3.4:PAKISTAN
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LINTED (SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
PROJECT VI MARKET DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
1990     1991        1992       1993       1994        1995       1996     1997    TOTAL
No. of Additional
Consumers
(a) Residential       50,000    52,000    62,000    70,000    80,000    90,000    90,000    90,000   584,000               X
(b) Commercial         1,200      1,500      1,500      1,500      1,500      1,500     1,500      1,500    11,700
(c) Industrial            100       100        100        100        100        100        100       100        800
(d) Fertilizer                                                               _                     _
TOTAL            51.300    53.600    63.600    71.600    81,601    91.600    91.601    91.600   596.502
CUMULATIVE GAS CONSUMPTION
(MMCFD. AVERAGE)
(a) Power                  51        61        119        167        167        167        167       167
(b) Fertilizer            102       102        105        133        164        182        206       206
(c) Industry              136       140        146        145        145        151        157       162
(d) Commercial             20        21         21         22         24         25         26        29                e
(e) Residential            88        95         97        105        115        125        137       150                D 
TOTAL              4U ^19                488        572        615        650       693        709                o
0 m



-69-                             Annex 3.1
Page 9 of 11
Cathodic Protection
19.         Cathodic protection would be implemented through application of
Impressed DC current using rectifiers to the transmission pipelines. The testing
of coating and wrapping is carried out by a holiday detector applying 9.000 to
13.000 volts. This process, in conjunction with the coating of pipelines would
protect the pipes from corrosion.
Pipeline Coating
20.         SNGPL experienced operational difficulties with the application of
coal-tar based materials under the Fifth Project for coating the pipeline, which
resulted in delay of the pipelaying process. Under the proposed project, SNCPL
will use a i.ew generation state-of-the-art pipeline coatings, consisting of
extruded polyethylene and epoxy which are relatively easier to apply and would
considerably enhance the life span of the transmission system. To facilitate
this operation, a small pipe coating plant would be procured under the Project,
and a result, the rate of pipelaying would be accelerated.
Telecommunication and Telemetry/SCADA
21.         The  proposed  project  will  finance  the  installation  of  the
telecommunications and telemetry system required fore the new 18" line from
Qadirpur Rawan to Lahore. The system would comprise of a 24-channel microwave
system similar to the Sui - Multan system recently completed under SNGPL V.
SNGPL, is in the process of selecting consultants to assist in the overall
planning, system, path engineering and frequency analysis. After the consultant
study is completed by March 1989, SNGPL would apply to GOP for approval of
transmitting frequency. The scope of equipment supply for this component of the
project comprises of two radio (microwave) - relay terminals; six repeater
stations with associated multiplex; self-supporting towers, antennas and feeder
cables; and an automated telemetry/SCADA.  The procurement process for these
items would start by April 1990, in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines
and contract will be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder. Delivery at site
of the items is expected by June 1991 and installation and commissioning would
be completed by about March 1991.
Part III - Technical Assistance and Training
22.         Consultancy services and training would be provided to assist SNGPL
in implementing the issuance of shares, design, engineering and supervision of
construction of high pressure pipeline at river crossings; developing of SNGPL's
financial management information systems and internal auditing of computerized
systems and implementing training of SNGPL staff in the areas of long term
planning; project implementation, system operations and maintenance; inventory
control and safety through a collaborative arrangement with a foreign private
gas utility.



-70-                              Annex 3.1
Page 10 of 11
River Crossings
23.         The proposed expanded high pressure transmission line will cross
eight rivers. SNGPL's technical capabilities in the design and construction of
high pressure transmission pipelines across rivers is limited. Since the design
of these crossings is to be initiated by October 1990 and construction completed
by December 1993, SNGPL intends to hire consultants to undertake the detailed
engineering design, carrying capacity, soil survey and construction supervision
on the two river crossings. Approximately 30 man-months would be required in
consultant services to undertake this study. The foreign exchange cost of this
component is estimated at US$500,000.
Management Information System (MIS)
24.         Consultants would be required to:   (i) formulate a strategy for
further development of SNGPL's financial MIS and data processing, including
definition of its hardware and software needs; (ii) a review of the company's
billing cycle; and (iii) training of SNGPL's internal audit staff in the auditing
of computerized accounting systems. Proposals from consultants would be reviewed
in tow stages, technical and financial, in accordance with the Bank's guidelines
for hiring consultants. The study is expected to require about 30 man-months
and is expected to cost approximately US$ 560,000.
Training
25.         Under the ongoing SNGPL V Project, GDC of Chicago (the consultant
that undertook the Gas Utilization Study) had coordinated training activities
for SNGPL, which were restricted to visits abroad by SNGPL staff to attend short
courses.   However, under the proposed Project, the training component would
include on the job training program, complemented with training visits abroad.
SNGPL is expected to submit for the Bank review a detail training program by loan
effectiveness. This program would be formulated around a long-term collaborative
agreement with an experienced gas utility abroad.   The proposed training
arrangement, would provide SNGPL with the desired broad-based package of
technical assistance and training in key operational areas. Such an approach
is considered more effective in providing the technical assistance for upgrading
the capabilities of SNGPL in all facets of gas transmission and distribution.
The Bank would assist SNGPL in preparing the Terms of Reference for the long
term collaborative agreement with a utility company. The approximate number of
persons requiring training in various disciplines would be about forty as shown
below:



-71-
Annex 3.1
Page 11 of 11
AREA               DISCIPLINE                           No. of Staff
Operation          Pipeline maintenance                        2
Cathodic protection                         2
Gas measurement                             6
Gas dispatching/SCADA                       4
Compression                                 2
Pipeline Design and Planning                2
Gas Purification                            I
Pipeline Construction                       2
Administration    Management skills                            6
Corporate planning                          1
Gas Utilization/Conservation                2
MIS                                         2
Financial Accounting                        2
Material Management                         1
Billing/Gas Accounting                      3
SNGPL has appointed a training coordinator to manage the training component
under the proposed Project. Under the proposed collaborative arrangement with
a reputable international gas utility, assistance would be provided for the
training of SNGPL staff in the areas of long-term planning, project
implementation, system operations and maintenance, inventory control and
implementation of adequate safety measures. The overall foreign exchange cost
of the training component is estimated at about US$1,000,000.



PAKISTAN
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIV'ITED (SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM EXPANSION
Implementatlon Schedule
1QOw          1l9t           1902          199            199           195            196
1  2  2  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4
TPANSPISSN PIPELINES
Ptocwemme      _  , _
C.r LuXftn                          U -m
OcpsotWsalallonm
COATINMPANT         lLII
Conmouc0a
PmcWurnSw                                     -       m 
DISRUIONJPIPELINS           lllIL                1       1      1      1TTII
Cinsmudon-                                                      m--m--
TECH. ASST. & TRAN                      -              m l                   - _                      -       -
EK*A3$
Ix
*      1@~~~~'



FA0.151AN
SUI NiORTHERN 6AS PIPELINES LIIITED (SllPL)
EWOiFPRATE RESTRIICTURIN6 AND SYSTEN EIPANSION PMOECT
Project Cost
(Millions of Rugees)
.,ch                  FY92                  F193                  F}9                   F195                   FV96                  TOTIL
LDcea Forelqn iotai  Local Foreign lotal  Lecal Foreign total  LacaL Foreign Total  Local Foreiqn Total  LK&a  feig  Total   Local Fordip  total
- -    - - -    ---- - - ----  ---  ---   ---   -----  ----    -     - -- -- --- -   -- -  
TransIssio"  1ineS      115    iS7    332    893    240  1,133  t,109    205  1,314  1,044    14  1,238    795    127    922    542             64    606   4,558    907   5,545
Purification Plant        00                            0      0       0      0 )    21    128    149            83     64    147      20       0     20      124    192      316
Cooress%on (New &
Restaoinai             ,7     36      73     43      40     85     15      30     45      45     i1    116      45     51      96     31       0     31      216    228      444
loatinq  Flart           i4       7     31      12     64     76       0      0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      36      71     107
Construction Eouipst    85       .6    121    121    196    317       60     68    128       0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0       0     266    300      566
leleconsuntcations        0      O       0     l3      It     24     31      26     57      31     26     57       0      0       6      0       0      0       75     63      138
Distrioution Devt.        v      0       0      0       0      0    349      62    411    398      70    4.   397        70    467    397       70    467   1,541    272   1,813
I.Assistce   irainin     ,      9      12      4      18     22      2      18     20       2      9      11      0      0       0      0       0      0       11     54       65
. ....   ----    -- -   ----    -- -                         -- -    ----   ----    -- -   ___ --   ---   - _     _ _--_            _ __           _ _
lotai Base Cost'a       i2;4   245    569  1,086    569  1,655  1.566    409  1,975  1,541    498  2,039  1,320    312  1,632    99O    134  1,124   6,827  2,167   9,94
Lonttngencies
Phvsical;b               i     25      57    109      57    166    157      41    198    154      50    204    132      31    163      99      13    112      683    216      899
Price;c                 24     i6      50    158    114    272    345    119    464    461    200    661    506    160    666    467           87    554   1,961    706   2,667
lotai Froiect Cost    3)ao    296    676  1,353    740  2.093  2,068    569  2,636  2,156    748  2,904  1,950    503  2,461  1,556    234  1.790   9,471  3.089  12,560
1DD                      31,     O      31     98      0      98    116       0    116    137       0    137    112       0    112      67       0     67      560      0      560
--- -  - ----   -                                          -     - -
Total Protect Lost      411    S96    707  1.451    740  2,191  2,183    569  2.752  2,293    748  3,041  2,070    503  2,573  1,623    234  1,857  10,031  3,0B9  13,120
Of Which Taxes and
Duties (80k o!
Foreton  ostsit s     2i       0    237    592       0    592    455        0    455    599       0    599    402       0    402    187        0    187   2,472       0   2,472
ia base costs reflect orices and the exchange rate o0  aporoxiuatelv Rs 21.50rUS1 prevailing on January 1, 1990.
;b Phvsica' contlngerLles have reen estimated at 101 of base cost.
; c Price escatatior, for locai costs has been assutsed at b.81 for FY91 and 6.102 p.a. thereafter.  Price continQenties for foreign costs expressed in Rem  have bn
calculated bv escaiatinq their USOoliar costs at 4.i% p.a. for FfYl-95 and 4.3Z for FY96 and converting the resulting total USPollar cost for each year into Rupm  at
estiaateo averaue exchanoe rate for that year.
,24-maw-9SC  3NGPLKii.Wk
x
0.



PislSIAN
SUi NORTHERN BAS PIPELINES LINITED ISN[P)
UIRPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEN EIPANSION PROJECT
Project Cost
iMillions of USDollars)
FM91                  FiS2                  FY93                  FY94                  FY95                   Fy96                  TOTAL
Locai Foreiqn Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Formign Total  Local Foruiqn Total   Lcal Foreign  Total
Iransaission Lines      8.1    ;.3   15.4   41.5   11.2   52.7   51.6    9.5   61.1   48.6    9.0   57.6   37.0    S.    42.9   25.2    3.0   28.2   212.0   45.9   257.9
PuMfkicatlon Plant      0.0    v.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.')   0.0    0.0    1.0    6.0    7.0    3.9    3.0    6.9    O.q    0.0    0.9             5.8    9.0    14.8
(ampression  Nek &
Restaoinq;            1.7    1.7    3.4    2.0    1.9    3.9    0.7    1.4    2.1    2.1    3.3    5.4    2.1    2.4    4.5    0.0    0.0    0.0            8.6   10.7    19.3
Coatino  Piant          1.1    0,v    1.4    0.6    3.1    3.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0             1.7    3.4      3.1
tonstroction Equljomt   4.0    1.!    5.7    5.6    9.1   14.7    2.8    3.2    6.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    12.4   14.0    26.4
lelecoaaunications      O.oi 0.0    0.o    0.6    0.5    1.1    1.4    1.2    2.6    1.4    1.2    2.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0               3.5    2.9      6.4
Distribution Devt.      0.0    0.u      0.    0.0    u.0    0.0   16.2    2.9   19.1   18.5    3.3   21.8   19.5    3.3   21.8   19.5    3.3   21.8    i1.?   12.8    84.5
l.Assistce . Trainin   o.1    0.4    0.5    0.2    0.8    1.0    0.1    0.8    0.9    9.1    0.4    0.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0              0.5    2.4      2.9
.----     -   -- -      -- -   -- ---        - --   - --   - --    - ---
lotal Base Cost.a      15.t   11.4   26.5   50.5   26.6   77.1   72.8   19.0   91.8   71.7   23.2   94.9   61.t  14.6   76.0   44.6    6.3   50.9   316.2  101.1   417.3
Continoencies                                                                                                                                                                             1
Fhvsttal,b             1.5    1.1    2.6    5.1    2.7    7.8    7.3    1.9    9.2    7.2    2.3    9.5    6.1    1.5    7.6    4.5    O.b    5.1    31.6   10.1    41.7
Price/c               !0.3    O.b    '.9    3.2    2.9    6.1    7.5    3.2   10.7   10.2    5.4   15.6   11.8    4.3   16.1   12.4    2.3   14.7    45.4   19.7    64.1
lotal Protect Lost    16.9   13.1   30.0   58.8   32.2   91.0   87.6   24.1  111.7   S9.1   30.9  120.0   79.3   20.4   99.7   61.5    9.2   70.7   393.2  129.9   523.1
IDO                     1.4    U.')   1.4    4.3    0.0    4.3    4.9    0.0    4.9    5.6    0.0    5.6    4.5    0.0    4.5    2.6    0.0    2.6    23.4    0.0    23.4
            ..------   ----
fatal Pra'ect Cost    i8.3   13.1   31.4   63.1   32.2   95.3   92.5   24.1  116.6   94.7   30.9  125.6   03.0   20.4  104.2   64.1    9.2   73.3   416.6  129.9   56.5
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~====                                              *=__= ===__ =2=== ===== :====   U===    gas== ga=_==-::= - -=tC:S2=#S:
Of Which iaxes and
Duties 1801 ot
Foreiqn Costs)       10.5    0.0   10.5   25.7    0.0   25.7   19.3    0.0   19.3   24.7    0.0   24.7   16.3    0.0   16.3    7.4    0.0    7.4   103.9    0.0   103.9
ia base costs reflect prices and the exchanqe rate of approximately Rs 21.50/1US1 prevailing on January 1. 1990.
lb PhYSzca1 continoencies have been estimated at 107 of base cost.
:c Price estaiation for forelon costs has been assumed at 4.9 n.a. for F91-95 and 4.31 far FY96. Price continqencies for local costs eprnssed in USOullars have bren
calculdtea ov escd'atinQ their Ruoee costs at 6.01 for FY91 and at 61 p.a. thereafter and converting the resultinq total Rupee cost for each year into USDllars at th
estimate! a,er4qe e,chnanqe rate for that Year.
su X
0.
r.w



-75-
PAKISTAN                       &max 3.4
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED (SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
Disbursement Schledule /a
Fiscal Year                                        USS Million
*_ ca_ a_                   Q~~~~uartel               Cumulative
1990/91
March 31, 1991                         5.0                        5.0
June 30, 1991                          7.0                       12.0
1991192
September 30, 1991                     7.0                       19.0
December 31, 1991                      8.0                       27.0
March 31, 1992                         8.0                       35.0
June 30, 1992                         10.0                       45.0
1992193
September 30, 1992                    10.0                       55.0
December 31, 1992                     10.5                       65.5
March 31, 1993                        10.5                       76.0
June 30, 1993                          9.0                       85.0
1993194
September 30, 1993                     7.0                       92.0
December 31, 1993                      7.0                       99.0
March 31, 1994                         6.0                      105.0
June 30, 1994                          5.0                      110.0
1994/95
September 30, 1994                     4.0                      114.0
December 31, 1994                      3.0                      117.0
March 31, 1995                         3.0                      119.0
June 30, 1995                          3.0                      122.0
1995/96
September 30, 1995                     2.5                      124.5
December 31, 1995                      2.5                      127.0
March 31, 1996                         2.0                      129.0
June 30, 1996                          1.0                      130.0
a/ This dibursement profile conforms essentially with the Bank statistical
profile for similar petroleum infrastructure projects.



-76-                               Annex 3.5
Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED (SNGPLQ
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
Bank Supervision Input Into Key Actl7ities
Approximate Dates                                 Expected Skills   Staff Inputs
(Month/Year)           Activity                    Requirement      (Staffweeks)
10/90           Supervision Mission             Petroleum   and         6
- Loan Effectiveness           P i p e 1 i n e
-    Project    Initiation,   Engineers.
including   clearance   for
equity issues, procurement,
mobilization   of   project
team, acquisition of rights
of  way,   preparation  of
studi'-s for upgrading DGG,
new   prescribing   pricing
formula,   engineering  for
river crossing, MIS.
12/90           -   Review   of   financial   Finance                   I
performance in FY90 and
forecast for FY91.
- Procurement                  Engineer                4
03/91           Supervision Mission             Petroleum   and         7
- Review of detailed plans   P i p e 1 i n e
for:  (1) equity issues; (2)   Engineers,
study for upgrading DGG; (3)   Finance    and
adjusting consumer price of   Economics.
gas; (4) appointing consul-
tants   for   remuneration
formula, detailed engineer-
ing for river crossings and
MIS.
- Status of development
distribution program and
collaborative arrangement.
-   Detailed   design   and
construction progress.



-77-                             Annex 3.5
Page 2 of 3
Approximate Dates                                 Expected Skills   Staff Inputs
(Manth/Year)           Activity                    Requirements    (Staffweeks)
07/91            - Review of TORs,  tender   Engineer                   2
documents and evaluations
and distribution development
plan
09/91           Supervision Mission             E n g i n e e r ,       4
- Review  of  progress  in   Finance    and
construction,   status   of   Management
studies and training program
and  detailed  plans   for
reconstitution of Board.
12/91           -   Review   of   financial   Finance                   2
performance in FY91 and
forecast for FY92.
- Procurement                  Engineer                3
03/92           Supervision Mission             Petroleum   and         7
- Review of detailed plans   P i p e 1 i n e
for:   second equity issue   Engineers   and
and price adjustments.         Finance    and
- Status of implementation,   Economics
including studies, physical
progress and actions taken
to reconstitute Board.
09/92           Two SuDervision Missions        E n g i n e e r ,       12
03/93            - Review  of  progress  in   Finance    and
implementing    t h e   Economics
r e s t r u c t u r i n g ,
infrastructure development
and technical assistance
components.
1993/94         Two supervision missions.       E n g i n e e r ,       12
F i n a n c e
Economics



-78-                                 Annex 3.5
Page 3 of 3
Approximate Dates                                 Expected Skills   Staff Inputs
(Month/Year)           Activity                    Requirements    (Staffweeks)
1994/95         Two supervision missions.       E n g i n e e r ,       12
F i n a n c e,
Economics
1995/96         Two supervision missions.       E n g i n e e r ,       12
F i n a n c e,
Economics
1996/97         Preparation of PCR              E n g i n e e r ,        7
F i n a n c e,
Economics
At headquarters.               Engineer    and          2
Finance



-79-
PAKISTAN                                                      AEI 4.1
SUI NORTERI SAS PIPELINE  LINITED (SilPLI
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURIMI   m AD St  EIPA9IOCN PROJECT
Income statemts
(Nhli.n Ropml
Year Ending June 30th                  1906     1987     198      IM          1990,    1991     1992     1993     1994     1995    IW6
Average Daily Gas Purchases (INCFDI           394      396      426       451        445      460      536      628      671      710      757
Ainnual Gas Purchases (MnCF)              143,670  140,835  155,399  164,790    162,582  167,754  195,605  229,305  245,043  259,194  276,124
Gas Throughput (Purchases net of Purifh.
fuel and Stock variations) (MCFI        140,080  136,809  150,556  159,01    158,347  162,810  188,947  221,408  236,565  250,216  266,569
Internal Coesumption (Coapressors,
Distbn Purging, Staff Consmptn) 12)         3.3      2.8      2.9      2.3         2.3      2.3      2.3      2.3      2.3      2.3      2.3
Unaccounted Transa I  istbn Losses (2)        2.9      3.1      4.1      4.2         3.9      3.8      3.3      3.3      2.9      2.9      2.9
Gas Sales (NNCF)                          131,370  129,799  140,300  149,084    149,678  152,839  178,247  208,914  224,293  237,250  252,773
Average Sales Prite IRsICF)                 35.95    31.89    36.59    37.52       37.91    42.97    49.32    49.56    54.64    60.75    65.91
Gas Devipat Surchge payable to GOP (1)         43       25       39        so         31       27       32       29       29       28       28
OPERArIN9 REVENUE
Gales Revenue - Natural Gas               4,723    4,109    5,134    5,593       5,621    6,567    8,791   10,354   12,264   14,414   16,661
LessaGa  OvIpet Surchge payble to GOP    (2,049)  (1,039)  (1,947)  (2,702)    (1,7691  (1,780)  (2,9131  (2,999)  (3,4341  (4,036)  (4,6651
Net Sales Revenue - Natural Gas           2,674    3,069    3,187    2,811       3,853    4,797    5,0-8    7,455    8,930   10,378   11,996
3P6                      15       17       32       45         46        47       50       53       56       59       63
Rental & Servtce Chargn                      46       38       39       45          38       49        2       55       59       62       66
Asortizn. of Deferred Credit                t1        23       30       39          53       49       61       73       B7      105      124
total Operating Reveue                    2,753    3,147    3,289    2,940       3,"0    4,932    6,141    7,636    9,032   10,604   12,249
OPERATIS ERPES
Cast of Gas and LP6                       1,566    1,912    1,680    1,160       1,769    2,429    2,V0    3,723    4,347    5,072    5,926
Gas Purification Charges                      9      119       164      192        173      209      249      285      317      353      415
Operating Costs                             374      405      452       475        512      624      774      973    1,167    1,393    1,637
Dreciation                                  360      419      476      553         929      726      953    1,09     1,297    1,516    1,624
Other Charges                                15       15       19       19          19       26       35       42       55       64       83
Total Operating Eapeases                  2,414    2,770    2,790    2,399      3,301    4,013    4,981    6,122    7,193    9,398    9,685
NET OPERATING INCOKE                          339      377      499      542         689      919    1,160    1,514    1,849    2,206    2,564
Other Intome                                  105      113      105       114         s0       73       96      1IO      133      148      164
IET OPERATING & OTHER INCOIIE                 444      40       603      656         769      992    1,246    1,624    1,982    2,354    2,129
Internt                                       174      257      291      312        477       539      732      905    1,065    1,274    1,341
Leislntwest Capitalized                       (1t)     (33)      (301      0         (let     (31)     (98)   I(16)    (1371    1112)      1671
Interest Charged to Operations                156      224      261      312        459       509      634      799      929    1,162    1,274
PRE-TAX PROFIT                                280      266      342      344         310      494      612      935    1,054    1,192    1,454
Current Profits tax                           157       33       47       97           0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Deferred Profits tax                           21      124      162       113        175      245      295      389      482      540      653
Prior Period Adjustsents                      (131       0       57        0           0        0        0        0        0        0        0
NET INCtIIE                                   123      109       76       134        135      239      317      447      572      652      801
Dividends - Cash                               77       77       77       86          77       77      262      337      437      551      595
Donus Shue                          0        0        0        0           0      352        0        0        0        0        0
RATE OF REIURNS
Net Operating Income as 2 of average
Net F.Assets in Srvice (net of
unuortized Cmnsusor Contributions)
- valued at historical cost                20.6     19.1     19.4     19.7        17.5     17.5     17.5    17.5      17.5    17.5    17.5
- revalued through June 30, 1985           20.1     10.3     12.0      12.0       12.5     13.9    14.7      15.4    15.7    16.0       16.4
- revalued through end of projections       9.0      9.9      9.4      9.1         9.6      9.9      9.6    1O.1      10.1    10.0      10.1
Nat Income as I of averge Equity ecludg
Revaln Surplus & Deferred Consr Contbh     18.9    15.7      10.9      10.4       17.2    20.2      19.0    19.6      19.4    19.0      21.9
98-Jun-90    SNSLCONM .WKI



-80-
PAIZSTAN                                                        ANMI  4.2
SUI IHtTEN ON  PIPELlNES LINITED (NWUI                                             -
COR ATE RESTRUCTURINS MID 9218TE) EXPANSION PROJECT                                   Page I of 2
Balance Sheets
(lillion Rupees)
As of June 30th                      1986     1997      1998     1989        1990     1991    1m         1993     1994     1995      19Mb
FIXED ASSETS
In Service                                 9,203    9,101   10,131   10,964       13,618   14,678   18,190   21.207   24,701   28,499   31,056
Accueulated Depreciation                   4,471    4,919    5,228    5,693        6,522    7,249    9,201    9,300   10,597   12,113   13,737
Net Fixed Assets in Service                3,732    4,283    4,903    5,271        7,096    7,630    9,979   11,907   14,104   16,376   19,119
Nork In Progress                             996    1,123    1,419    1,677          339    1,404    1,635    1,930    2,278    1,969    1,113
Total Fised Assets                         4,728    5,406    6,322    6,948        7,435    9,114   11,615   13,937   16,382   18,245   19,231
OTHER LONG-TERN ASSETS
Deposits and Receivables                      6O        60       74        79         99       93        95       95      101       101      105
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash & Short-Tere Deposits                   598       563      712      437         176      315      442       347      340      712    1,049
Stores and Spares                            297       292      359      421         333      343       359      380      409      445       490
rau in Pipeline                                0         9        7         7          0        8         9        9       10        10       11
Custoer Receivables                          749       912      742    1,039         854      991    1,332    1,568    1,956    2,191    2,520
Other Receivables & Prepats.                 172      223       292      379         294      320      370       437      502      579       661
Total Current Assets                       1,914    1,999   2,112    2,293         1,655    1,993    2,511    2,741    3,117    3,99       4,730
TOTAL ASSETS                               6,602    7,373    B,5O9    9,310        9,179   11,190   14,220   16,673   19,600   22,343   24,066
4# nw.u                                   Effu   cs m#   *uzuz          u         matua    at aa       a      =- a   as ==    asas
Current Ratio                                  1.6       1.6      1.6       1.3        1.4      1.5       1.3      1.3      1.2       1.1      1.1
Current Ratio txtldg.Stores & Spares           1.3       1.4      1.3       1.1        1.1      1.2       1.1      1.1      1.0       1.0      1.0
28-Jun-90    SNISLCdN.NIP'
fow ,                                              1



-81-
PAKISTAN                                                        ANNEX 4.2
SUI NORTHERN 6AS PIPELINES LIMITED (SNGPLU
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURIN6 AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT                                  Page 2 of 2
Balance Sheets
(Million Rupees)
------  Actual -----------            ----------------------         ted
As of June 30th                      Iq96     1187     1989      1989       1990      1991     1992     1993      1994     1995     1996
EQUITY
Ordinary Share Capital                       383      383       383      383       3U3    1,310    1,695    2,195    2,755    2,925    2,925
Reserves & Retd.Earnings                     292      324       323      371        429       240      295      405       540      641      857
Revaluation Surplus                        1,902    1,782    1,767    1,748       1,748    1,748    1,749    1,748    1,748    1,748    1,748
Deferred Credit-Consumer contbhs.            292      376       478      652        699       834      998    1,170    1,358    1,559    1,730
Total Equity                               2,76q    2,865    2,951    3,154       3,249    4,132    4,726    5,508    6,401    6,873    7,260
LON6-TERM DEBT
Foreign                                    1,446    1,682    1,836    1,921       1,907    1,865    2,378    2,711    3,244    3,398    3,246
Local                                        783    1,055    1,611    1,635       1,Ti66    2,524    3,510    4,096    4,647    5,700    6,061
2,229    2,737    3,447    3,556       3,673    4,389    5,48    6,807    7,991    9,088    9,307
Less: Current laturities                    (225)    (246)    (3521    (392)       (436)    (445)    (464)    (475)    (612)  (1,319)  (1,575)
Total Long-Tere Debt                       2,004    2,491    3,095    3,164       3,237    3,944    5,424    6,332    7,279    7,769    7,732
OTHER N-CMRRENT LIBILITIES
Security Deposits                            250      282       334      371        401       430      575      676       801      941    1,097
Prov. for Deferred Taxation                  449      573       792      905      1,081    1,326    1,621    2,009    2,491    3,031    3,694
Total Other Non-Current Limbs.               699      855      .<6    1,276       1,402    1,756    2,196    2,c85    3,292    3,972    4,771
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Current Maturities of Long-term Debt         225      246       352      392        436       445      464      475       612    1,319    1,575
Other                                        905      916       994    1,324        775       913    1,411    1,674    2,017    2,411    2,729
Total Current Liabilities                  1,130    1,162    1,336    1,716       1,211    1,359    1,675    2,149    2,62q    3,730    4,304
.__~~~--         -    -----                         .... ._____._ _ __
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES               6,602    7,373    9,508    9,310       9,179   11,190   14,220   16,673   19,600   22,343   24,066
=    as8 =3=z:3323                                 rrz: =   s::sz =:   *=:u -2   =.mu=   uuzz :za   *mmsz   z:mma               cazam e _  s::
Debt as 1 of Debt+Equity                        45       49        54       53         53        52       55       55        55       57       56
Equity as a of Debt+Equity                      55       51        46       47         47        48       45       45        45       43       44
28-Jun-90    SNGPLCON.NK1



-82-
PAKISTNI                                                                         ANNEI 4.3
SI  ORTIEMI  SAS PIPELINES LINITED (hGM)U
CORPORATE RETRUCTDRIN  AiD 6YSTEII EXPANSION PROJECT                                                    Page I of 2
S6urece & Applications of Funds
(lmillion Rupees)
-- ----Actual --------          -                  -Pro)etted--------            -         Total      In
Year Ending June 30th                   1986     1987     1919      1999       1990     1991      I992     1993     19M      1995    196  190-96         US$
SWUCES
ET INCOIE                                      123      109       76       134        135      239      317      447       572      652      E0    3,163       134
iNUSTNENTS llteu not involving
Funds Noveamt or deducted bMlM.)
Depreciation                                 360      419       476      553        829      726        53    1,099    1,297    1,516    1,624    8,044       340
Amortization of Deferred Credit              (181     (23)      (301     (39)        (531     (4S)     161)     (73)     (971    (105)    (124)    1552)      (23)
Deferred Profits Ta                           21      124       162      113        175      245       295      391      492      540       653    2,779      117
Prior Period Adjusteents                     "13)       0        57        0          0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0
Interest charged to Operations               156      224      261       312        459      508       634      789      928    1,162    1,274    5,754       243
MOSS &ATERNAL CASH SEERATION                   629      953    1,002    1,073       1,545    1,669    2,138    2,650    3,192    3,765    4,228   19,187        611
lebt Service
Interest charged to Opwrations              (156b    (224)    (261)    (312)       (459)    (508)    (64       (79)    (928)  (1,162)  (1,274)  (5,754)    (243)
Repaynts of Principal                       (120)    (194)    (2361    (396)       (3921    (43)    (445)    (464)    (4751    (612)  (1,319)  (4143)    (175)
Total Debt Sevice                           (2761    (418)    (497)    (708)       (851)    (944)  (1,079)  (1,253)  (1,403)  (1,774)  (2,593)  (9,897)    (4181
)ividends                                      (77)     (77)     (771      (96)       (77)     (77)    1262)    (337)    (437)    (551)    (585)  (2,325)       (998
(ET INTERNL CASH ENERATION (IC8)              276       358      420      279         617      648      197    1,060    1,352    1,440    1,050    6,964        295
-onsear Contributions                          72       107      132      213          90      194      225      245       275      306      295    1,630        69
onsumer Secwity kposits                        67        32       52       37          30       29      145      101       125      140      146      71',       30
ET ICS AND CMO        CONTB5IDEPOSITS         415       497      612      529         737      871    1,167    1,406    1,752    1,886    1,491    9,310        394
Idd Funds from Decre(Deduct Fund;
required for increase) in:
Harking Capital otber than Cash            (50)     (79)      110      (661      (1361      (42)     116      (51)      97      664       107      753       32
Debt due vithin I VYer                     (64)     (22)    (1061      (40)       (44)       (9)     119)    (11)    (137)    1707)    (256)  11,183)       150)
Long-Teri Recivablet                        (6)      (8)       (6)      (5)       (10)       (4)      (2)       0       (6)       0        (4)     (26)      (II
Net Filed Assts (F.ks.scrapped)              0        0        5         1          0        0         0        0        0        0        0         0        0
INTERIL FUNDS AVLBLE FOR CAP INVSTIT          295       389      615      419         547      816    1,22    1,344    1,706    1,943    1, 33      8,954       375
Wd hcrseDeduct Incree) in cash                (167)      25     (149)     275         260     (139)   (1271       95         7     (443)    (265)    (611)      (26)
INTERNL FUNDS USD FOR CAP INVESTNT            128       414      466      694         807      677    1,135    1,439    1,713    1,400    1,072    9,243        349
UITY ISSUES - Iminal Value                      0         0        0        0           0      575      375      500       570      170        0    2,190        93
- Shar Presius                    0         0        0        0           0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0         O
ICRROMINS
Local Loans                                  452      196      282       102        279      733    1,017       800      900    1,300    1,300    6,229       260
F,reign Loans                                418      333      601       293        147      387       913      569      748      503      234    3,501       149
Exchange Adjustmnts                          290      175       63       150         03       32        14       14       11        6         4      164        0
Total Borrowing                            1,160      704      946       505        509    l1l52    11944    1,383    1,559    1,809    1,538    9,094        409
TOTAL SOURCES                      1,298    1,119    1,412    1,199       1,316    2,405    3,454   3,322    3,942    3,379    2,610   20,327         851
uuinu  agsuo    uuinzin   uuuVz   KRauh
28-Jun-90   S2NPLC0h.VKI



-83-
PAKISTA                                                                         ANiSK 4.3
SUI NOTIEM 6AS PIPELIES LINITED (llU'L)
CORPORATE RESTRUETURIIIS AD SISTER EXPASIOIN PROJECT                                                 Page 2 of 2
Sources & Applications of Funds
(Nillie  Rupcn\
---Actlul   ---- Proje                                                       d - --    Total  ln
Ye#, Ending June 30th                  1986     1967     198      1989       1990     1991     1992     1993    I14       1995    M199  1990-96       US$
APPLICATIONS
CAPITAL EXPEIIDITURE
Capital Projects (including
proposed project)                       1,005      946    1,351    1,090      1,233    2,373    3,U0    3,308    3,031    3,373    2,606   20,163       851
Loan Etch Adjstuts Capitalized              293      172       61      109         83       32       14       14       LI        6        $      164        0
MTAL APPLICATIONS                   1,288    1,118    1,412    1,19      1,316    2,405    3,454    3,322    3,842    3,379    2,610   20,327      651
=x2=ZVVV=V&=uZz8S    UE                       lung:  anus",    unsung   u.nsnn   mu..2  5*u.  C == mz       s =agug   r==    Situ!,2
Debt Service Coverage                         2.3      2.0      2.0      1.5        1.0      1.9      2.0      2.1      2.3      2.1      1.6      1.9
Intl Funds evlble for Cap Invstat
as I of Avg. Cap Eap for Current,
Previens and follouing years               33.0    30.5    49.5    32.0          33.4    34.1      41.2    39.0    48.5    56.2    56.9    43.6
28-Jun-90    SPIMM.Il



-84-
PAISTAN                                               ADEEI 4.4
SUI NlORTHEIN 6S PIPELINES LINITEO (SI-PL-
CRPORATE RESTRUCTURIIN  AND SYSIEt EIPANSION PROJECT
Projected Borrowing Requiretmnts
(fillion Rupees)
--    rojeted   --------    Total  Iln
Year Ending Juns 30th                   I0       I9I     I92      13      1994     1995     1996  19SO-96      U
Local Loans:
Existg.Loaos (inc. deferred interet)        279       33       17        0        0        0        0      329       15
Ne Loame - Restructruing Project              0      440      650      300      150      650      710    2,900      121
NDP/Other - Ne Tmms                           0      260      330      500      650      650      590    3,000      124
Total Local Loans               279      733    1,017      8OO      900    1,300    1,300    6,229      260
Forain Lns - IIRD  9NiPL V                     76        0        0        0        0        0        0       76        4
EL I                       23        0        0        0        0        0        0       23        1
Restructo. Project          0      296      740      569      749      503      234   3,090       130
ESL I                      48       91      173        0        0        0        0      312       14
Total IERD                147      37       913      569      74       503      234    3,501      149
Exchg ANJstts              e3       32       14       14       11        6        4      164        0
Total Foreign Loans             230      419      927      583      759      50       238    3,665      149
Total Borrowing                               509    1,152    1,944    1,383    1,559    1,809    1,538    9,594      40
28-Jun-90    SNIPLCOV.VKI



-85-
PAKISTIAN                                          AEEI 4.5
Sul NORTHERlN 6  PIPELINES LINITED (SOIPLI
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AID SVSTEM EIPASIIGN PRWECT
Investent Progru
(tillion Rupen)
---------------Projected--- -                               Total     KR
Veaf Ending June 30th                   1O       1991     1992     13      1994     1995     196  1"0-96        USt
SNGPL V
Local                130        0        0        0        0       0        0      130        6
Foreign                 76        0        0        0        0       0        0       76        4
Total                206        0        0        0       0        0        0      206       10
Project VI - Phae I
Local                174        0        0        0        0       0        0      174        8
EEL I            Foerign                  11        0        0        0       0        0        0       11        0
Total                195        0        0        0       0        0        0      185        a
ProJect Vl - Phme 11
Loal                   0      411    1,451    2,184   2,2V3   2,070    1,623  10,031        417
Privatizn.ProeKt-Fareign          -        0      296      740      569     748      503      234   3,099       I3O
Total                  0      707    2,191    2,753   3,041    2,573    1,956  11,120       546
Dakhni Project
Local                 44        0        0        0        0       0        0       44        2
DL 11            Foreign                  12        0        0       0        0        0        0       12        1
Total                 56        0        0        0        0       0        0       56        3
Rohi Project
Local                l08        0        0        0        0       0        0      tOo        5
ESL It           Foreign                  36        0        0       0        0        0        0       36        2
Total                144        0        0        0        0       0        0      144        7
Ihodak ProjKt
Local                  0      m        103        0       0        0        0        5       39
ForeIgn                  0        0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0
Total                  0      792      103        0        0       0        0      95        39
Meterine, System Control
ad Protection
oal                             0        0        0        0       0        0        U        0
ESL I            Foreign                  12        0        0        0       0        0        0       12        1
Total                 20        0        0        0        0       0        0       20        1
Locl                   0       52      124        0        0       0        0      17t        6
EBL 11           foreig                    0       9!      173       0        0        0        0      264       11
Total                  0      143      ZV7        0        0       0        0      440       19
Distribution Developunt
Lomal                340      332      396        0        0        0       0    1,059       48
Foreign                 60       59       65        0        0       0        0      1I7        a
Total                400      391      454        0       0        0        0    1,245       56
aNe Tomns
Local                  0      260      350      500      650      6s0    50   3,000        124
Foreign                  0        0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0
Total                  0      260      350      500      650      650     590   3,000       124
fiKuiCUneoun Mgrts
Loal                 222       60       45       55      140      150      160     852       3b
Foreip                   0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0
Total                222       80       45       55      140      150     160      852       36
Total Ivetnt
Leul               1,026    1,927    2,459    279    3,03    2,870    2,373   16,477        693
ForeIgn                207      446      991      569      748      503     234   3,687       Is
Total              1,233   2,33    3,440    3,308    3,831       373    2,606   20,163      051
284un-90    hhSPLChNI.wl



PAKISTAN
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED (SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
SNGPL's Actual and Forecast Sales of Gas
Average Annual
--------------------------ACTUAL--------------------------------            Growth Rate (X)
FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89               FY79-89
Residential           16    20    25    38    48    52    57    64    70    72    77                17.0
Commercial            10    11    14    15    15    16    17    17    17    18    19                 6.6                co
Industrial          118   128   140   143   135   131   125   123   118   125   129                  0.1
Power                 29    57    57    56    54    49    69    61    48    71    78                10.4
Fertilizer            74    83    84    87    89    91    92    94    99    97    97                 2.7
TOTAL             246   299   320   339   341   339   360   359   352   383   400                  5.0
----------------------------FORECAST------------------------------
FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FYS9  FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99  FY2000             FY90-2000
Residential          88     95    97   105   115   12    137   150   156   168   172                 6.9
Commercial           20     21    21    22    24    25    26    29    29    30    31                 4.5
Industrial         136    140   146   145   145   151   157   157   165   168   172                  2.4
Power                61     61   119   167   167   167   167   167   168   168   168                10.7                   >
Fertilizer         102    102   105   133   164   182   206   206   206   206   206                  7.3
TOTAL            407    419   488   572   615   650   693   709   724   740   749                  6.3
a:anex5-1



-87-
Annex 5.2
PAKISTAN                         Page 1 of 4
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED (SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
Assumptions and Calculations for the Rate of Return
COSTS
1.        Capital Costs.  Investment expenditures on civil works, material and
equipment, and land amount to about Rs 7,987 million, including physical
contingencies but excluding prL-e contingencies, taxes and duties. Expenditures
on conversion of consumer facilities, amounting to Rs 1,194 million, though not
financed under the proposed Project, are incurred by consumers, and, therefore,
are included in the calculations of the race of return. Details relating to -.he
phasing of expenditures are presented below:
Civil Works, Equipment            Conversion of
Materials and Land              Consumer Facilities
YEAR        Local        Foreign      Total              Local
FY91          140           270         410
FY92          626           694       1,320
FY93        1,363           450       1,813               257
FY94        1,257           548       1,805               289
FY95        1,178           343       1,521               324
FY96          971           147       1,118               324
2.        Local Costs are expressed in their equivalent border prices using the
following conversion factors: capital goods at 0.81 of the domestic prices; and
unskilled labor at 0.77 of the domestic wage rate.
3.        Annual Operation and Maintenance Costs (O & M).  These are estimated
at 3Z of the capital costs associated with the expansion of the transmission and
distribution network.
4.        Incremental Cost of Production.  Gas for the proposed Project would be
supplied by OGDC from its Pirkoh and other fields, for which a producer price
of Rs 15.38/MCF was negotiated by OGDC. It represents the marginal cost of gas
in terms of future supply to SNGPL and is based on the formula agreed to under
ESL I which links the producer price of gas to two-thirds the border price of
fuel oil less negotiated discounts.
BENEFITS
5.        The measurable benefits associated with the proposed Project include:
(a) service connection charges which are paid by the consumers to SNGPL; and (b)
revenues associated with  incremental  sales.    Service  connection charges,
expressed in January 1990 prices, amount to about Rs 239 million in FY93; and
Rs 266 million in each of the remaining three years. These are based on SNGPL's
market c velopment plan and the service connection charge of Rs 2,709 for
residential consumers, Rs 7,382 for commercial consumers, and Rs 111,000 for



-88- .                             Annex 5.2
Page 2 of 4
industrial consumers.   The revenues associated with incremental sales are
calculated usin- the estimated weighted average consumer price of pipeline
quality gas of Rs 41.6/MCF in January 1990, which is taken as a proxy for the
consumers' willingness to pay.



PAKISTAN
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED (SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
Phasin2 of Investment Expenditures 2/
(Rs Million)
Cost of Converting
PROJECT COST                        Consumer Facilities
Foreign                   Local 2/                              Local
Capital    Capital            Labor                    Capital     Skilled
Goods       Goods        Skilled Unskilled Total        Goods       Labor Total
FY91         270           48          61      31        410           -          -      -
FY92         626          237         302    155        1320           -          -      -
FY93         450          464         595    304        1813         100         157   257
FY94         548          428         549    280        1805         112         177   289
FY95         343          401         514    263        1521         126         198   324
FY96         147          331         424    216        1118         126         198   324
TOTAL       2384         1909        2445   1249        7987        464          730  1194
OQ~
/  Expressed in January 1990 prices and include physical contingencies, but                                       |
exclude price contingencies, taxes and duties.
~/  Of the total local cost 34.1 is for capital goods 43.6 for                                                    > .
skilled labor and 22.3 for unsiklled labor.



-90-                                 ~~~~~~Annex 5.2
Page  4 of 4
PAKISTAN
SUI NORTHERN GAS PUPELINES LIMITED (SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
Internal Economic Rate of Return 1/
CAP. EXP.      0 & N          GAS PURCH..  TOTAL   INCREMENT. SALES   CONSUMER   TOTAL          NET
MCFD     VALUE    COST        MCFD      VALUE  CONTRIB.  BENEFIT  BENEFIT
YEAR
1991        394.0         11.8       0.0       0.0   405.82         0.0       0.0         0     0.00  -405.82
1992       1239.0        49.0        0.0       0.0  1287.99         0.0       0.0         0     0.00 -1287.99
1993        1893.0       105.8      88.4    496.1  2494.85         84.0   1275.5       239  1514.46  -980.40
1994        1927.0       163.6     133.6    750.0  2840.60        127.0   1928.4       266  2194.37  -646.23
1995       1684.0       214.1      170.4    956.7  2854.82        162.0   2459.8       266  2725.81  -129.01
1996       1305.0       253.3      215.7   1210.7  2768.91        205.0   3112.7       266  3378.72   609.81
1997           0.0      253.3      232.5   1305.1  1558.40        221.0   3355.7          0  3355.66  1797.26
1998           0.0      253.3      232.5   1305.1  1558.40        221.0   3355.7          0  3355.66  1797.26
1999           0.0      253.3      232.5   1305.1  1558.40        221.0   3355.7          0  3355.66  1797.26
2000           0.0      253.3      232.5   1305.1  1558.40        221.0   3355.7          0  3355.66  1797.26
2001           0.0      253.3      232.5   1305.1  1558.40        221.0   3355.7          0  3355.66  1797.26
2002           0.0      253.3      232.5   1305.1  1558.40        221.0   3355.7          0  3355.66  1797.26
2003           0.0      253.3      232.5   1305.1  1558.40        221.0   3355.7          0  3355.66  1797.26
2004           0.0      253.3      232.5   1305.1  1558.40        221.0   3355.7          0  3355.66  1797.26
2005           0.0      253.3      232.5   1305.1  1558.40        221.0   3355.7          0  3355.66  1797.26
2006           0.0      253.3      232.5   1305.1  1558.40        221.0   3355.7          0  3355.66  1797.26
2007           0.0      253.3      232.5   1305.1  1558.40        221.0   3355.7          0  3355.66  1797.26
2008           0.0      253.3      232.5   1305.1  1558.40        221.0   3355.7          0  3355.66  1797.26
2009           0.0      253.3      232.5   1305.1  1558.40        221.0   3355.7          0  3355.66  1797.26
0.0                                INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN = 24.8X
1/ Expressed in Rs. MiLtion, except where indicated.



-91-
Annex 6.0
PAKISTAN
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED (SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
Selected Documents in Proiect File
1.    Government of Pakistan ETnergy Working Group, Draft Seventh Five-Year Plan
Report, 1987.
2.    Shadow Prices in Pakistar, March 1986; Report by Metroeconomica Ltd. U.K.
3.    Gas Consumer Pricing Policy in Pakistan, Draft Final Report October 1987,
Coopers & Lybrand.
4.    Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Ltd. Annual Report (1985-89).
5.    Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Ltd. Project VI Description (Form PC-1, 1988).
6.    Procurement Schedule agreed with SNGPL for the proposed Project.
7.    Principal Gas Fields and their Production Potential.
8.    Major Gas Fields by Year of Discovery and Ownership.
9.    Pakistan Gas Utilization Study (1988) Report submitted by Gas Development
Corporation (GDC) of Chicago, USA, compriad of:
Volume I    - Appendix:  Gas Imports
Volume II   - Gas Demand and Appendix
Volume III  - Utilization of High Inert Gas Fields
Volume IV   -  Supply Development Program
Volume V    - SCADA Systems
Volume VI   - Study of Peakshaving Methods
Volume VII  - Demand Management and Ranking of Project Packages
Volume VIII - Summary and Recommendations



U.S.S.R.             \       C         70'-  iH'( 702-                                                              7 O74:
/-'''                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mon-hro 0
AFGHANISTANd1
W~ ~       ~~~ J                                                  /      Ckosou, A      ,,HANI  -- N )--ktdo                               .  Appruovnutn iarm of CaninE
AFGHANISTAN       Iu    k                                                                                             6 Honellon
SUI NOTHR G                                            A S           PELIE IIE thewer               -W1       j     /'      2olkt
2  {%x...'...r'                                  Nb~~~Ashr ~k                                              .            JAMMU
K h. R/                              hpidi                        l\pAdN
SXI |~ KItOMETERS                                    g                            /! Sargudho v  S    X    CtX                         n KASHI- R
O~,                          w       w >,-t
3"'               ~PAKISTANAN                                         leIn>                        Kao\       'u%e,                     N          '3'
CORPORATE CRESTRUCTURING  -ND
SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT                                            I   adh                                    orn  e0BP
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED
KILOMETRS                                                                                                                 Giono
o      25  7255            100
32'                                       -i                                                                                                                                32
MILE S
p    u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0r
Bc-i 0Morco,lo 1       Lohre,zK-
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pnb    Kou ,oRh;Ko
a' RouHa~~~~~~~~~p'Vm                               6
1.4002vvJof ~~~~                      tIE          /,~~                                                                     -- - -SMin o  d
.SIN         D            / _ nenhnloudre
-30'                                                                                                                                                                        o0r
1s Hyd_obPIRKOH 
_9         Ef           '     I           ItFAV                                                                                       PROJECT 7XISl7NG                       29-
_____Pipeline
.......      ~~~Pipeline sysEen to be uplifted
iAi.        ~~~Purifisation bank
Compresin fociliti-s
U           ~~~~Power Plant
-2W  M.,/                                                                                                            R-                 2w-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mi od
- - - - Proince boundaries
/                                                                          *- __ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gas Fields
0Klaicpur                            I    ~~      ~~     ~~~~~                                                                     ~~N  D  I    A  fll2Oil Field,
I 'Z                                                                                                                                               Codensote Fields
En T,Hyd-rbod0
a  50'                  70'                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~71'-         721'                        r3'                        to



