Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19132
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED (SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING & SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
(LOANS 3252-0-PAK & 3252-1-PAK)
June 11, 1999
Energy Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
Appraisal Year 1989 = US$ 1.0  Rs 21.50
Intervening Year 1995 = US$ 1.0 = Rs. 30.85
Completion Year 1998 = US$ 1.0 = Rs. 46.00
GOP AND PETROLEUM SECTOR ENTITIES FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
1 barrel (bbl)    = 0.1342 metric ton (MID
I metric ton of oil   = 7.4 bbls
= 41.2 MCF
= 1160 litres
BCF               = I billion cubic feet
BHP               = Break Horse Power
BOPD              = Barrels of oil per day
BTU               =  1 British Thermal Unit
= 0.2520 Kilo Calories (Kcal)
MBBL              = I thousand barrels
MCF                = I thousand cubic feet
MMCF               = I million cubic feet
MMCFD              = I million cubic feet per day
MMBTU              = I million BTU
M3                 =  I cubic meter (35.3147 cubic feet)
TCF               = I trillion cubic feet
TOE                = I ton of oil equivalent (0.9091 tons of refined petroleum)
= 1068.4 m3 of natural gas (1.333 tons of coal)
MTOE              = I million tons of oil equivalent
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB               Asian Development Bank
CNG                Compressed Natural Gas
CRSEP             Corporate Restructuring & System Expansion Project
DGG               Directorate General for Gas
GIKI              Ghulam Ishak Khan Institute
GOP               Government of Pakistan
GRA               Gas Regulatory Authority
HRC               Hot Rolled Coils
HSD                High Speed Diesel
ERR                Economic Rate of Retum
IPO               Initial Public Offering
LPG                Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MPNR               Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources
NWFP              North West Frontier Province
OGDC               Oil and Gas Development Corporation
PC-I              Project Concept Document (GOP)
PSAL              Power Sector Adjustment Loan
SCADA              Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System
SNGPL              Sui Northem Gas Pipelines Ltd.
SSGC               Sui Southem Gas Company
Vice President:             Mieko Nishirmizu
Country Director:           Sadiq Ahmed
Sector Director:            Alastair McKechnie
Team Leader:                Tjaarda Storm  van Leeuwen
Task Leader:                Mikael Mengesha



PAKISTAN                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED (SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING & SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
(LOANS 3252-0-PAK & 3252-1-PAK)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  ......................................................i
PART  I: PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ......................................................1                                     I
A. Background .................................................1
B. Evaluation of Objectives ...............................1...............I. 
C. Achievement of Objectives .................................................3
D. Economic Performance .................................................5
E. Major Factors Affecting the Project ................................................5
F. Project Sustainability .................................................7
G. Bank Performance ................................................8
H. Borrower Performance .................................................8
I. Assessment of Outcome .................................................9
J. Future Operation ................................................ 10
K. Key Lessons Learned ................................................. 0
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ................................................ 12
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans ................................................                                               13
Table 3:  Project Timetable ................................................                                                14
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual .............................................  14
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...............                        ................................. 14
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation ................................................                             15
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project ................................................                                      16
Table 8A: Project Costs ................................................                                                    17
Table 8B: Project Financing ................................................                                                17
Table 9A: Economic Costs and Benefits ................................................ 18
Table 9B: Economnic Costs and Benefits ................................................ 19
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ................................................ 20
Table 11: Compliance with Operation Manual Statements ...............................                      ................. 23
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ................................................ 23
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ................................................                                        24
Appendix A: Operational Plan ................................................                                              25
Appendix B: Mission's Aide-Memoire ................................................ 28
Appendix C: Borrower's Evaluation ................................................                                         35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



PAKISTAN
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED (SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING & SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
(LOANS 3252-0-PAK & 3252-1-PAK)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Corporate Restructuring & System Expansion
Project (CRSEP) for which Loan 3252-0-PAK in the amount of US$130 million equivalent, was approved on
August 7, 1990 and made effective on April 12, 1991. A Supplementary Loan, 3252-1-PAK in the amount of US$60
million equivalent, was approved on June 21, 1991 and made effective on October 7, 1991. The main and
supplemental loans were closed on June 30, 1998, following a one-time extension to the original Loan closing date
of December 31, 1996. For Loan 3252-0-PAK, the final disbursement took place on January 4, 1999, at which time
the balance of US$6.5 million was cancelled. For Loan 3252-1-PAK, final disbursement took place on October 31,
1998, and a balance of US$2.1 million was cancelled. There were no cofinanciers.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Mikael S. Mengesha, SASEG (Task Leader), Rashid Aziz (Energy
Specialist) and Salahuddin Khwaja (Engineer, Consultant) of the South Asia Region. Mr. Tjaarda Storm van
Leeuwen, Team Leader for Pakistan of the Energy Sector Unit, South Asia Region, reviewed this report. The
Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources and Sui Northern Gas Pipelines, Limited (the Borrower) provided its
own evaluation, which is included as Appendix C.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision and completion mission in May 1998. It
is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Project Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda and material in the project file. The Borrower
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing its own evaluation of project implementation and
commenting on the draft ICR.



PAKISTAN
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED (SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING & SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
(LOANS 3252-0-PAK & 3252-1-PAK)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.     The Bank has supported the development of Pakistan's gas sector since 1964 through a number of
transportation system expansion projects of SNGPL and gas fields development projects of the Oil and Gas
Development Corporation (OGDC). The Corporate Restructuring and System Expansion Project was SNGPL's
sixth Bank-funded project. In the 1980s, development of Pakistan's gas resource did not keep pace with the rapid
increase in energy demand, and towards the end of the decade, the country was facing a severe shortfall in gas
supply. The situation was particularly aggravated in the northern areas due to the lengthy and under-developed
system for supplying fuel oil from Karachi. In 1989, the Government of Pakistan (GOP) sought the Bank's
assistance in the formulation and implementation of remedial measures to meet the growing energy demand.
Project Objectives
2.     The principal objectives of the project were to: (a) assist in restructuring SNGPL's equity ownership to
make the utility more autonomous and to enhance its resource mobilization capacity by enabling it to tap new
sources of financing, including private sector financing; (b) expand SNGPL's infrastructure for purification,
transmission and distribution of gas at least cost; (c) promote the substitution of gas for higher value petroleum
products in the northern parts of the country; (d) rationalize the consumption and supply of gas through pricing and
demand management and (e) strengthen SNGPL's capabilities in long-term planning, project implementation,
inventory control, operation and maintenance and safety. The covenants in the Loan Agreement detailed the time-
bound actions required to privatize SNGPL and promote economic pricing of natural gas to various consumer
categories. The project objectives at the time of appraisal were consistent with the Government and Bank's strategy
for the development of the energy sector. To achieve these objectives, the project included three components: (a)
SNGPL restructuring; (b) infrastructure development and (c) technical assistance for institution building. Since
appraisal in 1988, the Bank has gained greater experience in guidance to governments on privatization efforts, and
would design the project much differently.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.     Overall, the project's development objectives were only partially achieved, and with mixed results as
discussed below.  Despite this assessment, the project might be sustainable in the long-term if the actions on
privatization, which were started under the project, eventually come to fruition. However, this is uncertain at this
time.
* Full privatization and restructuring of SNGPL failed in the absence of an adequate regulatory
framework and necessary gas pricing reforms. The main reason was that the Government was unable
to mobilize the political support to enact the Gas Regulatory Authority Act and introduce the necessary
pricing reforms. Although the Government reduced its shareholding in SNGPL to 60 percent, the
privatization strategy as designed during appraisal was, in retrospect unrealistic, given the resistance
from vested interest groups. Apart from creating the necessary political consensus to proceed with the
full privatization of SNGPL, the following steps are still to be taken: (a) introduction of an appropriate
regulatory framework; (b) revision of gas pricing policies and (c) issuance of an Information
Memorandum and documents for pre-qualification of potential strategic partners and selection through
an open solicitation process.



ii
*  The project was more successful in achieving its physical objectives for infrastructure development,
albeit with substantial delays. The investments in transmission and distribution are expected to
improve delivery of gas from fields in Sindh and Baluchistan, through availability. of additional
looplines to transport gas supplies to demand centers in the north, reduced losses and new consumers.
The capacity of SNGPL's transmission system was increased by more than two fold from 450
MMCFD to 1000 MMCFD with the requisite Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System
(SCADA) facilities which will enhance SNGPL's ability to manage supply and demand, capacity
utilization and safety. When increased gas supplies became available, the target of number of
households and businesses to switch to gas in place of imported kerosene was exceeded by about 70
percent. However, because gas tariffs were not adjusted to ensure cost recovery, the impact on
SNGPL's finances was negative, but economic benefits high.
*  The objectives covered in the technical assistance component, provided through consultancy services,
were fully achieved.
4.     The major factor that prevented the project from meeting its primary objective of privatization was lack of
ownership of the gas sector reform agenda because of several changes in the political leadership over the
implementation period. Fresh policy reviews were necessary to develop consensus among the decision-makers after
each election, and the commitment to fundamentally change the ownership of SNGPL and its sister utility Sui
Southern Gas Company (SSGC) in the south never reached the degree necessary to push the required reforms.
5.     Against the appraisal estimate of US$546 million, including physical and price contingencies, taxes and
duties, the resulting total project was US$624 million. The initial Bank loan of US$130 million was supplemented
by an additional US$60 million loan for the manufacture of steel linepipe through procurement of hot rolled coils
(HRC) increasing the amount of foreign exchange costs to about 35 percent of the total project cost. Of the
aggregate US$190 million, an amount of US$8.6 million was cancelled as savings. The increase in total project cost
from US$546 million to US$624 million is due to an additional 100 miles of transmission lines, increased number of
gas connections, as well as implementation of the enhanced transmission SCADA and the pilot distribution SCADA
for Lahore.
6.     Although procurement activities were a priority for the Borrower, and for the most part well managed,
significant delays in procurement actions were experienced in the initial stages of the Project. This was due to the
unfamiliarity of the Russian supplier with Bank-financed procurement for the HRC, which required several
interventions from Bank management and the project team to keep it on track.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, Key Lessons Learned
7.     Summary of Findings. Privatization had been identified as the best strategic option for improving
performance, enhancing quality of services through better use of available technology and mobilizing additional
resources to implement expansion of the system. The fast track privatization of SNGPL by reduction of GOP's
direct and indirect shareholding in SNGPL through issuance of new shares to the general public should have taken
into account the absorptive capacity of the domestic capital markets. Moreover, the stipulated floor price for the
transaction was calibrated on the value of SNGPL shares, which were lightly traded on the Karachi Stock Exchange,
rather than a reasonable valuation and due diligence of the assets by an independent entity. Also, when the project
was designed, insufficient attention was given to an assessment of the appropriateness of the regulatory system and
gas pricing arrangements to make privatization feasible. In retrospect, it is clear that the objective of privatization of
SNGPL during project implementation, given the absence of an appropriate regulatory framework and pricing
arrangements, was somewhat unrealistic. Other than that, the project objectives were appropriate.
8.     Future Operations. SNGPL has prepared a ten-year Operational Plan to sustain the project objectives and
physical investments during the operational phase (1999-2010). The premise of the Operational Plan is that the
momentum of the limited reforms, particularly the establishment of a sound regulatory framework and development
process, should be maintained so as to maximize the use of natural gas in domestic energy consumption. An
appropriate legal and regulatory framework and a gas pricing regime are expected to be established soon to enable
selection of a suitable strategic partner. In the operation of the infrastructure developed under the project, alleviation



iii
of energy shortages and substitution of higher value petroleum product fuels with natural gas, particularly in
northern parts of the country, will remain the main objective.
9.     Despite the success in the implementation of the physical components of the project, the overall outcome is
rated unsatisfactory due to failure of the Government to fully implement the restructuring and privatization
component.
10.    Among the key lessons learned from this project are:
*  Prior to breaking new ground on sector reforms, the issues involved should be thoroughly examined
and addressed to ensure sustained commitment of the Government and the Borrower. A risk and
benefits analysis of economic and political ramifications of stake holder winners and losers as a result
of SNGPL's privatization could have been undertaken during project preparation to enable GOP to
develop a strong consensus for necessary reforms. Given the significant share of gas sales at subsidized
rates to domestic consumers who are mainly from the middle class and their potential vested interest,
the impact of proposed reforms on existing relationships and incentive for political patronage based on
gas connections should have been carefully assessed at the outset.
*  The expected leverage of the investment component of the project with regards to restructuring and
privatization was, in retrospect, overly ambitious. Once the infrastructure expansion was launched, the
Bank decided that disbursements could not be withheld without severely jeopardizing efficient
implementation of the system expansion component. This also included risking large-scale outages of
gas supply impacting on the safety of consumers and of the localities in the vicinity of the high
pressure of pipeline system. In retrospect, a tougher stance from the Bank could have helped in
meeting the project's development objectives.
*  The restructuring strategy should have been more clearly defined during project preparation. As such,
a strategy for obtaining up-front reforms and restructuring, (rather than expecting reforms to be
implemented in parallel while disbursements under the Bank financed project was underway), should
have been agreed with GOP at the latest by negotiations. Overall, taking into account the growth in
energy demand and the potential role of natural gas in meeting Pakistan's future energy demand, the
establishment of an enabling environment, including an arms-length regulator through a Gas Act
endorsed by Parliament, is key to promoting much needed private sector investments and remains a
development priority.
*  The driving force for designing a swift transition of SNGPL to a privatized utility with distributed
ownership was the need to rapidly mobilize resources for the proposed project's investment
component, the largest ever in Pakistan's oil and gas sector. However, the expectation of raising a
large part of local financing from domestic financial capital markets, which lacked the depth and
maturity for raising such funds through an IPO for underpinning the financing of a large infrastructure
investment program was, in hindsight risky.
*  The impact of proposed reforms on existing relationships based on the prevailing gas connection
policy should have been carefully assessed at appraisal. In view of the potential for political patronage
of low priced natural gas, it may have been more effective to have included as a condition of Board or
Effectiveness, the completion of the pricing study and by definition, reform of the gas pricing structure
and level of gas prices that would assure SNGPL was provided with cost covering tariffs.



PAKISTAN
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED (SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
(LOANS 3252-0-PAK & 3252-1-PAK)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: Project Implementation Assessment
A. BACKGROUND
1.     Commercially exploitable energy sources in Pakistan consist of oil, coal, hydropower and natural gas.
Reserves of oil are small (approximately 200 million barrels) with a reserves to a production ratio of about nine
years. Natural gas, with reserves estimated at 24 TCF, is the most economical option for meeting the country's
energy needs'.  Currently, natural gas accounts for about 40 percent of the country's commercial energy
consumption of which 30 percent accounts for power generation, 23 percent for fertilizer production, 30 percent for
industrial and commercial fuel and 17 percent for household use. The country has a mature gas industry with
transportation and reticulation infrastructure covering almost all major industrial and urban areas in the four
provinces.
2.     In the 1980s, development of Pakistan's gas resource did not keep pace with the rapid increase in energy
demand, and towards the end of the decade, the country was facing a severe shortfall in gas supply. The situation
was particularly aggravated in the northern areas due to the lengthy and under-developed system for supplying fuel
oil from Karachi. In 1989, the GOP sought the Bank's assistance in the formulation and implementation of remedial
measures to meet the growing energy demand. The strategy developed called for: (a) accelerated development and
hook-up of new gas fields with the existing gas transmission grid of SNGPL, the gas utility serving Punjab and
North West Frontier provinces; (b) capacity expansion of the transmission grid in tandem with gas fields
development; (c) substitution of higher value petroleum product fuels with natural gas in the northern parts of the
country; (d) rationalization of gas consumption and supply through pricing and demand management; (e)
strengthening SNGPL's capabilities in long-term planning, project implementation and system operation and (f)
restructuring SNGPL's equity ownership to improve its autonomy and to enhance its resource mobilization capacity.
3.     To implement the above strategy, the Bank approved the Petroleum Exploration Project in 1983 for
OGDC to explore new gas fields in Pirokoh and Loti. In 1990, the CRSEP was approved for SNGPL to accomplish
the remaining steps of the strategy referred to in para. 2 above. In 1991, a Supplemental Loan Agreement was
signed to finance the import of steel plates due to deterioration in the country's foreign exchange situation.
4.     The Bank has supported the development of Pakistan's gas sector since 1964 through a number of
transportation system expansion projects of SNGPL and gas field development projects of OGDC. The CRSEP was
SNGPL's sixth Bank-funded project.
B. EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
5.     The principal objectives of the project were to: (a) assist GOP in restructuring SNGPL's equity ownership
to make the utility more autonomous and to enhance its resource mobilization capacity by enabling it to tap new
sources of financing, including private sector financing; (b) expand SNGPL's infrastructure for purification,
transmission and distribution of gas at least-cost; (c) promote the substitution of gas for higher value petroleum
products in the northern parts of the country; (d) rationalize the consumption and supply of gas through pricing and
demand management and (e) strengthen SNGPL's capabilities in long-term planning, project implementation,
I   Bank's Pakistan Natural Gas Reserve Assessment and Imports Strategy Study (1993) and Energy Options Study (1995).
2   Loan No. 235 1-PAK, US$53.5 million.



2
inventory control, operation and maintenance and safety. To achieve these objectives, the project included three
components:
(a)    Corporate Restructuring of SNGPL
*  restructuring of SNGPL's ownership to bring about divestment of public sector ownership from 91
percent, to at most, 40 percent
*  restructuring of SNGPL's management to reflect the new shareholding in the company
*  establishing financial performance criteria
*  reviewing the regulatory functions of the Directorate General of Gas
(b)    Infrastructure Development
*  installation of a 1 x 120 MMCFD gas purification plant at Sui
*  expansion of SNGPL's gas transmission system capacity by about 300 MMCFD and construction of
643 miles of high pressure pipelines
*  expansion of SNGPL's gas distribution system to supply gas to the power station at Kot Addu and two
fertilizer plants to be constructed between Sahiwal and Lahore, and to connect during FY93-96
approximately 330,000 domestic, 6,000 commercial and 400 industrial new consumers
*  installation of a linepipe coating plant to improve the coating process, extend the life of the linepipes
and improve operational safety during construction
*  installation of a telecommunication system  for monitoring operations of the transmission and
distribution network
*  procurement of compressors and construction equipment for installation of the linepipe
(c)    Consultancy Services
*  a safety and hazard assessment survey of the transmission and distribution systems
*  upgrading the capability of the Directorate General of Gas, and a twinning arrangement with a
reputable gas utility to upgrade SNGPL's operational capabilities
*  further development of SNGPL's financial management information systems and data processing
*  designing the new formula for setting SNGPL's prescribed prices and performance criteria
*  services of financial advisers and an underwriter or consortium of underwriters to manage the issuance
of shares
*  design, engineering and supervision of high pressure pipeline at river crossings



3
6.     In 1992, reservoir studies were conducted 3 which confirmed the availability of an additional 215 MMCFD
gas supply to SNGPL. To accommodate the additional gas, the scope of the infrastructure development component
was revised in 1994 to include 743 miles of transmission pipelines and 1,200 BHP of compression facilities,
increasing the overall system capacity to 1,000 MMCFD. Targets for consumer connections were correspondingly
adjusted. The mid-term review in February 1996 endorsed the adjustments made with regard to the physical
components and focused on actions to advance the ongoing privatization as well as the creation of an appropriate
regulatory framework.
7.     The project objectives were consistent with the Government and Bank's strategy for the development of the
energy sector. In the late 1980's, demand for gas in SNGPL's franchise area in Punjab and NWFP 4, one of the most
mature gas networks in the developing world, was growing at more than the national average. SNGPL's operational
efficiency left much to be desired and its ability to keep up with growing gas demand was questioned. Privatization
had been identified as the best strategic option to improve performance, enhance quality of services through better
use of available technology and to mobilize additional resources to implement expansion of the system. The fast
track privatization of SNGPL by reduction of GOP's direct and indirect shareholding in SNGPL through issuance of
new shares to the general public should have taken into account the absorptive capacity of the domestic capital
markets. Also, when the project was designed, insufficient attention was given to an assessment of the
appropriateness of the regulatory system and pricing arrangements to make privatization workable. In retrospect, it
is clear that the objective of privatization of SNGPL during project implementation, given the absence of an
appropriate regulatory framework and pricing arrangements, was somewhat unrealistic. Otherwise, the objectives
were appropriate.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
8.     Overall, the project's developmental objectives were only partially achieved with mixed results.
Specifically, the objectives and assessment of the outcomes of the project are discussed below.
Obiective: Assist GOP in restructuring SNGPL's equity ownership to make the utility more autonomous and to
enhance its resource mobilization capacity by enabling it to tap new sources of financing, including private sector
financing.
Outcome: This objective to date has not been achieved. In 1992, GOP attempted to reduce its shareholding in
SNGPL from 90 percent to 40 percent through an Initial Public Offering (IPO) (30 percent) and a private placement
with a foreign gas company of international repute (20 percent) at a price not less than the price offered to the
general public. The stipulated floor price and the limited absorptive capacity of the domestic market proved to be a
major obstacle and 81 percent of the IPO remained unsubscribed. It took the underwriters several years to unload
the unsubscribed shares to the general public. In February 1993, GOP offered 20 percent of SNGPL shares to Nova
Gas International of Canada and British Gas at the same price as offered in the IPO, but the terms and conditions of
this offer were not accepted.
In August 1994, GOP changed its approach and decided to divest 26 percent of the shares with management control
to a strategic investor through a competitive bidding process. The strategic investor would have to be a reputable
foreign gas utility. This change in approach was welcomed by all stakeholders, but got off to a slow start. Two
separate internationally qualified financial advisors were eventually retained by the Privatization Commission (PC)
on a back-to-back basis over a four-year period, during which the responsibility for the privatization was transferred
from the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources (MPNR) to the PC. The financial advisers prepared the
Information Memorandum and documents for pre-qualification, but they were never issued--mainly because the
concerns of the investors were not addressed through the introduction of an appropriate regulatory regime and gas
pricing policies. In addition, there were disagreements between the MPNR and the PC.
During appraisal in 1989, it was recognized that privatization of SNGPL required changes in the existing regulatory
framework, and therefore review of the regulatory functions of the Directorate General of Gas was included in the
3   OGDC and intemational oil companies conducted reservoir studies.
4   North West Frontier Province.



4
project. During implementation, it became clear that a more comprehensive sector regulatory study was required.
GOP undertook this with the assistance of consultants funded by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) on terms of
reference agreed with the Bank. The study recommended an overall framework for sector regulation, including the
creation of a Gas Regulatory Authority (GRA). GOP accepted the recommendations in March 1995. Following a
change in Government in February 1997, and after dilution of the provisions for independent rate-making and
development of competitive market structures by the regulator, a GRA Ordinance was promulgated in October 1997.
However, it lapsed after the initial 120-day period, as it was not enacted by Parliament. Since then, the Government
has on a number of occasions reaffirmed its commitment to institute an appropriate regulatory framework to
enhance investor confidence. In this regard, a revised draft of the Gas Act (satisfactory to the Bank) was presented
to the National Assembly in December 1998, but it has not yet been enacted. This draft, establishing the GRA was
unanimously endorsed by the Standing Committee on Law and Parliamentary Affairs on March 7, 1999, and the Gas
Act is expected to be presented for Parliamentary approval soon.
Obiective: Expand SNGPL's infrastructure for purification, transmission and distribution of gas at least cost
Outcome: This objective has been fully realized, albeit with some initial delay in the procurement of HRC from
Russia. Following the gas field studies, full advantage was taken of the opportunities offered by reconfiguration of
gas supply to SNGPL's consumers at least cost. Under the Bank financed project, capacity of the transmission
system was expanded from 450 MMCFD to 1,000 MMCFD, versus 800 MMCFD originally planned, minimizing
online compression and consequently the operating cost. Installation of SCADA5 facilities has provided the means
to enhance supply/demand management, capacity utilization and safety.
Obiective: Promote the substitution of gas for higher value petroleum products in the northern parts of the country.
Outcome: In the energy consumption of households and commercial entities, gas substitutes kerosene. The
appraisal targets for domestic and commercial connections were exceeded, and thus this objective was achieved.
However, because end consumer tariffs were not adjusted to ensure cost recovery, the ambitious domestic
connections policy mandate of the authorities had a negative impact on SNGPL's finances. During FY93-96, a total
of 562,403 domestic, 11,004 commercial and 290 industrial consumers were attached against the target of 330,000
domestic, 6,000 commercial and 400 industrial new consumers, amounting to a 70 percent overall increase. An
important side benefit on the environmental side has been the positive impact of replacement of fuel oil and
kerosene used by industrial, commercial and residential consumers alike by natural gas, a non-toxic premium fuel
substitute that burns with a remarkably clean and controllable flame. However, these encouraging outcomes were to
an extent at the expense of the financial health of SNGPL, as gas prices to domestic consumers did not cover costs.
Over the last few years in particular, the company incurred a loss per connection, even for on-line household
connections. Thus under the circumstances, the mandated annual connection targets for distribution development
that came to be perceived as almost an entitlement by urban constituencies, particularly the middle class, could have
been much less ambitious. This would have avoided the liquidity crunch faced by the utility in the later stages of the
project.
Obiective: Rationalize the consumption and supply of gas through pricing and demand management.
Outcome: This objective has not been achieved. Since the oil price hikes of the early 1970s, gas had been priced at
levels well below its economic cost. This resulted in an insufficient level of investments in exploration and
production and consequently emergence of acute supply shortages in northern cities, particularly in the winter
months. In 1989, GOP and the Bank agreed under the Second Energy Sector Loan (Ln. 3107-PAK, 1991) on a
program to bring the consumer price of natural gas in line with the price of substitute fuels. Specifically, the
agreement (which was repeated under CRSEP), called for (a) increasing the price for residential consumers to full
parity with the border price of fuel oil by June 30, 1993 [subsequently amended to June 30, 1995 under the Public
Sector Adjustment Loan6 (PSAL)]; (b) maintaining the price for industrial, commercial, and power sectors at full
parity with the domestic price of fuel oil and (c) raising the price for gas purchased by the power sector directly from
the producers to full parity with the domestic price of fuel oil by June 30, 1995. Up to end-1995, GOP was able to
comply with these agreements through periodic adjustments in natural gas prices. However, in early 1996 the GOP
(under agreements with the Bank and the IMF), adjusted prices of petroleum products (including fuel oil) more
frequently so as to pass on to consumers the impact in excess of three percent per month in the border prices of those
5   Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System.
6   Loan 3645-PAK, US$150.0 mnillion, 1993.



5
products. As a result, the domestic fuel oil price was increased almost every month to reflect changes in import
costs. This rapidly changing situation made it very difficult for GOP to maintain the gas price parities agreed with
the Bank. Consequently, since early 1996, the covenants regarding consumer gas prices have. not been in
compliance.
Obiective: Strengthen SNGPL's capabilities in long-term planning, project implementation, inventory control,
operation, maintenance and safety.
Outcome: This objective was largely achieved through a collaborative arrangement contract with NovaCorp which
involved on-the-job training by their specialists who visited Pakistan over the program period. The contract included
study visits by about 80 management and professional level staff to provide exposure to gas pipeline operations, in-
house operational reviews, system surveys and safety audits. Specific technical programs have helped to mitigate
the adverse impact of the financial difficulties experienced by SNGPL in recent years. These programs were based
on in-depth studies by joint SNGPL/NovaCorp teams to reduce unaccounted for gas (particularly in distribution),
establishment of a separate department under a General Manager for corrosion control, and establishment of an in-
house Safety Audit Team.
9.     Project Cost and Financing Plan: The total cost of the project was estimated at US$546 million including
physical and price contingencies of about US$107 million, and taxes and duties of about US$104 million, but
excluding interest during construction of about US$10.2 million. New equity issues and local loans (39 percent)
would cover local costs comprised of US$93 million and US$121 million equivalent, respectively. The remaining
local costs of US$203 million (37 percent) was to be financed through SNGPL's internal sources, including
customer contributions and security deposits. The initial Bank loan of US$130 million was supplemented by an
additional US$60 million loan for manufacture of steel linepipe through procurement of HRC increasing the amount
of foreign exchange costs to about 35 percent of the total project cost. The increase in total project cost from
US$546 million to US$624 million is due to an additional 100 miles of transmission lines, increased number of gas
connections, as well as implementation of the enhanced transmission SCADA and the pilot distribution SCADA for
Lahore.
D. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
10.    Ex-post economic rate of return (ERR) calculations were carried out by SNGPL based on the assumptions
used during project appraisal (see Table 9A). For these calculations, the weighted average consumer price of gas
has been used as a proxy for economic benefits. However, the average consumer price reflects only the costs which
consumers actually incur consuming additional gas. A more accurate proxy of the overall savings resulting from
this project, or of the consumers' willingness to pay, and thus a better reflection of the benefits of these investments
for the economy, is the border price of substitute fuel, notably fuel oil.
11.    Using the average consumer price as a proxy for project benefits, the ex-post ERRS is -8.27 percent,
compared to the appraisal estimate of about 24.8 percent. This steep drop from the anticipated ERR is largely
because the administrative pricing system has not allowed the average consumer price of gas to keep pace with
changes in SNGPL's input structure. The largest component of the retail price of gas contributes to the cost of gas
purchased from producers, (particularly gas supply from fields, which came on stream after the appraisal of the
project). By contrast, the ERR using the price of substitute products as a proxy for project benefits is very high
(about 68 percent), and reflects the benefits which the economy derives from additional gas supplies (see Table 9B).
E. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT
Factors not generally subject to government control
12.   There were a number of factors outside the control of the Government, which impacted the project. These
included: (a) deterioration of the country's balance of payment situation, exacerbated by the Gulf Crisis of 1990/91,
impaired GOP's ability to provide foreign exchange for the import of HRC to locally manufactured linepipe for the
system expansion component and concomitant delay to arrange supplemental financing; (b) delays in procurement
of the required HRC as per Bank guidelines and logistical problems in transporting the large consignment of



6
materials from Russia to a port facility in the newly independent Ukraine for onward shipment to Pakistan, in the
aftermath of the collapse of Soviet Union; (c) delays due to reconfiguration of gas supply following the reservoir
studies of new finds such as Qadirpur and (d) non-availability of contract services for pipeline construction
(procurement arrangements for all work contracts were to be procured locally), which contributed to a delay in
implementation.
Factors generally subject to government control
13.    Gas Allocation and System Planning: During implementation the MPNR directed a significant volume of
additional gas supplies from fields in Baluchistan under the project, from power generation e.g., fuel supply for Kot
Addu Power Plant to household consumers. The rationale was that under the existing gas allocation policy,
household consumers were a higher priority in the GOP's gas allocation scheme. The curtailment of gas supply
from existing power plants as well as from new independent power producers, particularly for domestic and
commercial customers during winter months has continued, despite claims this would be reversed once committed
connections were fulfilled. The transmission SCADA, which was initially earmarked for funding under the SNGPL
component of a parallel operation for Pakistan's petroleum sector (Domestic Energy and Resource Development
Project, Loan 3500-PAK) was incorporated into CRSEP for closer integration with the system expansion
component, and was completed before the (extended) closing date.
14.    Restructuring and Privatization of SNGPL: The lack of ownership of the gas sector reform agenda due to
frequent changes in government leadership was a significant factor in the delay of SNGPL's privatization. Fresh
policy reviews were necessary to develop consensus among the decision-makers after each election. Target dates
agreed with Bank missions for establishing an appropriate regulatory framework through an Act of Parliament
(although the GRA Ordinance was promulgated in 1997) prior to the privatization were not met as no political
consensus to pursue the reform agenda could be reached. When the project closed in June 1998, the restructuring
and privatization objectives were largely unmet. If an appropriate regulatory framework had been adopted earlier,
privatization could perhaps have been accomplished on time. Other factors also played a role, such as; lack of action
on the agreed gas price rationalization; accelerated household connections leading to weakness in SNGPL's
financial viability and a bloated manpower in SNGPL. These three issues are briefly discussed below.
•  Consumer Gas Pricing. Currently, gas prices for commercial consumers are about 98 percent of the
parity with the price of fuel oil agreed under the Loan; prices for general industry and the power sector
are about 87 percent of the agreed parity. For household consumers, weighted average price is
currently about 92 percent of the agreed parity. Nonetheless in recent years, gas price for households
has been 25 percent to 30 percent below the agreed parity. Hence the delay in implementing final
consumer prices- especially fertilizer and household customers, when the average cost of gas for
SNGPL has progressively risen (because of the increased share of more expensive gas being supplied
to SNGPL from newer fields), has meant the cost of gas to SNGPL is now close to or above the final
selling price. Thus failure by the authorities to offset the increased cost of gas by rationalizing tariffs to
reduce cross-subsidization amongst consumer categories has created a liquidity crunch for the utility.
GOP has not been in compliance with these economic pricing of gas covenants under the Loan
Agreement and subsequently the PSAL since 1996.
*  Financial Impact of Consumer Connections. SNGPL has connected about 860,000 households to gas
supply from 1992-98--including 330,000 provided in the original project scope. This has minimized
energy shortage in the northern parts of the country and also maximized the substitution of higher
value petroleum products (kerosene) in domestic energy consumption. However, at the current
domestic tariffs, these investments are not financially sustainable. Nearly 50 percent of SNGPL's sales
(i.e., fertilizer feedstock and domestic) is at a rate below the average cost of gas. As a result, SNGPL
had to resort to short-term borrowing at interest rates of 22 percent. SNGPL's risk profile from the
perspective of private sector investors continued to deteriorate because of the erosion of the spread
between the 17.5 percent return on assets and cost of borrowings, along with an increased reliance on
short-term borrowings for capital investment.



7
Overstaffing.  The relatively high number of SNGPL's employees has been a major impediment to
improving operational efficiency. Staff levels increased dramatically from mid-1994 when there were
about 4,500 employees, to about 9,700 in early 1997. Many of these mandated appointments involved
intervention from the highest political levels in the country and often without credentials. Following
the change of government and realization of the burden it caused to efficient operations, SNGPL
managed to lay-off about 1,000 employees on a last-in-first-out basis. In parallel, with donor
encouragement, SNGPL conducted a manpower study7 that resulted in formulating a retrenchment
strategy focusing on re-defining work norms, outsourcing and selling off non-core activities. Although
the company Board has largely endorsed the strategy, it is pending GOP's clearance prior to its
implementation.
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
15.    Implementation of System Expansion. Within SNGPL's control were transmission and distribution
infrastructure planning, design, procurement processing, construction and commissioning activities, as well as
transmission and distribution operations. This enabled the company to: (a) promptly adjust its system expansion
designs and construction plans to major mid-stream changes in the sources and quantities of available gas and in
GOP's gas supply allocation; (b) provide in-house crews to make up for the non-availability of local contract
services and (c) implement the infrastructure expansion component in a timely manner to alleviate energy shortages
in central and northern Pakistan.
16.    Procurement Activities. Significant delays in procurement actions were experienced in the initial stages of
the project. In view of the Borrower's experience with the Bank's guidelines, processing of procurement actions was
on the whole, relatively smooth. SNGPL staff involved in CRSEP's procurement experienced some turnover, but
new staff was encouraged to attend a Bank-sponsored procurement seminar.8 In terms of process delays, the main
exception was the high value of HRC package from Russia. The Russian supplier was unfamiliar with Bank-
financed procurement guidelines, and it required several interventions from Bank management and the project team
to keep the contract on track.
17.    For items below the pre-review threshold (US$1 million), ex-post reviews conducted by the Bank indicated
procurement planning for some low-value items were weak. This resulted in repeat orders of similar items beyond
amounts allowed in the category of quantity variation9. This was brought to the attention of the Borrower as an
unacceptable practice in Bank procurement. The sheer quantum of low-value contracts which emerged during
implementation of a large project spread over half of the country indicates that SNGPL should have done more to
focus on procurement planning and be less reactive to material ordering departments. In the latter stages of project
implementation when SCADA consultants were appointed (after the loan extension in 1996), there was a significant
improvement in carrying out Bank procurement.
F. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
18.    Upgrading and capacity enhancement of the company's gas transportation infrastructure under the project
was robust in design, except for initial delays was efficiently implemented. It provides a sound base for further
expansion to link likely sources of additional gas supply with demand centers in the north, particularly Punjab.
Having received the necessary institutional strengthening under the project, SNGPL is capable of efficiently
managing the ongoing operations and future expansion programs. Gas consumption during the project period
increased substantially, more than originally forecast (about 900 MMCFD in 1998 versus the projected 700
MMCFD). Taking into account its efficiency, the marketing of gas even at competing fuel price parity, should not
present any problems for long-term sustainability of the project--provided that private sector funding to expand the
market share of gas becomes available. To help bring this about, the confidence of potential investors must be
7   Financed by the Canadian International Development Agency.
8   The procurement seminar was held at the Ghularn Ishak Khan Institute.
9   About 15% of the total of over 400 contracts for which record tracing was very satisfactory.



8
restored by completing the actions outlined in the project, but not yet accomplished (i.e., appropriate gas pricing and
sector regulation reforms which would introduce competition).
G. BANK PERFORMANCE
19.    The Bank's performance was satisfactory in the identification/preparation phase of the project. At that
stage, the core elements of the project had consisted of the system expansion component, (as an optimized balance
of loop-lines and compression), augmented with provisions for technical assistance to develop SNGPL's financial
performance criteria, as well as a collaborative/twinning arrangement for SNGPL with an experienced gas company.
The Bank's contribution to the design of the restructuring component during the appraisal phase was, in hindsight,
less than satisfactory. GOP of its consequences incorporated the corporate restructuring of SNGPL in the project
description late in the appraisal phase of the project without full appreciation. Once it was clear that without an
enabling environment, further divestment beyond the IPO was proving difficult, the Bank flagged repeatedly that no
meaningful privatization could be anticipated until the Government's role as owner, operator and regulator and its
consequent impact on the future attractiveness of SNGPL was properly addressed by the authorities.
20.    Bank supervision performance was generally satisfactory during project implementation. After the initial
privatization efforts did not go well, the Bank's supervision mission teams refocused the dialogue with
GOP/SNGPL on the necessary improvements in the regulatory framework and the future business environment.
The Bank encouraged GOP to undertake a more comprehensive regulatory framework study than envisaged at
appraisal, helped draft its terms of reference, as well as reviewed and commented upon its findings. Later, the Bank
was also able to provide inputs to the preparation of the draft Gas Act, now before the Parliament. For the
restructuring component, the Bank provided assistance in formulating the terms of reference and contract of the
financial and legal advisers for SNGPL's privatization, advising GOP of the need to rationalize gas prices amongst
consumer categories, revise the financial performance criteria for a privatized SNGPL and establish a sound
regulatory framework.
H. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
21.    The Borrower's performance in the preparation phase of the project, beginning in early 1988 was highly
satisfactory. With the discovery of Pirkoh and Loti fields and installation of surface facilities financed by the ADB
and the World Bank, this project was prepared by SNGPL to obtain funding for the transmission and distribution
infrastructure required to evacuate additional gas supplies made available to meet the growing demand in northern
Pakistan. A Bank financed Gas Utilization and Demand Management Study by international consultants hired by
SNGPL, as well as an in-house optimization study were carried out to determine the least cost design--a
combination of pipeline size and compression facilities over a wide area in Punjab and NWFP. The Bank's
preparation mission reviewed the system optimization study and determined that it formed a reasonable basis for
implementing the investment component. The scope of the project was nonetheless quite ambitious, as it was twice
as large as any project SNGPL had implemented thus far. As part of project preparation, entering into take-or-pay
contracts between gas producers and SNGPL strengthened long-term supply arrangements.
22.    The Government's performance in the implementation phase was deficient, as the Government was unable
to bring to bear the level of political consensus necessary to carry out the modest level of sector reforms considered
essential for utilization of Pakistan's indigenous gas resources on a sustainable basis. In retrospect, the design of the
revised privatization strategy could have been improved to take into account the bundled nature of gas distribution
and transmission functions within a vertically integrated company like SNGPL. In this regard, the key issue of cost
recovery, particularly from the gas distribution end of the business, was a down-side-risk the new private sector
owners of SNGPL could not be expected take a chance on without appropriate incentives and guarantees (with little
control over total revenue requirements under Government led connections policy). Consequently, a number of
important milestones in the reform agenda such as establishing the enabling regulatory environment and invitation
of proposals on a transparent open bidding basis (retrofitted into the project, post the mid-term review), were the
necessary measures that could have been agreed to as part of appraisal or Board presentation, and in hindsight were
a necessary condition for a satisfactory outcome.



9
23.    As for the investment component, SNGPL did make up the cumulative delay of about one and a half years
due to, inter alia, a prolonged delay in delivery of materials from Russia; mid-stream changes in the configuration,
quality, quantity of gas supplies and reallocation of such supplies; lack of adequate response for contract services
and an increase of about 100 miles in the scope of pipelines looping. From design to commissioning, the
infrastructure component of the project was completed in the same length of time (6 years) as originally stipulated
and within the project cost estimate, with a 25 percent increases in system transportation capacity (1,000 MMCFD
versus 800 MMCFD originally planned). This has been an impressive implementation performance by a utility
operating in a developing country environment. In view of the then Interim Government's action to hike gas tariffs
by 15 percent as part of an overall 25 percent tariff increase package and commitment to future tariff measures
which support cost recovery, the Bank was flexible in extending the loan closing date to make up for time lost due to
factors beyond the Borrower's control in the implementation of an infrastructure expansion component.
I. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
24.   Since appraisal in 1988, the Bank has gained greater experience in guidance to governments on
privatization efforts, and would design the project much differently. As a result, despite some achievements, the
project has been rated unsatisfactory as it failed to achieve the primary objective of privatization of SNGPL to the
level expected at appraisal, even with an 18-month extension to the closing date. In summary the project:
*  helped alleviate severe energy shortages in central and northern Pakistan
*  enhanced SNGPL's load and safety management capabilities
e  contributed substantially in the improvement of the country's balance of payments
*  provided a robust infrastructure base for maximizing natural gas utilization in Punjab and North West
Frontier provinces
*  increased private share holding in SNGPL's equity and representation in its Board of Directors
e  set the stage for further enhancement of private sector participation in the company's management and in
its expansion projects
25.    Gas consumption in SNGPL's area of operations (Punjab and North West Frontier provinces) was
projected to grow from about 420 MMCFD in 1991 to 720 MMCFD in 1998, while actual consumption in 1998 has
been around 900 MMCFD. Without the capacity expansion under the project, system capability would have
remained at 450 MMCFD, resulting in severe energy shortages. This was particularly true in the northern areas of
the country which could not be supplied with the alternative fuel (imported kerosene) due to long-distance and poor
transportation arrangements from Karachi where the country's only oil import terminal is located.
26.    The consequent shortfall in gas supply, of the order of 500 MMCFD, could not have been managed and
would have been very hazardous to the safety of thousands of consumers in the various towns and cities connected
to a gas supply. (An unscheduled outage of 50 MMCFD could mean a loss of supply to about 170,000 households
and if it prevailed for about six hours or more, depressurization of transmission pipelines and distribution network
could commence putting the communities at risks).
27.    The substitution of kerosene with natural gas in households and commercial consumption, represented a
saving in imports valued at US$425 million in FY90 to US$850 million in FY98, and enhanced the economic
benefits of the project from US$200 million in FY90 to US$350 million in FY98.
28.    The system expansion planning is based on free-flow transportation, minimizing the operating costs with
the potential for further capacity increase through online compression in the short-term, and with looping in the
medium and long terms. The system links all major gas producing regions with the markets and the likely locations
of the imported gas receiving terminals are directly or indirectly (through the Sui Southern system) within its reach.
It can efficiently support the expansion of natural gas utilization in central and northern Pakistan.
29.    In view of the lack of adequate tariff increases, it has been a challenge to maintain the private sector's
interest in the form of a strategic partner because of GOP's inability to rectify SNGPL's financial situation prior to
the proposed transaction. Nonetheless, distributed private sector shareholding in SNGPL's equity increased from 9



10
percent to 40 percent as a result of the IPO and its Board of Directors, was reconstituted to reflect this change in
ownership, although not to the level anticipated at appraisal. The watch dog role of the private sector has been
modestly strengthened partly because the current Board Chairman is now from the private sector.
30.    Draft legislation for the regulatory framework, which places a high value in creating a level playing field
between public and private sector stakeholders in the gas industry, has been prepared. Approval by the Standing
Committee on Law and Parliamentary Affairs took effect on May 7, 1999, for enactment by Parliament during the
current session. Now that there appears to be a consensus on the scope of necessary reforms in gas pricing and
regulatory framework at technical levels, and provided that the GRA is enacted, the full privatization process for
SNGPL could start in earnest soon.
J. FUTURE OPERATION
31.    SNGPL has prepared an Operational Plan to sustain the project objectives during its operational phase
(1999-2010). The premise of the Operational Plan is that the momentun of this reform and development process
should be maintained so as to maximize the use of natural gas in domestic energy consumption. An appropriate legal
and regulatory framework and a pricing regime are expected to be established soon to enable selection of a suitable
strategic partner.
32.    In the operation of the infrastructure developed under the project, alleviation of energy shortages and
substitution of higher value petroleum product fuels with natural gas, particularly in northern parts of the country,
will remain the main objective. Having benefited from institutional development under the project, the company is
also focusing on enhancement of operational efficiency and safety. The areas receiving priority are billing, upgrade
of gas measurement facilities, reduction of unaccounted for gas, inventory management, corrosion control and
environment health and safety.
33.    The Operational Plan is attached to Appendix A. SNGPL has sufficiently trained staff to implement this.
The agreed performance indicators during the operation phase are given in Table 6.
K. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
34.    Among the key lessons learned from this project are:
-  Prior to breaking new ground on sector reforms, the issues involved should be thoroughly examined
and addressed to ensure sustained commitment of the Govemment and the Borrower. A risk and
benefits analysis of economic and political ramifications of stake holder winners and losers as a result
of SNGPL's privatization could have been undertaken during project preparation to enable GOP to
develop a strong consensus for necessary reforms. Given the significant share of gas sales at subsidized
rates to domestic consumers who are mainly from the middle class and their potential vested interest,
the impact of proposed reforms on existing relationships and incentive for political patronage based on
gas connections should have been carefully assessed at the outset.
*  The expected leverage of the investment component of the project with regards to restructuring and
privatization was, in retrospect, overly ambitious. Once the infrastructure expansion was launched, the
Bank decided that disbursements could not be withheld without severely jeopardizing efficient
implementation of the system expansion component. This also included risking large-scale outages of
gas supply impacting on the safety of consumers and of the localities in the vicinity of the high
pressure of pipeline system. In retrospect, a tougher stance from the Bank could have helped in
meeting the project 's development objectives.
•  The restructuring strategy should have been more clearly defined during project preparation. As such,
a strategy for obtaining up-front reforms and restructuring, (rather than expecting reforms to be
implemented in parallel while disbursements under the Bank financed Project was underway), should



11
have been agreed with GOP at the latest by negotiations. Overall, taking into account the growth in
energy demand and the potential role of natural gas in meeting Pakistan's future energy demand, the
establishment of an enabling environment including an arms-length regulator through a Gas Act
endorsed by Parliament, is key to promoting much needed private sector investments and remains a
development priority.
The driving force for designing a swift transition of SNGPL to a privatized utility with distributed
ownership was the need to rapidly mobilize resources for the proposed Project's investment
component, the largest ever in Pakistan's oil and gas sector. However, the expectation of raising a
large part of local financing from domestic financial capital markets, which lacked the depth and
maturity for raising such funds through an IPO for underpinning the financing of a large infrastructure
investment program was, in hindsight risky.
The impact of proposed reforms on existing relationships based on the prevailing gas connection
policy should have been carefully assessed at appraisal. In view of the potential for political patronage
of low priced natural gas, it may have been more effective to have included as a condition of Board or
Effectiveness, the completion of the pricing study and by definition reform of the gas pricing structure
and level of gas prices that would assure SNGPL was provided with cost covering tariffs.



12
PART II - Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievementof Objectives      Substantial          Partial        Negligible       Not Applicable
Macroeconomic Policies
Sector Policies                                                         /
Financial Objectives                                                    /
Institutional Development                                                   .
Physical Objectives
Poverty Reduction
Gender Issues                                                                              /
Other Social Objectives                      .
Environmental Objectives             /
Public Sector Management
Private Sector Development                    =
Other (Specify)
__________ _____________            Likely            Unlikely        Uncertain
B. Project Sustainability                     _
C. Bank Performance           Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient
Identification                       /
Preparation Assistance
Appraisal                                                               V
Supervision                                             /
D. Borrower Performance       Higly Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation                          /
Implementation
Covenant Compliance                                                     V
Operation (if applicable)
Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory   Highly Unsatisfactory
E. Assessment of Outcome                                                /



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Year of 
Loan/Title                         Purpose                    aroa                 Status
Approval
Preceding operations
1. Sui Northem Gas Pipelines   Construction of 378 miles of pipeline    1964            Completed in 1967
limited (Ln.3770)              from Multan to Lyallpur (now
Faisalabad) and Dandot w/spur to Lahore
2. Second Sui Northem Gas      (a) Increase SNGPL's gas transmission     1969           Completed in 1972
Pipelines Limited Project       system;
(Ln. 5970)                 (b) construction of 93 miles of large
diameter loops; and
(c) supply of gas to Dawood-Hercules
Fertilizer Plant.
3. Third Sui Northem Gas        (a) Increase SNGPL's gas transmission   1970            Completed in 1973
Pipelines Limited Project       system by 20 MMCFD from 277
(Ln. 6960)                  MMCFD to 297 MMCFD; and
(b) construction of 106 miles of large
diameter loops and 208 miles of small
diameter laterals.
4. Fourth Sui Northem Gas       (a) Increase SNGPL' s gas transmission   1975           Completed in 1982
Pipelines Limited Project       system by 118 MMCFD to 415
(Ln. 1107)                 MMCFD;
(b) construction of 116 miles of large
diameter loops and 15 miles of small
diameter laterals;
(c) installation of 32,760 hp of new and
relocated compressors; and
(d) installation of 200 MMCFD of gas
purification units.
5. Fifth Sui Northem Gas       Increase SNGPL system capacity by 70      1983      Loan was closed June 30,
Pipelines Limited Project       MMCFD a total capacity of 450                      1989.
(Ln 2324-PAK)              MMCFD, and to complete limited
expansion of the distribution system to
residential consumers to substitute gas
for kerosene.
6. Energy Sector Loan II        Finance GOP Program for policy reform   1989       Loan was closed on
(Ln. 3107-0-PAK)- Main Loan   and instit. Dev. During 7th Five-year Plan  1991  December 31, 1994.
(Ln. 3107-1-PAK)-Suppl. Loan  (FY89-93)
Following operations
Domestic Energy Resources       Accelerate development of indigenous     1992      Loan was closed on June 30,
Development Project             hydrocarbons, utilizing private sector             1998.
resources to the maximum extent
(Ln. 3500-PAK)                 possible.



14
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                     Date Planned                 Date Actual/
I                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Latest Estimatel
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                                12/02/87
Preparation                                                                               04/10188
Appraisal                                                                                 05/22/89
Negotiations                                                                              05/18/90
Board Presentation                                                                08/07/90(ML)  6/21/91(SL)
Signing                                                                           10/22/90(ML)  7/8/91(SL)
Effectiveness                                                                      04/12/91(ML)  10f7/91(SL)
Midterm review (if applicable)                                                            02/05/96
Project Completion                                            06/30/96         Investment Comp. 12/31/98
____________________________________________                                    Restructuring Comp. - 12/2000
Loan Closing                                                  12/31/96                    06/30/98
ML = Main Loan   SL = Supplemental Loan
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
____________                5_______               (US$  Thousa                                   _   _   _ -
Fiscal Years    FY 90-91   FY 91-92   FY 92-93   FY 93-94   FY 94.95   FY 95.96   FY 96-97   FY 97-98           As on
_________                  ~~~~~01/27199
Appraisal        12,000      90,000     130,000     161,000     182,000     190,000    190,000     190,000      190,000
estimate
Actual            5,684      16,103      56,414      86,887     112.593     127,338    144,776     176,114      181,437
Actual as
percent of        47.4        17.9        43.4        54.0       61.9        67.0        76.2        92.7        95.6
estimate                  I                                                                                 I
Date of final   3252-0-PAK - January 4, 1999
disbursement    3252-1 -PAK - October 31, 1998
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1.  Key Implementation Indicators in                 Estimated                              Actual
SAR/ President's Report
Phvsical
1. a) Transmission pipelines                          643 miles                            743 miles
b) System capacity                                800 MMCFD                           1000 MMCFD
c) Household Connections                            330,000                              562,403
d) Commercial Connections                            6,000                                11,004
e) Industrial Connections                             400                                  290
f) Average Daily Sale (FY98)                      724 MMCFD                            652 MMCFD
Financial and Cornorate
1. Share equity of GOP                                40 percent                           60 percent
2. Rate of return on assets                          17.5 percent                          17.5 percent
3. Restructuring of SNGPL Board                 6 Government Directors               10 Government Directors
7 Private Sector Directors           3 Private Sector Directors



15
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I.  Key Operating Indicators in              Targets
SAR/President's Report                                 I
Physical
1. Household connections per year:
FY99                                          125,000
FY2003                                        125,000
125,000
FY2010
Commercial connections per year:
FY99                                           4,000
FY2003                                         4,000
FY2010                                         4,000
Industrial
FY99                                            100
100
FY2003                                          100
FY2010
2. Average Daily Sale (MMCFD)
FY99                                            725
FY2003                                          895
FY2010                                          1047
3. Losses (Percent)
FY99
FY2003                                         <6.5
FY2010                                         <4.0
<2.0
Financial and Corporate
1. Share equity of GOP                           40 percent
2. Rate of return on assets                     >22 percent
3. Restructuring of SNGPL Board             6 Government Directors
7 Private sector Directors



16
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study              Purpose as Defined              Status            Impact of Study
At Appraisal/Redefined           Stats_Ipactof_tud
1. Collaborative        Staff training in the areas of   Completed        The training received by
arrangement with a      long term planning, Project                        SNGPL personnel
foreign private gas utility   implementation, pipeline                     during the Collaborative
system operation and                              Arrangement with Nova
maintenance, inventory                            would be of great benefit
control and safety.                               to them in the future.
2. Financial Management  Definition of computer          Completed         On the whole, the report
Information Systems     hardware and software needs,                       has merit. Its
study                   review of billing cycle and                        implementation will lead
training in internal auditing of                  to accurate information
computerized accounting                           and reports becoming
system.                                           available to the
management that will
enable more informed
decision making.
3. Natural Gas Pricing  Rationalization of gas pricing   Completed         The Government of
Structure               structure prior to                                 Pakistan approved a new
privatization.                                    gas pricing mechanism
based on Return on
Equity vide cabinet
decision on March 27,
1995.



17
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)       Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Item               Local    Foreign     Total       Local      Foreign      Total
Costs     Costs                  Costs       Costs
1. Transmission Lines         166.7      91.2      257.9       188.8       123.4       312.2
2. Purification Plant          5.8       9.0        14.8         -           -           -
3. Compression (new and re-    8.6       10.7       19.3       10.4         12.1        22.5
staging)
4. Coating Plant               1.7       3.4        5.1         5.4         4.8         10.2
5. Construction Equipment     12.4       14.0       26.4       14.1         18.2        32.3
6. Telecommunications          3.5       2.9        6.4         6.5         17.4        23.9
7. Distribution Development   71.7       12.8       84.5       149.6        3.1         152.7
8. T.A. & Training             0.5       2.4        2.9          -          2.7         2.7
9. Physical Contingencies     27.1       14.6       41.7                     -           -
10. Price Contingencies       37.1       29.0       66.0               -                 -
11. IDC                       21.5        -         21.5       67.5          -          67.5
TOTAL               356.5      190.2      546.5      442.3        182.0       624.0
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)         Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Source              Local        Foreign      Total      Local      Foreign      Total
costs        costs                   Costs       Costs
IBRD/IDA                                   190.0       190.0        -         182.0
Co-financing Institution       -             -           -          -           -          -
Other External Sources       61.0            -         61.0       289.0         -        289.0
Domestic Contribution        296.0           -         296.0      153.3         -        153.3
TOTAL                357.0        190.0       547.0       442.3       182.0      624.0



18
Table 9A: Economic Costs and Benefits
(ERR on Appraisal Gas Price Basis)
(Figures in Million Rupees)
,                             Gas ~~~~~~~~~~Pulrdxase                Incerenent Sales
CA6P.           ~Gas Pucae          Total               Ire1nt                       Total
Year        MCp       0&l          MCF    Value        Cost      MNICF        Eco.      Consumer    BTrta         Net Benetlt
_________    ,______    ._____    .____ _          .     Value     Contribution
1990-91          515        15           0         0        530         0           0            0           0           -530
1991-92          734        22           0         0        756         0           0            1            1          -755
1992-93         2,512       75        21,107      573      3,161      20,474       650           2          652         -2,509
1993-94         3,590       108       29.966      858      4,555      29,067      1,141          2          1,143       -3,412
1994-95         2,597       78        34,616     1,206     3,881      33,577      1,599          3          1,602       -2,279
1995-96         3.012       90        80,611     4,053     7,155      78,193      5,268          4          5,272       -1.883
1996-97         2,382       71        104,678    7,047     9,500     101,538      8.471          5          8,476       -1,024
1997-98         2,426       73        106,166    7,883     10,381    102,981      8,591          5          8,596       -1,785
1998-99          1.113      73        104,816    7,783     8,968     101,672      8,482          5          8,487        -481
1999-2000         0         73        104,816    7,783     7,855     101.672      8,482          5          8,487         632
2000-1            0         73        104,552    7,763     7,836     101,415      8,460          5          8,466         630
2001-2            0         73        104,552    7,763     7,836     101,415      8.460          5          8,466         630
2002-3            0         73        104,552    7,763     7,836      101,415     8,460          5          8,466         630
2003-4            0         73        104.552    7,763     7,836      101,415     8,460          5          8,466         630
2004-5            0         73        104,552    7,763     7,836     101,415      8,460          5          8,466         630
2005-6            0         73        104.552    7,763     7,836      101,415     8,460          5          8,466         630
2006-7            0         73        104,552    7,763     7,836      101,415     8,460          5          8,466         630
2007-8            0         73        104,552    7,763     7,836      101,415     8,460          5          8,466         630
2008-9            0         73        104,552    7,763     7,836     101,415      8,460          5          8,466         630
IRR                             = -8.27 percent
NPV    @  10 percent            = -7,720.43
NPV    @  12.5 percent          = -7,256.98
Cost assumptions: Local costs are expressed in equivalent border prices derived using conversion factors of 0.81 of domestic price
for capital goods and 0.77 of domestic wage rate for local unskilled labor. O&M costs assumed to be 3percent of capital costs
associated with expansion of the transmission and distribution network.
Incremental gas costs (i.e. the cost to SNGPL) are gas prices of new fields as well as Qadirpur gas field. Future year gas prices are
taken as constant prices of 1997-98.
For Table 9A, prices used for valuing Project benefits are the weighted average consumer price of pipeline quality gas at appraisal Rs
41.6/MCF taken as a proxy for Project benefits. This is closer to the final value of outputs of the project rather than the true economic
value. Therefore, the rate of return derived above approximates the FRR not the true economic rate of return of the project. The
negative ERR reflects the financial downside due to revenues to SNGPL from gas sales being unable to keep up with the cost of gas
purchased by the utility, in the absence of end-consumer gas price increases in recent years.



19
Table 9B: Economic Costs and Benefits
(ERR on Fuel Substitute Basis)
(Figures in Million Rupees)
~~Ca,.  i)&                   E a _uehs               S.~               Incr* et Sales?f W           To0ta
Ye      X                                           , f Caotr  M C 0                             fleatfit  Net  Befi
1990-91       515        15          0          0        530         0          0             0           0         -530
1991-92       734        22          0          0        756         0          0             1           1         -755
1992-93      2,512       75        21,107     573       3,161     20,474      2,504           2         2,505       -656
1993-94      3,590       108       29.966      858      4,555     29,067      3,614           2         3,617       -938
1994-95      2,597       78        34,616     1,206     3,881     33,577      4,321           3         4,324       442
1995-96      3.012       90        80,611     4,053     7,155     78,193      13,754          4         13,758      6,602
1996-97      2,382       71        104,678    7,047     9,500     101,538     18,846          5         18,851      9,351
1997-98      2,426       73        106,166    7,883    10,381     102,981     13,669          5         13,674      3,293
1998-99      1,113       73        104,816    7,783     8,968     101,672     17,735          5         17.741      8,772
1999-2000      0         73        104,816    7,783     7,855     101,672     17,735          5         17,741      9,885
2000-1         0         73        104,552    7,763     7,836     101,415     17,735          5         17,741      9,885
2001-2         0         73        104,552    7,763     7,836     101,415     17,735          5         17,741      9,905
2002-3         0         73        104,552    7,763     7,836     101,415     17,735          5         17,741      9,905
2003-4         0         73        104,552    7,763     7,836     101,415     17,735          5         17,741      9,905
2004-5         0         73        104,552    7,763     7,836     101,415     17,735          5         17,741      9,905
2005-6         0         73        104,552    7,763     7,836     101,415     17,735          5         17,741      9,905
2006-7         0         73        104,552    7,763     7,836     101,415     17,735          5         17,741      9,905
2007-8         0         73        104,552    7,763     7,836     101,415     17,735          5         17,741      9,905
2008-9         0         73        104,552    7,763     7,836     101,415     17,735          5         17,741      9,905
IRR                       = 68 percent
NPV  @  10 percent        = 37,621
NPV  @  12.percent        = 28,803
Cost assumptions: Border prices were derived using conversion factors of 0.81 of domestic price for capital goods and 0.77 of
domestic wage rate for local unskilled labor.
O&M costs assumed to be 3percent of capital costs associated with expansion of the transmission and distribution network.
Incremental gas costs (i.e. the cost to SNGPL) are gas prices of new fields as well as Qadirpur gas field. Future year gas prices
are taken as constant prices of 1997-98.
For Table 9B, prices used for valuing Project benefits are border price of fuel oil/kerosene and the robust outcomes underscore
the Project's clear benefits to the economy as a whole.



20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant  Present  OiW          Rvsd           Desription of
A Section    Type    Status    DaXe        Dlme            Covenant               Comments
Loan        3.02     12         C         06130/91   08/31/93    Criteria for ranking and       Fulfilled
selections of new towns
for supply of gas to be
established in consultation
with GOP.
3.04     10         C         12/31/90               Commencement of land           Fulfilled
acquisition proceedings.
3.05     05         C        03/31/92                Finalize contractual           Fulfilled
arrangement for a
collaborative arrangement
with an intemational
reputable private sector
gas utility for providing
technical assistance/
training.
3.06     02         C        01/31/91                Appointment of financial       Fulfilled
advisor (FA) to assist
SNGPL to raise resources
through equip issues and
loans.
3.01 (i)  02        C        06130/91   07/31/92    Issuance of 57.5 million   86.1 million new shares
shares.                issued in July 1992
reduced public sector
equity shares to 60percent.
3.07 (ii)  02       CP       06/30/92   07/31/92    Issuance of 37.5 million   86.1 million new shares
shares.                issued in July 1992
including 28.6 million
shares of the second
tranche of 37.5 million
shares.
3.07 (iii)  02      NC       06/30/93               Issuance of 50 million  GOP is commnitted to
shares.                divest a further 26percent
of GOP shares to a
strategic investor to
reduce public sector
equity below the
40percent covenanted
level. To date, GOP has
not allowed SNGPL to
issue new equity shares
until the 26percent
divestiture of GOP shares
is completed.
3.07 (iv)  02       NC       06/30/94               Issuance of 57 million       Same as above
shares.
3.07 (v)  02        NC        06/30/95              Issuance of 17 million       Same as above
shares.



21
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
3.08 (i)  02       C       06/30/91   08/31/93    Appoint consultants for          Fulfilled
study to establish a new
formula for the setting of
prescribed prices and
financial performance
criteria.
3.08 (ii)  02      C       09/30/92   10/31/94    Submit completed study to        Fulfilled
Bank and GOP.
3.08 (iii)  02     NC      10/01/93   12/31/97    Implement formula       Summary of revised pricing
established by GOP     structure included in the new
pursuant thereto.      Tariff Rules and Regulation as
part of the new Gas
Regulatory Authority
framework. Implementation
of revised pricing structure
expected with privatization.
3.09 (ii)  05      C       08/31/92   06/30/95    Submit completed FMIS            Fulfilled
study to Bank for review.
3.10     05        C       03/31/92   06/30/92    Reconstitute Board of            Fulfilled
Directors to reflect new
ownership of SNGPL.
4.05     05        CP      03/31/92   06/30/95    Appoint an economist, a          Fulfilled
financial analyst and a
system planner all with
appropriate qualifications
and experience in the
Corporate Planning
Department.
5.06 (i)  03       C       06/30/91   08/31/93    Submit a five-year               Fulfilled
corporate investment and
financial plan.
5.06 (ii)  03      C                              Annually revise five-year        Fulfilled
corporate plan and furnish
to Bank for review and
comment.
5.07 (i)  02, 03    C      05/31/91               Provide evidence to World        Fulfilled
Bank that all necessary
consents and clearance for
marketing shares obtained.
5.07 (ii)  02, 03    C     05/31/91               Appoint underwriters to          Fulfilled
market new equity shares.
7.01 (b)  04       C                              PC-1 for the Project             Fulfilled
approved by ECNEC.
7.01 (c)  03       C       05/31/92               All conditions precedent to      Fulfilled
the effectiveness of the
Commercial Banks Loan
Agreement Fulfilled.
12.01 (c) 02      C        01/21/91               Legal opinion that Loan          Fulfilled
Agreement is legally
binding on SNGPL.



22
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Agreement  Section   Covenan         resentt                                Deucription                Comments
Date        Date
Sch. 4,   10        C        03/31/1992 02/15/1994   Appoint consultants for               Fulfiled
Sec. 1 (a)                                             detailed engineering
design, including
construction supervision of
seven major river
crossings of pipe, dia. 16
inches -36 inches under
Project 6 pipeline system..
Sch. 4,   05        C        05/31/1991  04/30/1994   Appoint consultants to               Fulfilled
Sec. 2 (b)                                             formulate strategy for
further development of
financial MIS, review
billing cycle and train
SNGPL's staff in
computer auditing.
Guarantee    3.04      12         C        12/31/1990               Notify final prescribed             Fulfilled
prices w.e.f. 1.7.89 and
provisional increase in
prescribed prices w.e.f.
1.7.90.
3.06 (i)   12       C         10/01/1991  12/31/1993   Initiate study to upgrade           Fulfilled
regulatory capabilities of
DGG.
3.06 (ii)  12       C        03/31/1992  03/30/1995   Complete the above study             Fulfilled
and submit to the Bank for
review.
3.06 (iii)  12      NC       03/31/1993 07/31/1997   Implement                   Ordinance establishing an
recommendations of study. independent GRA, approved
by Presidential decree 1997
but lapsed; enactment of GRA
Ordinance by Parliament,
expected by June 1999. GRA
to be staffed with key
personnel.
Covenant Types:
01 - Accounts/audits                                  08 - Indigenous people
02 - Financial performance/revenue generation from    09 - Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                   10 - Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
03 - Flow and utilization of Project funds            11- Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
04 - Counterpart funding                                      allocation
05 - Management aspects of the Project or executing agency  12 - Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional
06 - Environmental covenants                                  action
07 - Involuntary resettlement                         13 - Other
Present Status:
C - covenant complied with
CD - complied with after delay
CP - complied with partially
NC - not complied with



23
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Project preparation, appraisal, negotiations and Board presentation were carried out in accordance with all
Bank Policies.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                   Planned                   Revised                  Actual
Project Cycle                            _
Weeks         US$         Weeks         US$        Weeks        US$
Through Appraisal              N/A          N/A          N/A          N/A         58.3        101.4
Appraisal                      N/A          N/A          N/A          N/A         89.6        172.3
Negotiations through Board     N/A          N/A          N/A          N/A         44.7        101.4
Approval
Supervision                    N/A          N/A          N/A          N/A         199.0       405.0
Completion                     N/A          N/A          N/A          N/A          4.6        32.6
TOTAL                                                                            396.2       812.7



24
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of         MontW      Nwnber      Days in        Spoialzed       Inllerr"tation   Devdopment      'pes of
Project Cycle       Year        of          Fiemld       StaffSImJs          Statuis      Objveloes      Probes o
Persons                   Representd           S
Through Appraisal      12/87 to      6           14       FA; ES; EC; E;C C                       _             _
12/88
Appraisal through      02/89         5           23       FA; ES; EC; E;C C                       _             _
Board Approval
Board Approval         05/90         1           6        E                       -               -             _
through Effectiveness
Supervision 1          08/90         3           10       ES, EC, E                2              2             D
Supervision 2          04/91         2           7        ES, EC                   2              2             FP
Supervision 3           11/91        3           5        FA; ES; EC               3              2             FP
Supervision 4          03/92         2           10       FA; ES                   2              3         FP, PR; IAS
Supervision 5           12/92        2           3        ES; EC                   2              2          PR; FP, P
Supervision 6          07/93         3           5        ES; EC; E                2              2           D,SDI
Supervision 7          01/94         3           4        ES, EC, E                2               2           FP; D
Supervision 8          04/94         1           5        FA                      N/A            N/A           FP; D
Supervision 9           10/94        4           11       FA, ES, EC, E            2               1          D, SDI
Supervision 10         04/95         2           6        EC,E                    N/A            N/A          EC, EC
Supervision 11         02/96         4           9        FA, ES, EC, E            2               1          FP, D.
Supervision 12          11/96        4           10       FA, EC, ES, E            U               S           D, A
Supervision 13         04/97         5           12       FA, PS, E, EC, ES        U               S          FP, LAS
Superv/Completion      03/98         5= ]        10       FA, PS, EC, E, ES        U              U           FP, IAS
Specialists:   FA= Financial Analyst, ES= Energy Specialist, E= Engineer, EC= Economist, EN= Environmental Specialist,
PR= Procurement Specialist, PS= Privatization Specialist, C= Consultant.
Problems:    A= Administrative, CF= Counterpart fund shortfall, D= Project process delay, C= Contract delays - awarding &
implementation, FP= Financial performance, IAS= Implementing agency staffing, PCD= Project/component
design, SD= Shortages and/or delay in supply of materials, SDI= Slow disbursement
Ratings:     I= No or minor problems, 2= Moderate problems, 3- Major problems, HS= Highly Satisfactory, S= Satisfactory,
U= Unsatisfactory, HU= Highly unsatisfactory, NR= Not rated/not applicable.



25
Appendix A
PAKISTAN
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED (SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
(LOANS 3252-0-PAK & 3252-1-PAK)
OPERATIONAL PLAN
The Corporate Restructuring and System Expansion Project had two major components i.e., corporate
restructuring of the company and development of gas transmission and distribution infrastructure. Restructuring has
been partially achieved with the dilution of GOP equity from 91 percent to 60 percent. According to the decision
taken during Project implementation further dilution is to be achieved through sale of about 26 percent equity to
strategic investor. During the operational phase it is expected that enabling environment will be established with
adequate legal and regulatory frame- work and appropriate pricing regime. Simultaneously proposals will be invited
to enable the selection of a suitable strategic partner.
In the operation of infrastructure developed under the Project, alleviation of energy shortages and
substitution of higher value petroleum products, fuel with natural gas particularly in northern parts of the country
will remain the main objective. In view of the decline in availability of gas from Potohar Basin fields in the north,
substantial volumes of gas will have to be transported from the south to meet the increasing demand in the northern
region which is Projected to increase from 240 MMCFD in 1999 to 435 MMCFD by 2010. To meet this objective,
transmission capacity of Faisalabad - Gali Jagir section will be progressively increased by hooking this section with
122 miles of 30-inch diameter pipeline. This capacity augmentation is planned to be undertaken in four installments
starting from the year 2000 and is estimated to cost about RS 10 billion.
In order to cope with the demand of additional consumers to be attached to the system (1,375 million
domestic, 44,000 commercial and 1,100 industrial) from 1999 to 2010, the existing distribution networks in the
southern regions in general and the northern regions in particular will have to be upgraded over the next ten years or
so. The cost of this distribution development program is estimated at RS 53 billion.
Having benefited from institutional development under the Corporate Restructuring and System Expansion
Project, the Company plans to focus on the following aspects of its operations:
(a) Billing
Billing is the single most mission critical application of SNGPL. Currently, billing application is
operational at Lahore, Islamabad, Faisalbad, Abbottabad and Gujranwala on IBM RS/6000 platforms. Additionally,
expansion to include more regions is being evaluated. The customer base is over 1.6 million consumers and is
continuously growing. The application software is now rather dated as it was written in COBOL back in 1972. This
application software has however been continuously modified to incorporate the pressing requirements of the
Company. This has resulted in major patchwork in the original design. Non-availability of interactive queries for
management and customers is a major limitation. The application is also not capable of providing effective on-line
monitoring facility to the management. The system was designed over a quarter century ago, its inherent limitations
cannot be overcome without re-engineering the whole of the existing application and utilizing state of art Relational
Data Base Management Software and other latest tools. This is under planning and the Company aims to make it
operational in a year.
(b) Upgradation of Central Meter Workshop
Firstly, a short-range plan for upgrading Central Meter Shop equipment, work stations and process flow
(meter handling and meter transportation procedures).  This would include upgrading the prover room air
conditioning to provide stable prover room temperatures in order to minimize errors when proving meters. It would



26
also include regular bell prover maintenance to ensure that provers meet mechanical, dimensional, operating, and
accuracy requirements.
Secondly, a long-range plan to upgrade provers to electronics and to replace mechanical instruments and
charts with electronic devices. Both actions will improve measurement accuracy and reliability. (Electronic devices
can perform all of the gas law corrections on site and store hourly or daily summaries.)
Training: Develop a hands-on training program for all measurement personnel in the principles of
measurement, maintenance, meter-repair and safety procedures.
(c) Unaccounted For Gas (UFG)
UFG was increasing by about two percent per annum and if extrapolated for FY 1997-98 would have gone
up to 15.8 percent. Under the directives of Ministry of Petroleum, various steps have been initiated to arrest this
increase and bring it down to industry's norm. The target for FY 1998-99 is 7.5 percent. SNGPL aims to bring this
figure down to less than four percent for FY2002-2003 and less than two percent for FY2009-2010.
FUTURE PLANS/PROGRAMME FOR REDUCTION IN UFG LOSSES
1.     Leakages
*  Installation of 100 additional cathodic protection stations to protect against corrosion leaks.
*  Improve response time against leakage complaints
*  Network analysis of the system to operate at optimum pressure.
2.     Pilferage
*  Establishing of a central monitoring cell at head office to impart continuous guidance and coordinate
action with the regions.
*  Intensify vigilance through surveillance teams.
*  Increase surprise raids to unearth and disconnect direct tapping cases.
*  Systematic and regular check/analysis of billing pattern.
*  Installation of state of the art electronic equipment for remote measurement (E.V.Cs.)
*  Installation of SCADA (supervisory control and data acquisition).
*  Intensify raids through special magistrate/police contingent in the regions and adequate coverage of the
results in the press.
*  Formation and further strengthening of more dedicated vigilance/surveillance teams at regional level.
*  Wider publicity of the reward incentive scheme through press and electronic media
*  Immediate replacement of all suspected meters.
3.     Inventory Management
The cost of the stores stock, at present, amounts to about Rs. 3.6 billion out of which the cost of slow
moving and/or non moving items is in the range of Rs. 160 million. In order to have an efficient inventory
management system, the Company intends to have a stores Management Application developed for the head office.
Additionally, automation of issues and receipt process would be designed for the remote stores locations, through a
stand alone PC based application, which would also be linked with the stores data base at the head office.
4.     Environment Health and Safety
There had been a strong need for the establishment of an effective Environmental, Health & Safety
Department with a mandate to develop and implement Environmental, Health & Safety Management System and



27
Policies for the company, to address, identify Environmental, Health & Safety issues concerning Sui Northern
operations as well as on-going future development projects.
It has become necessary for Sui Northern to adopt a proactive approach rather than reactive to address
various Environmental, Health & Safety issues concerning its operations and future projects at the Planning &
Design Stage. To meet above objectives CIDA under its Oil & Gas Sector Program in fact have provided a great
assistance to Sui Northern to participate in a more proactive way to develop and implement its own Environmental,
Health & Safety Policy and assisted Sui Northern to mainly focus on its capacity building particularly issues
concerning EH & S.
In order to meet challenging needs of the next millennium and in fulfillment of its commitments to'
compliance with government regulations. SNGPL has recently established a permanent EH & S department under
the supervision of SGM (Planning & Engineering Services) to implement EH & S management system in the
Company.
A review of all operation is underway with the aim of identifying priority areas and developing preventive
and mitigate programme.
The implementation of these programme is expected to commence in 1 ½2 y ears time.
Cathodic Protection & Leak Detection
Enhancement of safety assurance is aimed at by more rigorous application of cathodic protection to the
pipelines laid during the project through more frequent measurement of pipe to soil potential. This is to be
supplemented by carrying out leak detection surveys on regular basis using the latest technology.



28
Appendix B
PAKISTAN
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED (SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
(LOANS 3252-0-PAK & 3252-1-PAK)
Supervision Mission: March 24 - April 3,1998
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.     A World Bank mission comprising Messrs. M. Mengesha, S. Khwaja, R. Aziz, T. Irwin and Ms. J.Fraser
visited Pakistan during March 24 to April 3, 1998, to supervise the Corporate Restructuring and System Expansion
(CRSE) Project. During its visit, the mission met with officials of the Government of Pakistan (GOP), Ministry of
Petroleum and Natural Resources (MPNR), Ministry of Finance, Privatization Commission (PC), and Sui Northern
Gas Pipelines Limited (SNGPL). The mission would like to thank all of the above for their hospitality and support
during the mission. This aide memoire presents the mission's findings and recommendations, which would be
confirmed through a post mission follow up letter from the Bank's management.
2.     The mission reviewed the status of implementation of the Project's policy/privatization and investment
components as well as advised GOP/SNGPL that this would be the last supervision mission, as the Loan is
scheduled to close on June 30, 1998. In this regard, the mission discussed the timetable for the preparation of the
implementation completion Report (ICR) for the Project and the scope of SNGPL's contribution to the ICR which
should be sent to the Bank as a draft prior to the Completion Mission anticipated to take place by September 1998.
3.     The mission was pleased to note GOP/SNGPL are pursuing a number of non-tariff measures by
endeavoring to cut unnecessary expenditures as well as improving quality of services delivered to consumers.
Nonetheless, the mission reiterated the Bank's concern to GOP with respect to the precarious financial situation of
SNGPL, mainly because the cost of gas to the company has not been met through timely tariff increases during
FY97 and FY98. As for the gas sector reform agenda, the mission also expressed its concern about lack of
significant progress in this area. The mission pointed out that the Bank had recommended GOP seriously consider
amending provisions in the GRA Ordinance determined vital to enhancing the prospects of attracting private sector
investments to Pakistan's downstream gas sector.
4.     Notwithstanding, a commendable implementation performance of the system expansion component (twice
as large as any previous Project the company has implemented) by SNGPL, it is now likely that overall this
operation will remain rated as a Problem Project by Bank Management. This is largely because of the difficulties
experienced in keeping the regulatory reforms and privatization schedule, on track. Given the lack of progress on
the reform agenda, the mission recommended cancellation of uncommitted funds. However, GOP/SNGPL
requested special consideration by Bank Management to utilize the uncommitted amount of about US$8.5 million
(earmarked mostly for additional 30" dia. northern loopline), in view of the importance of completing the looplines
being installed north of Faisalabad to avoid serious load shedding of gas next winter to domestic consumers in the
Islamabad area. In this regard, the mission agreed to recommend a favorable consideration to this request. The
mission also pointed out to GOP/SNGPL, Bank financing for any procurement under the Project would be limited to
only goods and services delivered by June 30, 1998, and no further extensions would be granted.
5.    The Project comprised a corporate restructuring, an infrastructure development, and a technical assistance
component. Of these, the infrastructure development component is being efficiently implemented and is scheduled
for substantial completion by the closing date. Under the technical assistance component, two studies and a
technical collaboration (twinning) were financed. The two studies covering Gas Pricing Study and development of a
Financial Management Information System (FMIS) were concluded satisfactorily. GOP has yet to fully implement



29
the recommendations of the gas pricing study Partly as a result of the ongoing review of the level of rate of return to
be allowed to the privatized utilities with the financial advisers, as result of the gas Pricing study. The imbalance in
the professional ranks of the company's finance function has made it difficult to go forward with a full-scale
implementation of the FMIS. The mission understands a proposal for GOP's clearance to fill 17 essential
professional positions has been made, and that SNGPL anticipates that this addition of professional staff would
enable the implementation of the FMIS as envisaged. The technical collaboration contract with Novacorp/Canada
was fully implemented, however, due to lack of commitment by top management in SNGPL at the time, fun
advantage of the opportunities offered under this arrangement could not be taken.
A. Corporate Restructuring Component
6.     The restructuring component which involved divestment of GOP's controlling interest in SNGPL, as well
as well as establishment of an enabling environment for private sector participation in gas sector development has
only been partially completed. The GOP's equity share in SNGPL has been reduced from about 90percent to
60percent through an IPO. the Ordinance for establishing the Gas regulatory Authority has been promulgated and
the documents for prequalification and request for proposals for a 26percent share in SNGPL's equity under a
strategic partnership have been prepared with assistance of financial advisers retained by the Privatization
Commission. However, work on the proposed transaction has been pending finalization of the Gas Act and a
credible GRA being in place.
7.     In the Loan Agreement GOP had undertaken to reduce its equity shareholding to no more than 40percent
very early in the Project. The approach to the privatization of SNGPL had to be adjusted to the realities of the
domestic capital market, and a new concept of strategic partnership was introduced mid-stream of Project
implementation. The mission noted GOP's earlier commitment under the ESAF to bringing the two gas utilities to a
point of sale by June 1998, and
encourages early closure on making the GRA operational, to meet the challenge of taking required steps to reach the
point of sale milestone under the revised target of October 1998. Nevertheless, with a stronger commitment on
GOP's part, the regulatory reforms anticipated and privatization of SNGPL could have been accomplished much
earlier than the upcoming Closing Date.
8.     Regulatory Framework. The mission noted that the GRA Ordinance had lapsed and that there has been little
progress towards making the GRA an operationally autonomous unit. The mission learned that the Ministry of
Petroleum has now agreed to work closely with the Privatization Commission to develop a set of agreed
amendments to the GRA Ordinance prior to being submitted to the Law Division. It is then expected that the Select
Committee of the National Assembly will review the proposed legislation prior to its enactment by the National
Assembly during the upcoming session.
9.     The Government now has the opportunity to enact legislation that would improve upon the lapsed
Ordinance in two key areas (a) facilitating competition and (b) giving investors' greater confidence that subsequent
government actions will not unexpectedly reduce their returns. If the Government does not take this opportunity to
improve the regulatory framework for the downstream gas industry, the privatization's of SNGPL and SSGCL will
not maximize the benefits to Pakistan. Concerns about regulatory risk will lead investors to pay lower prices for the
Government's share of the gas companies. And while the anticompetitive provisions of the regulatory framework
may increase the Government's revenue in the short term, any increase will be more than offset by the costs incurred
by gas users in Pakistan. In a recent conference on privatization during the mission's stay, the Minister for
Petroleum affirmed the GOP's commitment to: (a) improve the regulatory framework for gas with respect to
enhancing investor confidence prior to enactment of the GRA Ordinance by National Assembly; and (b) enhance the
efficiency of delivery to the growing gas market by mobilizing private sector resources under the agreed upon
privatization strategy. In the mission's opinion, the pursuit of the above goals call for GOP's sustained commitment
to the process as well as ensuring significant improvement to the very difficult financial and overstaffing
predicament prevailing in the company.



30
10.    The previous Aide-Memoire discussed some of the Government's options for improving the regulatory
framework. We believe those options are still relevant and remain available to discuss them further. In addition, the
Government may find it useful to review its proposed regulatory framework for gas, in the light of the. approaches it
is taking in other industries that have also traditionally been public monopolies but are now being privatized and
liberalized. Although each such industry has its own characteristics, the task of regulation is similar in important
respects, and in industries such as telecommunications, electricity, and air transport the Government appears to be
pursuing a somewhat more progressive and liberal approach. As an example, Annex I summonses some differences
in the provisions of the lapsed GRA Ordinance and the recently passed Regulation of Generation, Transmission and
Distribution of Electric Power Act 1997.
11.    In view of the importance of moving forward on the gas sector reform agenda, the mission recommends a
Steering Committee. Chaired by the Secretary Petroleum with participation of the Privatization Commission and the
gas companies be formed to coordinate resolution of all outstanding policy, regulatory and applicable tariff formula
issues prior to bringing SNGPL and SSGC to the point of sale, in accordance with GOP's commnitment to the IMF
under the second trance of the ESAF.
12.    Consumer Gas Prices. Under the Loan, GOP is required to: (i) maintain the consumer prices for industrial,
commercial and power sectors at parity with the domestic price of fuel oil; (ii) increase the price for the residential
sector to full parity with the border price of fuel oil by April 30, 199510 and (iii) raise the price for raw gas supplied
to the power sector to full parity with the domestic price of fuel oil by June 30, 1995. GOP has not been in
compliance with this agreement from early 1996. Currently, gas prices for commercial consumers are about
76percent of the parity agreed under the Loan; prices for industrial and power sectors are about 68percent of the
agreed parity; while for residential consumers the weighted average domestic price is about 64percent of the agreed
parity.
13.    The Government is still in default of a 10percent increase in consumer prices which GOP had committed to
introduce from early March 1997 (as part of the actions required for extending the December 31, 1996 Closing Date
of the Loan). The lack of significant progress in rationalizing tariffs to the gas companies and the delay in
increasing consumer gas prices given the rise in contribution of more expensive gas supplies into the distribution
system, has created a very difficult situation for SNGPL today, and to the prospects of attracting strategic partners in
the near term as detailed below, in Section B. The mission has pointed out that GOP should ensure that it follows
through with the l5percent increase as of May 1, 1998 in average consumer prices as agreed with the February 1998
Bank Energy Mission and most likely by an additional 20percent as of September 1, 1998 would be required to save
SNGPL from further financial decline.
B. SNGPL's Financial Performance
14.    SNGPL's financial position is continuing on a downward trend (See Annex 3 for actual and proforma
statements). The pressure on the Company's liquidity has gone from bad to worse as the lack of tariff increases have
forced them to continue to default on payments to suppliers and borrow at expensive short term rates to meet debt
servicing obligations. The Company is currently in arrears to OGDC for over Rs. 7 billion and has not serviced its
debt to GOP. The underlying factors contributing to the poor financial situation remain the same:
(a)      Cost of gas. The cost of gas represented about 40percent of total revenues in FY94, reached
70percent by FY97, and is Projected to exceed total revenues, at current tariff levels, by 2000-01.
This cost is beyond the control of the company and is expected to continue to increase as SNGPL's
gas mix changes to include a smaller contribution of less expensive gas from the Sui field (at Rs.
24 per mcft) and a larger proportion from new gas fields, primarily Qadirpur (at Rs. 83 per mcft).
The wellhead price of new gas is linked to either the international crude oil/HSFO price and the
The original target date for achieving this parity (June 30, 1993) was amended to April 30, 1995 under the Public Sector
Adjustment Loan (PSAL, Loan 3645/Credit 2542-PAK).



31
US dollar, therefore, with rupee devaluation and the expected leveling out of crude oil prices in the
near to medium term, the cost of gas is expected to continue to rise by about 10 percent per
annum.
(b)      GOP's gas allocation and cross-subsidizing pricing policy. SNGPL currently sells gas to over
45percent of their customers (i.e. fertilizer feedstock and domestic) at a rate below the average
cost of gas. For instance, the unit selling price for fertilizers is Rs. 36 per mcft against an average
cost of gas in FY98 of Rs. 59/mcft and an average total cost (including depreciation, O&M, etc.)
of Rs. 90/mcft. The differential between the selling and prescribed prices for other consumer
categories is not sufficient to offset this loss. Also, the percent of sales to residential customers (at
below cost tariffs) have been increasing, whereas the percent of sales to industrial and commercial
consumers (at profitable tariff levels) has been decreasing.
(c)      Distribution development.  Over the last few years, SNGPL has undertaken massive investments
in distribution development and new towns, way beyond the Project scope, which have stretched
the company both financially and technically. Given the non cost-recovering nature of domestic
tariffs, these investments to connect thousands of new domestic customers are not
financially,sustainable. An additional negative effect is that the new households connected in
these northern towns and villages consume gas only for cooking, thus consumption level is low
and falls within the first slab of the rate structure which is the most subsidized.
(d)      Cost of local borrowing. The cost of local borrowing has increased from 1lpercent in FY91
(when the current rate of return level of 17.5percent was set) to over 20percent today. Given
SNGPL's increased reliance on local borrowing to finance their capital investment program and
the fact that this increased cost is not passed through in the rate of return calculation, this has
squeezed SNGPL's financial position to a point that is no longer sustainable.
15.    However, the mission has noted that SNGPL has undertaken various measures to improve its financial
position, including reducing the level of unaccounted for gas from 10.5percent in June 1996 to 8.5percent in June
1997 and a targeted 6.5percent by June 1998. In addition for the first time SNGPL negotiated a 25percent increase
in work norms with the labor unions in the recent Collective Bargaining Agreement. Steps have also been taken to
improve operational efficiencies, cut expenditures, and improve the billing cycle. However, with operating costs
comprising only 10percent of SNGPL's total cost, in the mission's view, it is clear that non-tariff measures will . not
solve the financial crisis facing the company.
16.    FY97-9 8 Financial Results. Given the lack of tariff increases last year, SNGPL recorded an accounts
receivable from GOP for Rs. 1.9 billion to offset the negative GDS balance and to allow them to close their FY97
books and achieve the 17.5percent return on assets covenanted under the Loan Agreement. Without this, SNGPL
earned a mere 6percent return on assets in FY97. However, the mission was discouraged to learn that the GOP did
not provide terms to the Company for repayment and instead stated that it would be made up for in subsequent price
increases. The mission feels that this is unrealistic given the magnitude of the shortfall and the Projected shortfalls
for the current fiscal year and beyond. Under the current scenario, the government would have to allow about a
55percent increase in average selling prices effective from July 1, 1998 in order to offset the shortfalls in FY97 and
FY98 and the anticipated shortfall in FY99. Clearly, this would be extremely difficult to implement.
17.    At current prices, the estimated return on assets for the next four years is increasingly negative as shown
below. Also shown is the negative GDS balance that needs to be offset by price increases and the average price
increase needed to achieve a 17.5percent return on assets (ROA). This development, if allowed to continue, has
obvious negative repercussions on GOP's ability to attract investors to the strategic sale of SNGPL.



32
FY98         FY99          FY00         FY01          FY02
ROA (if no price increases)        5 percent    -13 percent  -19 percent   -26 percent  -35 percent
Negative GDS balance                 2,633        7,628        10,783        13,714       17,164
(in Rs. Million)
Average price increase needed to          12
achieve 17.5percent ROA'           See note1    34 percent    13 percent    12 percent    14 percent
18.    The price increases shown above assume that the government will offset previous years' deficits in
revenues(i.e. the negative GDS amounts that are shown as accounts receivable on the Company's financial
statements) against accounts payable to GOP by SNGPL and are not made up through price increases. SNGPL is
owed Rs. 5.4 billion by GOP to make up for the negative shortfall in revenues for FY96-98. However, SINGPL
owes GOP approximately Rs. 5.2 billion in accrued interest and principal due on a Rs.2.8 billion medium term loan
from GOP and cash development loans. (See details below.) The mission strongly recommends that GOP and
SNGPL agree to offset these accounts against one another given that the Company is not in a position to service its
existing debt to GOP, and GOP does not have the funds to offset the negative GDS as a budgetary transfer. The
above recommended approach has the added benefit of reducing the tariff increase needed, for instance 'instead of
needing a 55percent increase in average prices, only a 34percent increase is required for FY99.
(in Rs. million)
Accounts Payable toGOP  by SNGPL      Accounts Receivable from GOP to
Acconts ayabe t GOPby SGPLSNGPL
Medium term loan                     Gas development surcharge
principal                  2,800  recoverable
accrued interest (FY97)      930    FY96                           819
accrued interest (FY98)      490   Differential margin
Cash development loan                recoverable                    1,919
principal overdue            147    FY97                          2,633
principal remaining          465    FY98 (estimated)
accrued interest (FY97)      317
accrued interest (FY98)       53
Total                        5,202  Total                          5,371
19.   Tariff Rationalization. Of the existing gas companies, SNGPL suffers the largest burden due to the GOP's
cross-subsidization policy. Fertilizer feedstock, which comprises 1 lpercent of their total customer base, receives
subsidized gas which covers only 41 percent of total SNGPL costs and 62percent of the total cost of gas. (SNGPL
services all but three of the fertilizer plants receiving gas in the country.) Similarly, SNGPL has over 1.5 million
domestic customers, 55percent of which fall into the first pricing slab which covers only 55percent of total costs
and 84percent of the cost of gas. The remaining 45percent of domestic consumers fall in the 2nd slab at a tariff
which also does not cover the average cost of gas. As a comparison, SSGC has 1.2 million domestic customers,
50percent of which fall into the first pricing slab. However, 20percent of their domestic customers fall within the
third and fourth slabs, which are not subsidized. The table below shows the pricing imbalance for FY98.
This reflects the yearly price increase that is required at the beginning of each fiscal year, i.e. July 1, in order to allow SNGPL
to achieve 17.5% ROA. Any delay in notifying the increase results in an exponentially higher increase required. This also
assumes no GDS amount.
12 With only 3 months left in FY98, the price increase required to meet the shortfall is prohibitively high. It is expected that the
government will again chose to have SNGPL book an accounts receivable entry similar to FY97.



33
Pricing Imbalance and Resulting Negative GDS in 1997-98
Category         Volume      Sales Price      Avg. Cost       Contribution        Subsidy
MMCF         Rs/MCF          Rs/MCF            Rs/MCF          Million Rs
Domestic         94,746         55.12           88.97            (33.85)          (3,207)
Fertilizer
- feedstock      27,073         36.14           88.97            (52.83)          (1,430)
- fuel           10,487        102.45           88.97            13.48              141
Power            45,933        102.85           88.97             13.88            638
Industry         62,664         102.5           88.97            13.53             848
Commercial       13,074        117.87           88.97            28.90             377
253,977                                                          (2,633)
20.    Recommendtions: The mission recommends the following actions:
* GOP/SNGPL to agree to offset payables to GOP for past loans against receivables from GOP for the
shortfall in revenues due to inadequate price increases totaling about Rs. 5.2 billion for the years
FY96, FY97 and FY98 before the FY98 audit of accounts, i.e. November 1998.
*  GOP to increase average tariffs by 15percent as of may 1, 1998 (as agreed with the Bank in February
1998) and by an additional 20percent as of September 1, 1998.
*  GOP to reduce cross-subsidization amongst consumer categories during each tariff increase.
e  GOP to require SNGPL to drastically reduce all new investments especially new household
connections until tariff rationalization is achieved.
C. Over-staffing
21.  SNGPL's manpower planning study conducted by CIDA consultants has been completed, reviewed and commented upon
by the Bank and SNGPL. In the meetings held jointly between officials of the Canadian High Commission, CIDA financed
consultants of the Oil and Gas Sector Program (OGSP), SNGPL and the Bank mission, it was agreed to go forward with the next
phase which is to develop a framework for a company "owened" Action Plan as per the terms of reference agreed with the Bank
in 1997, This important follow-up assistance from the OGSP will include preparation of an implementation plan and process
consulting to have a viable manpower transition program in place by June 30, 1998, including a possible pilot program to test the
retrenchement strategy endorsed by the Board of SNGPL and the Government.
D. Infrastructure Development
22.   The implementation of this component is reviewed in Annex 2. All the elements, except for transmission
SCADA/telecom, two river crossings and the recently planned two loop lines to alleviate the impact of winter load
shedding, will be completed by the current closing date of June 30, 1998. The mission has been advised by
SNGPL's management that the aforementioned remaining works will be completed by end December 1998.
Development of the high pressure gas transmission system has enhanced the company's capacity to evacuate gas
supplies to northern Pakistan from 450 MMCFD to 980 MMCFD. The enhanced capacity of the various sections
has already been fully utilized during FY98 winter except for Qadirpur-Bhong-Multan-Qadirpur Rawan-Sahiwal-
Lahore sections where full utilization will be achieved after the completion of additional loops north of Multan and
input of additional 140 MMCFD gas ex-Qadirpur field.
23.    The company has been able to provide a total of 529,376 domestic connections in excess of the target of
330,000 set under the Project. While the annual rate of domestic connections has now been reduced (from 170,000



34
to 125,000) it is still too large and could significantly aggravate the load shedding in winter months, enhance the
company's exposure to large scale unscheduled outages and the associated risks to the localities served. Also, the
benefit from the recently planned looping of Multan-Faisalabad and Faisalabad-Galli Jagir section (a remedial
measure suggested by the last supervision mission) would be nullified if the policy of large scale domestic
connections is maintained without appropriate increase in gas supply and transmission capacity.
E. Procurement and Disbursement
24.    Procurement and disbursement under the Project are satisfactory. Of USS 190 million total funds in
Ln.3252and  3252-1-PAK,aboutUSS160.644million  has been disbursed. Commitments (signed  contracts)
havebeenmadeforUS$13.39 million, of which SNGPL expects expectsUS$3.0 million will be disbursed by end
March 1998 with another US$4 million disbursed by mid-May 1998.  About US$8.53 million, currently
uncommitted, are earmarked for the 30 inch diameter linepipe (US$7.311 million) and some miscellaneous orders
(US$1.29 million). However, as the delivery schedule for the 30 inch linepipe could extend beyond the loan closing
date of June 30, 1998 there is a possibility of cancellation of about USS 3 million from the loan, the mission has
pointed out any shortfall in funds to complete the contract would then have to be financed by $NGPL from other
sources.
F. Development -Impact
25.    Natural gas is the most economical option for meeting Pakistan's energy needs.13 It accounts for about
40percent of the country's primary energy needs, of which about 35percent are supplied by SNGPL in the provinces
of Punjab and NWFP. The demand for natural gas from consumers already connected to SNGPL's transmission
system is currently estimated at 1000 MMCFD. The Project helped enhance the transmission system capacity from
450 MMCFD (at Project commencement in 1990) to 950 MMCFD for transporting available gas from the gas fields
in Balochistan and Sind to the demand centers in the north of the country to meet the current demand of about 1000
MMCFD. As the transportation arrangements for the alternative fuels (fuel oil and kerosene) are very limited, the
enhanced availability of gas supply, thus prevented large-scale energy shortages in northern Pakistan.
26.    Apart from alleviating the energy shortage, these additional gas supplies enhanced the country's foreign
exchange savings from about USS425 million in FY90 to about USS850 million in FY98 through the substitution of
imported fuel oil and kerosene. Also, taking into account the economic costs of US$3.59/MMBTU and
US$S4.81/MMBTU for imported fuel oil and kerosene respectively vis-a-vis US$2.54/MMBTU for indigenous
natural gas, the economic benefit to the country increased from around US$200 million in FY90 to US$359 million
approx. in FY98.
27.    Provision of advanced telecommunication system and system wide transmission SCADA under the Project
would improve SNGPL's capability in efficient load management and adnimize operating costs and gas losses. It
would also enable rapid identification and correction of unsafe operating conditions and leak detection.
13 Bank's Energy Options Study of 1995.



35
Appendix C
PAKISTAN
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED (SNGPL)
CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING AND SYSTEM EXPANSION PROJECT
(LOANS 3252-0-PAK & 3252-1-PAK)
BORROWER'S EVALUATION14
(A) PROJECT OBJECTIVES
To expand existing transmission system to carry a total of additional 300 MMCFD gas from the Sui region
to the existing areas of operation and the towns falling enroute Multan-Sahiwal-Lahore transmission line. In
addition to this supply of gas to a power plant at Kot Addu, additional fertilizer plant of Dawood Hercules near
Sheikhupura and a new fertilizer plant at Sahiwal
(B)    DESIGN
Original PC 1.
The original scope of work envisaged construction of 643 miles of pipelines and related facilities.
a)   30" diameter                                       215 mniles
24" diameter                                       14 miles
18" diamneter                                     200 miles
16" diameter                                      214 mniles
TOTAL                                             643 imiles
b)   Uplifting of pipelines of various diameter         290 miles
c)   Compression units of 4,000 BHP each                 6 Nos.
d)   Purification plant of 120 MMCFD                      1 No.
e)   Telecom facilities for Multan, KotAddu, Qadirpur
Rawan-Lahore Section
The original PC 1 was approved by the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC)
at its meeting held on 13th September 1990 vide case No. 79/2/90. The estimated capital outlay as approved by the
ECNEC, amounted to Rs 6,769 million with a foreign exchange component (FEC) of Rs 2,860 million. The FEC
was financed by the World Bank through Loan Agreement. Loan No. 3252-PAK, signed on 22nd October 1990, for
US $ 130 million and -guaranteed by the Government of Pakistan. The Loan became effective on 12th April 1991
after satisfaction of various preconditions by the Government of Pakistan and Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Ltd.
Revised PC 1.
Subsequent to the approval of PC1, the World Bank sanctioned an additional loan of US $ 60 million for
purchase of Hot Rolled (HR) Steel Coils for conversion locally into line pipe as against the original scheme of
procuring locally manufactured steel line pipe. The supplemental agreement amending the Loan Agreement No.
3252 was signed on 8th July 1991.
14  This section is the Borrower's contribution and is not attributable to the Bank. A copy of the original letter dated October
14, 1998 is available in the Project files.



36
As a result of availability of additional gas from Qadirpur and reduced gas availability from Pirkoh and
Loti gas fields, it became necessary to revise the design of Project VI on the following lines:
TRANSMISSION PIPELINES                    ORIGINAL          REVISED
i)           Laying of (Miles)
30" diameter                            215              247
23" diameter                             14              127
18" diameter                            200              134
16" diameter                            214              235
TOTAL                                 643              743
ii) Uplifting of Pipelines of various diameter                298              137
iii) Compression system construction of new                   Nil               I
Compression station (No.)
Revamping of compressor units (No.)                        Nil              4
Installation of compressor units (No.)                     6                3
Relocation and shifting, re-staging                     No change       No change
iv) Installation of Purification Bank (MMCFD)                 120              Nil
After accounting for the Supplementary Loan of US$60 million made available to the Company under
Loan No. 3252-PK on July 8,1991, and exclusion of US$14 million allocated under the loan agreement for
distribution development. The revised cost of SNGPL Project-6, Phase-Il, was estimated at Rs 14,957 with FEC of
Rs 5,231 million. A summary of revised cost estimate is listed below:
APPROVED REVISED COST
(Million Rupees)
No.    ITEMS                                            FEC             TOTAL
1.     Transmission Lines                               3,823           10,683
2.      Compression Facilities                            711            2,001
3.      Purification Bank
4.      Coating Plant                                      95             139
5.      Construction Equipment                            411             759
6.      Telecommunication                                 101             214
7.      Technical Assistance                               90             105
8.      Borrowing Cost During Construction Period       1,056
TOTAL                           5,231           14,957



37
The capacity of various sections of the system before and after revising the design of the Project is
provided in the following table:
SECTOR WISE DESIGN CAPACITY
MMCFD
EXISTING AS OF    AFTER REVISED
No.                 SECTION                       190            PROJEC
PHASE IIPOJC
1.   SUI-ACIX                                    555               650
2.   ACIX-MULTAN                                 555               1050
3.   MULTAN-FAISALABAD                           420               490
4.   FAISALABAD-LAHORE                           250               285
5.   FAISALABAD-GALLI JAGIR                       105               150
6.   GALLI JAGIR-WAH                              75                140
7.   WAH-NOWSHERA                                 50                75
8.   NOWSHERA-PESHAWAR                            35                50
9.   MULTAN-SAHIWAL                               -                250
10.  SAHIWAL-LAHORE                                                 180
The Project-6 design was further revised during the course of construction period. The original design
provided for the expansion of Bhong-Multan section capacity from 450 MMCFD to 1050 MMCFD. Of this, 170
MMCFD of gas was to be delivered to Kot Addu power station. However, due to a change in gas allocation policy
by the Government to this power plant, it is now being supplied only 70 MMCFD for 8 months (from March to
October) every year. Consequently, 170 MMCFD for 4 months (November to February) and 100 MMCFD for the
remaining 8 months was required to be transported north of Multan to meet the demand of domestic consumers in
northern Punjab and N.W. F.P. In order to meet this situation, re-location of some pipeline sections was carried out
without affecting the total approved length of 743 miles of pipelines. As a result 32 miles of 30" diameter loopline
to be laid upstream of Multan between A3 and A4 was relocated between Multan and Faisalabad section. Similarly,
26 miles of 16" diameter loopline between Multan and Kot Addu section was relocated in Sheikhupura-Gujranwala
section. On actual survey of Qadirpur Rawansahiwal-Lahore line the total length of this section was reduced by 17
miles, therefore, the total scope of work of Project VI Phase II was limited to laying 727 miles of pipelines as
against 743 miles approved against revised PC 1.
(C) IMPLEMENTATION
The revised completion date of Project VI, Phase-II was scheduled for June 1997, which was later on
extended up to June 1998. Following is a review of major constraints and the consequential delays in
implementation of infrastructure development under this Project.
Delay in procurement of linepipe due to deterioration in Country's Foreign Exchange (FE) reserves
Due to deterioration in the country's foreign exchange reserves, exacerbated by the Gulf Crisis GOP's
ability to provide the Foreign exchange for HR Coils for locally manufactured linepipe was severely constrained.
Consequently, SNGPL, had to obtain a supplementary Loan of US $ 60 million from the Bank in October 1991, to
finance the procurement of HR Coils as explained above under "Evaluation of Objectives'. As SNGPL had no
experience in the procurement of such material, the processing was inordinately extended, Further, the requirement
was huge and its deliveries were time-phased, therefore, a series of clarifications, technical, as well as commercial,
had to be sought prior to evaluation of bids. The bid evaluation was finalized on 4.1.1993, approved by the Board of
Directors on 17.1.1993, and cleared with the Bank on 7.3.1993 i.e., about a year after the issue (9.4.1992) of the
tender. Order for 57,800 and 39,000 tones of HR Coils were placed on Russian and Korean Suppliers on 18.4.1993,
and 27.4.1993, respectively. While shipments of HR Coils from Korea were received in accordance with the agreed
delivery schedule, the shipments from Russia were delayed by about 6 months due to logistics problems in that
country.



38
Revision of Gas Supply from Gas Fields.
The original design of the Project provided for enhancement of transmission capacity increase from 450
MMCFD to 800 MMCFD to accept additional gas supplies of 50 MMCFD from Sui and 300 MMCFD from Pirkoh
and Loti. However, by mid 1992 as a result of reservoir studies, the gas availability from Pirkoh and Loti fields
was revised to 175 MMCFD. In the meantime initially 200 MMCFD gas and then another 140 MMCFD was
allocated to SNGPL from a newly discovered field at Qadirpur, located in the province of Sind about 45 miles
away from Company's transmission system. This necessitated a review of transmission capacity expansion plans,
as apart from reconfiguration of gas inputs from various fields, the gas availability had increased by 215 MMCFD.
Redesigning of the system expansion (including additional 100 miles of pipelines), materials and cost estimation,
reprogramming of construction activities and material processing was completed by February 1993.
Non-Availability of Contract Services for the Construction Of Pipeline,
Under the original planning of the Project about 324 Miles of pipeline were to be built by the contractor
and 419 miles by the Borrower's in-house construction crews. Subsequently, inquiries revealed poor response
from international contractors and non-availability of adequately qualified in-country contractors. Consequently,
the entire 743 miles of pipelines had to be built by the Borrower's in-house crew
(a)    About 6 months (May 1991-November 1991) were taken in preparing specifications for HR Coil
and obtaining Bank financing for the procurement of this material.
(b)    About 2-1/2 months delay (May 1992- August 1992) occurred due to extension of bid closing date
of the tender for HR Coils as requested by the bidders;
(c)    About 8 months delay (June 1992-February 1993) due to reconfiguration of pipelines caused by
revision of gas supply from various gas fields.
(d)    About 8 months delay in supply of 45 miles of pre-coated 30" pipe because of delay 2 months in
approval of the purchase order by the World Bank, another 4 months delay to issue special
commitments and 1-1/2 months by the supplier M/s. Crescent Steel Karachi.
(e)    Supply of HR Coils from Russia was delayed by about 6 months, first shipment commenced from
January 1994, instead of July 1993 as stipulated under the contract:
(f)    The cumulative length of transmission pipelines to be laid under the Project was increased from
643 miles to 743 miles and also the size of pipeline in Qadirpur Rawan-Sahiwal Section, also
increased from 18" to 24" diameter to carry additional gas north of Multan. This increased the
construction time by about one year.
(g)    Additional 12 months required for the construction of 324 miles of pipelines by in-house crews
these pipelines were planned to be built by contractors; and
(h)    About 9 months delay in the procurement of 100 miles 30" diameter pipe (under revised scope of
work) due to certain technical and legal clarifications, which had to be sought from the bidders.
(D) OPERATION EXPERIENCE
The object of expanding SNGPL's infrastructure for transmission and distribution of gas was fully realized
because the expansion from the outset was designed with an optimum combination of looping and compression i.e.,
greater emphasis on looping and minimal reliance on compression. This combination is not only economical for the
existing scenario because of lower operating and maintenance costs but also lends itself well as a base for any future
expansion programme.



39
The pipeline system and associated facilities installed under the Project are operating satisfactorily. All
major bottlenecks in the system have been removed. Greater flexibility has been provided in the system, which has
enabled the Company to transport larger volumes of gas to the northern areas during the peak periods. Designed
flows have been achieved in various sections of the system since the completion of the Project. Compression
equipment installed under the Project is also performing satisfactorily. Installation of SCADA, scheduled for
completion by February 1999, would improve Company's capability in efficient load management and minimize
operating costs through detection and reduction of gas losses. It would also enable early identification and prompt
corrective action against unsafe operating conditions.
EVALUATION OF BORROWER'S OWN PERFORMANCE
As explained earlier, a cumulative delay of about 18 months to 2 years in Project completion could be
expected. However, with dedicated efforts, the Company has not only laid 727 miles of pipelines by 30th June 1998
as per. revised schedule, but has also completed 342 miles of the contractual part of laying. In addition to this the
Company also managed to lay 45 miles of 30" diameter Qadirpur to Bhong pipeline and 49 miles 16" diameter
Dhodak to Kot Addu pipeline covered under Domestic Energy Resources Development programmes over and above
the scope of work of Project VI, Phase-II.
It has emerged after completion of the Project that SNGPL has sufficient capability to design, procure and
execute a major natural gas expansion Project with limited assistance from outside consultants. It also has the
operational capability to manage an expanded gas transmission and distribution network, stretched from Sui in
Balochistan to Peshawar in the North West Frontier Province, serving over 1.6 million consumers.



40
LESSONS LEARNED:
1)  The approval of the Project by the Government of Pakistan and effectiveness of Loan Agreement
by the World Bank took about one year. Such inordinate delays ultimately result in missing target
completion dates of a Project.
2)  The Project experience highlights the importance of establishing a procurement plan and schedule,
which is compatible with the overall Project, schedule. Because material delivery and installation
is usually on the critical path of any Project, the procurement process should be expedited in the
early stages of the Project. Thus delays in the initial stages of the Project for procurement of HR
Coils for manufacturing of 45 miles 30" diameter pipe adversely affected the entire Project
scheduling in 1992.
3)  Dovetailing of unforeseen works and shuffling of priorities during the course of Project VI, Phase-
II, and other operational considerations, though important and unavoidable, got dovetailed into the
work in hand which not only threw the original planning overboard but also reduced the priority of
Project VI.
4)  Non availability of competent contractors within the country and inadequate response outside
forced the Company to complete the part of Project, originally planned to be laid by outside
contractors, departmentally.  This change in scenario and rescheduling of Project sections
adversely affected the completion date.
5)  Frequent changes by OGDC in quantity of gas from Qadirpur gas field and its delivery date had a
disruptive influence over the construction schedule.
6)  Another impediment in timely execution of Project VI, Phase-I1, was the obstruction experienced
in land-acquisition and permission for crossing of railway tracks, irrigation channels and
road/highway that fell en route. Things moved slowly in the offices of the concerned Government
departments and agencies due to usual casual attitude of concerned officers and their pre-
occupation in their respective administrative matters.
7)   Other than the delays experienced in the fulfilling the legal procedures for land acquisition, the
stay orders granted by the courts to landlords and legal procedures that need to be adopted for
vacation of such stay/court orders delayed completion of various pipelines sections.
BANK PERFORMANCE
World Bank, as in all the five previous major Projects undertaken by the Company, provided valuable
support in formulation and implementation of Project VI. Also, the Supplementary Loan by the Bank enabled the
Company to import Hot Rolled Coils (for conversion to pipe locally) because deterioration in the country's foreign
exchange reserves, exacerbated by the Gulf crisis, had impaired its ability to provide foreign exchange for import
of line pipe for the Project. As a result of additional facilities installed under the Project, the Company is now able
to carry sizeable quantities of natural gas from Pirkoh, Loti, Sui and Qadirpur gas fields to its major consumption
centers in the provinces of Punjab and North West Frontier. This has provided greater operational flexibility in the
system. The Bank has also supported Company's endeavors to further enhance its system capacity beyond Multan
out of the savings of Project VI. This would result in better load management and therefore minimize load
shedding during the winter season. Last but not least, the additional capacity created by the Project enabled the
Company to sell 39percent more gas in 1996-97 than that in 1989-90 saved about US$414 million, through
substitution of kerosene and furnace oil by indigenous natural gas.



41
THE FOLLOWING STUDIES WERE CONDUCTED UNDER THE PROJECT VI:
Collaborative Arrangement
The IBRD loan 3252-PAK for Corporate Restructuring and System Expansion Project, inter alia, provided
for a Collaborative Arrangement between an internationally reputable Gas Company. and SNGPL, in order to
enhance SNGPL's technical capabilities through technology transfer- Novacorp of Canada was selected for this
purpose after due process.
The contract for Collaborative Arrangement between SNGPL and Nova Gas International (the then
Novacorp) of Canada, for a period of two years, was signed on 2 June 1994. It was estimated to cdst US $ 2,.62   -
million. Originally, the time frame of five years was envisaged for'Collaborative Arrangement but later due to
impending privatization, it was reduced to two years.
Nova Gas embarked on "The Needs Assessment Phase" of Collaborative Arrangement Project on 22 June
1994, which lasted for about eight weeks. During this phase Nova's Needs Assessment team reviewed SNGPL's
operational activities (e.g. operation, maintenance and safety of transmission and distribution system, Project
implementation, long term planning, inventory control etc.) and training requirements, with a view to improve its
operational efficiency through transfer of technology.
The completion of Needs Assessment Phase was followed by a visit of SNGPL's Management Team
(comprising two Senior General Managers and two General Manager's) to Canada to assess Nova Gas' training
capabilities in order to finalize the training programme recommended in the Needs Assessment Report.
From the Needs Analysis process, some common themes emerged as areas of SNGPL's operations that
required urgent attention. The primary areas of focus that were agreed to included the following:
- Design Engineering             - Operations
- Maintenance                    - Billing
- Data Processing                - Materials Management
- Human Resource -Management    - Corporate Planning
Twenty-four specific task assignments evolved from these main themes that provided SNGPL a
comprehensive program of training and assistance.  Each of these task assignments placed obligations and
responsibilities on both Nova Gas International and SNGPL to achieve specific objectives, which were first steps
toward resolving the needs, identified and ultimately helping the Company modernize its operations. This program
of identified tasks envisaged 78 man-weeks of effort in Pakistan. by various -Nova specialists and .340 man weeks
of training in Canada for SNGPL executive and management personnel.
Initially, a Steering Committee 'comprising the then Senior General Manager (T&P), General Manager
(Sales), General Manager (Personnel) and General Manager (Corporate Planning) was constituted to select the
candidates for training in Canada. However, due to change in the management of the Company, the size, scope and
completion of the Steering Committee was changed, which affected the selection procedure, the number and quality
of people selected and also the duration of training in Canada. It is felt on the hindsight that more meaningful
results would have been achieved if lesser number of more suitable candidates had been selected for more intensive
training. However, by and large, - the Collaborative Arrangement was satisfactorily concluded in July 1996. A total
of 80 SNGPL executives received training in Canada and 21 Nova Gas specialists provided training in Pakistan at a
cost of about US $ 2.583 million.
SNGPL believes that, despite- flaws in the selection process of the trainees, the technical training that its
personnel received in Canada under Collaborative Arrangement has proved to be useful and educating. It is hoped
that exposure to the working of a gas company in a developed country and application of the state of the art
technology in various aspects of gas transmission and distribution of gas would be of immense_benefit to them in
future.



42
Financial Management Information System (FMIS)
Messrs. Taseer Hadi Khalid & Co./Peat Marwick (THK/PM) - the consultants conducted the study in four
modules as shown below:
a)   Financial Reporting
b)   Billing
c)   Data Processing Strategy
d)   Computer Auditing
The consultants' recommendations in respect of each module are summarized below:
a) Financial Reportiniz
The consultants have identified the users of reports-shareholders, Government management, as well as
objectives - corporate planning, budgeting, strategic management accounting, operational cost, Project and
working capital management - and have discussed each from 5 aspects viz. (i) Procedural issues (ii) additional
reporting requirements (iii) improvement in form and content of existing reports (iv) frequency of reporting and
(v) scope of distribution
b) Billin'
Recommended systems are presented in 5 segments (i) meter reading and billing (ii) billing receipts (iii)
receivables (iv) defective meters and fictitious meter-reading and (v) connections and billing (ii) billing receipts (iii)
receivables (iv) defective meters and fictitious meter-reading and (v) connections
c) Data Processine-Strateky
Main recommendations include decentralization of EDP operations to regional level with on-line - real time
- enquiry systems, office automation/networking and development of modern application systems for accounting as
well as non-accounting such as personnel management, complaint management, fleet management, plant preventive
management etc. In the long-term electronic/automatic meter reading (EMR/AMR) is also recommended.
d) Computer Auditi4n
The consultants have outlined audit related controls - segregation of duties, logical and physical access
controls - and suggestions on the appropriate structure and recommended responsibilities at Head Office and
regional levels as well guidelines for drawing. up pre-audit and post-audit programs. They have also submitted a
Training Manual that not only documents functions and detailed reporting/ follow-up at each level but also defines
training facilities/types and the tangible benefits of training.
IMPLEMENTATION
a) Financial Reporting
Implementation of this module and the DP Strategy one are interdependent, and -both have not been
possible because of a lack of qualified and experienced accounting and DP personnel.
An application was submitted to the GOP in July 1997 for relaxation of the ban on recruitment so that 6
executives can be appointed in the Finance and DP Departments. Permission still awaited.
In the meantime there has been further depletion in the executive staff strength of the DP department with
the resignation of three senior programmers in the space of two months in mid- 1998.



43
b)      Billing
In billing, some of the recommended changes that have been effected are:
*  launching of a pilot Project for contracting out meter-reading on automated basis
*  Decentralization of billing at the regional level-in 5 regions
*  Contracting out gathering/processing of bill collection data to Citibank in order to accelerate
not only the flow of funds from the various collection bank branches to Head Office but also
the billing cycle, as payment status of consumers - a prerequisite for subsequent billing - is
updated earlier.
*  Entrusting bill delivery to private couriers 'enabled earlier receipt of bills by domestic
consumers, and this justified reduction in period allowed for payment of.bius from 21 days to
14.days.
*  Online database of all pending/in progress applications for gas that enables instant access to.
all concerned departments for ascertaining the status of all pending applications - under
implementation.
c)  DP Strategy. General ledger has been computerized using application software (SBT) with initially a 6 user
network in Head Office. A network with about 30 clients has been set-up in the Head Office connecting senior
management. Duplicate bill preparation has been computerized at 3- locations initially.
Computer Auditing. Implementation dependent on - induction of qualified staff and formulation of recommended
DP strategy.
Conclusion. The completion of the assignment was behind schedule. There were frequent changes of personnel
deputed by the consultants leading to a loss of continuity and a lack of cohesion. Added to this was the fact that
modules (a) and (b) were undertaken by THK while those at (c) and (d) were entrusted to PM. The. approach of the
two firms was not uniform, and as such the quality of the finished report is uneven. On the whole though the report
has merit, and its implementation will lead to timely and accurate information and reports becoming available to
management that will enable more informed decision- - making.
PROPOSED NATURAL GAS PRICING STRUCTURE
The study for establishing a pricing formula envisioning improvement in efficiency, profitability and
competitiveness of SNGPL and enhancing its ability to raise funds through equity participation was entrusted to
International Resource Group - IRG (the Consultant) on 18 December 1993. The various Milestone Reports (I
through V) furnished by the Consultants from April 1994 onwards culminated in their Draft Final Report in
November 1994. The Consultants also proposed the basic structure of Gas Regulatory Authority indicating
principles, functions, responsibilities and enabling legislation for regulation and administration of Natural Gas
pricing structure. The Bank conveyed its comments to the Consultants on 28 December 1994. The final report
was issued in December 1995.
Each report progressively built from a theoretical basis for establishing pricing guidelines to practical basis
for implementing-the recommended pricing and regulatory structure. The Consultants recommended Return of
Assets. (ROA) pricing regime, -setting ROA at a level to ensure that return on equity will be high enough to attract
significant equity investors, both present and prospective. The recommended rate of return was made flexible
(laying down a band of reasonable return) and provided a spread of. 3-to-4 percentage points over estimated cost of
redeemable capital. The pass -through mechanism for gas price adjustment and RPI applications on total gas sales
margins exposed to inflation were also built in the formula.



44
In order to launch successfully the programme for the privatization of gas transmission and distribution
companies. The Government of Pakistan (GOP) considered the reports of International Resources Group (the
Consultants of SNGPL) and Arthur Andersen (the Consultants of SSGCL) in March 1995 and laid down a new gas
pricing structure for the gas industry in Pakistan based on ROE with RPI mechanism.  The Consultants
recommendations as to the regulatory aspects were well received and proved helpful in developing guiding
principles for regulatory laws etc.
PRIVITIZATION OF SNGPL
PRIVATIZA7ION THROUGH PUBLIC OFFER. In order to achieve broad based privatization of SNGPL as
agreed with the World Bank, the Government of Pakistan and its controlled institutions (PSES) agreed to disinvest
their shareholdings in such a manner so as to reduce their holdings from 89,57percent to 40percent of the issued
share capital of SNGPL. The divestment plan envisaged:
(a)   Public offer of 51.270 million shares @ Rs. 40. 1 5 per share inclusive of premium amount of Rs.
30 and share transfer stamp fee 15 paisa per share. The premium was retained by the divesting
shareholders i.e. GOP and others.
(b)   Due to limited absorptive capacity, of 'the domestic capital market, the public offer made on 27
and 28 July 1992 could not attract private sector. Consequently, the underwriters had to take
81percent of the public offer, which remained unsubscribed. Subsequently, the underwriters have
substantially unloaded t heir shareholdings to the general public.
(c)  Private placement of 34,180, million shares with a foreign gas Company of international repute,
selected for technical collaboration with SNGPL at a price which shall not be less than the price
offered to the general public. In case the negotiations do not materialize the Government of
Pakistan shall off load these shares either through public offering or private placement with
foreign investors.
However, the negotiations of Government of Pakistan with the foreign gas companies did not succeed
and the shareholdings is 60percent instead of targeted 40percent with GOP and its controlled entities.
PRIVATIZATION THROUGH SALE OF SHARES TO STRATEGIC INVESTOR WITH MANAGEMENT
RIGHT. In partial modification of the disinvestment plan, Government of Pakistan and other principal shareholders
intend to disinvest 26percent shares of SNGPL to a strategic investor with management rights through a transparent
competitive process. The Privatization Commission appointed First Capital Securities Corporation Limited and
Smith Barney Inc. on August 8, 1994 as their Financial Advisors in order to assist and advise Government of
Pakistan in the process of sale of 26percent shares of SNGPL to an investor - manager, who should be a gas
company of repute, having both technical an Government selected M/s. N.M. Rothschild as the new foreign partner
to work with FCSC for the financial advisory. The Financial Advisors. are also required to draft the Information.
Memorandum and assess valuation of the Company. The Privatization Commission have appointed MIs. Ashurst
Morris Crisp as their Consultants for legal advice. Also that technical audit of SNOPL has been carried out by MIs.
Stone & Webster Management Consulting Inc.
1.     The Privatization Commission, jointly with the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Resources has
initiated various steps for proposed sale of shares to strategic investors with management rights
including new pricing regime, regulatory framework and other enabled regulation.
2.     In order to prepare SNOPL for privatization and ensure smooth transition, the Company is
implementing time bound action plan covering various facets of its operation and -organizational
structure.



45
Man Power Studv
The Manpower Study commissioned through CIDA funded Consultants submitted their final report in May,
1998 in, this report downsizing of the Company's establishment was recommended as follows:
2,679 Career Terms subordinate and 30 executive position to be retrenched.
That the "Projects Group" be floated as a separate employee-owned Company.
The Management Trainee programme should be allowed to lapse. With the above efforts, the Company
would have a final total complement of 5,299 employees.
Alternate Service Delivery methods such as out-sourcing of certain functions would further reduce 1,958
positions.
The Company, after discussion with the World Bank supervision mission, and CIDA funded Consultants
carried out an In-house Study keeping in mind the recommendations made in the Manpower Transition
Study, which identified 1038 surplus positions in different categories in the subordinate cadre. The matter
was thereafter placed before the Board of Directors of the Company who approved their retrenchment.
The Management has referred the matter to the Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Resources for the
clearance of the Government of Pakistan and to carry out the intended retrenchment. Meantime, the
Management Trainees-after completing their two years term have been relieved and only 3 are serving as of
date who will be phased out by 03.11.1998.
Large-scale retrenchment of Project Term employees has already been carried out in three phases, resulting
in reducing the Project Term staff strength from 891 to 42. Likewise, the Project Term executive staff
strength has been reduced from 44 to 24.
The total staff position in the Company from the time the Manpower Study was commissioned viz-a-viz
today i.e., 14.10.1998 is as follows:
No. of Employees       No. of Employees
Employment Category                as of                  as of
3147-1997              14-10-1998
Executive Project Term                    44                     24
Executive Career Term                    603                     582
Management Trainees                      370                      3
Subordinate Project Term                 891                     42
Subordinate Project Term                 7661                   7516
TOTAL                                    9569                   8167



46
PROJECT 6, PHASE II
PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE vs ACTUAL COMPLETION
Section
Scin         Section                               Schedule          Actual
Sr. No                                    As per PCI                                                               Remarks
As per SAR                Revised Oct 94            Completion      Completion
I      Sui - ACI              i) Sui-MP 18.15                 Mar 98           Mar 98                            In time
30 " dia 37.5 Mi          30 " dia 18.16 Miles
(ii) MP 18.15 - ACI            June 98           June 98
30 " dia 19.36 Miles                                                           In time
2      ACI-AC4                 (i) ACl-Al                     June 93           June 94         Due to flood are 8 miles commissioned in Sep.
30" dia 101.78 Mi         30 " dia 13.18 Miles                                          93 and 5 miles commissioned in June 94
(ii) Al-AV7                    Sept 93           Oct 93          Delayed due to late arrival of 30" pipe
30 " dia 16.25 Miles
(iii) AV7 - A3                 Nov 9             Nov 94          Completion advanced to remove system
30" dia 22.78 Miles                                          capacity constraint.
(iv) A3 - A4                                                     Rescheduled due to non availability of 30"
30" dia. 32.00 Miles                                        pipe. Crew engaged on laying 24" QPR-Main
a) A3-AV10.16 Mi              June 95          May 96          Channu section Advanced to pick up additional
b) AvIO-A4, 16 Mi             June 97          May 96          gas from Qadirpu
(v) A4 - AC4                   Jan 95            Dec 95          Delayed due to non availability of 30" dia. Pipe
30" dia. 18.60 Miles
(vi) AV38 - AIO                Aug 97            June 97         Relocation of 32 miles 30" miles dia pipe from
30" dia. 16.61 Miles                                        A30A4 to Multan-Faisalabad Section.
(vii) AV29-A8                  Aug 97            June 97         Relocation of 32 miles 30" dia pipe from A3-A4
30" dia. 16.30 Miles                                        to Multan-Faisalabad Section
(viii) Al Downstream           Apr 96            Dec 93          Advanced due to availability of 18" Pipe and
18" dia 15.00 Miles                                        non-availability of 30" pipe.
3      AC4 - AC6               (i) AC4-Sutlej U/S             Mar 93            May 93          Delayed due to non availability of 30" dia. pipe
30" dia. 75.6 Mi          30" dia. 15.58 Miles
(ii) Sutlej D/S - A6                                             13 miles completed in June 95, the remaining
30" dia 26.01 Miles                                          completed in Dec 96 due to delay in
a) Sutlej D/S - MP 173, 13   May 96           June 95         procurement of 30" pipe
Mi                             May 96            Dec 96
b) MP 173 - A6 13.01 Mi
(iii) A6 - A7                  Aug 97            Nov 97          Delayed due to delay in procurement/delivery of
30" dia. 34.26 Miles                                        linepipe and coating material.
(iv) AC4 - AV15                Aug 96            Dec 94          Schedule advanced due to availability of
18" dia. 15.47 Mi                                           Qadirpur Gas.
4      AC6 - AV7               AC6 - AV29                     March 92          May 92          Delayed due to land problem 16" dia. 43.00
24" dia. 13.88 Mi      24" dia. 13.82 Mi                                                Miles Section



47
Section
Section                    Seci                    Schedule       Actual
Sro As per SAR           ARevised Oct94             Completion    Completion
5     AC6 - Lahore          (i) AV29 - Mian Channul           Apr 97        June 94         Construction advanced due to availability of
24" Ex-Quadirpur pipe due to change in
18" dia. 200 Mi          24" dia 43.20 Mi                                            design and non availability of 30" pipe.
(ii) M. Channu - Sahiwal         Apr 97        Jan 96          Construction advanced to expedite gas
24" dia 48.00 Mi                                            supply to Lahore region from southem
Section.
(iii) Sahiwal - Lahore           Nov 96        Nov 96         In time
18" dia 89.00 Mi
6     CC3 - Wah             (i) C6 - CV35                     Nov 92        Nov 92         In time
16" dia, 60 Mi           16" dia. 24.33 Mi
(ii) CV35 - C9                   March 93      July 93         Delayed due to undulated hilly terrain
16" dia. 23.74 Mi
7     Various Sections      (i) Multan - Kot Addu             Nov 91        Dec 91          In time
16" dia,155.8 Mi        16" dia, 43.00 Mi
(ii) AC8 - Bl                    Dec 91        Dec 91          In time
16" dia, 25.98 Mi
(iii) BCI - MP62                 Aug 94        Nov 94          Completion delayed due to delay in material
16" dia, 24.10 Mi                                         procurements
(iv) MP62 - B3                   March 97      June 97         Delayed due to built-in and populated
16" dia, 12.10 Mi                                         industrial area
(v) S'Pura - G Wala              Feb 97        June 97         Relocated and rescheduled in lieu of 25 miles
16" dia, 27.70 Mi                                          section between AV22 and Kot addu.
Delayed due to mob./de.mob. of camp from
C-Leg.
(vi) AC8-BV3                     Nov 96        Apr 95          Schedule advanced due to operational
16" dia, 12.35Mi                                          requirements
(vii) CV7a-CI & CVI 1-CVI        May 96        July 96         Slow progress due to heavily water logged
16" dia, 22.05 Mi                                          area.
(viii) C3-CV18 & C4-CV21         Nov 96        Nov 96         In time
16" dia, 22.56 Mi
(i) AC7 - AV38                   Jan 97        Jan 97         In time
16" dia, 16.00 Mi
Total             644.55 Miles                727.49 Miles



