Page  1
                                                          October 7, 1991
Managing Director
Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited
Gas House
21 Kashmir Road
Lahore
Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Dear Sir:
            Re:   Loan No. 3252-PAK
                  (Corporate Restructuring and System Expansion Project)
                  Amendment of the Loan Agreement
            We refer to the Loan Agreement (Corporate Restructuring and
System Expansion Project) between the Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Limited
(the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (the Bank), dated October 22, 1990, as amended.  We also
refer to the letter, dated April 8, 1991, from the Borrower requesting
that the Bank waive the condition of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
set forth in Section 7.01 (c) thereof.
            We are pleased to inform you that the Bank, after due
consideration, has acceded to the above request.     Accordingly, the
Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:
1.          In Section 7.01, the word "and" is added at the end of
paragraph (a), the "; and" appearing at the end of paragraph (b) is
changed to ".", and paragraph (c) is deleted in its entirety.
2.          A new Section 5.09 is added to read as follows:
            "Section 5.09.   The Borrower shall, not later than May 31,
1992, provide to the Bank evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the
Commercial Banks Loan Agreements have been duly authorized by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and the Commercial Banks
and are legally binding upon the Borrower and the Commercial Banks in
accordance with their terms."
            All the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement, as
amended hereby, shall remain in full force and effect.
            Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendments
by signing and dating the confirmation on the enclosed copy of this
letter and returning it to us.
                                Sincerely,
                             Michael H. Wiehen
                      Director, Country Department I
                Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
CONFIRMED:
SUI NORTHERN GAS PIPELINES LIMITED
By    /s/ Muqaddas A. Khan
      Authorized Representative
Date  December 3, 1991
Page  2
