Page  1
                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                   LOAN NUMBER 3252 PAK
(Corporate Restructuring and System Expansion Project)
                        between
           THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                          and
         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT
                Dated October 22, 1990
                                        LOAN NUMBER 3252 PAK
                  GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated October 22, 1990, between the
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN, acting by its President
(the Guarantor), and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Sui Northern Gas
Pipelines Limited (the Borrower), having been satisfied
as to the feasibility and priority of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project; and
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to
extend to the Borrower a loan in various currencies
equivalent to one hundred thirty million dollars
($130,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the
Page  2
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the
Borrower in respect of such loan as provided in this
Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the
Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of
the Borrower;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                       ARTICLE I
            General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                      ARTICLE II
             Guarantee; Provision of Funds
     Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule
2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, without
limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and
not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the
Loan, and the punctual performance of all the other
obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan
Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon
the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the
Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to
the Borrower will be inadequate to meet the estimated
expenditures required for the carrying out of the
Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
including without limitations adjustment of the structure
or levels of the Borrower's Prescribed Prices, promptly
to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be
provided with such funds as shall be needed to meet such
expenditures.
                      ARTICLE III
                    Other Covenants
     Section 3.01. Except as the Bank may otherwise
agree, the Guarantor shall implement, or continue to
implement, as the case may be, measures satisfactory to
the Bank to: (i) beginning in fiscal year 1991, annually
increase the price of gas to households so as to achieve
full parity with the border price of fuel oil by June 30,
1993; (ii) annually increase the development surcharge on
the sale of gas to power producers  so that by June 30,
1995, the price of such gas, including such development
surcharge, shall achieve full parity with the domestic
price of fuel oil, less discounts for the gas
Page  3
transmission investments made by the power producers; and
(iii) continue to maintain the price of gas supplied as
fuel by the gas transmission and distribution companies
to the industrial, power and commercial sectors at least
at full parity with the domestic price of fuel oil.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Guarantor shall not exercise its right to
purchase or otherwise acquire, either directly or
indirectly, the new equity shares of the Borrower
referred to in Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement if, at
any time, the total of any such shares sought to be
purchased or otherwise acquired, when added to the
Guarantor's existing direct and indirect shareholding in
the Borrower, would cause the Guarantor's direct and
indirect shareholding in the Borrower to exceed 40
percent.
     Section 3.03. Except as the Bank and the Guarantor
shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall take all
measures necessary to set the Gas Development Surcharge
at not more than the following percentages of the
Borrower's gross revenues derived from gas sales to its
consumers for the following fiscal years: (i) 32% for
fiscal year 1992; and (ii) 28% for fiscal years
commencing after fiscal year 1992, terminating, however,
at such time as the new formula, satisfactory to the
Bank, for setting Borrower's Prescribed Prices, as
referred to in Section 3.08 of the Loan Agreement and
Section 3.05 of this Agreement, shall have been
implemented by the Borrower.
     Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall, not later than
December 31, 1990, establish and notify the Borrower of:
(i) the final Prescribed Prices applicable for fiscal
year 1990; and (ii) the provisional increase in
Prescribed Prices applicable for fiscal year 1991, as
required to enable the Borrower to comply with its
obligations under Article V of the Loan Agreement.
     Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall: (i) establish a
new formula, satisfactory to the Bank, for the setting of
the Borrower's Prescribed Prices based on the findings
and recommendations of the study referred to in Section
3.08 of the Loan Agreement; and (ii) take all necessary
measures to ensure that said formula shall be applied by
the Borrower not later than July 1, 1993, or such other
date as the Bank, the Guarantor and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree.
     Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall: (i) commence, not
later than October 31, 1991, and complete, not later than
March 31, 1992, under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank, the study referred to in Part C (5) of the
Project to upgrade the regulatory capabilities of the
Guarantor's Directorate General of Gas; (ii) furnish to
the Bank the findings and recommendations of such study
for review and comment; and (iii) thereafter, taking into
account the Bank's comments, implement the findings and
recommendations of such study not later than March 31, 1993.
                      ARTICLE IV
      Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 4.01. The Secretary to the Government of
Pakistan, Economic Affairs Division, of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Page  4
     Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
          The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
          Economic Affairs Division
          Islamabad, Pakistan
          Cable address:            Telex:
               ECONOMIC               ECDIV-05-634
               Islamabad
     For the Bank
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD              197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.       248423 (RCA),
                                       64145 (WUI) or
                                       82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above
written.
               ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
               By /s/ Nasim Qureshi
                              Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ K. Dervis
                         Acting Regional Vice President
                   Europe, Middle East and North Africa
