                                              Documentof
                                            The World Bank

                                     FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                ReportNo: 38679-LC




                                           PROJECTPAPER

                                                   ONA

                       PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING CREDIT

                            INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR 1.30MILLION
                                (US$1.84MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                     TO

                                             SAINT LUCIA

                                                  FOR A

            WATER SUPPLY INFRASTRUCTUREIMPROVEMENTPROJECT

                                             March 15,2007




SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
CaribbeanCountry ManagementUnit
Latin America and the CaribbeanRegion

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (ExchangeRateEffectiveFebruary27*, 2007)


                           CurrencyUnit = EasternCaribbeanDollar (EC$)
                       EC$ (XCD) 2.685 = US$1
                               US$O.37 = EC$(XCD) 1
                              US$1.504 = XDR 1
                            XDR 0.673 = U S $ l

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 - December31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
EC$         Eastern CaribbeanDollar
ERR         EconomicInternal Rateof Return
FIRR        Financial InternalRateof Return
IBRD        InternationalBankfor ReconstructionAnd Development
IDA         InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
ISR         ImplementationStatus Report
PCU         Project CoordinationUnit
SDR         SpecialDrawingRights
WASCO       Water and SewerageCompany Inc
PAD         ProjectAppraisalDocument




Vice President:               PamelaCox
CountryManagerDirector:       Caroline Anstey
Sector Director:              Laura Tuck
Sector Manager:               JohnH.Stein
Task TeamLeader:              JordanSchwartz

                                                                                                                           FOROFFICIALUSEONLY


                                                              SAINTLUCIA
                  WATER SUPPLYINFRASTRUCTUREIMPROVEMENTPROJECT
                                              ADDITIONALFINANCING

                                                                CONTENTS



          A     INTRODUCTION     ...............................................................................................................................       1
          B..   BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING                                                                    ...................................1
             1    COUNTRYCONTEXT..........................................................................................................................             1
             2
             3.
              ..  THEORIGINALLOAN/CREDIT            ............................................................................................................       1
                  PROJECT OBJEC~~~E  ..........................................................................................................................
             4.                                                                                                                                                        2
                  COMPONENTS.SCOPE.AND DESIGN THE PROJE        OF                     CT
             5    PROJECTPERFORMANCE
             6..                                                                           ........................................................................
                                           .................................................................................................................... 3      2

                  RATIONALEAND REASONSFOR REQUESTINGTHEADDITIONAL FINANCING                                                    ....................................... 3
          C.    PROPOSEDCHANGES           .....................................................................................................................        4
          D     CONSISTENCYWITH CAS                .............................................................................................................       5
          E..   ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF COST OVERRUN                                                            ...........................................5
              .                                                                                  ...................................................................
             2.
             1    ECONOMICAND FINANCIALANALYSISOFTHE PROJECT                                                                                                           6
                  FINANCIAL ANALYSISOFTHE WATERUTILITY                           .................................................................................     e
          F     BENEFITSAND RISK        .......................................................................................................................
          G..   FINANCIAL TERMSAND CONDITIONS FOR THE ADDITIONAL FINANCING                                                                               ................78




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties.Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bankauthorization.


                                      SAINT LUCIA

         WATER SUPPLY INFRASTRUCTUREIMPROVEMENT PROJECT
                              ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                          PROJECTPAPERDATASHEET

Date: March 15, 2007                                       TeamLeader: JordanZ. Schwartz
Country: Saint Lucia                                       Sector Manager: JohnHenry Stein
Project Name: Water Supply Infrastructure Improvement      Country Director: Caroline Anstey
Project                                                    Environmental Category: B
Project ID: PO94416
Borrower: Government of Saint Lucia




policies?
Havethese been approvedby Bank management?                                  Not applicable
I s approvalfor any policy exception sought from the Board?                 No




For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m): 1.84
Proposedterms: (IDA): StandardCredit


A . .   INTRODUCTION

This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide Additional
Financing in the amount of SDR1.30 million (US$ 1.84 million equivalent) to the
Government of Saint Lucia, to be funded with equivalent amounts of IDA credits and to
be used for the Water Supply Infrastructure Improvement Project, Project ID P094416,
Loadcredit No. LN7297-SLUKN4065-SLU.

The reasons for the request for additional financing are: the actual cost of the bids
received for the turnkey contract; contingencies recommended by the technical
consultants to the project; and an increase in fuel and construction costs since the original
project appraisal estimates.


B.      BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALEFOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING

1.      Country Context

Economic growth in Saint Lucia is now closely tied to its competitive position as a
tourism destination. The tourism sector is becoming an alternative for development
given that traditional agribusiness has been indecline inthe last years following the loss
of the country's trade preferences. Agriculture has dropped from about 15 percent of
GDP in 1990 to 5 percent in 2003. Yet the ability of the country to absorb further
development is being tested by the poor condition of basic infrastructure. While the
private sector is recognized as the engine of sustainable growth for Saint Lucia's
economy, the access of developers and hoteliers to basic services is already affecting
their interest ininvesting inthe island. Inthis context, the water and sanitation sector has
emerged as a key factor in the economic development of the island. Currently, water
service is being poorly provided and severe shortages are frequent: hotels purchase water
trucked to them in tankers; while entire neighborhoods are relying on rainwater, private
purchases, or storage tanks to compensate for days-on-end without water. The poor
quality of service provided has a direct and negative impact on quality of life.

2.      The OriginalLoadcredit

In response to severe water shortages throughout the north of Saint Lucia, the World
Bank agreed to prepare-in    the closing months of FYOS-a Water Supply Infrastructure
Improvement Project that would alleviate the growing crisis. The project design was
based on technical analyses and investment estimates conducted as part of the Bank's on-
going Water Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project (P070244) and was scoped to
fit into the available IDA resources for the OECS at the close of that fiscal year (Saint
Lucia i s an IDNIBRD blend). The original estimate for the works alone (undertakenas a
turnkey contract for maximum efficiency) was US$7.2 million, including a US$500,000
contingency.     The total project, including contractor oversight, administration and
complementary technical studies, came to US$7.94 million. Of this sum, the total Bank


                                                                                           1

financing was US$7.70 million composed of a US$3.85 million loan and a SDR 2.6
million credit (US$3.85 million equivalent).         The Borrower agreed to co-finance
U S$240,000.

The Loan and Credit Agreements were signed on June 23rd, 2005 and the project became
effective on September 2"d, 2005. The closing date i s January 15'h, 2009.

Project Objective: The objectives of Saint Lucia Water Supply Infrastructure
Improvement Project, as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) are: (i)to
alleviate the water shortage in the entire north of the country; (ii) implement urgent
                                                                       to
investments that will result in additional revenues, and reduction of the likelihood of
commercial users abandoning the system; and (iii)to improve the potential of a
successful partnership between the Government and the private sector. The additional
financing request does not entail changes to the Project's objectives. The overall scope
of the project to be financed with IBRD and IDA funds (including the additional
financing) remains the same as defined inthe PAD.

3.      Components,Scope, andDesignof the Project

The project supports the Government of Saint Lucia's agenda for the water sector, which
establishes as a priority the provision of reliable service to meet demand from population
as well as to facilitate investment from hoteliers and developers in the north region. This
need has been highlighted by the selection of Saint Lucia as host to the Cricket World
Cup in 2007. Most importantly, however, i s that the financing of sustainable water
systems for poor settlements throughout the island depend upon the cash generated by
water sales throughout the north. This project is a complement of the existing World
Bank Water Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project, whose objective is to help the
transition of the water utility (WASCO) from a publicly-managed utility to a privately-
operated company under a well-functioning regulatory framework. These two World
Bank Projects are interrelated in the following ways: (i)    the Water Supply Infrastructure
Improvement will finance the utility's most urgent rehabilitation works and hence help
entice the equity contribution of private investors into the water utility; and (ii) the
                                                                                   while
investment plan to be carried out with the Water Supply Investment Project will help to
meet part of the pent-up demand, the speed of financial turnaround will depend on the
performance of the private operator in improving revenue collection rate and reducing
water losses. Finally, the project design for the Works project was based on technical
analyses and investment estimates conducted as part of the Water Sector Reform
Technical Assistance Project.

The project has two components: (i)Infrastructure Improvement Works; and (ii)
Technical Assistance and Project Management. The first component aims to upgrade the
dam pumping station, improve raw water transmission, double the capacity of the
country's primary water treatment plant, and upgrade the distribution pipeline. The
initial estimate for this component was US$7.2 million. A turnkey contract was chosen
to implement the works, as it was considered the most efficient and safe instrument. The
second component intends to provide all technical assistance required to support project



                                                                                          2

implementation, carry out project management activities and priority technical areas.
This component includes the supervision of the quality of works performed by the
contractor hired for implementation.       The initial estimate for this component was
US$0.74 million.

The overall project oversight i s under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, while
the day to day coordination is ensuredby the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) housed at
the Ministry of Finance, with the Permanent Secretary of Finance serving as the Program
Manager. The Permanent Secretary is the liaison between the water sector reform
initiative and the public-private partnership transaction. The technical oversight of the
turnkey contractor is undertaken by a top quality consulting firm. WASCO (the water
utility) has seconded a project engineer full time to monitor and report to the Project
Manager and the utility on the status of the works and performance of the technical
advisor and primary contractor.

4.      ProjectPerformance

Implementation performance to date is highly satisfactory. The results achieved in
development objectives (DO) have been consistent with the expectations set out in the
PAD. These achievements have beenrecordedinthe last two most recent ISRs. Besides,
there are no unresolved environmental, fiduciary, social, or other safeguard issues.
Moreover the Borrower and the Implementing Entities are committed to the project as
evidenced by the speed with which the Borrower achieved its two effectiveness
conditions and the efficacy with which they have undertakenthe project design, bidding,
and negotiation processes. The Borrower's request for additional financing further
explains the Government's commitment to the project.

The PCU hired an Engineering Consulting Firmfor preparing the preliminary design and
turnkey contract oversight. The responsibilities of the Consulting Firm have been
achieved as expected: (i) prepared all the technical information required for the turnkey
contract, which included engineeringpreliminary designs as well the bidding documents;
(ii) helped WASCO in the qualification of contractors, including the preparation of pre-
qualification reports; (iv) supported WASCO in the evaluation of tenders and the
preparation of tender evaluation reports, contract document and negotiation of contracts;
(v) prepared preliminary design and tender invitation documents for all civil, mechanical
and electrical works and finally, (v) assisted the Government in the selection of the firm
with which the turnkey contract would be signed. The turnkey contract was awarded and
successfully negotiated in March 2006. The winning firm has finished its final designs
(which were reviewed, negotiated and approved by the client), secured storage locations,
mobilized the necessary heavy equipment and materials and have already begun
construction.

5.      Rationale and reasonsfor requestingthe additionalfinancing

The project cost estimates were adjusted after the technical analysis for the works was
completed by the Engineering Consulting Firm and the bidding process for the turnkey



                                                                                           3

contract was completed. The reasons for the price adjustment are as follows: (i) A more
detailed engineering analyses of the works to be undertaken resulted in some cost
changes; (ii)The actual cost of the bids received for the turnkey contract was higher than
initially estimated; (iii) The Engineering Consultants recommended an increase in the
contingency cost; and (iv) There have been significant increases in fuel and construction
costs throughout the Caribbean since the original project appraisal estimates were
undertaken. The total difference between the original estimate and the current one is
US$1.84 million which the Government i s asking to be funded with an additional IDA
credit.

This cost overrun is the result of economic trends (e.g., booming regional construction
and the doubling of fuel costs) and market conditions (e.g., levels of interest and response
from potential bidders who are otherwise engaged in lucrative construction projects
throughout the region). These circumstances are beyond the Borrower's control. Despite
the changing conditions, the final engineering estimate closely reflected the final
negotiated price between the Government and the winning bidder for the turnkey
contract; the award price was just 1.1percent higher than the final estimate presented in
the bid documents. The unexpected increase in the cost of works explains 79 percent of
the additional financing required.     The remaining 21 percent is due to a higher
contingency provision, which according to the Engineering Consultant is important to
protect the project against the risks associated with hurricanes which have grown in
intensity in recent years and increasingly fall outside of the traditional hurricane season.
Risks associated with modifications to technical specifications or other unforeseen costs
that might occur during construction would be covered under the increased contingency
as well.

The Government of Saint Lucia has taken the appropriate measures to mobilize and
commit the necessary resources to undertake the project and could not have acted to
address the financing gap any sooner. However, without additional financing, it will
become increasingly difficult for the Government to make final payments as scheduled
which would put at risk the ability of the project to meet its development objectives.
Moreover, the additional financing will not result in a delay in implementation; indeed it
should help facilitate implementation. The Government is committed to processing the
additional credit quickly to enable smooth and successfulcompletion of the activities that
will be supportedby the additional financing.


C.       PROPOSED CHANGES

The proposed additional financing would support the original objectives of the Water
Supply Infrastructure Improvement Project.       It will be implemented using the same
institutional framework, procurement and disbursement arrangements as for the original
project. The project's original closing date is January 15th, 2009, and the task team
expects it will be completedwithin the plannedtimeframe.




                                                                                          4

The additional funds will be used to finance the price difference between estimated and
actual price of the turnkey contract, as well as the increase in contingency costs. The
costs and financing plan are presented in the table below. The turnkey contract price
correspondsto the actual awardprice.



                                                                           Additional
                                                       Initial   Actual     Financing  Increase (%)
 Project Costs
                           Turnkey Contract (Works)    6,732.5   8,191.2      1,458.7      22%
                                         Contingency   500.8      886.1       385.4        77%
    Consultingfees, operational costs andfond-end fee  706.8      702.3        (4.4)       -1%
                        Total                          7,940.0   9,779.6     I ,839.6      23%

 Financing Plan
                                               IBRD    3,850.0   3,850.0                   0%
                                                IDA    3,850.0   5,689.6      1,839.6      48%
                                           Borrower    240.0      240.0                    0%
                        Total                          7,940.0   9,779.6     I ,839.6      23%



D.       CONSISTENCYWITH CAS

The project is in line with the OECS CAS (Report 33118-LAC) objective of creating an
enabling environment for continued or increased private investment in sunrise industries
and improving living conditions through increased efficiency of infrastructure provision.
The main objective of the project is to improve the water supply infrastructure in the
north region of the island, facilitating new developments for tourism industry and
improving the quality of life of about 100,000 people. As the economic analysis shows,
the big winners are current residential customers who would benefit from savings
obtained from reduction or elimination of rationing.               Additionally the project will
increase coverage for those households currently without access to the service.

Given the fiscal constraints of the Government of Saint Lucia, this additional financing is
the only tool to obtain the necessary funding for this project. The IDA credits requested
fit within St. Lucia's allocation and the Governmenthas indicated it as a priority for this
Water Supply project.


E.       ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF COST OVERRUN

The cost overrun affects the economic and financial results of the project as well as the
projected financial results of the water utility. Therefore both analyses were reviewed to
test for viability results.




                                                                                                5

1.      EconomicandFinancialAnalysis of the Project

The economic and financial viability of the project were revisited using the increased
costs of the project.   In line with the approach used in the PAD, the financial and
economic evaluations were carried out estimating the incremental costs and benefits of
two scenarios: with and without project.             In the with project scenario, the actual
investment project, including the increase in costs, was taken into account while the
associated targets remained the same as in the original project, that is: increase in
production capacity, increase incoverage, and decrease inrationing. The without project
scenario considered that quality of service would continue unchanged with same
assumptions as in the original project. Costs and benefits were expressed at constant
prices, projected over 30 years, and discounted using a 12 percent discount rate.
Economic benefits associated with the project remained the same as in the original
project and consisted of reduction or elimination of rationing, and increase of water
coverage. Financial benefits associated with the project were estimated with the same
assumptions as in the original project and were based on current tariffs, number of
customers, and volume of water consumed.

The financial results show that even with the increase in costs, the project is financially
and economically feasible with an FIRR of 13 percent and financial profits of about
EC$1 million. Economic results show EIRR of 13 percent and economic profits of
EC$1.8 million.

                                 Present value offlows (EC$ 000)
 Results                    Benefits                  Costs      Net benefit   IRR
           Financial        41,632                   40,666         966        13%
           Economic         39,840                   38,077        1,763       13%


The distributive analysis, which corresponds to the difference between economic and
financial cash flows, shows very similar results to the ones obtained with the original
project. The big winners are current customers, who would benefit from savings due to
reduction of rationing; and the government who would benefit with more taxes from
operating and investment costs.


2.      FinancialAnalysisof the Water Utility

The financial projection for WASCO was reviewed assuming that all assumptions
remained unchanged but the project costs. The results show that even with the increase
on project costs, WASCO would be a financially sustainable utility with a positive return
on invested capital.     This is assuming the same assumptions in the original project
related to efficiency gains are achieved.




                                                                                           6

F.     BENEFITSAND RISKS

Benefits. The benefits of the project remain unchanged from those already identified in
the original project and presentedinthe PAD.

Risks. The level of risk associated with the additional financing is substantially lower
thanthe one prevailing at the time of project approval. The successfulimplementationof
both projects (TA loan and this project) and the compromise the government has shown,
give reassurance that the whole implementation could go as expected. The following
bullets list the risks identified in the original project (in italics) and describe how the
mitigation measures have worked so far:
        DifSiculties with the PCU in implementing the project. The PCU has had an
         excellent performance in the implementation of the project to date, showing a
        good record of compliance with Bank's requirementsfrom a fiduciary standpoint.
         Construction delays result in more severe crisis. With the turnkey contract
         already awarded and implementation well underway, the risk for delay is lower.
        Delay in the completion of downstream pipe networks in Castries. It i s already
         completed and hydro-tested since it was an effectiveness condition for the
         Project.
        Lack of coordination between the transaction and the investmentproject leading
         to conflicting financial advice to government or unfeasible financial structure
        presented to investors. This risk i s considerably smaller than originally was
         thought. Both projects (TA loan and this project) have been implemented in a
         very coordinated way,      Additionally, the Government appointed the Private
         Secretary of the Ministry of Finance as the person incharge for the entire reform
         process, which is an assurance for the success of the coordination.
    0    Failure of the transactionfrom lack of market interest. Market testing conducted
         by the transaction advisors shows this risk to be considerably less than originally
         considered.
         Failure of the transaction from lack of political support.             The current
         Government of Saint Lucia has shown strong commitment to the transaction
         since the start of the preparation of the works project. Indeed, the Prime Minister
         has announced the transaction and plans to go to market in early 2007 with the
         PPP structure, license, laws, regulatory arrangements and institutions that were
         all created with financing from the Water Sector Reform T.A. Loan. While the
         risk remains that shifting political winds could change the direction of the
         proposed Public-Private Partnership at the last moment, the Bank remains
         committed to helping the Government to carry out the transaction within the
         social, political andfinancial constraints of the country.




                                                                                           7

G.     FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FORTHE ADDITIONAL
       FINANCING

Standard IDA Credit terms apply to this Credit.         The financial management and
disbursementarrangements for the Water Supply Infrastructure Improvement Project will
be equally applicable for the additional financing. The current financial management and
disbursement arrangements for the original project are adequate to handle the financial
transactions o f the additional financing.




                                                                                      8

