                                           Documentof
                                        The World Bank

                                FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                             ReportNo: 31878-LC




                             PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                              ON A

                                       PROPOSED LOAN

                          INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$3.85 MILLION

                                             AND A

                                      PROPOSED CREDIT

                           INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR2.6MILLION
                              (US$3.85 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                               TO

                                          SAINT LUCIA

                                              FOR A

            WATER SUPPLY INFRASTRUCTUREIMPROVEMENT PROJECT

                                          April 26,2005



Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America andthe Caribbean Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.

                           CURRENC.Y EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective {March 31St,2005))


                          Currency Unit = Eastern Caribbean Dollar (EC$)
                        EC$(XCD)2.67       = US$1
                               US$O.37 = EC$(XCD) 1
                              US$1.508 = XDR 1
                             XDR0.663 = US$1

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1     - December31

                      ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS
CAPEX   Capital Expenses
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CDB     Caribbean Development Bank
CMU     Country Management Unit
CQS     Consultant Quality Selection
DMP     Disaster Management Project
EBIT    Earningsbefore Income Tax
EBITDA  Earningsbefore Income Tax, Depreciationand Amortization
EC$     Eastern Caribbean Dollar
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
FBS     FixedBudget Selection
FM      Financial Management
FMR     Financial MonitoringReport
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GNI     Gross National Income
GoSL    Government of Saint Lucia
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IBRD    InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA     International Development Association
ZFC     International Finance Corporation
INTOSAI International Organization o f Supreme Audit Institutions
IRR     Internal Rate of Return
ISDS    Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
kWh     Kilo-Watt Hour
LC      Saint Lucia
LCS     Least Cost Selection
MGD     Million Gallons per Day
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NIC     National Insurance Corporation
NRW     Non-revenue Water

                                                      FOR0FFICXA.LUSEONLY
  Nwsc      NationalWater and Sanitation Commission
  O&M       Operations andMaintenance
  OECS      Organization of EasternCaribbeanStates
  OP        Operational Procedure
  OPEX      Operating Expenses
  OPIC      OverseasPrivate Investment Corporation
  PAD       Project Appraisal Document
  PCU       Project Coordination Unit
  PDO       Project Development Objectives
  PPI       Private Participation inInfrastructure
  PPP       Public-Private Partnership
  PR        Public Relations
  PS        Permanent Secretary
  PSP       Private Sector Participation
  QBS       Quality Based Selection
  QCBS      Quality and Cost Based Selection
  RO        Reverse Osmosis (desalination technology)
  SA        Special Account
  SBD       StandardBiddingDocuments
  SDR       Special DrawingRights
  T A       Technical Assistance
  TOR       Terms of Reference
  UFW       Unaccounted-for-Water
  US$       UnitedStates Dollar
  WASA      Water and SewerageAuthority
  WASCO     Water and SewerageCompany Inc.
  WTP       Water Treatment Plant

                              Vice President:     PamelaCox
                 Country Managermirector:         Caroline Anstey
                     Acting Sector Director:      John Henry Stein
                          Task Team Leader:       Jordan Schwartz




This documenthas a restricted distributionandmay be usedby recipientsonly in
the performanceof their official duties.Its contentsmay notbe otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                         SAINT LUCIA

             WATER SUPPLY INFRASTRUCTUREIMPROVEMENT PROJECT

                             PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                            LATINAMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                                            LCSFW

Date: April 26,2005                               Team Leader: JordanZ. Schwartz
 Country Director: Caroline Anstey                Sectors: Water supply (100%)
 Sector Director: John Henry Stein                Themes: Infrastructure services for private
                                                  sector development (P)
Project ID: PO94416                               Environmental screening category: Category B

                                    ProjectFinancingData
 [XILoan    [XI Credit   [ ] Grant     [ ] Guarantee  [ 3 Other:
~




For Loans/Credits/Others:
 Total Bank financing (US$m.): 7.70
 Proposedterms: (IBRD):Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
 Graceperiod (years): 5                             Years to maturity: 15
 Commitment fee: 0.75%                              Front end fee on Bank loan: 1%

 Proposedterms: (IDA): StandardCredit               Years to maturity: 35




 RECONSTRUCTIONAND




 Borrower:Government of Saint Lucia

 ResponsibleAgency: Office ofthe Permanent SecretaryofFinance
                       Ministry o f Finance
                       Government o f Saint Lucia
                       Castries, Saint Lucia



                                                i

                             Estimateddisbursements (BankFY/US$m)
?Y               06         07           08
h u a l          3.2        3.3          1.2.
hmulative        3.2        6.5         7.7
Project implementation period: Start: 07/15/05 End: 07/15/08
Expected effectiveness date: 07/15/05
Expected closing date: 01/15/09
Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Ref: PAD A.3                                                                                []Yes [XINO
   .I
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                                [ ]Yes [XIN o
Have these beenapprovedby Bank management?                                                  [ ]Yes [ IN0
1s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                                 [ ]Yes [ IN0
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Re$ PAD C.5                                                                                 [ ]Yes [XINO

Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                                 [ ]Yes [XIN o

Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2

The Saint Lucia Water Supply Infrastructure Improvement Project will support a short term
investment program to carry out critical works which are required to achieve the following
objectives: (i) alleviate the water shortage in the north o f the country. (The infrastructure works
proposed will allow the utility to supply the entire north of the island with a more efficient,
continuous and reliable service; (ii)      implement urgent investments that will result in additional
revenues, reduce the likelihood o f commercial users (important sources of cross-subsidy for poor
consumers) abandoning the system and improve the potential o f a successfbl partnership
betweenthe government and the private sector.


Project description. Re$ PAD B.3., TechnicalAnnex 4

The project will improve the reliability o f the Roseau Dam water supply system by increasing the flow o f
water to the north o f St. Lucia as requiredto meet the current shortfall inwater capacity inthat area. The
system components that would require upgrading include: the Roseau Dam system pumpingstation, the
Roseau Dam system raw water transmission, the Theobalds Treatment Plant and the Morne Bocage
distribution pipeline that will connect the Roseau system to the Hill 20 system, which suffers a severe
water shortage. The increase inthe extraction capacity from the Roseau reservoir technically reduces the
drought returnperiod for which the reservoir was designed. However, since current supply from the Dam
i s creating constant shortages, it i s considered that it would be better to increase the extraction capacity
from the reservoir and satisfy all the demand in years that are not drought years. The issue o f drought
years will be taken care o f in the medium term investment program by the hture owner/operators in
which an aggressive water losses reduction program in the distribution network will be pursued while
expansion o f the water source for the north i s being considered.

The components o f the proposed project are thus the following:

Component A:        Infrastructure Improvement Works:            This component includes the following
infrastructure improvement works, which are detailed inAnnex 4:


                                                        11
                                                        ..

    0   Upgrade the Roseau dam pumping station through (a) replacement o f existing pump-motor
        assemblies to facilitate a pumping capacity o f approximately 10 million gallons per day, and (b)
        additional works which may include, inter alia, provision o f voltage conditioning equipment,
        upgrade of switchgear, installation o f adjustable speed drives, upgrade o f pipe works, and
        replacement o f standby generation to accommodate increased power supply requirements o f the
        pumping-motor assemblies;


    0   Improve raw water transmission between Vanard and Sarot through the installation o f (a) a 24-
        inch ductile iron pipe between Vanard and Sarot, and (b)joint restraints at river crossings located
        between Millet and Vanard;


    0   Upgrade o f the Theobalds water treatment plant to a capacity of 10 million gallons per day
        through the installation o f additionaltreatment units; and


    0   Upgrade of the Mome Bocage distribution pipeline through the construction o f required works,
        usingthe existing or an altemative design approach that responds to the supply needs, which may
        include the installation o f a new (a) pump station at Ciceron, (b) pumping line with capacity to
        meet water demands up to 2.53 million gallons per day, (c) storage tank of 200,000 imperial
         gallons at Mome Fortune, (d) gravity main transmission pipeline linked to storage tanks at Mome
         and Mome DuDon, and (e) storage tank o f 100,000 imperial gallons at Babonneau.

Due to the urgent nature o f the works and the close inter-relationship among the components o f the
project it i s considered that a tumkey contract will be the most efficient and safe way to implement this
type of project and achieve project objectives as demonstrated in other Bank projects such as the Espiritu
Santo Water and Sanitation project inBrazil.

ComponentB: TechnicalAssistanceand Project Management. This component includes:

Provision o f technical assistance required to support Project implementation, carry out Project
management activities, and strengthen the capacity o f the PlU staff in Project management and priority
technical areas, which may include the provision o f training. The areas o f technical assistance include:


    0    Oversight and monitoring o f the quality o f works performed by contractors hired under Part A o f
        the Project;


    0    Carrying out o f studies on the water resources o f the Roseau River, including analyses o f (a) the
        hydrological capacity o f the Roseau dam and reservoir system, and possibly o f other surface
        water sources, (b) the potential for increasing the capacity o f the Roseau dam through engineering
        improvements, and (c) safety and environmental considerations related to such activities; and


    0    Carrying out o f a groundwater resources study to determine the quantity, quality and potential use
        of groundwater in St. Lucia.



Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PAD 0.5-6, TechnicalAnnex 13

OP 4.01
The project i s considered category B due principally to the large scale o f excavation planned during the
installation o f pipe works. Routes chosen include agricultural areas and roadways which will result in



                                                      111
                                                      ...

some short-term disruption o f activities.      Impacts associated with the project are short-term and
associated with the actual construction activities. No natural lands are to be disturbed, no endangered
species or critical wildlife habitats are to be disturbed and no relocations o f inhabitants will be required.
Traffic management plans and coordination with the Ministry o f Works will be necessary to assure
minimal disruption of commerce and to guarantee citizen access to critical services. Other measures
associated with site activities are presented inthe environmental assessment developed for the project.

There will be some crop loss along the installation routes but this will be minimal and short-term. Once
excavations are completed, banana will be re-established along the disturbed routes. Compensation for
actual losses and opportunity costs will be managed through WASCO using its existing compensation
mechanisms.

OP4.37

The project i s associated with a dam in that the works will increase water that i s drawn from Roseau
ReservoirKompton Dam. As a result, OP 4.37, Safety o f Dams, has been triggered. This project will not
include any structural modifications to the dam nor will it affect the operation o f current safety status o f
the structure. The dam i s relatively new, constructed under a World BanWCIDA project in 1996. It i s a
concrete construction and on inspection, appears to be very well maintained. Operational procedures at
WASCO include the regular maintenance o f the dam and associated appurtenances, daily and bi-annual
safety inspections using local engineering contractors, and a required surface and underwater inspection
after every detected seismic event. WASCO has presented these inspection reports to the Bank as well as
the Dam Operations and Maintenance Manual.           Those reports show that the borrower has an effective
dam safety program in operation; the borrower conducts and documents full level inspections and dam
safety assessments; and that those assessments and findings are satisfactory to the Bank.

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Board presentation:
Loadcredit effectiveness:

Covenants applicable to project implementation:
The effectiveness of the proposed project will depend on the results o f the geostatic testing of a
n e w l y built 20" transmission line inCastries, financed by the French government, which needs
to be completed and inoperationbefore effectiveness.

Inaddition, completion ofthe project-specific annex to the PIU's Operational Manualis also a
condition of effectiveness.




                                                       iv

                                                      SAINT LUCIA
         WATER SUPPLY INFRASTRUCTUREIMPROVEMENT PROJECT
                                                         CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                Page

A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                            .................................................................      1
 1.  Country and sector issues....................................................................................................                    1
 2.  Rationale for Bank involvement .........................................................................................                         7
 3.  Higherlevel objectives to which the project contributes....................................................                                      8

B
.   PROJECTDESCRIPTION                       .................................................................................................        9
 1.  Lendinginstrument           .............................................................................................................        9
 2.  Project development objective and key indicators..............................................................                                   9
 3.  Project components          .............................................................................................................        9
 4.  Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design..........................................................                                    11
 5.  Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection............................................................                                   12

C.  IMPLEMENTATION                  ........................................................................................................         12
 1.  Institutional and implementation arrangements. ...............................................................                                  12
 2.  Monitoring and evaluation o f outcomes/results                           ................................................................       14
 3. Sustainablllty.....................................................................................................................
           *    . .                                                                                                                                  14
 4.  Critical risks andpossible controversial aspects...............................................................                                 15
 5.  Loadcredit conditions and covenants                      ...............................................................................        16

D APPRAISALSUMMARY
 .                                         .................................................................................................         17
  1. Economic and financial analyses ......................................................................................                          17
 2.  Technical...........................................................................................................................            18
 3.  Fiduciary ...........................................................................................................................           19
 4.  Social.................................................................................................................................         20
 5.  Environment......................................................................................................................               21
 6.   Safeguardpolicies.............................................................................................................                 22
 7.  Policy Exceptions and Readiness......................................................................................                           22

Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground                                      .........................................................      23

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                              .................28
Annex 3: Results FrameworkandMonitoring                               ........................................................................       30


                                                                    V

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description           ......................................................................................       32

Annex 5: Project Costs...............................................................................................................        41

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                 .................................................................................       42

Annex 7: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                                            .....................................  45

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements              ......................................................................................        50

Annex 9: Cost BenefitAnalysis      ..................................................................................................        54

Annex 10: FinancialAnalysis of the Current and FutureWater Utility                                           ............................... 62

Annex 11: Audited2004 Financial Statements: WASCO                                 ......................................................     74

Annex 12: Economic and Technical Comparison of Alternatives                                     ..........................................   93

Annex 13: Safeguard Policy Issues        ............................................................................................        98

Annex 14: Project Preparation and Supervision                     ...................................................................        102

Annex 15: Documents inthe Project File               ...............................................................................         103

Annex 16: Statement of Loans and Credits                ............................................................................         104

Annex 17: Country at a Glance       ...............................................................................................          105

Annex 18: Maps (IBRD 33948)        ................................................................................................          107




                                                            vi

A. STRATEGICCONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Country andsector issues

Likemanyof its neighboringisland states, Saint Luciais at a development crossroads. With the
economy having moved away from traditional agribusiness and declining trade preferences,
growth prospects are now closely tied to its competitive position as a tourism destination.' Yet
the ability o f the country to absorb further resort development and to grow beyond the
approximately one million tourists who now visit the island yearly i s being tested by the
extraordinary fiscal constraints that restrict public investment in the island's infrastructure.
While the private sector i s recognized as the engine o f sustainable growth for Saint Lucia's
economy, the access of developers and hoteliers to basic services i s already affecting their
interest ininvesting inthe island.* Inthis context, the water and sanitation sector has emerged as
a key factor inthe economic development o f Saint Lucia.

Despite a concerted effort in 2000 to turn around the state water utility, Saint Lucia i s suffering
once again from a crisis o f confidence and performance in the water sectors3 The government-
owned utility which currently controls nearly all water and sanitation services on the island, the
Water and Sewerage Company (WASCO), has ceased to make capital investments and has lost
the good will o f its domestic and commercial consumers due to severe shortages, mis-billings
andpoor quality o f service. Hotels throughout the island are purchasingwater trucked to them in
tankers while entire neighborhoods are relying on rainwater, private purchases and storage tanks
to compensate for days-on-end without water from the utility. Exacerbating the situation, a
severe dry season over the last year has compounded existing water shortage problems forcing
WASCO to implement strict water allocation schedules, island-wide, in 2003. These shortages
may lead to severe health and quality-of-life crises ifthey are left to f e ~ t e r . ~

The main financial and operational issues faced by the water sector can be summarized as
follows:

           0    Insufficient cash flow to cover all operating and maintenance costs (let alone
                servicing dept and maintaining a sustainable level o f investments);
           0    Decrepit state o f the utility's assets which are indire needo f a capital infusion;


  While agriculturehas droppedfrom about 15percent of GDP as recently as 1990to about 5 percent in2003, the impacton
employment has beeneven more severe. At the time of the PovertyAssessment of 1996, banana industryemploymentwas about
13,000 and i s now about 3,000. Much ofthat decline, however, has beenpickedup by growthinTourismwhich now accounts
'forRecent
     about half of GDP along with relatedbusinesses(restaurants, construction).
          interviewsby the Bankteam with developers, hotel owners, the Ministry of Tourismandthe National Development
Corporationrevealedaheightenedsense of concem among developersthat their greenfieldandexpansionplans would not be
feasible due to the inability ofthe countryto providewater connections,reliableservice and other basic infrastructuresuchas
access roads.
  Some of the early actions taken by the government to improveits performance included:the corporatizationof a state authority,
WASA (into WASCO); the appointment of a private sector managing director and board director; the downsizing of staff by
about one-quarter;and a tariff increase in 2000 after many years of a stagnant tariff. In addition, the Governmentsigned a loan
with the World Bank that led to the drafting of a water law, the establishment of a regulatorybody and the enactment of a PSD
strategy.
 Without identifying a one-to-onecausalrelationship,the PovertyAssessment noteda worrying rise inlevels of diphtheriaon
the islandandcitedwater-bome disease as alikely primary cause.


                                                               1

            Insufficient supply o f treated water to meet current demand leading to water
             shortages-particularly  inthe populationandresort centers o fthe north;
            Prospects for further increase in demand for water as a result o f the booming tourist
            industry and upturninover-all economic growth; and
            Loss o f good will on the part o f consumers due to the further decline in service after
            the 2000 tariff increase.
            Insufficient supply o f treated water to meet current demand leading to water
             shortages-particularly  inthe populationandresort centers ofthe north;

The proposed project addresses the most urgentworks requiredto turnaround the performance o f
the water utility and to relieve water shortages inthe north. That project i s first described inthe
context o fthe strategy for reforming the water utility.

Strategic Directionfor the Water Utilityfor a Public-Private Partnership in the Water Sector

The Government and the World Bank agree that the water utility's failure to perform has grown
out of the legacy of underinvestment in assets, insufficient average tariffs over the past decades
and severe human resource constraints.         While WASCO has attempted to tum around its
performance over the last few years, the utility has been unable to confront that legacy and,
instead, has seen its services and assets deteriorate further.

Since 2000, the World Bank has been working with the Government o f Saint Lucia through a
Technical Assistance Loan for Sector Reform to pursue a strategy that would leverage private
sector financing and know-how to reach a sustainable solution for the sector. As a result o f that
project's Private Sector Development (PSD) Strategy and direct discussions with the World
Bank, the Government o f Saint Lucia has decided to pursue a public-private partnership (PPP)
for the utility. Given that a capital injection was required to tum around the utility, management
contracts and leasedaffermage were rejected as first altemative approaches. Conversely, the
prospects o f a traditional concession met with little interest from the market given the risks
associated with those arrangements. The Bank and the Government tumed finally to local and
regional investors presentingthe possibility o f a public-private partnership based upon successful
Saint Lucian experiences with mixed capital companies.           The response to the prospects o f
capitalizing the water utility by purchasing a controlling stake have been very positive from
institutional investors, local and regional business interests as well as small and international
water utilities.

While the proposed partnership structure i s described inmore detail inthe following sub-section,
the basic premise is that it will comprise a minority share for the Govemment, a likely minority
share set-aside for a Saint Lucian institutional investor and an auction for the majority shares to
consortia willing to recapitalize the utility with a minimum bid that reflects the immediate
investmentneeds o fthe utility. Inthis way, the Government can break from its history ofbailing
out the company every several years and the utility can returnto playing a productive role inthe
growth o f the economy.

Inorder to confront the utility's challenges head on and increase the likelihood of a successful
transaction for WASCO, the Government andthe World Bank team have agreed:


                                                   2

    0   An urgent works program, costing about US$8 million, is required to increase water
        flows to the north. The Government, residents o f the north and the commercial sector
        cannot afford to wait for the transaction to be completed inorder to initiate that program.
        The Government will absorb the cost o f that investment even as the transaction process
        moves forward.

    0   Furthercapital will berequiredfor other short to mediumterm investments. The medium
        term operational improvements and capital investment program can best be funded from
        the successful completion ofthe PPP transaction.


    0   Tariffs should reflect the rate base o fthe investment after the transaction is complete. The
        Government and the World Bank recognize that WASCO will only achieve sustainability
        ifthe new productive investments, fresh capital injection, new management and
        revamped organizational strategy, are accompanied by a tariff structure that ensures a fair
        return on investment for the private owner/operators. As a starting point, financial
        analysis conducted by Technical Advisors to the PSD Strategy and reviewedby the Bank
        suggest that the current average tariff (approximately U S $ l.15 per cubic meter) i s
        sufficient to turnaround the utility given other modest assumptions about improved
        collections, and operations, government willingness to assume debt and the capital
        injection expected from private investors.

Structure of the Transactionfor the Water Utility Public-Private Partnership

The primary approach to be pursued for the transaction will be a public-private partnership in
which local, regional and international investors will be invited to form consortia and bid to
purchase a controlling block o f shares in the new WASCO. The World Bank team i s currently
working with the Government to prepare for the transaction on an accelerated time schedule and
in parallel to the proposed project. Now that the Water and Sanitation Services Act has been
passed into law, the Government will hire a transaction advisor with World Bank hnds from the
existing Water Sector Reform T.A. Loan. That advisor is expected to be in place by June 2005
with the auction for the utility to be held by the end o f the 2005 calendar year. During this
period, the draft operating license will be finalized and implementingrules and regulations which
spell out the responsibilities o f the National Water and Sewerage Commission will be drafted,
again with available World Bank funds from the T.A. Loan.               Assuming three months for
negotiations and financial closure, the new owner/operator may take control o f the Board as
early as mid-2006. The proposed schedule, albeit aggressive, appears feasible as engineering
feasibility, investmentneeds analysis and financial modeling have already been undertaken and
the Government has agreed upon the working structure o f the public-private partnership. In
addition, extensive discussions with potential bidders (locally, regionally and internationally)
have already taken place. Finally, many o f the likely bidders know Saint Lucia well and have
made considerable efforts to evaluate the utility from the perspective o f potential investors
andor operators.

The agreed upon structure o f the transaction for the public-private partnership being prepared
underthe T.A. loan canbe described as follows:



                                                   3

    0   The ownership structure will be such that private investors will exercise board and
        managerial control o f the utility although the Government will be expected to maintain a
        position on the Board with approximately 20 percent o f the shares. In addition to the
        Government's share, the World Bank team has also identified a Saint Lucia-based
        institutional investor5 which i s highly interested in an approximately 15 to 20 percent
        share in the utility under proposed arrangements. That portion will likely "anchor" the
        investment and will be heldapart from the bidfor the majority block purchase.

    0   In addition, the team has held several discussions and two preliminary investor
        conferences with Saint Lucia's tourism and manufacturing associations to test local
        interest in equity participation.             Local business leaders have expressed interest in
        participating as consortium members while other private sector representatives expressed
        a general level o f support for the proposed approach. In addition, regional developers
        from neighboring islands as well as international water utilities have contacted the Bank
        to discuss the details o f the proposed initiative and to express their interest in
        participating in an auction. It i s expected that consortia o f these private participants will
        be invitedto compete for 60 percent o f the shares o fthe company providing management
        and board control for the winningbidder.

    0   Recognizing that, as a going concern, the utility's investors could not be asked to finance
        existing debt, the Government will continue to service WASCO's existing debt. So that
        the new utility will be in a position to borrow against its balance sheet, the Government
        will most likely write off WASCO's debt from the utility's books. However, as an offset
        to the liabilities o f the Roseau Dam (WASCO's primary asset), the Government may
        retain the reservoir in its own accounts. It would then include inthe operating license for
        the new utility full rights and responsibilities related to use o f the water from the dam as
        well as proper operations and maintenance o f the facility.

    0   Dividends from its equity share, or canon payments are being considered for payment to
        the Government to compensate, to the degree feasible, for the servicing o f old debt. If
        the canon is established that is not held subordinate to other dividend obligations, it will
        be priced and timed so as not to inhibitthe ability o f the private investors to receive a fair
        return on their investment. That is, any canons or dividend payments to Government
        would likelybeginat zero following the transaction andbe timed against an improvement
        in the financial performance o f the utility so as to be ramped up or "capitalized" over
        time. The same goal and a similar process might also be accomplished through a water
         extraction fee.

    0   Inthe case of a failed transaction (Le., no qualified consortia submit offers or only non-
        responsive bids are received), the Government o f Saint Luciawill needto mobilize public
         finds to undertake the short-term investment program. The European Union andor the

 The National Insurance Corporation currently holds approximately 17percent o f the power utility, Lucelec. The
investment levels suggested for WASCO would be about 20 percent o f the size o f their investment inLucelec in
absolute dollars, which inturn i s a relatively small part o f its portfolio and so would not add significant riskto the
NICportfolio.


                                                             4

Caribbean Development Bank are possible sources o f support in such a scenario. In
order to break from the cycle o f poor maintenance and inefficient operations, the
Government will have three choices for the use o f the additional investment capital,
estimated at US$12 to $15 million. Those approaches, in descending order o f likely
impact, are as follows:

    P Least Cost Subsidy Purchase or Concession: As a primary alternative, a second-
        chance auction for either share ownership or the rights to a concession are held
        based upon a least-cost subsidybid. Inthis arrangement, the outputs expected o f
        the operator would be clearly defined and payments would be made from the
        public funds-held    in escrow-upon     proof o f service delivery according to the
        those service delivery criteria.  The consortium or firm that bids for the least
        required subsidy to meet those criteria wins the shares or concession rights. The
        exact performance obligations as well as the ceiling on bids would be determined
        bythe amount o fpublic funds that couldbe garneredfor the bid.

    P Affermage Lease: A long-term lease, say 10 to 20 years, would be competitively
        tendered inwhich the winning bidderwould have access to the revenue generated
        by the tariffs in exchange for the obligation to operate the utility according to
        strict Performance criteria. The public resources would be made available to the
        leasor so that they may implement the capital expenditure program.

    P Management Contract with Step-up Option: A short-term management contract
        o f 3 to 5 years, would be tendered which will focus on implementing short-term
        efficiency gains through improvements incustomer information systems, billings,
        collections and minor works. Once the utility has demonstrated its ability to
        cover operating and maintenance costs, a more aggressive form o f private sector
        participation would be attempted again.      While the first phase may be done
        without the full capital required for the investment plan, the cost o f the
        Management Contract itselfcould runas highas U S $ l to 2 millionper year.

The choice o f which back-up alternative approach to pursue would be made based upon
the lessons learned during the transaction (Le., numbers o f bidders, quality o f bidders,
and source o f concerns regarding capital requirements, current state o f utility finances
and/or regulatory risk).    The exhaustive work undertaken for the preparation o f the
proposed transaction would serve as the basis for launching the back-up option so that it
may be pursued almost immediately following the proposed transaction for a public-
private partnership. This information base includes technical and engineering reports,
consumer surveying, least cost alternative planning, financial analysis and forecasting o f
the utility, and investor surveying. Inaddition, the Government and WASCO have held
discussions with the European Union and the Caribbean Development Bank which
indicate their interest inproviding additional financial support to the sector.

The primary constraint to the first two arrangements would be the ability o f the
Government to borrow or dedicate further sums o f money to the sector given its serious
fiscal constraints. The trade-offs will be clear, however. Any delay in commitment o f



                                          5

         resources will mean greater rehabilitation and investment costs in subsequent years. As
         such, short-term tariff increases may need to be considered in conjunction with the back-
         upplan so as to relieve the need for excessive borrowing.


TheProposedInvestment Loan in the Context of the Future Water Utility

The proposed investment loan i s to finance an urgent works program that will increase water to
the north-a     project which was specifically requested by the Administration and one which i s
aimed at resolving shortages in the most densely populated and developed region o f the island.
The Government requested Bank involvement inthe investment project so that it may serve as a
complement to the Bank's existing Water Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project (Ln
70960-SLU). The specific objective o f that existing project i s to help the transition o f WASCO
from a publicly-managed utility to a privately-operated company under a well-functioning
regulatory framework. To date, the project has seen the completion o f a financial and technical
analysis o f the sector (including an investment needs analysis), and a PSD strategy (including
investors' survey), and has funded the drafting of a new Water Law, recently passed by both
houses o f the Saint Lucia's Parliament, which defines the market structure and regulatory
responsibilities o f the Water and Sanitation Commission.                   These institutional, legal and
regulatory reforms are needed to underpinthe proposedpublic-private partnershipand to achieve
deeper operational reform o f the utility.

Inorder to halt the deterioration ofkey assets, avert a worsening water supplycrisis inthe north,
reduce the possibility o f abandonment of the system by resorts and hotels6, and help entice the
equity contribution o f private investors into the water utility, the Government o f Saint Lucia has
asked The World Bank to finance the utility's most urgent rehabilitation works. The components
o f this project have been identified by technical advisors, WASCO staff and the World Bank and
are described in detail in Annex 4. While the investments planned for financing from the Bank
will help to meet part o f the pent-up demand, the speed o f financial turnaround will depend on
the performance of the private operator in improving collection rates and reducing losses.
Investors are likely to be required to recapitalize the utility with US$15 million to US$20million
o f new equity. This will be done through their share "purchases" which will be utilized as equity
contribution.


Determining the Best Alternative Solution to Water Supply in the North

For the short term investment the two alternatives that were considered were thus: (i)                 increasing
the capacity o f the Roseau system from 6 to 10 million gallons per day (MGD) by upgrading
existing infrastructure that follows the dam; and (ii)        installing a Reverse Osmosis desalination
plant in Rodney Bay with a capacity o f about 4 MGD. For this second alternative, the concept
that had been proposed to the Government o f Saint Lucia by desalination developers and other
interested parties was evaluated for its economic costs as well as its likely environmental impact
as part o f the environmental assessment.                The desalination alternative presupposes the

 Hotels and other commercial establishments represent an important source o f cross-subsidy for low volume users
such as poorer households. Their abandonment o f the system would be detrimental to the finances o f the utility.


                                                       6

disconnection o f the water supply network north to Rodney Bay from that south to it. The
southern part would be supplied from the Roseau Dam System which will not be upgraded.
Based on a comparative economic analysis, the first alternative was selected as a clear choice
based both on the Net Present Value o f the investment and the difference in the costs o f water.
The first alternative will not only improve the level o f service, but will also improvethe integrity
o f the system for the long term at a lower cost than the alternative. This i s not to say that
desalination could not play an important role in future sourcing decisions but that the currently
available technology cannot compete with the rehabilitation and minor expansion works
proposed for this project.

The Roseau system, which i s the primary source o f water supply for the north o f Saint Lucia, has
an estimated capacity o f 10 MGD. Current demand levels to the north o f the island, where 80
percent o f Saint Lucians live and where most o f the country's resorts are located, i s estimated at
about 7.5 MGD. Because o f constraints inthe infrastructure (transmission, treatment, pumping)
that support the dam, it i s only able to supply between 5 and 6 MGD effectively creating regular
shortages and rationing o f water. The backlog in investment in pumping stations, the primary
transmissionpipeline to the north o f the island and water treatment capacity are the main reasons
for the current shortage. These reasons are exacerbated by high levels o f water losses and
uncertain consumption patterns driven by partial metering and inadequate consumer information
systems. The purpose o f the proposed project i s to address the primary investment backlog inan
urgent fashion. The rapid expansion o f the north with respect to residential and commercial
development has increased water demand to a point that if the necessary investments are not
undertaken it could be detrimental for the health o f the citizens and development o f the island.
The complementary public-private partnership described above will be important for the
sustainability o f the investment as well as proper demand management, including rational billing
and collections and steady reductions in Unaccounted-for-Water through leakage reduction
programs. The works that would comprise the project are described ingreater detail below.


2. Rationale for Bank involvement

The World Bank i s currently the only institution that is in a position to prepare for and finance
the proposed urgent investmentsin a coordinated fashion with the design and implementation o f
the planned transaction for the water utility. The financial engineering o f the transaction i s being
built around a shifting set o f variables related to investment cost estimates, government debt
absorption ability and willingness and potential for other sources o f funding to offset long-term
investments. The Bank is closely involved in discussions on all o f these issues each o f which
could affect the approach to the transaction. Inturn, the transaction is taking place inthe context
o f a new water law and regulatory framework both o f which have been financed and closely
coordinated by the World Bank under the Water Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan. For
these reasons, the Government has asked the Bank to finance and assist with the planning of an
urgent investment program in such a way as to fit within the regulatory framework and to
strengthen the transaction rather than complicate it.




                                                  7

The proposed project i s inline with the CAS' objective o f creating an enabling environment for
continued or increased private investment insunrise industries and improving living conditions
through increasing the efficiency o f infrastructureprovision.


3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

Oualitv o f Life for the Citizens of Saint Lucia: The rationing o f water in the north o f Saint Lucia
has begun to affect citizens of all income levels. The reliable availability o f high quality water
throughout the north o f Saint Lucia will likely provide a greater benefit to the lower income
segments o f society intwo regards: they pay the highest percentage o f disposable income when
they purchase water from vendors, and they are the primary beneficiaries o f the cross-subsidies
paid by hotels and commercial entities. That portion o f the proposed project which will serve to
keep commercial entities on the system will be substantially converted into a direct subsidy to
low volume domestic water consumers, allowing the utility to maintain the current tariff
structure and level.* Moreover, by taking on this critical project, the Government has been able
to leverage the Bank as a partner in seeking and obtaining grant funds for poor community
connections. Originally identified as a target for this project because o f its underserved poor
population, water supply to the township o f Dennery will be built with grant funding by the
European Union Water Fund.                The project proposed in this PAD-identified                     in the
Government's application to the European Union as the required "Partnership Arrangement'-
resulted inthe commitment of those grant funds.

Economic Growth and Development: Water supply i s a critical factor in tourism development,
which, as described in Section 1 above, i s the predominant driver o f economic activity in Saint
Lucia following the decline in agricultural dependence. The supply o f potable water and the
provision o f a reliable service will improve the likelihood o fhoteliers and developers to invest in
these sector and meet the growing demands for the north o f the island. This need has been
highlightedby the selection o f Saint Lucia as a host to the Cricket World Cup in2007-an                   event
which will drive the construction o f new tourism facilities provided access to basic infrastructure
services can be assured to developers.

Regional Development Strategy: The bankruptcy and perennial failure o f public water utilities i s
a common development challenge for countries throughout the Caribbean Basin. With similar
economic features as well as legal and regulatory structures, the proposed public-private
partnership-underpinned        by selected public investments-may             serve as a pilot for the OECS
region and beyond.        Saint Lucia offers as case analysis a best practice, layered regulatory
arrangement; a refined but tested approach to public-private partnership (as found in its electric
utility); and a clearly defined, complementary investmentprogram to enable the transaction. If
successful, this initiative can be a significant contribution to the regional development strategy.




 This particular operationwas not included inthe CAS discussed by the Board on 6/28/01, but is inline with its
overall objectives.
 Hotels, commercial establishments and cruise ships currently represent about 113 of all billings from WASCO.


                                                        8

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

The proposed operation would be structured under a Sector Investment Loan (SIL). This
instrument was found to be the most adequate as the project pioneers sector investments that,
after their completion, will improve the potential o f a successful partnership between the
government and the private sector.


2. Projectdevelopmentobjectiveandkeyindicators

The Saint Lucia Water Supply Infrastructure Improvement Project will support a short term
investment program to carry out critical works which are required to achieve the following
objectives:
    (i) alleviatethewater shortage inthenorthofthe country. (Theinfrastructureworks
           proposed will allow the utility to supply the entire north o f the island with a more
           efficient, continuous and reliable service.)

    (ii)   implement urgent investments that will result in additional revenues, reduce the
           likelihood o f commercial users (important sources o f cross-subsidy for poor
           consumers) abandoning the system and improve the potential o f a successful
           partnership betweenthe government and the private sector.
Key indicators for the proposedproject are: reduction o f water rationing in the north, sufficient
pressure for end users, daily demand being met without use o f storage tanks, a successful
transaction to a public-private partnership, and improved financial performance o f the utility.


3. Projectcomponents

The project will improve the reliability o f the Roseau Dam water supply system by increasing
the flow o f water to the north o f Saint Lucia as required to meet the current shortfall in water
capacity in that area. The system components that would requireupgrading include: the Roseau
Dam system pumping station, the Roseau Dam system raw water transmission, the Theobalds
Treatment Plant and the Mome Bocage distribution pipeline that will connect the Roseau system
to the Hill 20 system, which suffers a severe water shortage. The increase in the extraction
capacity from the Roseau reservoir technically reduces the drought retum period for which the
reservoir was designed. However, since current supply from the Dam i s creating constant
shortages, it i s considered that it would be better to increase the extraction capacity from the
reservoir and satisfy all the demand in years that are not drought years. The issue o f drought
years will be taken care of in the medium term investment program by the future
owner/operators in which an aggressive water losses reduction program in the distribution
network will be pursuedwhile expansion o f the water source for the north i s beingconsidered.

The components o f the proposedproject are thus the following:




                                                  9

Component A: Infrastructure Improvement Works: This component includes the following
infrastructure improvement works, which are detailed inAnnex 4:

        Upgrade the Roseau dam pumping station through (a) replacement o f existing pump-
        motor assemblies to facilitate apumpingcapacity o f approximately 10 million gallons per
        day, and (b) additional works which may include, inter alia, provision o f voltage
        conditioning equipment, upgrade o f switchgear, installation o f adjustable speed drives,
        upgrade of pipe works, and replacement o f standby generation to accommodate increased
        power supply requirements o f the pumping-motor assemblies;

    0   Improve raw water transmission between Vanard and Sarot through the installation o f (a)
        a 24-inch ductile iron pipe between Vanard and Sarot, and (b) joint restraints at river
        crossings located between Millet and Vanard;

    0   Upgrade o f the Theobalds water treatment plant to a capacity o f 10 million gallons per
        day through the installationo f additional treatment units; and

    0   Upgrade o f the Mome Bocage distribution pipeline through the construction o f required
        works, using the existing or an alternative design approach that responds to the supply
        needs, which may include the installation o f a new (a) pump station at Ciceron, (b)
        pumpingline with capacity to meet water demands up to 2.53 million gallons per day, (c)
        storage tank o f 200,000 imperial gallons at Mome Fortune, (d) gravity main transmission
        pipeline linked to storage tanks at Mome and Mome Du Don, and (e) storage tank o f
        100,000 imperial gallons at Babonneau.

Due to the urgentnature o f the works and the close inter-relationship among the components o f
the project it is considered that a turnkey contract will be the most efficient and safe way to
implement this type o f project and achieve project objectives as demonstrated in other Bank
projects such as the EspirituSanto Water and Sanitationproject inBrazil.

Component B: TechnicalAssistance and Project Management. This component includes:

Provision of technical assistance required to support Project implementation, carry out Project
management activities, and strengthen the capacity o f the PCU staff in Project management and
priority technical areas, which may include the provision o f training. The areas o f technical
assistance include:

    0   Oversight and monitoring o f the quality o f works perfonned by contractors hired under
        Part A o fthe Project;

    0   Carrying out o f studies on the water resources of the Roseau River, including analyses of
        (a) the hydrological capacity o f the Roseau dam and reservoir system, and possibly o f
        other surface water sources, (b) the potential for increasing the capacity o f the Roseau
        dam through engineering improvements, and (c) safety and environmental considerations
        relatedto such activities; and




                                                 10

    0   Carrying out o f a groundwater resources study to determine the quantity, quality and
        potential use o f groundwater in Saint Lucia.


4. Lessons learnedand reflectedin the projectdesign

The design o f this project draws on lessons leamed inthe implementation o fthe Water Sector
Reform Technical Assistance Loan as well as over fifteen years o fprivate sector participation in
infrastructure designprojects throughout LatinAmerica and the Caribbean. These lessons are
described below:

    0   The World Bank's understanding o f the market for, and proper design of, public-private
        partnerships has evolved since the inception o f the Technical Assistance project nearly
        five years ago. As a result o f this "maturing" o f Bank vision and in response to the
        GOSL's willingness to collaborate, the Bank has proposed lending assistance for the
        undertakingo furgentworks as well as direct assistance inthe designand implementation
        o f the transaction. The willingness o f the Government to assume the debt associated with
        this loan and o f the Bank to prepare this project in advance of the transaction illustrates
        this new recognition o f the importance o f the public sector's contribution to the
        sustainability o fpublic-private partnerships inthe water sector.


    0   From infrastructure reform initiatives undertakenthroughout Latin America over the last
        ten years, the World Bank has also learned that successful transactions-particularly      in
        the water sector-depend inlarge part on the apriori existence o f a legal and regulatory
        framework that i s at once conducive to a private sector investor, sensitive to local legal
        and cultural attributes and protective o f basic public and consumer interests. With the
        passage o f a Water and Sewerage Services Act, the establishment o f a water utility
        commission, the undertakingof a public awareness campaign to learn from and educate
        consumers, and the design o f a Saint Lucia-specific public-private partnership that
        includes a continuing role for the Government on the Board o f the utility, the probability
        o f achieving a successful transaction has increased significantly. Market interest in the
        transaction appears to reflect the attractiveness o f this new, more balanced approach to
        public-private partnerships.

    0   The Bank has also leamed that Government commitment at the highest levels is required
        for a successful transaction in a sensitive sector such as water. The sense o f urgency o f
        the required investments is now a priority in the Government's agenda. This has been
        confirmed by the appointment o f a senior level Champion o f the reform program from the
        Ministry o f Finance and the agreement to take on the proposed loan. Utility reform
        initiatives that are based at the agency or authority being reformed often flounder from
        lack o f political will or institutional commitment.      In contrast to the earlier reform
        process, the Ministry o f Finance has recently taken on responsibility as the primary
        counterparts for this project and the attendant transaction. Indeed, the proposed project
        will have its Program Coordination Unit (PCU) housed at the Ministry o f Finance-with
        the Permanent Secretary o f Finance serving as the Program Manager-in       order to create
        an environment of commitment to the transaction while sufficient technical support to



                                                  11

        provide oversight o f the proposed works and reporting on progress will remain housed at
        the utility.

        Inaddition to government commitment, the Bank has come to recognizethat the public's
        understanding and support of a reform initiative will also directly impact the success o f
        the transaction. Household and focus groups surveying conducted as part of the reform
        program in Saint Lucia illustrate a general acceptance o f the proposed initiative (with
        greater interest in water service and quality than the ownership structure o f the utility).
        Nonetheless, a public relations campaign i s being built around the transaction to ensure a
        transaction design which i s sensitive to the perceptions o f risk heldby consumers and the
        perception o ftransparency and fairness required for a smooth transition.


5. Alternativesconsideredandreasons for rejection

As explained in Section A and, in full detail, in Annex 11 o f this PAD, two alternatives were
considered for alleviating water shortages inthe north o f the island:(i)  increase inthe capacity o f
the Roseau system from 6 to 10 million gallons per day (MGD) by upgrading existing
infrastructure that follows the dam; and (ii)  installation o f a Reverse Osmosis desalination plant
inRodney Bay with a capacity of about 4 MGD. For this second alternative, the concept that
had been proposed to the Government o f Saint Lucia by desalination developers and other
interested parties was evaluated for its economic costs as well as its likely environmental impact
as part o f the environmental assessment. Based on a comparative economic analysis, the first
alternative was selected as a clear choice based both on the Net Present Value o f the investment
and the difference in the costs o f water. The first alternative will not only improve the level o f
service, but will also improve the integrity o f the system for the long term at a lower cost than
the alternative. This is not to say that desalination could not play an important role in future
sourcing decisions but that the currently available technology cannot compete with the
rehabilitation and minor expansion works proposed for this project. Details o f the comparative
economic analyses are presented inAnnex 11.



C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

The approach taken to implementing this project will be one that combines (i)program
management and accountability at the highest levels o f Government; (2) proven fiduciary and
disbursement management experience; and (3) contracted third-party and utility-based technical
oversight and monitoring.      At the management level, The Program Coordinator will report
directly to the Permanent Secretary o f Finance who will also serve as the Program Manager o f a
Program Coordination Unit. In addition, the Permanent Secretary has identified by the
Administration as the "champion" and primary liaison for the water sector reform initiative and
public-private partnership transaction. The fiduciary and disbursement responsibilities will be
handled by PCU staff with a proven track record o f successful performance. Finally, the



                                                   12

technical oversight o f the turnkey contractor will be undertaken by a top quality consulting firm
with funds from the proposed project. Inaddition, the utilitywill second a project engineer full-
time to monitor and report to the Program Manager and the utility on the status o f the works and
performance of the technical advisor and primary contractor. These arrangements are described
inmore detailbelow.

The PCU o f the proposedproject will be housed at the Ministry o f Finance under the Permanent
Secretary o f Finance who will serve as Program Manager.               Fiduciary, accounting and
disbursement responsibility will be shared with the HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project
and the Disaster Management Project allowing the proposed project to benefit from a proven,
monitored, evaluated and successful PCU arrangement. The additional staff hired for this
particular project will consist o f an administrator to be housed in the Ministry o f Finance who
will report directly to the Permanent SecretaryProgram Manager and an engineer,with reporting
responsibilities to the Ministry o f Finance, who will be seconded to the project by WASCO. The
dedicated project engineer will be located at the water utility's office. In addition to these two
staff dedicated to the project, the procurement specialist and an accountant working on the
DMPII and the HN/AIDS projects will expand their responsibilities to include the proposed
project. The Project's OperationalManual i s now being consolidated with the other two Bank's
projects with separate annexes for each particular project.

The Ministry o f Finance will appoint the Project Coordinator to oversee, coordinate and
implement the contracts related to this project on behalf o f the Permanent Secretary o f Finance.
The Project Coordinator must be knowledgeable o f the Government's procedures and operations
since he/she i s responsible for all correspondence from the PCU to the World Bank and other
parties. It i s recommended that this person be also knowledgeable about (i)the water and
sanitation sector; (ii)private sector participation; and (iii) Bank procurement guidelines.
                                                            World

The main responsibilities o f the PCU will be to initiate the implementation o f the various
components o f the Water Supply Infrastructure Improvement Project;                  supervise the
implementation o f the works and services to be contracted or already contracted under these
projects; and prepare progress reports to the World Bank and the Government o f Saint Lucia on
the status o f the implementation.

The PCU will be responsible for coordinating the implementation, procurement, disbursement
and the financial management aspects o f the project. The urgent and integrated nature o f the
works suggests that a single turnkey contract will be the most efficient manner in which to
undertake the construction components o f the project. This arrangement will greatly reduce the
number o f contracts being administered by the PCU. An Engineering Consultant will have
primary responsibility for preliminary design and turnkey oversight.

The responsibilities o f the Engineering Consultant include the following services: (i) preparation
o f preliminary designs and tender invitation documents for all civil, mechanical and electrical
works; (ii) assistance to WASCO inthe qualification o f contractors, including the preparation o f
pre-qualificationreports where necessary; and (iii)   assistance inthe evaluation of tenders and the
preparation o f tender evaluation reports, contract documents and negotiationo f contracts.




                                                  13

The Services o f the Engineering Consultant will be required for the purposes o f project
implementation for a period o f about 4.5 months during which time a contract i s expected to be
awarded to a suitable firm to commence implementation o fworks.g After a contractor is selected
for executing the works, funds will be disbursed according to achievement o f targets defined in
the contract. Infrastructuralworks components must be undertaken in a period o f 1.5 years.

Payments will be made at the request o f the Project Managerpermanent Secretary o f the
implementing agency or by the Project Coordinator, where the Project Coordinator acts on behalf
o f the Project Manager, inaccordance with the method summarized inAnnex 7 o f the PAD.


2. Monitoringand evaluation of outcomes/results

To assure that the project i s implemented appropriately and according to schedule, semi-annual
and annual project reports that integrate financial management data with project activities
involving works, technical assistance and capacity building will be generated by the PCU's
project management information system. The expected outcomes presented inthe Annex to this
PAD will primarilybe derived from qualitative improvements in service as well as inter-related
actions, such as a successful transaction for the water utility. As all o f the data on performance
will be required for submission to the regulatory entity under the newly enacted Water and
Sanitation Action, project outcomes and results will come directly or indirectly from the
regulated utility. The sources o f information for monitoring and evaluation o f outcomes and
results will thus be: (1) WASCO and technical auditor under direction o f National Water &
Sanitation Commission (NWSC) and the Ministryo f Public Utilities for operational information
(quantities o f delivered water, quality o f service, pressure). (2) WASCO and financial auditors
under direction o f NWSC for financial information (sales volumes, change in numbers o f
connections, revenues and operating ratios). (3) Ministry o f Physical Development for data on
applications or licenses for self-production through desalinization. (4) Finally, the Ministry o f
Finance will provide updates as requiredon the status o f the transaction.


3. Sustainability

The proposed operation i s targeted to interventions that will significantly improve the economic
sustainability of the water utility. In fact, the Financial Impact analysis presented in Annex 9
demonstrates a positive return even with the utility absorbing the debt associated with the
project. In addition, the assets that will be built by this project are all within the current
capability o f the water utility to manage and operate. That said, long-term project performance
will also be affected by a successful partnership between the government and the private sector
and the expected improvements and operating efficiency that comes from this project.

With the passage of a Water and Sewerage Services Act, the establishment o f a water utility
commission, the undertaking o f a public awareness campaign to learn from and educate


 The contracting ofa technical firmto undertakepreliminary design work andto assist tinthe selection o fthe
turnkey contractor is already underway financed with available resources fromthe existing Water Sector Reform
T.A. Loan. Proposals fromthe short-listed technical firms are expectedbyMay 1l",   2005.


                                                        14

consumers, and the design o f a Saint Lucia-specific public-private partnership that includes a
continuing role for the Government on the Board o f the utility, the probability o f achieving a
successful transaction has increased significantly.

Government Commitment: The sense o f urgency o f the requiredinvestmentsi s now a priority in
the Government's agenda. This has been confirmed by the appointment o f a senior level
Champion o f the reform program from the Ministryof Finance and the agreement to take on the
proposed loan. Incontrast to the earlier stages o f the reform process, the Ministryo f Finance has
taken on responsibility as the primary counterparts for this project and the attendant transaction.
Indeed, the proposed project will have its Program Coordination Unit (PCU) housed at the
Minister of Finance-with            the Permanent Secretary of Finance serving as the Program
Manager-in       order to create an environment o f commitment to the transaction while sufficient
technical support to provide oversight o f the proposed works and reporting on progress will
remainhoused at the utility.

Public Trust: In addition to securing government commitment, household and focus groups
surveying conducted as part o f the reform program in Saint Lucia illustrate a general acceptance
o f the proposed initiative (with greater interest in water service and quality than the ownership
structure o f the utility). Nonetheless, a public relations campaign is being built around the
transaction to ensure a transaction design which i s sensitive to the perceptions o f risk held by
consumers and the perception o f transparency and fairness required for a smoothtransition.

4. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

Risk                                  MitigatingMeasure
Difficulties   with    the  Project   The role of the Project Coordination Unit will be streamlined according to
Coordination Unit in implementing     the new guidelines o f the C M U to centralize project administration o f
the project.                          different Bank projects in one Project Coordination Unit. The PCU for
                                      this particular project will consist o f an administrator located at the
                                      Ministry o f Finance and an engineer which will be located at WASCO.
                                      The Operational Manual will be consolidated with the other two Bank's
                                     projects with separate annexes for each particular project.
Construction delays result in a       In order to minimize the possibility o f delays, a Turnkey contracting
more severe crisis.                   mechanism will be employed.         This will bundle the works, attract the
                                      interest o f larger f i i and reduce the possibility o f micro-management o f
                                      inputs. Indeed, there is a greater risk to the water crisis o f doing nothing
                                      or waiting for the transaction to be completed than o f implementing this
                                     project.
Delays    in the    completion    o f While this French-funded and executed project i s mostly complete,
downstream     pipe   networks    in geostatic testing has not been undertaken to assure the ability of the pipe
Castries.    (The flow from the       network to absorb the necessary pressure. In addition, there i s a small
proposed project will depend upon     portion o f the pipe which needs to be re-laid with g o v e m e n t funds
the effectiveness o f a newly built (EC$700,000 have been advanced by the Government o f Saint Lucia to
20" transmission line inCastries.)    undertake these works in an urgent fashion). The Bank team has received
                                      assurance from the Ministry o f Finance that this project will be complete
                                      and satisfactorily performingprior to the effectiveness o f the Bank project.
                                      Project effectiveness will be tied to this outcome.
Lack o f coordination between the     The teams on the Bank side (TA Loan and the proposed project) have been
transaction and the      investment   staffed by the Country and Sector Directors so as to be overlapping; they
project   leading   to   conflicting  are currently working as one seamless team. On the Government's side,
financial advice to novernment or     the PS o f Finance i s now the point person for the entire water reform


                                                          15

unfeasible     financial     structure process, including the proposed project. A World Bank Public Relations
presentedto investors.                 Specialist has been assigned to the team and a local PR firm has been
                                       retained for the TA Loan to assure transparency, public understanding and
                                       better coordination. The transaction's financial structure i s being built
                                       around the assumption o f the critical project proposed inthis PAD.
Failure o f the transaction from lack  Under the existing TA Loan, the World Bank i s committing considerable
o f market interest                    financial and human resources to assure a successful transaction.        The
                                       Bank itself has held meetings with institutional investors, the local private
                                       sector, the IFC and has held detailed discussions with potential regional
                                       and international developers         and water    operators.     Given the
                                       unprecedented commitments o f the Government to prepare the balance
                                       sheet o f the new company, initiate a regulatory framework, absorb the
                                       Bank's project debt and release majority shares for board and managerial
                                       control to the private sector, interest to date has been very high. In
                                       addition, Lucelec's success as a well-functioning and profitable privately
                                       owned company strengthens the perceptions that it i s possible to own and
                                       operate a profitable utility in Saint Lucia.       Finally, three alternative
                                       approaches to public-private partnership with varying levels o f risk
                                       assigned to the private sector have been proposed as a back-up in case o f
                                       initial transaction failure. (See Section A.l.) In the end, even if the
                                       transaction is delayed, the proposed works all utilize the existing assets
                                       and technology o f WASCO and can thus be managedby the current utility
                                       staff. (Indeed, the IRR o f the project under a failed transaction scenario-
                                       continued WASCO management-is           considerably lower than a successful
                                       transaction but still pass the minimumthreshold for financial viability.)
Failure o f the transaction from lack  The Government's commitment to the success o f this project has been
o fpolitical commitment                communicated to the Bank at the highest levels. The Prime Minister now
                                       receives the missions andhas signed the Aide Memoires which commit the
                                       Government to addressing the utility's debt, absorbing the debt o f the
                                       proposed loan, selling a controlling share o f the utility to the private and
                                       acting in good faith as the public partner.       Moreover, the Permanent
                                       Secretary o f Finance has been selected by the Administration to serve as
                                       the liaison on this initiative, to house the Program Monitoring Unit and to
                                       serve as the champion o f the water transaction.



5. Loadcreditconditionsand covenants

The effectiveness of the proposed project will depend on the construction o f a newly built 20"
transmission line in Castries, financed by the French government, which needs to be completed
andinoperationbefore effectiveness. The risks andmitigating measures relatedto this condition
are described above. In addition, the relevant project annex to the consolidated Operations
Manual must be complete inorder for the project to enter into effectiveness."




lo mainbodyoftheOperationsManual,basedupontheManualfortheDisasterManagementProject,isalreadycomplete.
    The                                                                                                             "




                                                           16

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economic and financial analyses

A cost-benefit analysis was used to determine the financial and economic feasibility, its
distributive impact, and sensitivity analysis o f the investment activities to be financed under the
project. The full results are presented inAnnex 9.

Inthe financial analysis, the project was appraised measuring its flow of costs and benefits at
market prices. In the economic analysis, the project was appraised converting financial cash
flows into economic cash flows by converting economic prices, that is, by subtracting taxes and
adding subsidies to financial costs. The economic benefits are calculated as the avoided costs o f
water rationing to capture the benefits from expected improvements inthe reliability o f the water
supply. A distributive analysis was conducted to assess the impact of each activity on specific
groups o f stakeholders. Finally, the results o f the financial and economic analysis were tested by
conducting a sensitivity analysis.

The financial evaluation was undertaken with and without the project beingtransferred ingrants
from the Government to the utility. Under the scenario in which WASCO receives the
investment costs as a full subsidy from the government, the results show extremely high
financial viability o f the project with a financial IRR o f 172 percent and a net benefit o f about
EC$23 million. In case no investment subsidy would be granted, the project would still be
financially viable as financial benefits exceed financial costs -with a net benefit o f EC$5 million
and a financial IRRo f 15 percent.

The economic feasibility o f the project was appraised converting financial cash flows into
economic cash flows by subtracting taxes and adding subsidies to the financial flow o f costs. The
benefits associated with a reduction of rationing were used as a proxy for the incremental
economic benefits o f the project. About 13 percent o f current water demand cannot be met today
due to production capacity constraints. If no investments are made to increase the production
capacity, the water shortage could reach up to 50 percent o f total water demand by 2030.
Alternatively, if the project i s implemented, demand could be served and coverage could
increase to attain 96 percent o f population. The results from the economic analysis show a net
benefit o f EC$6 million andeconomic rate o f retumo f 16 percent.

The difference between economic and financial cash flows determines the winners and the losers
with the project. The Government will benefit with revenues from taxes for investment and
operating costs to be used in the project, but would pay a large cost in the funding o f the
investment. The winners are WASCO and the current customers who would reap benefits for
about EC$10 million.

The project implementation structure has beendesignedto minimize the risks associated with the
performance o f the water and sanitation company o f Saint Lucia. Nevertheless, the degree to
which the final objective o f the project will be achieved i s directly linked to the improvement o f
the level o f service and of the operational performance o f WASCO. Ultimately, the sustainability
o f the interventions financed by the project will dependon the sustainability o f WASCO.



                                                   17

  Annex 10 provides a financial assessment o f WASCO and, inparticular, o f its future capacity to
  develop into a sustainable entity. WASCO's current financial situation i s quite poor as a result
  o f low operating efficiency, tariffs that are below levels requiredto cover efficient operating and
  capital costs, a low and decreasing collection rate for domestic and commercial customers, and
  limited investments in the system. The company's net reported loss in 2003 was EC$14.3
  million. WASCO i s currently not paying interest nor principalpayments on most o f its debt.

  The company demonstrates considerable liquidity problems directly related to the inability to
  generate the cash from operations necessary to cover current obligations as well as finance
  required for capital investments. WASCO's capital investmentsbetween 2001 and 2002 were
  financed primarily through contributions from the Government as well as other contributors such
  as bilateral and multilateral development agencies.

  The results o f the financial model that has been built to calculate financial projections under
  assumptions listed in Annex 10 show a significant improvement of the financial health of
  WASCO, within a five year period from the start o f the project. A significant part o f the
  improvement, and specifically the large increase in revenue, can be directly associated with the
  investments financed under the context of this project; while the equally significant improvement
  on the cost side assumed in the model, i s derived from the impact o f the strategy o f the new
  managementbrought by the new investors.

  The results o f the model show drastic improvement o f liquidity, linked to increased revenues and
  the injection o f fresh capital, the retum to profitability and to the ability to sustain a moderate
  level o f indebtedness and to finance capital investments in part through internally generated
  finds.

  2. Technical

  The works program which will be implemented under the project, consisting o f the short term
  investment program for the north, i s infact an urgent investment program aimed at providing the
  current population o f the north, amounting to about 86,000 residents plus tourists, with a
  continuous supply ofwater o fpotable quality.

  Two alternatives have been considered for resolving the water shortage in the northem part o f
  Saint Lucia: (i) Increase the daily withdrawal rate o f water from the Roseau dam from the current
  value o f about 6 MGD to 10 MGD; or (ii)        Construct a Reverse Osmosis Desalination plant to
  supply the current water deficit.      The investment and O&M costs were estimated for both
  alternatives and they were subjected to a comparative economic analysis, and to a technical and
  environmental comparison. The comparative analysis o f the alternative, as described indetail in
  Annex 11, clearly demonstrates that the altemative o f increasing the daily withdrawal rate o f
I water from the Roseau dam from the current value o f about 6 MGD to 10 MGD i s the preferred
  altemative.

  The increase in the extraction capacity from the Roseau reservoir basically reduces the drought
  retumperiod for which the reservoir was designed. However, since what currently happens is



                                                    18

that the restrictive extraction capacity results in water shortages every year-regardless         o f
rainfall-;-it i s recommended to increase the extraction capacity from the reservoir and satisfy
demand in years which are not drought years. The risk o f drought should be addressed in the
medium-term investment program through new source identification and/or reductions in water
losses in the distribution network. In the forthcoming years, major efforts will be directed to
reducing such water losses.

Due to the urgency inimplementingthe works so as to alleviate the water shortage andprovide
continuous supply to the population, it was decided to construct the works under one single
turnkey works contract. A turnkey contract saves time as it collapses the design and construction
functions into one activity. This approach will also assign the responsibility to one contractor and
will avoid coordination issues between various contractors-a     critical advantage given the inter-
relationship o f the four components o f the project. The Bank has used the turnkey approach in
various projects and has found it to be an effective method for procurement and project
implementation. Bidding documents based on successful turnkey project will be used in the
project.

The works to be executed under the project are relatively simple and straightforward, consisting
o f replacement o f pumps in a main pumping station, replacement o f a main water pipe,
construction o f an additional modular unit in the existing largest water treatment plant and
installation o f smaller diameter pipes. The implementation o f these works will provide an
important reliefto the water shortage problem inthe North.

As part o f the project, water resources management studies will be undertaken to establish the
availability and capacity o f potential resources. These studies will include a groundwater
resources study and surface water resource study with emphasis on the Roseau river resources,
This study will include the establishment o fthe capacity o fthe existing Roseaureservoir, options
for increasing the capacity by increasing the height o f the Dam, and identification o f other
surface water resources inthe North.


3. Fiduciary

The Program Coordination Unit (PCU) that will have overall financial and accounting
responsibilities for the project already possesses extensive experience in providing procurement
and financial management support to World Bank financed operations. Financial management
responsibilities    will include:   (i)maintenance of accounting records, (ii)processing
disbursements, (iii)preparation o f project financial statements in accordance with Bank
guidelines, (iv) management and reconciliation o f bank accounts, (v) management o f financial
information systems, (vi) preparation and submission o f quarterly financial management reports,
(vii) preparation and submission o f withdrawal applications, (viii) coordination with auditors
during the annual financial audit exercise, and (ix) adoption o f remedial financial management
actions, as necessary, duringproject implementation.

The PCU's core staff, which includes the Deputy PCU Coordinator, the Project Assistant for
Contracts and the Project Assistant for Financial Management (FM), i s already inplace and will



                                                19

be supplemented by a Program Coordinator (currently being recruited by the Permanent
Secretary o f Finance) and an engineering staff who will be seconded from' and housed at
WASCO to oversee the technical elements o f the project and to report to the Ministryo f Finance
on the performance and status o f the project.

Loan funds will be disbursed to a USDollars Special Account (SA) maintained ina commercial
bank acceptable to the World Bank. The PCUwill also operate a local currency Special Account,
to finance project expenditures inlocal currency, where funds from the main dollar Special
Account will be periodically transferred. The initial disbursement into the Special Account will
be an advance, and, since the PCUhas extensive experience with financial management o f
World Bankprojects and the preparation o fFinancial MonitoringReports (FMRs), subsequent
requests for replenishment o f the SA will be based on the quarterly submission o f FMRs.

The existing PCU's accounting software will be used to account for the project needs. Annual
project financial statements will be audited in accordance with International Standards on
Auditing issued by the International Organization o f Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI), by
the Office o f the Auditor General, in accordance with TORSacceptable to the Bank. Auditors
should provide an audit opinion on project annual financial statements, and a report on internal
controls. The project's annual audit report will be required to be submitted to the Bank no later
than 4 months following the end o fthe fiscal year (April-March).

About 85% o f the Bank's funds will finance a single turn-key contract, representing potential
high fiduciary risks. In order to mitigate these risks, the clauses of the turnkey contract will
require that the company provide bid and performance bonds. In addition, the selection criteria
will include a requirement that the financial viability o f the company be sound. These
requirements will be monitored bythe Bankduringthe procurement process.

4. Social

In general, the social aspects of the project are positive, beneficial and ultimately affect the
population at large. The social segments affected by the project, directly includes all inhabitants
o f the country without bias to age, social-economic status or sex.

Improvements to the water distribution system include both urban, rural, and vacation home
sites, tourism and non-tourism related areas. Cost reductions in operations resulting from
improved system efficiencies coupled with the wider availability o f good quality water will
likely provide a greater apparent benefit to the moderate and lower economic income groups.
The increased reliability of supply will allow for reduced reliance on more expensive bottled
water.   While not a common practice, there is some local use o f un-treated surface waters
particularly for bathing and washing. Elimination o f the need for this practice will have obvious
health impacts especially among the young who are particularly susceptible to diarrheal disease
and other water bome pathogens. Finally improvements to the supply to the north of the island
will enhance the tourism economy and allow for the continued growth in both the tourism and
housing sectors. These sectors are currently adversely affected as growth i s limited by the
availability o f potable water. Their importance to the financial security o f the utility cannot be




                                                 20

understated given that their tariffs are the primary source o f cross-subsidy for low income
domestic consumers.

5. Environment

The project i s considered category B due principally to the large scale o f excavation planned
during the installation o f pipe works. Routes chosen include agricultural areas and roadways
which will result insome short-term disruption o f activities. Impacts associated with the project
are short-term and associated with the actual construction activities. No natural lands are to be
disturbed, no endangered species or critical wildlife habitats are to be disturbed and no
relocations of inhabitants will be required.

The improved treatment and distribution capacity anticipated as a result o f this project will
produce significant benefits to the population o f the northem region o f the country. These
include the near 24 hour daily access to potable water, reductions in costs o f production and
distribution, and the installation o f a transmission system allowing the elimination o f some
electric pumps. The strengthening o f pipe joints along the distribution route will enhance the
disaster survivability (e.g. earthquake, flood, and hurricane) of the system and reduce routine
maintenance costs associated with the currently inadequatejoint system.

Environmental impacts from the project relate largely to the impacts associated with excavations
through rural areas and along transportation corridors. Soil stabilization and erosion control
measures will be necessary duringthe project. Traffic management plans and coordination with
the Ministry o f Works will be necessary to assure minimal disruption o f commerce and to
guarantee citizen access to critical services. Other measures associated with site activities are
presented inthe environmental assessment developed for the project.

There will be some crop loss along the installation routes but this will be minimal and short-
term.   Banana i s the principal agricultural product for the region.       Once excavations are
completed, banana will be re-established along the disturbed routes. Compensation for actual
losses and opportunity costs will be managed through WASCO using its existing compensation
mechanisms.

The project i s associated with a dam and as a result, OP 4.37, Safety o f Dams, has been
triggered. This project will not include any structural modifications to the dam nor will it affect
the operation o f current safety status o f the structure. The dam i s relatively new, constructed
under a World Bank/CIDA project in 1996. It is a concrete construction and on inspection,
appears to be very well maintained. Operational procedures at WASCO include the regular
maintenance of the dam and associated appurtenances, daily and bi-annual safety inspections
usinglocal engineering contractors, and a required surface and underwater inspection after every
detected seismic event. WASCO has presented these inspection reports to the Bank as well as
the Dam Operations and Maintenance Manual.           Those reports show that the borrower has an
effective dam safety program in operation; the borrower conducts and documents full level
inspections and dam safety assessments; and that those assessments and findings are satisfactory
to the Bank.




                                                 21

A program of environmental screening and management implementationhas beendeveloped and
will be included inthe contracting procedures usedunder the project. This is designedto assure
compliance with Bank environmental policy and Saint Lucian environmental law. The screening
procedure first identifies whether an environmental assessment would be required due to the
nature o f the activity contemplated.           An environmental assessment has been developed for this
project and within that assessment a checklist has been developed which i s used to identify
specific activities that may have associated environmental consequences. This includes, for
example, paint and solvent usage, worker sanitation, noise management, erosion control. A set
o f standard contract clauses have been developed which are to be attached to the project bidding
documents.        This is designed to assure that these anticipated effects are managed. These
requirements are reviewed internally by the appropriate Saint Lucian authorities and then
presentedwith the formal approval o fcontract activities.

The guidelines and implementation procedures are consistent with Bank policies and operate
withinthe framework o f Saint Lucian environmentalmanagement policies.

6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                            Yes                     N o
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                [XI                     [I
  Natural Habitats (OPBP 4.04)                                                            [ I                    [XI
  PestManagement (OP 4.09)                                                                [I                     [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevisedas OP 4.11)                                    [ I                   [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OPBP 4.12)                                                     [I                    [XI
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)                                    [ I                   [XI
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                     [I                    [XI
  Safety o fDams (OPBP 4.37)                                                              [XI                     [I
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OPBP/GP 7.60)*                                                 [ I                   [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OPBP/GP 7.50)                                       [I                    [XI


7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

No relief from operational or policy is sought under this program.




* By supporting theproposed project, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputed areas


                                                             22

                      Annex 1:Countryand Sector or ProgramBackground
  SAINT LUCIA: WATER SUPPLY INFRASTRUCTUREIMPROVEMENT PROJECT

1.    Countrybackground

Saint Lucia i s part o f the Windward Islands. The interior o f the island i s mountainous, but there
i s more flat land than in Dominica, Grenada, or Saint Vincent. The soil i s generally fertile and
the banana industry (and other agriculture products) makes Saint Lucia the biggest exporter o f
agricultural products among the OECS member countries. The pleasant climate and the sandy
beaches have encouraged the development o f tourism, which has become the main foreign
exchange earner inthe economy inrecent years. Despite relatively strong social indicators and a
stable economy, poverty and unemployment are still persistent problems. The poverty headcount
index indicates that 25 percent o f the population lives below the locally defined poverty line
while the unemployment rate is around 19percent.

Saint Lucia experienced a markeddecline ineconomic growth during the 1990s and early 2000s.
Average GDP growth declined from 6.5 percent per year inthe 1980s to 2.5 percent inthe 1990s
and -0.5 percent during 2000-03. This marked slowdown was the result of exogenous shocks
(the 9/11 events, the global economic slowdown and a severe drought in 2001) as well as
increased competition from lower pricedtourism destinations.

The most significant structural shift in the economy since 1996 has been the decline in banana
production as favorable market access conditions for banana exports have been removed. The
total number o f banana farmers has declined from 13,000 at the time o f the 1996 Poverty
Assessment Report to less than 3,000 today. This change has been reflected in the declining
contribution o f agriculture to GDP, which was around 11per cent in 1995 falling to around 5 per
cent in2003.

The Government tried to offset the slowdown and sustain employment as well as meet natural
disaster-related costs in the early 2000s through an expansionary fiscal policy, mainly through
increased public investment financed by commercial borrowing. As a result, the overall fiscal
deficit (before grants) increased from -1.2 percent o f GDP in 1999 to -8.9 percent in 2002 and
the public sector debt rose from 39.5 percent o f GDP in 1999 to 65.2 percent in2002.

As in other OECS countries, economic performance in Saint Lucia improved in 2003 and 2004
drivenby a revival intourism and the absence of natural disasters duringthat period. Real GDP
growth recovered to 3.0 and 3.5 percent in 2003 and 2004, respectively, and the overall fiscal
deficit was reduced to 6.3 percent o f GDP in2004. However, despite the improvement in fiscal
balances, the total public sector debt as a share of GDP continued to increase (to 70.5 percent o f
GDP in2004). This presents a circularity problem as the ability o f the country to absorb further
resort development and to grow in its tourism base will be tested by the fiscal constraints that
restrict public investmentinthe island's infrastructure. While the private sector i s recognized as
the engine o f sustainable growth for Saint Lucia's economy, the access o f develo ers and
hoteliers to basic services is already affecting their interest in investing in the island."                Inthis

"RecentinterviewsbytheBankteamwithdevelopers,hotelowners,theMinistryofTourismandtheNationalDevelopment
Corporationrevealedaheightenedsense of concem among developersthat their greenfieldand expansionplanswould not be


                                                      23

context, the water and sanitation sector has emerged as a key factor inthe economic development
o f Saint Lucia.

2.           Sector issues

Despite a concerted effort in 2000 to turn around the state water utility, Saint Lucia i s suffering
once again from a crisis o f confidence and performance in the water sector.12 The government-
owned utility which currently controls nearly all water and sanitation services on the island, the
Water and Sewerage Company (WASCO), has ceased to make capital investments and has lost
the good will o f its domestic and commercial consumers due to severe shortages, miss-billings
andpoor quality o f service. Hotels throughout the island are purchasingwater trucked to them in
tankers while entire neighborhoods are relying on rainwater, private purchases and storage tanks
to compensate for days-on-end without water from the utility. Exacerbating the situation, a
severe dry season over the last year has compounded existing water shortage problems affecting
the quality o f life o f the country's 161,000 people.                         During 2003, WASCO was forced to
implement strict water allocation schedules, island wide. These problems have a tremendous
impact on the economy o f the country and the residents' quality o f life and have the potential to
become severe ifthey are left unattended.

In summary, the main financial and operational issues faced by the water sector are the
following:

             0  Insufficient cash flow to cover all operating and maintenance costs (let alone
                servicing dept and maintaining a sustainable level o f investments);
             0  Decrepit state o f the utility's assets which are indire need o f a capital infusion;
             0  Insufficient supply o f treated water to meet current demand leading to water
                shortages-particularly             inthe population andresort centers ofthe north;
             0  Prospects for hrther increase in demand for water as a result o f the booming tourist
                industryanduptuminover-all economic growth;
             0  Loss o f good will on the part of consumers due to the further decline in service after
                the 2000 tariff increase.

The Government and the World Bank agree that this situation has grown out o f the legacy o f
underinvestment in assets, insufficient average tariffs over the past decades and severe human
resource constraints. While WASCO has attempted to turn around its performance over the last
few years, the utility has been unable to confront that legacy and, instead, has seen its services
and assets deteriorate further.




~~~        ~~




feasible due to the inability o f the country to providewater connections, reliable service and other basic infrastructure such as
access roads.

 I' Some o f the early actions taken by the govemment to improve its performance included: the corporatization o f a state
authority, WASA (into WASCO); the appointment o f a private sector managing director and board director; the downsizing o f
staff b y about one-quarter; and a tariff increase in 2000 after many years o f a stagnant tariff. Inaddition, the Govemment signed
a loan with the World Bank that led to the drafting o f a water law, the establishment o f a regulatory body and the enactment o f a
PSD strategy.



                                                                 24

 Defining characteristics of Saint Lucia's Water Sector

Dependency on surface water sources. Saint Lucia's supply o f water i s dependant on surface
sources. As a result, the occurrence o f rainfall events has a significant impact on the ability o f the
company to provide an adequate water supply. This has also forced the company to truck water
to communities in an effort to deal with extreme cases o f poor supply. This dependence i s more
significant inthe dry season where yields fall by as much as 10 percent o f the normal supply. In
addition, the limited treatment capacity at Roseau Dam has resulted in the shutting down o f
supply systems inthe north duringheavy rainfall as a result of added turbidityinthe overflow.

Backlog in water infrastructure investments. The Roseau system, which supplies approximately
80 percent o f the population, has an estimated capacity o f 10MGD.Because of constraints inthe
infrastructure (transmission, treatment, pumping) that support the dam, it i s only able to supply
between 5 and 6 MGD effectively which i s not enough for meeting the current demand. The
water supply system in the country includes 67 pumping stations, all o f them in a significant
level o f deterioration andwithout backup capacity.

Low reliability o f water services. Water supply shortages are proving to be a development
bottleneck for the hotel sector         l3and a major impact on the quality o f life of the population in
general. Water supply interruptions in Saint Lucia are more severe as elevation increases; in
some cases communities receive water only once per week. Residents who suffer the most
include the financially deprived who are unable to purchase storage tanks and are unable to store
minimumsupplyrequirements when available. Another concern for residents is the quality o fthe
water provided by WASCO. In addition, lack o f customer and sales data has led to an increase
inmis-billings, disaffected customers anddecreasingrates ofcollection.

Non-revenue         water and poor cost recovery. Consumption by 30 percent o f WASCO's
consumers i s based on estimated rather than metered consumption.                         Non-revenue water i s
approximately 44 percent of water production in the north. The estimated level o f leakage for
WASCO accounts for 36 percent o f water production. In addition to the mentioned critical
problems, WASCO has an inefficient commercial management andbilling system that contribute
to a poor cost recovery. Around 74 percent o f active connections were billed on a meteredbasis
in2003.

Long-term investments in sanitation infrastructure.                  Inaddition to long-term supply needs,
improved collection and treatment o f wastewater will require considerable capital investment-
in the tens of millions of US dollars-in                the 10 to 15 years ahead.           Depending upon the
willingness and ability of consumers to pay for sewerage and wastewater services through




l3 recentsurveyinSt. Luciaindicatedthat largehotelswere dissatisfiedwiththe reliabilityofwater supplies,
   A
The largest hotel inthe sample was of the opinion that disruptions occurred too frequently. Some o f the respondents
indicated that during disruptions they had had to make alternative arrangements to purchase truck-carried water at a
premium price, or about 30 percent higher than the utility rate.     At least one large hotel on St. Lucia has already
installed a water desalination plant to cope with the shortage of potable water supplies.




                                                           25

increased user fees, a portion o f that capital cost i s likely to be required from public funds.14 As
such, the Government will increasingly find itself under countervailing pressures: confronting
environmental/health concerns and their impact on tourism on one hand and prioritizing public
spendinggiven serious fiscal constraints on the other.

While the private operator o f the utility may be able to access financing and manage and
maintain the sanitation assets more efficiently than a government agency, in the end, either the
tax payer will pay or the consumer will pay for the services. Which consumer pays, however, i s
also an important consideration. Aside from user fees, land developers and hoteliers could be
required to build wastewater treatment facilities themselves, perhaps with social obligations
related to servicing local communities "bundled" into the project. While this might be one way
o f passing along the cost o f sanitation to tourists, it could only be implemented under careful
consideration for the competitiveness o f St Lucia in attracting tourism investment. The World
Bank is thus working with the Government as part o f the transaction design process to find an
affordable manner to finance needed sanitation investments. The plan will consider the
economic and financial trade-offs involved with higher watedsanitation tariffs, bundling o f
investment requirements (hotels with sewerage connections, wastewater treatment and/or
outfalls) and financing from the public budget (perhaps with donor support).

All that said, it should be noted that the population, including tourists, inthe project area totals
about 100,000-a           relatively small figure. A significant portion o f that population is dispersed
among small settlement, rural areas and isolated resorts. Inthese cases the flows o f wastewater
are quite small and on-site solutions will likely remain the most practicable. This type o f "off-
grid"wastewater management is adequate and does not present serious environmental problems.
The main challenges related to wastewater contamination are concentrated in Castries and the
Rodney Bay area. Castries, the largest city in Saint Lucia i s by most standards, a small city, with
a population o f 60,000. Proper financing and management o f its wastewater system will be a
priority inthe design o f the transaction strategy for the public-private partnership.


3. Government'sstrategy

Since 2000, the World Bank has been working with the Government o f Saint Lucia through a
Technical Assistance Loan for Sector Reform to pursue a strategy that would leverage private
sector financing and know-how to reach a sustainable solution for the sector. As a result o f that
project's Private Sector Development (PSD) Strategy and direct discussions with the World
Bank, the Government o f Saint Lucia has decided to pursue a public-private partnership (PPP)
for the utility. The Bank and the Government have agreed upon a structure for the company that
will include a minority share for the Government, a likely minority share set-aside for a Saint
Lucian institutional investor and an auction for the majority shares to consortia willing to
recapitalize the utility with a minimum bid that reflects the immediate investment needs of the



 l 4The logic o f public financial support for sewerage and wastewater treatment investments i s a well documented
feature o f infrastructure economics baseduponthe recognition o f sanitation as a merit good. That is, the benefits
accrued to society from sanitation services through health and environmental improvements extend beyond the
individual's interest in"consuming" andpaying for the service.


                                                           26

utility. Inthis way, the Government can break from its history o fbailing out the company every
several years andthe utility can retum to playing a productive role inthe growth of the economy.

Inorder to confiont the utility's challenges head on and increase the likelihood of a successful
transaction for WASCO, the Government andthe World Bankteam have agreed:

     0   An urgent works program, costing about US$8 million, is required to increase water
         flows to the north. The Government, residents o f the north and the commercial sector
         cannot afford to wait for the transaction to be completed inorder to initiate that program.
         The Government will absorb the cost o f that investment even as the transaction process
         moves forward.     The components o f this project have been identified by technical
         advisors, WASCO staff and the World Bank and are described indetail inAnnex 4.


     0   Furthercapital willberequired for other short to mediumterm investments. The medium
         term operational improvements and capital investment program can best be funded from
         the successful completiono fthe PPP transaction.

     0   Tariffs should reflect the rate base o f the investment after the transaction i s complete. The
         Government and the World Bank recognize that WASCO will only achieve sustainability
         if the new productive investments, fresh capital injection, new management and
         revamped organizational strategy, are accompanied by a tariff structure that ensures a fair
         return on investment for the private owner/operators. As a starting point, financial
         analysis conducted by Technical Advisors to the PSD Strategy and reviewed by the Bank
         suggest that the current average tariff (approximately US$l-15 per cubic meter) is
         sufficient to tumaround the utility given other modest assumptions about improved
         collections, and operations, government willingness to assume debt and the capital
         injection expected from private investors.

Over the last four months, the Government has made considerable effort to expedite this reform
initiative. The Ministry o f Finance has taken the reins o f the transaction design and sector
reform, appointing a highlevel Champion to the process. Inaddition, Parliament has passed the
Water and Sewerage Act that puts inplace its regulatory framework, and the Administration has
agreed to take on the financing o f the proposed urgent works project while agreeing upon the
outlines o f a transaction in which board and managerial control will be granted to a consortium
o f investors/operators.




                                                    27

       Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies
 SAINT LUCIA: WATER SUPPLYINFRASTRUCTUREIMPROVEMENTPROJECT

Project:PO70244    - Water   Sector ReformTechnicalAssistance Project

The development objective o f the Water Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project i s to
prepare and transmit the water company to private sector management within a sound legal and
regulatory framework. There are three components that comprise this project. The first provides
technical assistance for the strengthening o f the regulatory and environmental framework by
revising the Water Act and the drafting o f supporting implementingrules and regulations as well
as the license for a new operator. The second component conducts and implements a technical
and financial feasibility study for the private sector participation carried out within the regulatory
work described above and a transaction advisor to help implement the public-private partnership.
The third component funds project management and a public information and dissemination
campaign.

IP Rating: S
DO Rating: S

Project:PO86469 LC DisasterManagementProjectI1
                   -

The project aims at further reducing the country's vulnerability to adverse natural events
(hurricane, floods, etc.) through investment in risk management activities. As such, the
objectives of the project are to further strengthen(a) infrastructure against the impact o f adverse
natural events (hurricanes, flooding, etc.) through the implementation of physical mitigation
measures; (b) the response capacity in case o f adverse natural event (hurricane, flooding, etc)
through capacity building, equipment purchase and investment in emergency infrastructure; and
(c) the institutional capacity o f the various ministries and agencies dealing with disaster
management through the provision o f adequate facilities, critical equipment, technical assistance
and training.

IP Rating: S
DORating: S

Project:PO77687 Saint LuciaEmergencyRecovery Project
                   -

Project's objective are: (a) To help safeguard and maintain the productive capacity o f the
country's tourism sector, notably by securing the industry's energy needs inthe aftermath o f the
September 1lth events; (b) To enhance security at key airport and seaport facilities in line with
international standards, with the aim o f preventing acts o f terrorism and safeguarding the sub-
region's image as a safe destination; and (c) To strengthen the country's institutional capacity to
develop and implement security plans, procedures and measures as mandatedby the international
civil aviation andmaritime transport regulatory agencies.

PRating: S
DORating: S



                                                  28

CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK(CDB)

CDB i s currently financing specific works inthe water sector (briefly described below).

Metering and Leak Detection: Works entail the procurement and installation of cold water
domestic meters and bulk meters which can be easily configured for electronic and remote
sensing in the future along with all the necessary appurtenances to form a complete looped
supply as established by WASCO's Standards. It shall also include the procurement o frelevant
and appropriate technologically advanced leak detection equipment, which will be used in
reducing the level o f wastage due to leakingpipes thus resulting in the lowering of Unaccounted
for Water (UFW).

Vieux Fort Water Supply (Grace): The works entail the procurement and installation o f a
1.5MGD direct immersed ultra filtration membrane filtration plant, including the upgrading of
the water intake accordingto WASCO's design andstandards.


Hill20 Raw Water Supply: Works entail the procurement and installation of relevant pump
sets and switch gear for the Talvem Pump station complete with the improvement and upgrade
o f the standby power generation plant along with the refurbishment and upgrade o f all existing
structures. The systems shall have the capacity o f beingmonitored locally or by remote sensing
and shall have full SCADA capabilities. It shall also include the procurement and installation of
adequately sized raw water transmission mains to replace the existing twin supply lines. The
system shall be complete with all necessary appurtenances to prevent damages from pressure
transients and surges.


CastriesSewerage System: The works entailprocurement and installation o f5 adequately
sized grinder pump sets complete with switchgear, bulkmagnetic flow meters and standby power
generation along with the refurbishment and upgrading o f all existingstructures.




                                               29

                               Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
  SAINT LUCIA: WATER SUPPLY INFRASTRUCTUREIMPROVEMENT PROJECT

                                               ResultsFramework

                PDO                      ProjectOutcomeIndicators                 Use of ProjectOutcome
                                                                                          Information

Alleviate water shortage inthe north    Improved reliability and regularity    Verification o f project effectiveness
o f the country providing a more        o f service throughout north for       and capacity o f utilityto implement
efficient, continuous and reliable      commercial and domestic end users.     and manage investment.
service.                                Daily demand being met without
                                        dependence o n storage tanks.
                                        Sufficient pressure at end user level.


    IntermediateOutcomes                     IntermediateOutcome                     Use of Intermediate
                                                     Indicators                     OutcomeMonitoring:

Improve reliability o f the Roseau      Increasedextraction capacity o f the   Measure performance o f turnkey
D a mWater Supply System by             Roseau dam from 6 MGDto 10             contractor to implement
increasing the flow o f water to the    MGD.                                   infrastructure improvement works.
north o f Saint Lucia.


Reduce the likelihood o f commercial    Increased sales to commercialusers.    Measure effectiveness o f WASCO
users abandoning the system.                                                   to deliver service




Increase the potential o f a successful Transaction completed.                 Demonstrate interest o f private
partnership between the government                                             investors to participate inthe
and the private sector.                                                        transaction.


Improve collectionratios and            Improved financial performance         Measure WASCO's ability to
improve economic sustainability o f     particularly: Increased revenue        leverage investment and achieve
WASCO                                   Decreasedoperating ratio               financial sustainability.




Strengthen institutional capacity o f   Sustained operational performance      Assurance of regular and correct
the P C U for implementingthe           o f PCU.                               disbursements and effective
project.                                                                       oversight o fprojects.




                                                          30

2>I :'3Y
    m




            'c

                          Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
    SAINT LUCIA: WATER SUPPLY INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT
                                        PROJECT

Component A: Infrastructure Improvement Works (Single Turnkey Contract)

There are two main water supply systems inthe north o f the island: (i) Roseau System
                                                                       the
comprising the John Compton Dam, Millet Intake, 24" and 32" Raw Water Transmission
Pipeline, Theobalds Water Treatment Plant (WTP) and associated service reservoirs,
pumps and pipingnetworks; and (ii) Hill 20 System which comprises intakes at La
                                       the
Sorciere, Talvem and Marquis, Hill 20 WTP and associated service reservoirs, pumps
andpipingnetworks.

The Roseau System is the principal system supplying approximately 80 percent o f the
86,000 population located in the north o f the island.           The system covers the
constituencies o f Castries South, Castries South East, Castries Central, Castries East and
Castries North and Gros Islet. The Hill 20 System, although smaller, primarily services
the Babonneau constituency.       Although the dam was designed with a capacity o f
approximately 10 million gallons per day (MGD), the Roseau System reliably produces
its maximum o f approximately 6.0 million imperial MGD year roundprimarily due to the
reliable supply o f raw water stored by the Roseau Dam. The Hill 20 System i s not as
reliable but can produce up to 1.2 MGD during the rainy season. Duringthe dry season,
reductions in water production can be expected to be as high as 80 percent. Historic
production figures illustrate a declining pattern over the years which, is expected to
continue into the future. These downward trends with regards to the production at Hill20
duringthe dry seasonhave initiatedplans to link the two systems.

Linking the Roseau System with the Hill 20 system will allow WASCO to supply the
entire north o f the island with a more efficient, consistent and reliable service and to
better use the intended capacity o f the existing dam. The infrastructure improvement
works included inthe proposedproject are the following:

1.John ComptonDamPumpingUpgrade
The John Compton Dam pumping facility i s the primary intake and transmission o f raw
water in Saint Lucia. The sequence o f operations that form part o f this facilty require
abstraction o f water from the dam using a parallel-pump configuration consisting o f five
(5) pumps, pumping in sequence to a collecting tank located at the Millet Ridge which
flows by gravity to the Theobalds Water Treatment Plant at Ciceron in Castries.
Currently, the existing configuration cannot meet the forecasted demand for the year
2000 and beyond, to the year 2025. Thus, in accordance with findings o f Stanley &
Associates, recommendations for an upgrade to the facility have been made. The Water
& Sewerage Company Inc. (WASCO) undertook a survey o f the relevant components of
the water supply system and have developed suitable proposals to mitigate some o f the
concerns coming out o f the sub-committees findings. Some o f the problems identified
were:



                                            32

1. Inadequate capacity to maintain current demand as well as back up capacity in the
    event o f mechanical and or electrical failure.
2. Inadequacy o f standby generation capacity inthe event o fpower failure.
With the John Compton Dam as the primary source, recommendations are in order to
increase the output o f the current facility to match current and future demands. The sites
have been visited, and the recommendations have been reviewed andrefinedby the Bank
team's Lead Engineer. The proposed solutions to the above system inadequacies are as
follows:

0   Upgrade o f pumpingcapacity to match future demand.

0   Upgrade o f pipework and other civil works.

0   Replacement o f the current standby generating set to accommodate for the increased
    power supply requirements o f the larger appropriately matched pump-motor
    assemblies.

0   Installation o f a SCADA systemto facilitate available data and pump and switchgear
    remote operations at Theobalds Treatment Plant.


The scope o f work required includes the replacement o f all existing pump-motor
assemblies. This upgrade will facilitate a pumpingcapacity o f approximately 10MGD as
opposed to the existing 6 MGD capacity. The recommendation o f the energy audit and
power supply to the Roseau Dam will provide details associated with this upgrade. This
included the replacement o f existing pump/motors 1-5 with more efficient units to
achieve projected flow rates by implementinga least cost upgrade program. This upgrade
should include requisite voltage conditioning equipment, upgrade o f switchgear and after
further investigations, possible installation o f adjustable speed drives.

The resulting increase in power supply requirements would warrant an increase in the
generating capacity o f the existing standby `genset' and slight changes to the electrical
appurtenances inclusive of the Motor Control Center to accommodate the increased
electrical demand required to sustain the maximum pumping capacity in the event o f a
power loss at the station.

2. Removalof Vanard-Sarot Bottleneck

This component focuses on Stage I1o f the Roseau Basin Water Development Program
and particularly on the raw water transmission pipeline between Vanard and Sarot. A
report submitted by Stanley and Associates (John Compton DamProject Consultants) in
1997, was usedas the basis for this review.

The recommendations outlined are based on current needs and projected demands in
2015 and will generally improve the reliability o f the water supply to approximately
86,000 persons. Proposed improvements include the following components capable o f
supplyingthe estimated 2015 demand:




                                               33

    0   New 24" DuctileironpipebetweenVanard andSarot, 1300m

    This pipeline would be installed along a similar route to the existing 18" pipeline
    which would upgrade the raw water transmission pipeline capacity o f up to 10 MGD
    (Roseau & Millet Supply).


    0   Joint restraintsfor 24" SteelPipeline

    The joint restraints will be located between Millet and Vanard at river crossings to
    further improvethe integrity ofthe pipelineparticularly duringheavyriver flows.


The proposedworks outlined will:

    1. Provide a morereliable raw water supplyto the WTP.
    2. Provide a pipeline capacity to satisfy projected demands in2015.

Table 1 below summarizes the current and projected demands as well as the existing
capacities o f the infrastructure components requiredfor production.

Table 1.- Current & ProjectedDemands(Roseau System)

                          Existing    Demand       Demand         Demand   Demand
 SYSTEM                   Capacity    2003"        2010"          2015*     2020"
                          OMGD)       (MGD)        (MGD)          (MGD)     (MGD)

 ROSEAUSYSTEM 6.20 (max)              7.19         8.66            9.92     11.41
   a)Pumps                6.00 (max)
   b)Pipeline             6.20 (max)
   c)Treatment            6.20 (max)
 Plant

        Figures do not  I clude deman generated by private storage tanks.

This proposal has re-emphasized the urgent need to address the present and projected
demands through infrastructure improvements. The infrastructure improvements outlined
will not only improve the level o f service to over 25,000 households up to 2015 but will
also improve the integrity o f the system.

3. Expansionof the TheobaldsWater TreatmentPlant(WTP)

The T.R.Theobalds Water Treatment Plant or the Ciceron Water Treatment Plant as it
was formerly known was commissioned in March 1993 as part o f the upgrade o f the
general water works that formed part o f the Roseau Basin Water Development Project.
The components under this project was the construction o f a 750,000,000 gallon rock
filled water dam complete with a pumping station, a new water intake and raw water
transmission pipeline at Millet, a 100,000 gallon header tank at Millet, a raw water
transmission pipeline between Millet and Ciceron, a modem water treatment plant at


                                             34

Ciceron and finally the first phase o f a new treated water transmission main from Ciceron
to Port Castries.


The T.R.Theobalds Water Treatment Plant is designed to meet the needs o f persons
living in Castries and Gros Islet. The areas covered by the plant are the entire Castries
area inclusive o f the Roseau Basin and Babonneau as well as Gros Islet inclusive o f its
rural areas. As indicated previously demand calculations for the north o f the island
indicate a current domestic demand (2003) o f 5.39 MGD. The demand from the
commercial sector such as hotels, cruise ships and other largeconsumers i s as highas 2.5
MGD. In addition during the dry season, the systems are subjected to a suppressed
demand generated by private storage tanks. A total daily demand o f 7.89 MGD, not
including the storage demand, can thus be expected.

The treatment plant was designed to treat an average o f 5.2 MGD or a maximum o f 6.5
MGD(under good raw water quality conditions) andwas expected to meet the population
demandup to the year 2005 before any upgrades to the plant was necessary. The plant is
o f a conventional design with a rapid mixing chamber for chemical addition, a
flocculation chamber with baffles, two sedimentation chambers and four dual media
(anthracite and sand) filter bays along with terminal disinfection usingchlorine gas.

To date the treatment plant i s treating on average a total o f 6 MGD to meet the population
demands for Gros Islet and Castries inclusive o f their surrounding rural areas. This
increase in treatment capacity i s in keeping with the maximum design capacity o f the
plant to produce 6.5 MGD. Minor modifications have already been made to the plant
with respect to the filter media in two o f the bays and the use of a coagulant aid -
Polymer (PAX-18).

The original intention as proposed by Stanley and Associates, was to duplicate the plant
in order to produce a maximum of 10.0 MGD to meet the population demands beyond
2005. The limiting factor however i s the raw water pumping capacity as well as the
upgrade o fthe bottleneck at Vanard.

A numbero foptions havebeenreviewed to varyingextents. These options were :

    1. Expansion andModification o f the existing plant from 5.OMGD to approximately
        10MGD.
    2. Replacement o f the four dual filter media bays with membrane filters to treat 10
        MGD.
    3. Decentralization o f the treatment facility at Ciceron to Sarot and Ciceron.

Ofthe options outlined above Option 1was selected as the preferred option. This option
includes the following:
    0   Expansion of the existing facility rather than duplication, as duplication o f the
        existing facility would result ina capacity o f above 10 MGD, which i s beyond the
        capacity o f the raw water transmission line (10 MGD) after the removal o f the
       bottleneck. This suggests that there will be extra capacity, which will not be
        utilized, inthe foreseeable future.

                                              35

      Modification o f receiving chamber where necessary to allow for the increase in
      flow.
      Introduction o f plate or tube settlers. It has been suggested that the use o f settlers
      will improve the efficiency of the clarifiers by at least 40 percent to 50 percent
      and can go up to 150 percent for plate settlers in particular- (Okun & Schulz,
      1984). The settlers will increase the surface area inthe clarifier, thereby reducing
      the settling time (S,) by less then 50 percent. This will allow for treatment o f
      water ina reduced timefi-ame.
      Utilization or recycling o f the backwash water fi-om the filters. At 6.0 MGD the
      total back wash water generated i s approximately 70,000 gallons per filter or
      280,000 gallons per back wash cycle. It is therefore recommendedthat a settling
      tank or pond be constructed for the back wash water which would normally be
      disposed of. At 9.0 MGD, the total backwash water will be approximately
      100,000 gallons per filter or about 400,000 gallons per back wash cycle. Inorder
      to reuse the backwash water it will be necessary to construct a pond to contain
      this water and to recycle it, Since the back wash interval presentlyis over 3 days
      and with the intended increase to 9.0 MGD, it is anticipated that the backwash
      interval will reduce to every 2 days.
      Trucking o f Sludge from backwashing process to Beausejour Sewage Treatment
      Facility for further processing and drying.

Option 1was the preferred option for the following reasons:
      Allows for the maximization o f the existing plant, through the utilization o f
      modification strategies.
      Modification strategies will increase the throughput and improve the efficiency o f
      the existingplant by at least 40 percent to 50 percent.
      Allows for the recycling o f the backwash water fi-om the filters. This translates to
      between 280,000 gallons to 400,000 gallons per backwashcycle.
      Allows for the elimination o f the discharge o f backwash water into the open
      environment, hence reducing the risk o f pollution, which i s a common practice at
      present.
      Operating cost data for comparative analysis for the other options were not
      available.
      The operations and maintenance requirements and associated costs for membrane
      filter plants are known to be higher than that o f conventional plants such as that at
      Ciceron. (Reference i s made to experiences o f Sevem Trent Intemational in this
      regard.)
      Reintroduction o f the Sarot Treatment Plant only was not adequate to provide the
      additional capacity required. There would still be a need to modify the existing
      plant at Ciceron.
      Highriskofnew membranefilter technology.




                                              36

   4. Upgrade of Morne-BocageDistributionLine

This component focuses on Stage I1o f the Roseau Basin Water Development Program
and particularly on the Morne, Bocage and Mome DuDonWater Distribution System. A
report submittedby Stanley and Associates in 1998,i s usedas the basis for this report.

The high elevation areas in the Castries region, such as Upper Morne Du Don, Bocage,
Upper Entrepot and Carillie, are supplied by both systems. During the rainy season,
excess water produced by the Hill 20 System i s the primary source o f potable water.
During the dry season, however the water produced by Hill 20, very often, is not even
capable o f supplyingthe Babonneau region. Therefore the primary source of water during
the dry season is thus from the Roseau Systemvia pumping from the Theobalds WTP to
the Mome via an 8" PVC pipeline which then gravity flows to the Bocage reservoir
through a badly corroded 6" cast ironpipeline. Current domestic demand (2003) requires
a pumping capacity at Theobalds WTP o f approximately 1.84 MGD and a gravity line
with a capacity o f 1.69 MGD. Current capacities for the pumping and gravity system are
0.9 MGD and 0.76 MGD respectively. Table 2 summarizes the existing system capacities
andpresent andprojected demands.

During the dry season, poor infrastructure and the lack of raw water in the Hill 20
System, dictate that stringent rationing schedules be implemented. Most o f the high
elevation communities in the Castries and Babonneau areas which enjoy a daily supply
during the rainy season, only receive a supply for a few hours once or twice weekly.
Residents who suffer the most include the financially deprived who are unable to
purchase storage tanks and are unable to store minimum supply requirements when
available.

Table 2 -Current & ProjectedDemands(Roseau System & Hill20 System)

                         Existing     Demand
SYSTEM                   Capacity     2003"
                         (MGD)        (MGD)

ROSEAUSYSTEM
    a) Ciceron P.S.      6.20 (max)   7.19
   b) Morneto            0.90 (max)    1.84
       Morne
   c) MorneDu            0.76 (max)    1.69
       DonPipeline


HILL20 SYSTEM
   a) Wet Season         1.20 (max)   0.70
   b) Dry Season         0.24 (min)

TOTAL
   1. Wet Season         7.40 (max)   7.89
   2. Dry Season         6.44 (min)
*      Figuresdo not ii lude demandgeneratedbyprivatestorage tanks.


                                           37

The recommendations outlined in this proposal and those of Stanley and Associates are
based on current needs and projected demands in 2015 and will generally improve the
level o f service and the reliability o f the water supply to over 30,000 persons. Proposed
improvements include the following components capable o f satisfying the estimated 2015
demand.

   0    New Ciceron Pump Station at TheobaldsWTP
   A new pump station is required at Ciceron with sufficient capacity to meet water
   demands estimated at 2.31 MGD in 2015. The recommendation i s for three duty
   pumpsand one standby pump.


   0    New dedicated 12" Pumping Main
   This new 1900m pipeline will be required for pumped flows to Mome Fortune from
   Theobalds WTP. Due to the large capital expenditure associated with pipeline
   upgrades and due to the critical function o f this specific pipeline it i s recommended
   that this pumpingline will have sufficient capacity to meet water demands estimated
   at 2.53 MGD in2020.

   e    New 200,000 Imperial Gallon (Igal) tank at Morne Fortune
   This tank provides additional storage which is necessary for
        ---- Flow stabilization duringpeak demand
             Flow stabilization required for firefighting
             Emergency storage
             To provide gravity feed to Mome DuDon, Bocage and Hill20 Systems


   0    New 12" gravity main, 4900m
   This new pipeline will function as a dedicated transmission pipeline directly to
   existing storage tanks at the Mome and Mome Du Don. A special pipeline link and
   valve assembly will allow the supply to feed the Bocage Reservoir and the Hill 20
   WTP.


   0    New 100,000 Imperial gallon (Igal) tank at Babonneau
   This storage facility will be required near the Hill 20 WTP to accept flows from the
   Mome. This facility will also perform similar functions o f the tank at Mome Fortune
   as outlined above.

These additional future requirements include:

   0     Capacity upgrade of Ciceron Pump Station

The development o f new components and the strengthening o f existing components inthe
Ciceron to Mome DuDonDistribution Systemwill:

    1. Provide a more reliable supplyto the high elevation communities in Castries. The
         communities to benefit the most from this project include those supplied from the
         Bocage and Mome Du Don Reservoirs. It should be noted however that other
         communities supplied by the Mome storage tanks and the Rock Hall Tanks will

                                                  38

        enjoy a more reliable level o f service as well as potential residential development
        from Carellie to Choc.

    2. Allow water produced by the Hill 20 system to be reserved for the Babonneau
        area thus providing a more reliable supply to that region.

    3. Provide a link between the Roseau System and the Hill 20 System. This will
        allow water produced at the Theobalds WTP to be conveyed to the Hill 20 WTP
        for distribution at critical times, particularly duringthe dry season.

    4. Provide the basis which will allow for the development o f a long term link
       between the Hill20 and Roseau Systems which will eventually allow WASCO to
        supply the entire north of the island with a more efficient, consistent and reliable
        service.

    5. Allow for future development o f a pressure management program which includes,
       pressure zoning and efficient distribution o f supply.

    6. Improve the supply pressure and storage required for firefighting or other
        emergencies.

    7. Reduce the projected effective storage capacity o f the John Compton Dam and o f
        the Theobalds WTP by a component equivalent to the increase inlevel o f service.

Calculations illustrate that the 2003 demand exceeds the capacity of some existing
components in the distribution system by over 120 percent (Morne to Morne Du Don
Pipeline). This proposal has re-emphasized the urgent need to address the present and
projected    demands     through       infrastructure   improvements.    The     infrastructure
improvements outlined will not only improve the level o f service to over 6000
households but will also improve the integrityo f the system.
b



 Component B: TechnicalAssistance and Project Management

 This component includes:


    0   Consulting services for:
            P Oversight and Monitoring o f the Quality o f Works o f the Turnkey
                Contractor. An engineering consulting firm will be retainedto oversee the
                works o f the turnkey contractor. Oversight o f turnkey works i s different
                than supervision o f a conventional work contract in that the consultant
                does not review quantities           but rather    concentrates   on quality
                controVquality assurance so as to ensure that the contractor complies with
                his commitments. The consulting firm will provide regular reporting to
                the PCU on the performance o f the contractor against explicit outputs as
                defined inthe final tender documents.



                                                39

  >  Roseau River Surface Water Resource Study and Capacity o f the Roseau
     D a d e s e r v o i r System Analyses.      Hydrological analyses will be
     conducted to determine the potential supply capacity o f the Roseau river,
     and if necessary, o f other surface water sources, as well as a study o f the
     existing supply capacity o f the Roseau D a d e s e r v o i r System and the
     potential for increasing the capacity o f Roseau Dam through engineering
     improvements (such as the increased elevation o f the existing dam).
     These studies will include safety andenvironmental sensitivity analyses.

  9 Groundwater Resources Study. Whereas preliminary analyses conducted
     in the past indicated that the volcanic formation of Saint Lucia would
     render groundwater resource unusable, a more indepth study to determine
     the potential quantity, quality and perspective o f use o f groundwater on
     the island is needed. Based on available geological information, a
     groundwater resources study will be conducted to estimate the potential o f
     groundwater resources in Saint Lucia for the future development o f water
     supplyon the island.

0 Additional support to the PCU and the Government in TA and training, as
  necessary. Financing o f PCU staff and additional consultants, as may be
  needed, and financing o f training activities, as required.




                                   40

                                   Annex 5: ProjectCosts
    SAINT LUCIA: WATER SUPPLY INFRASTRUCTUREIMPROVEMENT
                                          PROJECT


                                                         Local         Foreign         Total
Project Cost By Component and/or Activity                 us            us              us
                                                        $million       $million     $million
1.Infrastructure Improvement Works                         3.47          3.47           6.94
2. Technical assistance and Project                        0.32          0.32           0.63
Management

Total Baseline Cost                                        3.79          3.79           7.57
  Physical Contingencies                                   0.17          0.17           0.35
  Price Contingencies
                           TotalProjectCosts'              3.96          3.96           7.92
                    Interest duringconstruction
                                    Front-end Fee                        0.02           0.02
                    TotalFinancingRequired                 3.96          3.98           7.94


                  1                  ProjectBreakdown
                      InfrastrutureImprovementWorks Sub-components

                                  Roseau Dam Pumping Station Upgrade      0.35
                                        Vanard-Sarot Pipe Replacement     1.OO
                                Expansionof the Ciceron Treatment Plant   3.20
                                      Morne Bocage DistributionPipeline   2.39
                                                   PhysicalContingency    0.35
                                                               TOTAL      7.29

                                      Supervision of Works              0.200

                                             Studies
                  Surface Water Resources and Safety of Roseau Dam      0.150
                                             Groundwater Resources      0.050

                                      PIU Staff & Equipment
                                                           PIU Staff    0.200
                                      Office Supplies and Computers     0.030

                                              TOTAL                     0.630


'Identifiable taxes and duties are US$ 0, and the total project cost, net o f taxes, i s
US$m7.94. Therefore, the share o fproject cost net o f taxes is 100%.




                                               41

                        Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
    SAINT LUCIA: WATER SUPPLY INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT
                                        PROJECT


PROJECTCOORDINATION UNIT

A Project Coordination Unit will be formed under a Project Coordinator reporting to the
Permanent Secretary in the Ministry o f Finance. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
will also include an engineer located in WASCO. The main responsibilities o f the PCU
will be to initiate the implementation o f the various components o f the Water Supply
Infrastructure Improvement Project, supervise the implementation o f the works and
services to be contracted or already contracted under these projects, and prepare progress
reports to the World Bank and the Government o f Saint Lucia on the status o f the
implementation.

The responsibilities o fthe Project CoordinationUnit are:

    .   Supervise, monitor and coordinate the activities for the effective and efficient
        implementation o f the Water Supply Infrastructure Improvement Project
        Supervise all procurement processes;
    m   Monitor performance on the construction o f all works undertakenunder the Water
        SupplyInfrastructure ImprovementProject;
        Manage the Project's Bank accounts
    9
    .
        Prepare monthly, semi-annual, and annual reports relating to the project to the
        World Bank and Government o f Saint Lucia and other stakeholders (as deemed
        appropriate by the Government o f Saint Lucia); such reports consisting mainly o f
        financial, management, progress andprocurement reports;

The staff hired for this particular project consists o f an administrator to be housed inthe
Ministryof Finance and an engineer which will be located at WASCO, in addition to a
technical engineer, a procurement specialist and an accountant that have been
contemplated for DMPII and the HIV/AIDS projects respectively. The support staff o f
these projects includes a Project Assistant-Financial Management, Project Assistant-
Contracts, Administrative Assistant, Clerk, Secretary/Typist, and an Accounts Clerk.

The Project Coordinator is assigned by the Minister o f Finance to coordinate and monitor
implementation progress according to agreed upon performance indicators and report to
the Government o f Saint Lucia:

    1. Co-ordination o f the contributions o f entities participating in this Project and
        overall co-ordination and implementation o f the Project;
    2. Communications with the Bank on day-to-day Project matters;
    3. Oversee the procurement o f civil works, furniture, equipment, technical assistance
        specialist services, training and all other goods, works and services under the
        Project;


                                             42

    4. Preparation o f the Quarterly Project Management, and Annual Report, and in
          collaboration with the Bank, an ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR);
    5. Maintenance o f all Project financial accounts, which, must be separate from all
           other accounts; and ensuring annual audits, are preparedin a timely and complete
          fashion;
    6. Preparation and processing o f Applications for withdrawal o f proceeds from
          Credits and Loans.
    7. Monitoring and evaluation of the Project andits components.
    8. Presentation o f Project before other entities.


The above responsibilities cannot be delegated or transferred either by the PCU or the
Executing Agency to other personnel or units without the prior written consent o f the
Bank.


During the execution of the project activities,                                   and to ensure the successful
accomplishment o f project objectives, close collaboration with WASCO and well-defined
roles i s essential. The existing project Organizational structure i s captured in Figure 1
below.


Figure 1:Project Organizational Structure



           PS Finance/ Project manager
                             I



                  PIU Project Coordinator
                  PIU Project Coordinator      ..........................
                                                                         1Project Engineer
                                                                           WASCO's staff
           Procurement

    :.................


                                     Contractor



    ,.....:
    i.....:Sharedwith  HIV/AIDS and DMPll




                                                                 43

PCU Staff salaries, sundry items, office supplies, utilities and other operational costs
would be financed by the loadcredit proceeds up to a total amount of US$ 200,000 and
will be procured underprocedures acceptable to the Bank.

 The PCU will be responsible for coordinating the implementation, procurement,
disbursement and the financial management aspects of the project. The urgent and
integrated nature o f the works requires that a turnkey contract will be used for the
construction components of the project.

The responsibilities of the Engineering Consultant include the following services: (i)
preparation o f preliminary designs and tender invitation documents for all civil,
mechanical and electrical works; (ii)assistance to WASCO in the qualification o f
contractors, including the preparation o f pre-qualification reports where necessary; (iii)
assistance in the evaluation o f tenders and the preparation o f tender evaluation reports,
contract documents and negotiation of contracts.

WASCO shall provide the Engineering Consultant with access to all available data
relevant to the Services. The selected engineer will be required to submit six (6) copies o f
each report to the Water and Sewerage Company Inc. as follows: (i)    an Inception Report
within two weeks of commencement of the contract. This report will detail the initial
findings and confirm the Consultant's detailed work schedule and methodology; and (ii)
Monthly Progress Reports to advise on the status o f the consultancy.




                                            44

          Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
    SAINT LUCIA: WATER SUPPLYINFRASTRUCTUREIMPROVEMENT
                                         PROJECT

On the basis o f the assessmentsperformed, the financial management team recommended
the following:
    0   The Project CoordinationUnit(PCU), currently locatedinthe Ministryo fFinance
        and responsible for managing the fiduciary aspects o f three World Bank projects
        (the Emergency Recovery Project, Emergency Disaster Management Project, the
        HIV Aids Project), will manage the fiduciary aspects o fthe project;
    0   The P C U already has in place an adequate financial management system to
        manage the fiduciary aspects o f World Bank projects; and
    0   After the PCU carries out the proposed action plans presented inthis assessment,
        it will have in place adequate financial management arrangements that meet the
        Bank minimum fiduciary requirements to manage the financial activities o f the
        project.

The following actions will be carriedout bythe PCU:
    0   The SpecialUSD account will be opened inthe Bank o f Saint Lucia.
    0   Since the PCU has extensive experience with report based disbursement
        procedures, loan funds will be disbursed to the Special Account on the basis o f
        FMRs;
    0   Each quarter, the PCU will prepare the Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) to
        be submitted to the Bank the FMRs will include a narrative outlining the major
        project achievements for the quarter, the project's sources and uses o f funds, a
        detailed analysis o f expenditures by sub-component, a physical progress report, a
        procurement report, a procurement table and any additional schedules required for
        disbursement purposes; and
    0   Annual project financial statements will be audited in accordance with
        International Standards on Auditing issued by the International Organization o f
        Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAT), by the Office o f the Auditor General o f
        Saint Lucia, in accordance with terms o f reference (TORS) acceptable to the
        Bank.

About 85% o f the Bank`s funds will finance a single turn-key contract, representing
potential high fiduciary risks. In order to mitigate these risks, the clauses o f the turnkey
contract will require that the company provide bid and performance bonds. In addition,
the selection criteria will include a requirement that the financial viability o f the company
be sound. These requirements will be monitored by the Bank during the procurement
process.

FinancialManagementImplementationArrangements

Annex 6 details the project's implementation arrangements. The project's PCU, located
in the Permanent Secretary of Finance's Office will be independent fiom the utility
company WASCO. The PCUwill consist o f an administrator to be housedinthe Ministry
o f Finance, who will report directly to the Program Managerpermanent Secretary o f

                                             45

Finance, and a staff engineer housed at WASCO dedicated to the investment project who
will help to oversee and report on the technical aspects ofthe work.

The use of the existing PCU to manage the fiduciary aspect of the project (both financial
management and procurement activities) was recommended by Financial Management
and accepted by the Ministry o f Finance in order to utilize a single entity for the
coordination of externally financed project work. This i s designedaround the recognition
that the PCU has experience inmanaging the fiduciary aspects of Bank projects through
its involvement with the HIV/AIDS, Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management
projects. This arrangement utilizes the existing resources and expertise inBank financed
projects in Saint Lucia, assures consistency o f approach across projects, and achieves
economies o f scope and scale in the funding o f the units. The loan disbursement aspects
o f the proposed project will be managed centrally by the PCU, under the management o f
the Permanent Secretary o f Finance, as detailed inthe flow o f funds section below.

RiskAssessment Summary

Inherent risk. Inherent risk i s the susceptibility o f project finds not being used as
intended, if we assume that there were no internal controls. Saint-Lucia is a middle-
income country. There are existing country public financial management systems in
place, supporting certain level o f accountability and internal controls. Overall country
risk can be estimated as medium.

About 85% o f the Bank's funds will finance a single turn-key contract, representing
potential high fiduciary risks. Inorder to mitigate these risks, the clauses o f the turnkey
contract will require that the company provide bid and performance bonds. In addition,
the selection criteria will include a requirement that the financial viability ofthe company
be sound. These requirements will be monitored by the Bank during the procurement
process.

Control risk. The proposed Project Coordination Unit has experience working with
external donor-financed projects. It was observed during the preparation o f the project,
that financial managementhntemal control arrangements designed to provide a
reasonable assurance that misuse o f funds would be prevented or detected and corrected
on a timely basis are inplace, thus, the control risk i s considered to be medium.

Detection risk. Given the combination o f inherent and control risks, acceptable level of
detection risk i s medium. This translates into a standard number o f project supervisions
(2 per year).

Budgeting

Project will have a small amount o f counterpart funding. Budget for this component
(estimated at US$240,000) will be spread over two fiscal years. Project annual budgeting
will be based on the cost tables, and updated according to the latest information as the
implementationwill roll-out.



                                             46

Accountingsystem andRecords

The project will use the existing accounting software to maintain the project accounts.
The software will allow for the tracking o f inflows by fimding source, and outflows by:
(i) component; (ii)fundingsource; (iii)
   project                                           disbursement category. Based on this
information relevant financial reports can be prepared. The Chart o f Accounts i s being
drafted, and will be finalized by the project effectiveness.

Accounting Records:       At the implementing agencies, transactions are recorded as
incurred, and all primary supporting documentation will be maintained to facilitate ex-
post reviews and the extemal annual audits. Such documents should be maintained for a
minimumperiodo ffive years.

InternalControls

The project will adapt the Financial Management manual currently utilized by the
HN/AIDS and EmergencyRecovery project. The Water project specific information, i.e.
the Chart o f Accounts, the Reports formats, etc. will be added as part o f the Annexes to
the Manual.

Safeguard over Assets. Assets acquired by the project will be in the custody o f the
respective institutional departments. Each implementing agency will keep detailed
records o f equipment acquired. The amounts in this register will be reconciled monthly
against the respective accounting balances. At least one annual physical inspection will
be undertaken by the implementing agency staff, preferably with the participation o f staff
from the extemal auditors.

Reporting

The PCU will be responsible for producing the Financial MonitoringReports (FMRs) on
a quarterly basis to be submitted to the Bank. The FMRs will provide useful monitoring
information and will be used for disbursement purposes. The FMRs will include a
narrative outlining the major project achievements for the quarter, the project's sources
and uses of funds, a detailed analysis o f expenditures, a physical progress report, a
procurement report, a procurement table and any additional schedules required for
disbursementpurposes. FMRs should be submitted to the Bank no later than 45 days after
the end o feachreportingperiod.

The annual financial statements will include the project's sources and uses o f funds, a
detailed analysis o f expenditures, a schedule o f withdrawal applications presented during
the year, a reconciliation o f the Special Account, notes to the financial information and
managementrepresentation letter. These reports will be prepared by the PCU and made
available to the auditors after the end o f each fiscal year.

Audit Arrangements

Project financial statements will be audited annually. As in most OECS countries, the
Director o f Audit is responsible for auditing and reporting on the public accounts o f the

                                              47

country, including projects funded by international organizations. The Auditor General's
Office has performed adequately in the past in terms o f the quality o f the audit reports
provided and the timely delivery o f annual audited financial statements for World Bank
projects. Therefore, annual project financial statements will be audited in accordance
with International Standards on Auditing issued by the International Organization o f
Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI), by the Office o f the Auditor General, in
accordance with TORs acceptable to the Bank. Auditors should provide an audit opinion
on project annual financial statements, and a report on internal controls. The project's
annual audit report will be required to be submitted to the Bank no later than 4 months
following the end o f the fiscal year (April-March).



DisbursementArrangement

Project funds will be channeled to the project through a Special Account denominated in
US Dollars to be opened by the PCU ina commercial bank. The PCUwill operate a local
currency Special Account, to finance project expendituresinlocal currency, where funds
from the main dollar Special Account will be periodically transferred (funds sufficient to
cover no more than 30 days worth of expenditures) and will be operated in accordance
with the procedures and guidelines set forth inthe Bank's DisbursementHandbook.

As eligible expenditures are incurred, the PCU will withdraw the amount to be financed
by IDA and IBRD from the Special Account (US$or EC$) in accordance with the
financing percentage agreed.

Proceeds o f the loadcredit would be disbursed to the U S Dollar denominated special
account managed by the PCU following effectiveness. Disbursements will be made based
on report based disbursement procedures (FMR applications) submitted to the Bank on a
quarterly basis (no later than 45 days after the end o f each quarter) since the PCU has
extensive experience with financial management o f Bank projects and the preparation o f
Financial MonitoringReports (FMRs).

FinancialManagementAction Plan

 Area/Action                                  I Responsibility/Tobe     completedby
  1. Flow of Funds
  1.1.PCUto open the project bank accounts:     PCU, project effectiveness
 the Special Account inU S dollars inthe bank
  selected, and the Project account inlocal
 currency inthe bank selected.
 2. Staffing.
 Project Coordinator                            PCU, project effectiveness
  Complete TORs at Ministryo f Finance,
  shortlist andpresent qualifications to
  Bank for clearance.
  3. AccountingandInternalControl
  3.1. Create the Chart o f Accounts inthe      PCU, project effectiveness

                                              48

 accounting system to reflect the disbursement
 categories for the project and project
     -
 activities.
 3.2. Adapt the FMmanual for the project         PCU, project effectiveness
 needs, add the project specific information
 (FMRsformats. Etc.) inthe form ofthe
 Annexes.
 4. ExternalAudit
 4.1. Submit final Audit TORSto the Bank for     PCU, project effectiveness
 review and clearance.
 4.2. Once the Bankclears the TOR, proceed       PCU, project effectiveness
 with the appointment o fthe auditors.



SupervisionPlan. Based onthe project assessmentperformed-recommended
frequency o f supervisions - 2 per year.

             Table 1.Allocation of Loanand CreditProceeds(US$million)

          Expenditure Category            SDR        SDR        US$       Total US$         % of
                                                   (As US$     (Million)
                                                    Million
                                                 Equivalent)                             financed

   Works                                  2.450      3.628      3.075        6.70           100%
   Goods                                  0.020      0.030      0.000        0.03           100%
   Consulting Services and Training       0.080      0.118      0.230        0.35           60%
   Operating Costs                        0.050      0.074      0.025        0.01           60%
   Unallocated                                                  0.501        0.50
   Front-end Fee                                                0.019        0.02     I     100%
                   Total                  2.60       3.85
  ;oSL will finance goods and part o f     opera i g costs anc onsultants with counterpart funds
upto an amount o fUS$240,000.


                   Table 2. Estimateddisbursements(Bank FY/US$m)

                            FY              06        07        08
                            Annual          3.2       3.3       1.2
                          /Cumulative1      3.2   I   6.5    I  7.7    I




                                               49

                          Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
    SAINT LUCIA: WATER SUPPLYINFRASTRUCTUREIMPROVEMENT
                                       PROJECT

A) General

Procurement for the proposedproject would be carried out in accordance with the World
Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBF2D Loans andIDA Credits" dated May 2004;
and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers"
dated May 2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The general
description o f various items under different expenditure categories is presentedbelow.
For each contract to be financed by the Loadcredit, the different procurement methods
or consultant selection methods, the need for prequalification, estimated costs, prior
review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Borrower and the Bank
project team in the Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least
annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements ininstitutional capacity.

Procurement of Works: Civil works procured under this project, would include water
supply infrastructure and other related works, mainly: pumping stations, installation o f
pipes, water treatment plants etc. The works will be procured usingthe Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents (SBD) for all international competitive bidding (ICB) and National
SBD agreed in advance with the Bank when national competitive bidding (NCB)
procedures are used.

It is envisaged that all project works will be procured under a single turnkey contract,
awarded following ICB procedures. For this contract, specialized bidding documents
will be developed by the Borrower and agreed with the Bank, based on documents used
in other Bank-financed projects where the turnkey approach has been successfully
applied. Inthe event that some works contracts are not covered by the turnkey contract,
additional works would be procured using one of the methods identified in the table
below, which establishes the thresholds for the use o f each method.

Procurement of Goods: Goods to be procured under the project include computers,
software and office equipment. The procurement o f these goods will be done using the
Bank's SBD for any I C B (not expected), and National SBD agreed in advance with the
Bank when national competitive bidding(NCB) procedures are used.

Selection of Consultants: Consulting firms will be employed to provide services such
as supervision of works, technical assistance (TA) support to the PCU, studies o f water
resources management, dam safety, etc., training and workshops; and other specialized
technical expertise. Individual consultants will behired to provide technical advisory and
project management support services.

OperationalCosts: Operational costs will include reasonable expenditures to carry out
the project such as travel and per diem costs for the PCU staff and personnel authorized
by the PCU coordinator (for instance, WASCO technical staff that might be needed to

                                            50

 support implementation);      rentals o f cars or other services required to support
 implementation; project vehicle fuel; communications (including Intemet connectivity);
 maintenance o f PCU facilities, equipment and vehicles; consumable materials and
 supplies.

         Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsandPriorReview

Expenditure          Contract Value           Procurement               ContractsSubjectto
   Category
        -  -         (Threshold)              Method                    Prior Review
                    IUS $ thousands
                    I                        I                         I


1.Works              >1,000                   ICB                       All
                     150-1,000                NCB                       First2 contracts
                     <150                     3 Quotations              Firstcontract
2. Goods             >150                     ICB                       All
                     25-150                   NCB                       First 2 contracts
                     <25                      Int'l&Nat.. Shopping      None
3.         Consulting
Services
-3.A Firms           >loo                     QCBS,QBS,FBS,LCS,CQS All
                     4 0 0                    `6                        None
                     Regardless of value      Single Source             All
-3.B Individuals     Regardless of value      Comparison of 3 CVs inNone
                                              accordance with Chapter V
                                              o f the Guidelines
                                                                                               I




 B.      Assessment of the agency's capacityto implementprocurement

 Procurement activities will be carried out by the PCU already in place in the Finance
 Ministryto manage the ongoing Disaster Management and HN/AIDS Prevention and
 Control projects. The existing PCU will be expandedto include an administrator, housed
 in the Ministry of Finance, and an engineer seconded to the project by WASCO and
 located at the water utility's office, but with reporting responsibilities to the Minister o f
 Finance. The procurement Specialist and accountant hired for the Disaster Management
 and HIV projects will perform the same functions for the new project and the project
 Operational Manual will be consolidated with that o f the other two Bank projects, with
 separate annexes for each project. The Operational Manual already includes, in addition
 to the procurement procedures, the SBDs to be used for each procurement method, as
 well as model contracts for works, goods and consultant services

 An assessment o f the capacity o f the Disaster Management project PCU to implement
 procurement actions for that project was carried out by a Bank Procurement Specialist in
 January 2004. The assessment reviewed the organizational structure for implementing
 the previous project and the interaction between the PCU's Procurement Officer, the

                                               51

Ministry's relevant central unit for administration and finance, and the Central Tenders
Board.    This January 2004 capacity assessment found the overall project risk for
procurement to be AVERAGE and subsequent missions to supervise the ongoing project
have confirmed that this rating i s still valid and that good progress has been made in
implementing the Action Plan for procurement capacity adopted at that time.

The PCU will be responsible for coordinating the implementation, procurement,
disbursement and the financial management aspects o fthe project. Inaddition, to support
the PCU and WASCO in the ICB process to award the turnkey works contract,                an
Engineering Consultant will be hired at the project's outset to provide the following
services: (i)preparation o f preliminary designs and tender invitation documents for all
civil, mechanical and electrical works; (ii) assistance to WASCO in the qualification o f
contractors, including the preparation o f pre-qualification reports where necessary; (iii)
assistance in the evaluation o f tenders and the preparation of tender evaluation reports,
contract documents and negotiation o f contracts.

C. ProcurementPlan

The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan for project implementation
which provides the basis for the procurement methods. An indicative Procurement Plan
has been agreed between the Borrower and the Project Team and i s available at the PCU
in Castries and on file in the Bank's IRIS. The Procurement Plan will be updated in
agreement with the Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual project
implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.


D. Frequencyof ProcurementSupervision

In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the
capacity assessment of the PCU has recommended one full supervision mission every
year to carry out post review o fprocurement actions.

   Detailsof the ProcurementArrangementsInvolvingInternationalCompetition.

Goods andWorks andNon-consultingservices.

(a) List o f contract Packages which will be procured following ICB and Direct
contracting:

1      2             3            4             5      6            7

Ref.   Contract     Estimated     Procurement   P-Q    Domestic    Review
No.    (Description) Cost*        Method               Preference by Bank          Bid-      ments
                                                       (yedno)      (Prior / Post) Opening

1      Turnkey       $7,290,000   ICB           No     No           Prior         ---k
                                                                                   Dec. 2005
       Contract




                                             52

(b) All ICB Contracts and allDirect contracting willbe subject to prior review bythe
Bank.

ConsultingServices.

(a) List o f Consulting Assignments with short-list o f international firms.



 Ref. No.    Descriptionof  Estimated    Selection     Review       Expected     Comments
             Assignment     Cost         Method         by Bank     Proposals
                                                       (Prior I     Submission
                                                       Post)        Date
 1           Supervision of $200,000     QCBS          Prior        Nov. 2005
             Works

(b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$lOO,OOO per contract and Single
Source selection o f consultants (firms) will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

(c) Short lists composed entirely of nationalconsultants:Short lists o f consultants for
services estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO           equivalent per contract, may be
composed entirelyo f national consultants inaccordance with the provisions o f paragraph
2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines.




                                              53

                             Annex 9: Cost BenefitAnalysis
    SAINT LUCIA: WATER SUPPLY INFRASTRUCTUREIMPROVEMENT
                                         PROJECT

The objective of this project i s to alleviate the water shortage in the northern part o f the
island. The current shortage i s going to increase due to the rapid growth of the tourism
sector, and the demand for water that this growth i s generating. To reduce the water
shortage in the North, the project will increase the capacity of the water supply system
from about 6 million gallons per day (MGD) to 10 MGD, through the upgrade o f the
current water supply system and expansion o f the treatment plant capacity.

I. Objective

A cost-benefit analysis was used to determine the financial and economic feasibility, its
distributive impact, and sensitivity analysis o f the investment activities to be financed
under the Water Supply InfrastructureImprovementProject.

11.     Methodology

The project was evaluated from two different perspectives. Inthe financial analysis, the
project was appraised measuring its flow o f costs andbenefits at market prices. Financial
costs were obtained by multiplying the prices paid by WASCO for each input by the
amount consumed o f such inputs. Financial benefits were assumed equal to the estimated
flow o f financial revenues defined as current tariffs multiplied by the number o f
customers (for non-metered), or by the estimated consumption (for metered). In the
economic analysis, the project was appraised converting financial cash flows into
economic cash flows by converting economic prices, by subtracting taxes and adding
subsidies to financial costs. But instead o f using the financial benefits the economic
benefits are calculated as the avoided costs o fwater rationing to capture the benefits from
expected improvements inthe reliability o f the water supply.

Once the economic and financial feasibility was determined, a distributive analysis was
conducted to assess the impact o f each activity on specific groups of stakeholders,
including the Government, WASCO and customers. Finally, the results o f the financial
and economic analysis were tested against real world uncertainties by conducting a
sensitivity analysis, which assessed the impact o f changes in critical assumptions on the
feasibility o fthe project.

Scenarios. "With" and "without" project scenarios were built to identifythe incremental
costs and benefits associated with each investment component.            The "with" project
scenario considered the proposed investment plan and its associated targets, which are
related to increase in supply capacity; no operational or commercial improvement was
considered. The "without" project scenario considered that water service would continue
unchanged without a change in coverage levels because o f the sharp increasing water
shortages.




                                               54

Incremental Costs and BeneJits. Costs and Benefits are expressed inconstant prices and
projected over 30 years, the estimated lifetime o f the project, including the
implementation period. The cash flows were discounted using a rate o f 12 percent,
assumed to be a proxy o f the Saint Lucia's opportunity cost o f capital. Benefits o f the
project include reduction or elimination o f rationing and intermittent water provision, and
an increase o f water coverage.

Financial benefits were estimated based on current tariffs, number o f customers, and
volume o f water consumed. Economic benefits were estimated based on the cost o f
rationing as a proxy o f the benefito f improving water service reliability.

111.     Assumptions

The basic data underlying this analysis comes from the Saint Lucia Government Statistics
Department, and WASCO.

Population.     The 2004 populationwas estimated usingdata from the 1991and 2001
Census. The project area i s limitedto the Northernregionthat comprises Castries, Anse-
La-Raye, Canaries, and Gros-Islet. Projections were made usingthe growth rate for the
region, 1.92 percent per year.

                        Table 1. Population in theNorth Region

                      2001       Annual Growth rate
                     Census      from1991to                                  Peopleper
                                                                             Household


 Castries            60,390            1.51%           63,164      20,943      3.02
 Anse-La Raye         5,954            1.69%           6,261        2,132      2.94
 Canaries             1,741           -0.33%           1,724        621        2.77
 Gros-Islet          19,409            3.69%           21,640       7,577      2.86
    Total North      87,494            1.92%           92,789      31,274      2.97

Water Coverage. Current levels o f water coverage were calculated using data from the
2001 Census and WASCO'S commercial information. The results show that about 79
percent o f households are currently registered and billed by WASCO, while 5 percent o f
households get the service through public pipe but are not billed. The actual coverage i s
84 percent; this means that approximately 77 thousand people receive water supply
service, o f which 69 thousand are billed for their service. The coverage o f 84 percent
was maintained for the "without project" scenario. In the "with project" scenario,
coverage increased to 96 percent because o f the expansion o f the production capacity.

Water Consumption. For metered residential customers the assumed consumption was 34
gal/day; corresponding to the average o f the 75 percent o f households metered; and for
non-metered residential customers it was assumed 36 gal/day.              Consumption from
commercial and government customers was assumed to be 31 percent o f residential
consumers' consumption, according to current pattems.             For the tourism sector,
consumption was differentiated between hotels and cruises. The hotels' consumption
was estimated according to size, service provided (all-included or conventional), and

                                              55

occupancy rate. The consumption varied from 709 gal/room/day in large hotels with all-
included service, to 233 gal/room/day in small hotels. Since the occupancy rate i s not 100
percent all the time, consumption was adjusted taking into account actual occupancy rate,
which was 65 percent in 2004. The adjusted average consumption per room was 202
gal/day, as it i s shown below. For ships the consumption used was 80 thousand gallon
per visit.



                                   Hotel occupancy   Hotel   Consumption        Consumption/room
            Type of hotels         rate (Janualy-  Capacity   Per room     (adjusted with occupancy rate)
                                     June 2004)     # rooms  gal/room/day          gal/room/day
  Large hotels high water users         81%            216        709                   575
               Other larger hotels      49%          2,024        305                   150
                      Small hotels      64%            914        233                   150
                          Average       65%          3,154        311                   202



Hotel Occupancy Rate. Itwas assumed constant at 65 percent duringthe lifetime o f the
project, with exception o f 2007 when there will be a world cricket tournament. It was
assumed that for two months, the hotel occupancy rate would be 100percent, raising the
average occupancy rate for that year.

Production Capacity was kept constant at its current level o f about 6 MGD in the
"without project" scenario. On the other hand, for the "with project" scenario, capacity
was increased to 10 MGD according to investmenttargets.

Tarus were kept unchanged inreal prices inbothwith andwithout project scenarios.

Revenues were calculated as the sum o f service charges for metered and non-metered
consumers. For metered customers service charges were estimated as the volume o fwater
billed multipliedby the corresponding tariff. For non-metered consumers service charges
were estimated as the number o f non-metered connections multiplied by the fixed
monthly charge. The result was affectedby the revenue collection rate.

Revenue Collection Rate It i s definedas sales collected over total sales. Inboth scenarios
remained at current level o f 78 percent, since the project does not include efficiency
improvements.

Investment.          Inthe "without" project scenario, the onlyinvestment considered was the
connection cost required to keep coverage constant.                  In the ``with" project scenario
investment costs consisted of: (i)           project costs (shown in table 3); (ii)complementary
investment related with service expansion (connection costI5) during lifetime o f the
project; and (iii)     replacement o f mechanical equipment o f the Roseau pumpingstation, in
years 10 and20 at a cost o fUS$350,000.




l5I t i s assumed a cost per connection o f US$ 150.

                                                     56

                  ImprovementWorks                  3.47
   2. TA and Project Management                     0.32
   TotalBaseline Cost                               3.79           3.79
   Contingencies                                    0.17           0.19              0.37
   TotalProject Cost                                3.96           3.98              7.94


Non-Revenue Water. Current losses were estimated at 44.2 percent, o f which 38 percent
corresponded to physical losses and 6 percent to commercial losses. For the "without"
project scenario Unaccounted For Water was kept at its current level. For the "with"
project scenario it was assumed that pipe replacement would reduce leakage and make
physical losses reach 32 percent; commercial losses remainedunchanged.

Operation and maintenance (O&M) costs included the cost o f labor, chemicals, power,
maintenance, and general costs. O&M for the "without" project scenario was based on
current unit costs, including the required maintenance to maintain the current coverage
level. O&M costs estimated for the "with" project scenario were calculated by examining
the expected impact o f the proposed project. Labor cost was calculated as the number o f
employees per 1,000 water connections (labor productivity) multipliedby the number o f
connections and the average cost per employee. Labor productivity was kept unchanged.
Social contributions, including labor related taxes, were assumed at 30 percent o f
nominal salaries16, 50 percent o f the social contribution does not return to workers and i s
treated as a tax in the evaluation. The costs o f chemicals and electricity were calculated
based on their unit cost and on projected volume o f water produced. Maintenance and
administrative costs were calculated as percentages o f the sum o f labor, chemical and
electricity costs.

Taxes included a service charge on goods o f 4 percent, and 1.5 percent environmental
levy, on investment and operating costs (excluding labor costs).

Subsidy.     The Government will fund the investment as part o f a plan to improve the
operation o f the water company so as to facilitate the transfer o f the company to a private
operator.    As such, the investment costs are a subsidy due to the serious financial
difficulties with which WASCO is faced. (For more details about the financial state o f
the utility, see Annex 10). Yet, to enable the actual financial viability o f the project (not
the utility), the analysis will also determine the financial viability o f the project in case
such a subsidy would not exist.


IV.     Resultsof the Cost BenefitAnalysis

FinancialResults

TheJinancial viability o f the project was appraised from an investment point o f view,
which excludes the cost o f financing and therefore allows a more accurate assessment of

l6Socialcontributions include: NationalInsurance(5%), PAYEtaxes (13%), and other deductions of 12%.

                                                 57

the inherent financial return o f the project. Cost and benefits were measured at market
prices o f June 2004 and calculated based on the assumptions presented in the previous
section.

The financial evaluation was undertaken with and without grant from the Government.
Under the scenario inwhich WASCO receives the investment costs as a full subsidy from
the government, the results show the high financial viability o f the project with a
financial IRRof 172 percent and a net benefit o f about EC$23 million (Table 4). Incase
no investment subsidy would be granted, the financial viability o f the project i s still
secured. On the other hand, if WASCO pays for the project, the situation i s still
financially viable as financial benefits exceed financial costs - with a net benefit o f EC$
5 million and a financial IRRo f 15 percent.

                  Table 4.      Resultsof FinancialAnalysis (EC%000 )

                                                      Present Value ofFlows (EC$ 000)        I
                                             Benefits   1  Costs    I NetBenefit  1   IRR
Financial Results
     WASCO gets full subsidy on projectcosts 41,632       18,121         22,911       172%
                 WASCOpaysfor project cost.  41,632       36,222         5,409        15%




EconomicResults

The economic feasibility o f the project was appraised converting financial cash flows into
economic cash flows by subtracting taxes and adding subsidies to the financial flow o f
costs. The benefits associated with a reduction o f rationing were used as a proxy for the
economic benefits o f the project.

Cost of Rationing. About 13 percent of current water demand cannot be met today due to
production capacity constraints. If no investments are made to increase the production
capacity, the water shortage could reach up to 50 percent of total water demand by 2030.
Alternatively, if the project is implemented, demand could be served and coverage could
increase to attain 96 percent o f the population. The benefits o f avoiding rationing was
used to estimate the benefits associated with improvement in service reliability for the
different categories o fcustomers.

The following assumptions were made:

           Households.     To mitigate the impact o f rationing and intermittence, people
           normally store rainwater in tanks during the rainy season; while during the dry
           season they get water from other scarce alternative sources. Conservatively, the
           cost o f rationing during the rainy season was assumed to be zero, since most o f
           the households have already purchased storage tanks and therefore using
           rainwater i s essentially without costs for most households. During the dry
           season, the- benefits o f avoiding rationing were assumed equal to the average
           residential tariff, as very few alternative sources are available.           The average
           rationing cost was estimated at EC$5.56 per 1,000 gallons.

                                                 58

     0   Government. The cost o f rationing cost was assumedzero.
     0   Hotels and Commerce. The cost o f rationing was definedas the opportunity cost
         o f the next best alternative: water from desalination plants. This solution was
         considered as one o f the alternatives for this project and its estimated cost was
         calculated at US$ 1.75/m3or EC$ 21.24 per 1,000 gallons. (For more details, see
         Annex 11 Economic and Technical Comparison o f Altematives.)             These costs
         are very close to the current tariff paid by commercial consumers (EC$20 per
          1,000 gallons) and hotels (EC$22 per 1,000 gallons). The fact that the cost o f
         desalination and the current WASCO tariff are more or less equal for these
         groups o f consumers means that any increase in WASCO tariffs for this group
         can easily result in this customer groups replacing water provision through
         WASCO by water provided through desalination plants. Such a replacement
         would seriously impact the revenue flows o f WASCO.
     0   Ships. It was supposed a rationing cost o f zero, as cruise ships have sufficient
         alternatives in the OECS region to get their water provided. The current policy
         to provide water through cruise ships as a priority i s likely to be continued inthe
         near future.

The results from the economic analysis show anet benefit o fEC$6 million andeconomic
rate o fretum of 16 percent.

                Table 4.     Results of Economic Analysis(EC$000 )

                                                 Present Value of Flows                J
                                 Benefits        costs            Net BeneJit    IRR
Economic Results                 39,667         33,865              5,803        16%




V.      DistributiveAnalysis

The difference between economic and financial cash flows determines the winners and
the losers with the project. The net profit o fEC$ 394,000 is equivalent to the difference
betweenthe incremental economic and financial retum. Who pays for it and who
benefits from it i s presented indetail inTable 5.




                                             59

                        Table 5. Distributionof CostsandBenefits

                                                    Present Value of Flows (EC$000)
                                              Without Subsidy on        Withfull subsidy on
                                                 Investment                Investment
Government
Taxes
    On Investments                                  1,038                     1,038
    On operating costs                              1,320                     1,320
    Total taxes                                     2,358                     2,358
 Subsidies on investment                                                     (17,506)
                Total Government                    2,358                    (15,148)
 Customers
 Current Customers
  Households                                         1,859                     1,859
  Non-residentialCustomers                          7,879                     7,879
 Subtotal Current customers                         9,738                     9,738
New Customers                                      (11.702)                  (11.702)
 Total Consumers                          I        (1,964)                    (1,964)
 WASCO                                                                        17.506
I                 TotalBenefit            I          394              I         394        I


 The Government will benefit with revenues from taxes for investment andoperating costs
 to be usedinthe project, but would pay a large cost inthe funding o f the investment, so
 that their net cost i s estimated at EC$15 million.          The investment subsidy provided
 through the Government will benefit WASCO or in case the transaction i s successful the
 private operator.

 The bigwinners are current customers who would reap benefits for about EC$10 million.
 The loss showed for the new customers represents just the cost they would pay for the
 service. Because no data was available on the actual costs that non-connected households
 pay for water supply services nor about their water consumption behavior, it i s obvious
 that the calculation for new customers i s incomplete. It i s likely that new customers by
 getting access to the piped network will avoid costs inthe form o f time spent on hauling
 water, health impacts due to the consumption o f unsafe or insufficient water or cost o f
 scarce alternative sources.     It should also benoted that increasing coverage ofresidential
 consumers i s likely to have a negative impact on the flows o frevenues o f WASCO as due
 to the cross subsidies in the tariff structure, the benefits o f getting unconnected
 households as new customers are lower than the cost o f serving them.

 VI,       Sensitivity Analysis

 Sensitivity analysis. Based on a series o f sensitivity analyses, some variables were
 identified as those conveying major risks to the expected outcome.                   These variables
 include possible overruns in investment costs, overrun in operating and maintenance
 costs, possible delays in implementing the project, variation in consumption, changes in
 hotel occupancy rate, and changes inrationing costs. The impact and risk significance of
 theses variables i s summarized inTable 6.


                                                 60

                   Table 6. RiskVariablesand their Impact andRiskSignificance

 Investment cost overrun       Direct impact on investmentcosts. Largely under management control. Conveys a
                               moderate risk to the economic results. For values higher than 33 percent the project
                               would have negative economic returns
                               Direct impact on operating costs. Largely under management control. Conveys a
~Operating costs overrun
                               high risk to the financial and economic results. Ifoperating costs overruns more
                               than 4 percent the project would have a negative economic NPV.
 Investment Delay              Direct impact on benefits. Largely under management control. Conveys a moderate
                              riskto economic results. Iftheproject is delayed morethan two years, the returns
                               are negative.
 Hotel Occupancy Rate          Direct impact on benefits. It is under no management control. For values higher
                              than50 percent the project would have positive economic returns.
 Consumption                  Direct impact on benefits. Based on consumer's decision and hence beyond
                              management control. Conveys a moderate riskto the project. Ifconsumption
                              decreases more than 12 percent, the economic results become negative.
 Rationing cost               Direct impact on benefits. Based on customer's solution for avoiding rationing. For
                              rationing cost 85 percent or higher to the assumedvalues, the economic returnsare




 Inconclusion, the project is financially and economically viable under the assumptions
 depicted in the description of the utility presented in the main text and in Annex 10 of
 this PAD. The financial IRR of the project is 15 percent, while the economic rate of
 return is 16 percent - assuming a net benefit when the project is implemented.




                                                       61

         Annex 10: FinancialAnalysis of the Current andFutureWater Utility
     SAINT LUC1A:WATERSUPPLY INFRASTRUCTUREIMPROVEMENT
                                          PROJECT

The degree to which the final objectives o f the proposedproject, as presented in Section
A.2 o f the main text o f this PAD, will be achieved i s directly linked to the improvement
o f the level o f service and o f the operational performance o f WASCO. While the project
shows a positive Internal Rate o f Return even under current management arrangements,
the performance o f the interventions financed by the project will depend on the
performance o f WASCO. While Annex 9 evaluates the economic and financial costs and
benefits o f the proposed investment, this Annex analyzes the financial performance of
WASCO as well as the impact o f the proposed investment and the transaction on the
performance o f the future water utility. This Annex thus provides an assessment o f
WASCO and, inparticular, o f its financial capacity to develop into a sustainable entity.

Background

In March 1999, the GoSL passed into law the first Water & Sewerage Act which
redefined the roles and responsibilities o f governmental agencies and prescribes a
regulatory and operating framework for the development o f Saint Lucia's water sector.
Over the last six years, the Government has implemented certain elements o f the Act, in
parallel with several political and managerial initiatives, in order to reinvigorate the
nation's water sector. A new Water & Sewerage Act has been enacted in Parliament in
March 2005.

The above mentionedinitiatives include:
     0   the transformation o f the water utility from a state agency (WASA) to a
         government owned corporation (WASCO);
     0   the replacement o f WASCO's             board o f directors with private sector
         representatives, and the appointment o f a new General Manager and a Managing
         Director who were expected to bringa greater business-like culture to the utility;
     0   a down-sizing effort, supported largely through voluntary retirements, that has
         decreased the permanent payroll from about 320 staff to about 279 staff;.
     0   a one time increase inthe average water tariff in 2000, the first increase innearly
         a decade;
     0   the creation o f a National Water and Sewerage Commission to regulate the sector
         (as defined inthe Act passed inMarch, 1999) as well as the actual appointment o f
         the eight commissioners.

While these initiatives and the corporatization were intended to provide WASCO with a
basis for performance improvement, these changes alone have not been sufficient to
break the cycle o f consumer dissatisfaction, financial decay, and poor service.        The
opening o f WASCO to the private sector is expected to resolve three main constraints
that the water and sewerage sector in Saint Lucia currently faces:



                                               62

        dilapidated state o f existing water and sewerage infrastructure system (technical
        constraints)
        inability o f WASCO to undertakeurgentlyneededcapital investments and to
        service outstanding debt (financial constraints)
        need for even greater managerial and operational expertise within WASCO
        (managerial constraints).

Current Performance

WASCO's current financial situation i s quite poor, having deteriorated since 2000 (see
table o f indicators below) as a result o f low operating efficiency (e.g., highNon-revenue
Water, or, NRW), a low and decreasing collection rate for domestic and commercial
customers, and limitedinvestments inthe system.

 Table 1:WASCO's Summary FinancialStatements. Incomestatement [EC$`0001
                                                            1 -     20001      20011.   20021     20031      20041

              Operating Revenues                                33,726      32,852    33,733    31,187     31,595
              Bad Debts Expense                                 (3,471)     (6,901)   (2,143)   (4,322)    (1,758)
              Operating Expenses                               (22,935)    (24,050)  (22,688)  (24,426)   (25,150)
                N e t Operating Income                           7,271        1,902    8,902     2,438      4,690

              Depreciation                                     (10,596)     (9,778)   (9,938)  (10,725)   (10,179)
              N e t finance costs                               (5,679)     (4,815)   (4,744)   (4,335)    (4,213)
              Amortisation o f deferredcapital assistance        2,837        2,626    2,680      2,721     2,533
              Unrealized (1oss)igainon foreign exchange          3,253        1,119   (3,114)   (4,374)    (2,344)
              Other incomel(1oss)                                   (156)         9        0          7       352

              N e t incomel(1oss) for the year                  (3,069)      (8,937)  (6,214)  (14,268)    (9,161)



Some concrete indications of this deterioration are a decrease in net operating margin
(from 127.5 percent in 2000 to 108.5 percent in 2003), low liquidity (demonstrated by a
net decrease incash in2 o f 3 years between2000 and2002 and a poor current ratio, and a
cash balance o f only EC$200,000 at end 2003), an increase inthe company's debt burden
andnet trade receivables, and an erosiono f the fixed asset base and shareholder's equity.

Table2: WASCO'sSummaryFinancialStatements.Cash flow statement [EC$`0001
                                                              r   +.    aooO~      2001~     a0021     2003 1
                                                                       (7.177)       95     2971       23'72
                                                                       (7329)     (3D42)   (3.414)    (2207)
                                                                       11999       2973       301      (343)




The direct impact o f the company's operating inefficiency is most closely reflected inthe
company's net operating income - also known as Earnings Before Interest, Taxes,
Depreciation and Amortization                           (EBITDA). The company's                         EBITDA margin
(EBITDNOperating Revenues), fell from 22 percent in 2000 to 15 percent in 2004. A
financially sound utility would generally be expected to register an EBITDA margin
greater than 25 to 30 percent. Low EBITDA margins may indicate that the utility's tariff
levels are too low andor that the operating efficiency i s poor.


                                                              63

Staff costs represented about 46.5 percent o f operating costs in WASCO in 2003.
WASCO's efficiency - whether on active or total customers - compares favorably with
other water utilities inthe region, however between 2000 and2003 average compensation
per employee increased approximately 12percent innominal terms.

                                            Table 3: StaffCost Analysis"
                                                                     I                                                JLne
                                                                          20001       20011      20021      20031    % 20041
     Primary Data
        (1) Number of Employees                                            274        293        305         294         279
        (2) Number of Total Customers                                              47,493     49,449      50,964      51,963
        (3) Number of DisconnectedCustomers                                                                           11,760
        (4) Number of Active Customers                                                                                40,203
        (5) Total Staff Costs (in EC$ `000) I /                         10,170      10,727    12,025      12,199      12,523
        (6) Total OPEX (in EC$ `000)21                                  26,456     30,951     24,831      28,749      26,908

     Indicators
        (7) Employees per 1000Customers (total)                                        6.2        6.2         5.8        5.4
        (8) Employees per 1000Customers (active)                                                                         6.9
        (9) Average annual compensation per employee (in EC$ `000)        37.1        36.6       39.4       41.5        44.9
      (IO) Staff Costs as a % of OPEX                                    38.4%       34.7%     48.4%       42.4%       46.5%

     Notes:
     Source are audited financial statements (2000-2003),2004 unauditedfinancial statements, customer billing system,
     I / Salaries and wages plus gratuities and pensions.
     21Includes bad debt expenses, excludes depreciation.


WASCO's total billings remained stagnant from 2001 through 2004. Domestic customers
account for about one-half o f the company's total billings. Hotels are the second largest
customer category interms o fbilling.

                                   Table 4: CustomerBillingsBreakdown"
                                                   in EC$ `000

     Domestic                           15,799    16,440   16,008    16,153             49%       51%        51%        51%
     Hotels                              6,300     5,675    5,686     6,124             20%       18%         18%        19%
     Commercial                          4,588     4,759    4,740     5,031             14%       15%         15%        16%
     Government                          4,096     4,790    4,033     3,402             13%       15%         13%        11%
     Boats, Ships, & Tankers             1,261       764      966        973             4%         2%         3%         3%

WASCO's overall collection efficiency (collections as a percent o f billings) increased in
2003 as a result o f extraordinary payments by the Government for past arrears. In fact,
receipts exceeded billings in 2003, yielding a collection ratio o f 102 percent. Excluding
receipts from Government, the collection ratio was considerably lower than that (83
percent). Collections from domestic customers - which account for about one-half o f
billings and thus have a high incidence on the company's overall rate - dropped to 80
percent in2003, and commercial collections to 71 percent.

The company's net reported loss in 2003 was EC$14.3 million. In fact, despite the fact
that WASCO i s currently not paying interest nor principal payments on most o f its debt,
the company demonstrates considerable liquidity problems. Excluding debt, related
obligations from WASCO's current liabilities yields a current ratio o f 0.80, which i s still
below the minimum that would be considered financially sound. The company also has

"Source:auditedfinancialstatements,through2003,unauditedfinancialstatements2004.
'* Source:  Wasco Finance Department

                                                              64

been carrying an overdraft totaling approximately EC$3 million and, at end-2003
WASCO only hadEC$200,000 inthe bank.

These liquidity problems are directly related to the fact that the company i s not
generating the cash from operations necessary to cover current obligations as well as
finance required capital investments. WASCO's capital investments between 2001 and
2002 were financed primarily through contributions from the Government as well as
other contributors such as bilateral and multilateral development agencies. About EC$7
million o f the EC$10.9 million invested during this period were financed with such
contributions.

At end-2003, WASCO's borrowings totaled approximately EC$90 million. EC$80
million o f this i s owed to GOSL (consisting o f a number o f loans in multiple currencies
made directly to GOSL and then on-lent to WASCO), EC$7 million o f this is a
commercial bank loan, and the remaining EC$3 million i s a bank overdraft. Given its
cash flow difficulties, WASCO i s currently only servicing its commercial bank loan and
the bank overdraft. Onthe loanwith GOSL, WASCO continues accruing interest.


    Table 5: WASCO's SummaryFinancialStatements.Balancesheet [EC$'0001
                                                     I' '  XiOOl   20011'  20021   20031

                                                         16.318   12.156  15.661  10923
                                                      4631-53l.Q43634.'143
                                                         211109   181162  20~329  15665

                                                        191.603  186.169 182.821 115.491

                 TOMAS$&                                313613   204874  202851  191156

                 " d " i i e J
                                  + L Q m t h f i m k    63,392   30052   37.451  41,494
                   aheTclrrert=s                      s 1 6 9 6 6 A 2 . 3 & l u l 9
                     T o t a l m l t ~ s                 81.464   46.818  52.189  57314

                 L r m g ~ I i ~ e r ;
                   LJr@rm debt                           57374    51.668  49.772  48.490
                   lhfewdcapaalassisrmre                 64.492   63232   61907   59820
                   Enployrretirmeviatdi@n                   644      865   2485    2632
                     Totalbngtrmlipbilitms              122.710  115,766 113.765 110942

                n " c ' r     qui*                        8.439   42.250  36.897  22901

                TotdIiabiWicsBrE~                       a i a m  204834  ana851  191.156


The increase in debt since 2001 has been accompanied by an even faster decrease in
shareholder's equity (due to the accumulation o f net losses). As a result the company's
total debt to equityratio has risen from 1.9 in2001 to 3.35 in2003.

WASCO's current debt burden, as well as its general financial situation, has prevented
the company from accessing funds required for financing its capital investment
requirements. From 2000 to 2003, annual depreciation charges have been about twice as
great as capital investments. Since depreciation charges exceeded capital investments, the
company's net fixed assets fell from EC$192 million in2000 to EC$175 million in2003.

                                                     65

This decrease (combined with a rise inthe company's number o f customers) ledto a fall
o f about 28 percent in the value o f gross fixed assets per customer, a worrying indicator
o fthe condition of buried assets and o f security o f service.


Financial Projection: assumptions

The main tariff assumptions used to derive the revenue projections are that the current
tariff structures and consumption bands are maintained throughout the projection period.
Beginning in 2006, tariffs are adjusted annually at the projected rate o f local inflation. In
2009, a 15 percent increase will apply across all tariff categories.

WASCO's billing system exhibits significant deficiencies, thereby resulting in the need
for adjustments (reductions) to gross revenues during the past few years (equal to 7
percent in 2003). The model assumes a reduction o f 5 percent o f water charges untilnew
customer database has been implemented.

The approach and assumptions used in the demand forecast have been developed by
Stone & Webster using the year 2003 water balance as the base year from which
projections of consumption are made up to the year 2015 using a component-based
approach. The base case demand scenario i s based on an estimated level o f suppressed
demand. Inthe early years o f the projection period, projected production i s not sufficient
to meet this level o f suppressed demand and unmet demand i s allocated by the model
proportionally across all customers based on the percent o f forecast demand that i s not
met.

Projected staff costs are based on the actual number o f employees and the average
compensation package per employee. The projected number o f employees i s derived
based on attaining a target level o f 5 employees per 1000customers based on a 5 percent
annual decrease in this indicator beginning in 200619. The current average annual
compensation per employee i s based on costs presented as "salaries and wages" as well
as "gratuities and pension" in WASCO's audited financial statements. The base case
assumes that this average compensation will increase annually at the rate o f local
inflation plus2 percent (resultinginreal increase o f 2 percent per year).

Since water production currently accounts for over 90 percent o f the electricity consumed
by WASCO, projections o f electricity expenses are based on the projected volume o f
water produced.

As a result o f the fact that WASCO has recently hired consultants to determine areas
where efficiency savings could be realized, the model assumes an annual increase o f 2
percent in the efficiency o f the use o f electricity per gallon o f water produced, capped at
10 percent with respect to the level registered in 2003. The unit cost o f electricity is
expected to increase at the rate o f inflation.



  Basedonemployeeand customer figures for June 2004, WASCO currentlyhas about 6.9 employees per 1000
customers.

                                                    66

The operations and maintenance costs primarily reflect those associated with repair and
maintenance o f structures, equipment and vehicles. In2003, they totaled about 13 percent
o f WASCO's total operating costs. The model assumes annual expenditures on
operations and maintenance equivalent to 2.0 percent o f the company's net fixed asset
value. This percent i s lower than WASCO's average for the past 4 years (in the order o f
2.1 percent) due to the capital investments in maintenance foreseen in the projected
capital investment plan.

The treatment o f water currently accounts for the vast majority o f expenses on chemicals
at WASCO. For this reason, projections o f expenses on chemicals are based on the
projected volume o f water producedby all sources other than the desalination plants. The
base case assumes that the unit cost o f chemicals will increase annually at the local rate
o f inflation.

In 2003, WASCO spent over EC$700,000 to truck water to customers. The model
assumes that untilproduction i s increased to meet full demand inthe North and the South
separately, WASCO will have trucking expenses o f EC$400,000 in the North and
EC$300,000 inthe South.

Inscenarios that include the development anduse o f desalination plants, all o f the costs
(including electricity) o f operating the desalination plants are calculated. The fixed
operating costs are equal to 12.5 percent o f the gross cumulative investment in
desalinationplants. The base case assumes a variable cost o f operation o f the desalination
plantso fEC$14.77 per thousand gallons (thisis equivalent to US$1.5 per cubic meter).

All o f the operating costs of the future wastewater schemes projected in the capital
investmentplan are calculated within this cost component. For membranetreatment, the
base case assumes an operating cost o f EC$0.15 per person per day. In the case o f
treatment through extended aeration the assumption i s EC$O.18. Finally, for treatment via
lagoons the assumed cost i s EC$O.Ol perpersonper day.

WASCO's average o f bad debts expense as a percent o f water and sewerage revenues in
2002 and 2003 was about 6 percent. The model assumes that this ratio will be equal to 5
percent throughout the projection period. The model also assumes that WASCO will
beginpaying a levy to the National Water and Sewerage Commission in 2007. The levy
will be equivalent to approximately US$500,000 and will increase on an annual basis at
the rate o f local inflation.

In 2003, administrative expenses totaled approximately EC$2 million (just below 8
percent o f WASCO's total operating costs). The largest items within this category are
utility expenses (about 23 percent of total in 2003); stationery and office supplies;
professional fees; training; insurance; and licenses, fees and subscriptions. Beginning
with the total in 2003, the base case assumes that administrative expenses will increase
annually at the rate o f local inflation.

Projected depreciation i s the sum o f depreciation on existing assets plus depreciation on
the assets to be put inplace during the life o f the projection period. The model assumes


                                            67

an average annual depreciation rate o f 2 percent o f the gross value o f the company's
assets.
The following assumptions were used for project financing and capital structure: the
private consortium would purchase 65 percent o f shareholding in WASCO, whilst N I C
would purchase 15 percent, for a total o fUS$15 million. The base case scenario assumes
that all current borrowing from the Government of Saint Lucia is written off in 2005. As
a result, beginning in2006, the model does not project any interest payment on this debt.
The model assumes that 60 percent o f capital investments will be financed with loans
from commercial loans. Internally generated cash i s assumed to be the source o f the
remaining 40 percent of financing. The assumed terms o f the future loans for financing
the projected capital investment plan are: 12 years to repay principle, and an interest rate
o f 8 percent. The base case assumes a dividendpayout ratio o f 65 percent for any year in
which the company registers apositive net income.

Based on the current Performance and the assumed performance improvements in the
future, WASCO's financial situation will gradually improve over the next five years, as
shown inthe summary table inthe next page.

Financial Projection: results

The results o f the financial model that has been built to calculate financial projections
under the above listed assumptions show a significant improvement o f the financial
health o f WASCO, within a five year period from the start o f the project. A significant
part o f the improvement, and specifically the large increase in revenue, can be directly
associated with the investments financed under the context o f this project; while the
equally significant improvement on the cost side assumed inthe model, i s assumed to be
the impact o f the strategy o f the new management brought by the new investors.

Given the assumptions incorporated in the financial model, the projected results can
provide a reasonable approximation of the future performance o f WASCO. The results
o f the model show drastic improvement of liquidity, linked to increased revenues and the
injection o f fresh capital, the returnto profitability and to the ability to sustain a moderate
level o f indebtedness and to finance capital investments in part through internally
generated funds.

The improvement shown by a selected number o f indicators i s evident.               The model
calculates that over the next five years the EBITDA margin will increase from the current
value o f 8 percent to over 40 percent. This number i s in line with comparable well-
performing water companies      .

The operating ratio is a good indicator o f the capacity o f a company to finance
investments: it i s calculated as the ratio o f operating expenses over operating revenues.
The lower the ratio, the higher the percentage o f operating revenues that is available to
finance capital investments. In the case o f WASCO, the model shows a decrease fiom
the current value o f92 percent to a very healthy 55 percent.




                                               68

 From a financial sustainability point o f view, the debt service coverage ratio2', an
  indicator o f the ability o f a company to service its debt and interest repayments, will
  increase from 1.1 to above 5. The quick ratio21 will similarly increase from an
  unsustainable 0.3 to over 2.


  Conclusions

  From an investor's perspective, the retum on invested capital in WASCO will have to
 reach values above 12 percent. The proposed financing scheme to reach that target i s
 robust in its structure, achievable operationally and targeted to interventions that should
  significantly improve the economic sustainability o f WASCO.                          The cash injection
  anticipated from the transaction, the proposed investment,andthe efficiencies that can be
  achieved by commercial operation o f the utility present an opportunity for investment in
  an economically sustainable utility that can produce a positive retum on invested capital
  after year one. This can be achieved under current tariff levels, adjusted for inflation,
with only modest increases inreal average tariffs after service levels havebeenimproved.




~~




2o The debt service coverage ratio i s calculated as EBITDAover the sumo finterest andprincipal
repayment.
   The quick ratio i s calculated as current assets (minus inventories), over current liabilities.

                                                       69

                                ...._     ,     . - . , .
                                                     Table 6: Selected Financial Indicators
                                                               .                    _ _
                                                                  . . I                          .-. . . . . . . .    ,                        . _ .
                                                                                        I                              .- . . . . . . . .
                                                                                                                                                         m a
                                 Historiel Hismricl Historic1 Historic
                                    20001         2001l        20021        2003

                                                        j

. . .                       .    ..- . . . . . . . . .                 i,                                                                                         I
                                                          8 -.    .
 Worhg capital                                                         I.

                                          I -
    O P E          -    -         26,456                '
                                             "  30,951        24,831      28,749    26,908       29,079       29,599    30,775         31,328              33,164
                                                                        ~                                 1                      1             "- 32295
,   3 months ofCashOPEX            6,614 ,        7,738       6,208 ,      7,187      6,727       7,270        7,400  I  7,694           7,832    8,099     8,291
    EBITDA                         7,271  I       1,902       8,902        2,438      4,690       4,215        5,781  1  8,471         15,289     26,333   28,103
    OperatingRevenues             33,726        32,852  I     33,733 I    31,187    31,598       33,293       35,380  ' 39,246         46,617     58,728   61,267
        EBITDAMarginPo)            21 6%           58%!       264%          7.8%      14.8%       12.7% I      16.3%     21 6%           328%     44 8%     45 9% I
                                                                                                                      I
'DebtSenrice
    I n t e i e s t ev-Ense_s_                                                                                                                    QL%?     G819
    Principlerepayments                                                                                                                           (1,526:  (1,659)
        TotalDebtSemce                                                                                                                            (4,021:  (5,477)

 Opera-             Ratio
    TotalOperakgExpenses          26,456        30,951        24,831      28,749    26.908  I    29,079       29,599    30,775         31,328     32,395   33,164
I   OperatrngRevenues         ---------
                                  33,726        32,852        33,733      31,187    31,598       33,293       35,380    39,246         46,617     58,728   61,267

I       0pexlReven;e                78%             94%1        74%          92%        85%O'       87%           84%      78%             67%       554:     54%
                                                                                                                                                                   I

 Debt Senrice Coverage Raiio
    EBITDA                                                                            4,690       4,215         5,781    8,471 ,        15,289    26,333   28,103
    DebtSemce                                                                         4,266 I     1,878         1,876    4,895           2,510     4,021    5,477
        EBITDAlDebtSemce                                                               110  '      224           3 08      1.73            6.09      6.55     5.13
I                                                                                                                                                                  I
 QuickRatia
    Current assets rnventones
                         -        18,413        15,487        17,796      !2,867     15,049      18,232       43,347    34,531    ' _-
                                                                                                                                        35,217    33,189   30,385  I


    Current Labilities            81,454     -- -- --
                                                4,818         52,189      57,314    59,438       19,976       22,678    17,456          15,083    15,216   17,480
        Currentratio                 0 2             0 3         0 3          0 2       0.3 1        0.9           1.9      2.o             2 3       22       1 7 I

I                                                                                            i                                                                     I
 Retornoninvestedcapital                                                                     I

I   NOPLAT                                                                 (8,286:   (5,489)     (6,061:        3,972    5,639          11,755    22,09C   22,768
    Investedcapital                                                      L131211  -- --
                                                                                   123,740       17,151        71,806   92,105          97,858   120,221   142,271
                                                                                               ~-
        ROIC                                                                  -6%       -4%;       -35%            6%        6%1           129       189       16%




                                                                                  70

Tablc 7: Rslnncc Sftcct

72

 I`f I C 11'1 '1    10.596  9,778     9,938 10,725  10.179 10,276   1.809  2,832   3,534  4243  5,334

ElKr                           (     1                        , t              .   11




                                            73

           Annex 11: Audited2004 FinancialStatements: WASCO
SAINT LUCIA:WATER SUPPLYINFRASTRUCTUREIMPROVEMENT PROJECT




             Water and Sewerage Company
             Incorporated

             Financial Statements
             December31,2004
             (expressed inEastern Caribbeandollars)




                                         74

                                                                                                           Pricewaterhousecoopers
                                                                                                           Pointe Seraphine
                                                                                                           P.O. Box 195
 March 31,2005                                                                                             Castries
                                                                                                           St. Lucia, W.I.
                                                                                                           Telephone (758) 456.2600
                                                                                                           Facsimile   (75fl) 452.1061




 To the Shareholders of
Water and Sewerage Company Incorporated


We have audited the accompanying balance sheetofWater and Sewerage Company Incorporated(the
Company), as of December31, 2004 and the related statements ofincome, changes in shareholders' equity
and cashflows for the year then ended.These financial statementsare the responsibility o fthe Company's
management,Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements basedon our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordancewith International Standardson Auditing. Those standards require that
we plan andperform the audit to obtain reasonableassurance about whether the financial statements are free
o f material misstatement.An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supportingthe amounts and
disclosures inthe financial statements. An audit also includes assessingthe accountingprinciples usedand
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statementpresentation.
We believe that our audit providesa reasonablebasisfor our opinion.

Our examination indicated seriousdeficiencies in internal control over bade receivables. As a result, we were
unableto obtain direct confirmationo ftrade receivable balances or to satisfy ourselves concerning the validity
or collectibility ofthese accountsby altemative means. Accordingly, we were unableto determine whether
adjustments were requiredin respecto ftrade receivable balances, sales, bad debt expense, loss for the year,
deficit and working capital.

Inour opinion, exceptfor the effects of adjustments, ifany, which we might have determined to be necessary
had we been able to satisfy ourselves as to the trade receivable balancesindicatedinthe preceding paragraph,
these financial statements presentfairly, in all material respects, the financial positiono fthe Companyas o f
December 3 1,2004 andthe results of its operations and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with
InternationalFinancial Reporting Standards.

Without further qualifying our opinion, we draw attention to the going concem issue inNote 2 to the financial
statements which indicatesthat the Company incurred a loss of $8,575,754 for the year endedDecember 31,
2004 (2003 $14,267,955) and, as o fthat date, the Company's current liabilities exceeded it's current assets by
                  -
$46,831,883 (2003            - $41,648,421)         and had a deficit of $41,064,054 (2003 $32,488,300). We also draw
                                                                                                   -
attention to share capital in Note 13 and contingent liabilities inNote 19 to the financial statements.




Chartered Accountants

 Antigua       ClrariehW. A. Walwyii RolxnI Wlkinw,n
 Bilrbodoc     I.AndrewMarvhuw PhilipSI. E.Atkinron R.MlchaelB y w Ashley R. Ciarke GloriaR.Eduanlo WayneI.Fields
               MdurlceA Franklin MarmA. Halch StephenA. Jardine Lindell E.Nwe Erian0.Rohllixln
               Chriwphrr 5. Sambrano R. Charis 0.Tihbiti Ann M.Walloce-Etco~k Mlchrllrl.wll~te-ving
 Grenada       Phil#p%,E. Alkmion ireritlent inBarhadmi
 SI l u i i a Anlliom, D Alkmon RlrhardN.C. Peiwkirr




                                                                       75

Water and SewerageCompany Incorporated
Balance Sheet
As at December31,2004

(expressed inEasternCaribbeandollars)

                                                                 2004
                                                                    s           2003s
Assets
Currentassets
Cashandcashequivalents(Note 5)                                500397          200,405
Trade andother receivables(Note 6)                           ,707,068      1 ,666,185
Inventories (Note 7)                                         ,565,061        ,798,023

                                                           16,772,726     15,665,213
Property,plantand equipment(Note 8)                       168,219,267     175,491,199

Total assets                                              184,991,993     191,156,412


Liabilities

CurrentLiabilities
Borrowings(Note 9)                                         33,099,255     28,383,5 I4
Trade andother payables(Note 10)                           28,441,681     26,866,447
Provisionfor other liabilitiesand charges (Note 19)         2,063,673       2,063,673

                                                           63,604,609     51,3 13,634
Borrowings(Note 9)                                         47,139,845     48,490,112
Employeeretirementobligation(Note 11)                       2,674,638       2,631,556
Deferredcapitalassistance(Note 12)                         57,247,911     59,820,366

Totalliabilities                                          170,667,003     168,255,668


Equity

Sharecapital(Note 13)                                               -               -
Contributedcapital                                         55389,044       55,389,044
Deficit                                                    (41,064,054)   (32,488,300)

Totalequity                                                 14,324,990     22,900,744

Totalliabilitiesand equity                                184,991,993     191,l56,4 12


Approved by the Boardof Directorson March31,2005




                                                     76

Water and Sewerage Company Incorporated
Statementof Income
For the year endedDecember31,2004                                             -
(expressed in EasternCaribbean dollars)

                                                         2004           2003
                                                            $               $


Sales                                             32,272,369      31,186,559

Direct expenses                                  (18,908,611)    (1 7,808,906)-

Grossprofit                                       13,363,758      13,377,653

Administrative expenses                          (18,463,054)    (21,944,857)

Other gains, net (Note 16)                         2,721,514       2,728,082   ,


Operatingloss                                     (2,377,782)     (5,839,122)

Financecosts (Note 17)                            (6,197,972)     (8,428,833)

Loss for the year                                 (8,575,754)    (14,267,955)




                                           77

Water and Sewerage Company Incorporated
Statement of Changes in Shareholders' Equity
For the year ended December31,2004

(expressed in EastemCaribbeandollars)

                                                           2004s           2003
                                                                              $


Contributedcapital
At beginningofyear                                   55,389,044
                                                              -      55,117,206
Contributionsfrom the Governmentof St. Lucia                            271,838

At end of year                                       55,389,044      55,389,044


Deficit
At beginningofyear                                  (32,488,300)    (18,220,345)
Lossfor the year                                     (8,575,754)    (14,267,955)

At end ofyear                                       (41,064,054)    (32,488,300)


Equity, end ofyear                                   14,324,990      22,900,744




                                              78

Water and SewerageCompany Incorporated
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31,2004

(expressedin EasternCaribbean dollars)

1 Generalinformation

    The Water and SewerageAuthority Act, 1984was repealed on February25, 1999. However, all subordinate
    legislation, orders, notices and loanapprovalresolutionsmadeunderthe Water and SewerageAuthority Act,
    1984, and in force immediately beforeFebruary25, 1999,remainedin force. EffectiveNovember 1, 1999, the
    operationsof Water and Sewerage Authority (the Authority)were transferredto a new corporate entity, Water
    and Sewerage Company Incorporated(the Company).The new Companywas incorporatedunder the laws of
    St. Lucia. Like the Authority, Water and Sewerage Company Incorporated is wholly-ownedby the Government
    of St. Lucia.All assets, liabilities and obligationswith the exceptionofcertain lands were transferred to the
    Company. The Company is exempt from the payment ofany dutiesor taxes.

    The registeredoffice ofthe Company is situatedat L'anse Road.


2   Summary of significant accounting policies

    The principalaccountingpoliciesapplied inthe preparationofthese financial statementsare set out below. These
    policieshavebeenconsistentlyapplied to all years presented,unlessotherwisestated.

    Going concern
   The Companyincurred a loss o f$8,575,754 for the year endedDecember31,2004 and hadadeficit of
   $41,064,054 at December 31,2004 (2003
   deficiency of$46,831,883 (2003      - $41,648,421)
                                                 - $32,488,300).At that date, the Companyalso hadaworking capital
                                                       was in defaultofcertain loansto the Governmentof St. Lucia
   and had acontingentliability as indicatedinNote 19.

   The ability ofthe Company to continue to operate as aviable entity is dependenton improvement o fthe collection
   ofwater and sewerage charges, the successfulimplementationofmechanismsdesigned to restructure its operations
   andthe continuedfinancialsupportofthe Governmentof St. Luciaandother financial institutions.

   Basis of preparation
   The financial statementsofthe Water and Sewerage Company Incorporatedhavebeenpreparedinaccordance
   with InternationalFinancialReportingStandards(IFFS) andunder the historical cost convention.

   The preparationof financialstatementsin conformity with JFRSrequiresthe use ofcertaincritical accounting
   estimates. It also requiresmanagementto exerciseitsjudgement in the process of applyingthe Company's
   accountingpolicies.The areas involvingahigherdegreeofjudgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions
   and estimates are significantto the financial statements, are disclosedinNote 4.

   Cash and cash equivalents
   Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, depositsheldon call with banks and bankoverdrafts. Bank
   overdrafts are is shownwithin borrowings in current liabilitieson the balancesheet.

   Trade receivables
   Trade receivables are recognizedinitially at fair value and subsequentlymeasured at amortizedcost usingthe
   effectiveinterestmethod, less provision for impairment.A provision for trade receivablesis establishedwhere
   there is objectiveevidencethat the Company will not be able to collectthe amountsdue accordingto the original
   termsof receivables.The amountof the provision is the differencebetween the asset's carryingamount and the
   presentvalue of estimatedfuture cash flows, discountedat the effective interestrate. The provision is recognised
   in the incoine statement.




                                                             79

Water and SewerageCompanyIncorporated
Statement o fCashFlows
For the year ended December31,2004

(expressed inEasternCaribbean dollars)

                                                                            2004
                                                                               s           2003s
Cash flows from operatingactivities
Loss for the year                                                    (8,575,754)    (14,267,955)
Adjustment for:
    Gain on disposal o fproperty, plant and equipment(Note 16)            (2,697)        (6,751)
     Depreciation (Notes 8 and 14)                                   10,085,212      10,724,5 19
    Amortisation of deferred capital assistance (Notes 12 and 16)    (2,718,817)     (2,721,331)
    Finance costs (Note 17)                                           6,197,972       8,428,833

Operating profit before working capital changes                       4,985,916       2,157,315

(Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables                   (4,411,321)      5,037,041
Decrease/(increase)in inventories                                       232862         (559,095)
Increase/(decrease) intrade and other payables                        1,575,234      (3,530,183)

Cash generated from operations                                       2,382,791        3,105,078

    Interest paid                                                      (726,441)       (733,349)

Net cash generated from operatingactivities                           1,656,350       2,371,729


Cashflows from investingactivities
Purchaseofproperty, plant and equipment (Note 8)                     (2,833,083)     (3,398,997)
Proceedsfrom disposal of plant and equipment                             22,500          11,499
Increase inemployee retirement obligation                                43,082         546,206
Increase in deferred capital assistance(Note 12)                        146,362         634,2 17

Net cash usedin investing activities                                 (2,62 1,139)    (2,207,075)


Cash flows from financingactivities
Repayment of borrowings                                               (277,044)       (614,589)
Proceeds from borrowings                                              1,898,726               -
Increase in contributedcapital                                                 -        271,838

Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities                1,621,682       (342,75 I)


Net increase/(decrease)in cashand bank overdrafts                       656,893        (178,097)

Cash and bank overdrafts at beginningofyear                          (2,799,500)     (2,621,403)

Cash and bank overdrafts at endingof year (Note 5)                   (2,142,607)     (2,799,500)




                                                            80

Water and SewerageCompany Incorporated
Notes to FinancialStatements
December 31,2004

(expressed in EasternCaribbean dollars)

1    General information

    The Water and SewerageAuthority Act, 1984 was repealedon February 25, 1999.However, all subordinate
    legislation, orders, noticesand loan approval resolutions made under the Water and SewerageAuthority Act,
     1984, and in force immediately before February 25, 1999,remained inforce. EffectiveNovember 1, 1999,the
    operations o fWater and SewerageAuthority (the Authority) were transferredto a new corporate entity, Water
    and Sewerage CompanyIncorporated(the Company). The new Company was incorporated under the laws o f
    St. Lucia. Like the Authority, Water and Sewerage CompanyIncorporated is wholly-owned by the Government
    of St. Lucia. All assets, liabilitiesand obligations with the exception o fcertain lands were transferred to the
    Company. The Company is exempt from the payment o f any duties or taxes.

    The registered oftice o fthe Company is situated at L`anse Road.


2   Summary o f significant accounting policies

    The principal accounting policies applied in the preparationo fthese financial statements are set out below, These
    policies have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless otherwise stated.

    Going concern
    The Company incurred a loss o f$8,575,754 for the year ended December 31,2004 and hada deficit o f
    $41,064,054 at December 31,2004 (2003
    deficiency of $46,831,883 (2003     - $41,648,421)
                                                 - $32,488,300). At that date, the Company also had aworking capital
                                                       was in default o f certain loans to the Government o f St. Lucia
   and had a contingent liability as indicated inNote 19.

   The ability o fthe Companyto continue to operateas a viable entity is dependenton improvement o fthe collection
   o fwater and sewerage charges, the successful implementationof mechanisms designedto restructure its operations
   and the continued financial support o fthe Government o f St. Lucia and other financial institutions.

   Basis of preparation
   The financial statements ofthe Water and Sewerage CompanyIncorporated have beenprepared in accordance
   with International FinancialReporting Standards(IFRS) andunderthe historicalcost convention.

   The preparationo ffinancial statementsin conformity with IFRSrequires the use o fcertain critical accounting
   estimates. It also requiresmanagementto exercise itsjudgement in the process o fapplyingthe Company's
   accountingpolicies. The areas involving a higher degree ofjudgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions
   and estimates are significant to the financial statements, are disclosed inNote 4.

   Cash and cash equivalents
   Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, deposits heldon call with banks and bank overdrafts. Bank
   overdrafts are is shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.

   Trade receivables
   Trade receivables are recognized initially at fair value and subsequentlymeasured at amortized cost using the
   effective interest method, less provision for impairment. A provision for trade receivables is established where
   there is objective evidencethat the Company will not be able to collect the amounts due according to the original
   terms o f receivables. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset's carrying amount and the
   presentvalue o festimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate. The provision is recognised
   in the income statement,




                                                              81

Water and Sewerage Company Incorporated
Notesto Financial Statements
December 31,2004

(expressed inEasternCaribbean dollars)

z    Summary of significant accounting policies...continued

     Deferred capital assistance
     Capital assistance, primarily in the form of grants receivedfrom sources other thanthe Government of St. Lucia,
     are recognisedat their fair value when there is areasonableassurancethat the monieswill bereceivedand the
     Companywill comply with the attachedconditions.

    Capital assistancerelatingto costs are deferredand recognisedinthe incomestatementover the period necessary
    to matchthem with the costs that they are intendedto compensate.

    Capital assistance relatingto the purchaseofproperty, plant and equipmentare includedin non-currentliabilities
    as deferredcapital assistanceand are creditedto the income statementon a straight-line basis over the expected
    lives ofthe relatedassets.

    Contributed capital
    Contributed capital representsprimarily moniesreceivedor liabilities waived from the Govemment of St. Lucia
    and are recognisedat fair value inthe periodin which they are receivedwaived.

    Provisions
    Provisions for environmentalrestoration, restructuringcosts and legalclaims arerecognisedwhen the Company ha
    apresent legal or constructive obligation as a resultofpast events; it is more likely than not that an outflow of
    resourceswill berequiredto settle the obligation;andthe amount hasbeenreliably estimated. Provisionsare not
    recognisedfor future operating losses.

    Where there are a number ofsimilar obligations, the likelihoodthat an outflow will be requiredin settlement is
    determinedby consideringthe class ofobligationas awhole. A provisionis recognisedeven ifthe likelihoodof
    an outflow with respectto any one item includedinthe same class of obligationsmay be small.

    Revenue recognition
    Sales are recognisedupondeliveryof productsand customer acceptance, if any, or onthe performance of service,
    Sales are shown netof discounts.Other revenues earnedby the Companyare recognisedon an accrual basis.

    Foreign currency translation
   Functional anduresentationcurrency
   Itemsin the financial statements are measuredusingthe currencyof the primary economicenvironment inwhich
   the entity operates(``the functionalcurrency"). The financialstatementsare presentedinEasternCaribbeandollars,
   which is the Company's functional andpresentationcurrency.

   Transactionsandbalances
   Foreigncurrencytransactionsare translatedinto the functional currencyusingthe exchangeratesprevailingat the
   datesofthe transactions.Foreignexchangegains and losses resultingfrom the settlementof suchtransactionsand
   from the translation atyearend exchange rates ofmonetaryassets and liabilitiesdenominatedinforeign currencies
   are recognisedin the income statement.

   Comparatives
   Where necessary,the comparative figures have been adjustedto conform with changes in presentationin the current
   year.




                                                              82

Water and SewerageCompany Incorporated
Notesto Financial Statements
December 31,2004

(expressedin Eastern Caribbeandollars)

3   Financial risk management

     The Company's activitiesexposeitto a variety of financialrisks: foreignexchangerisk, credit risk, liquidity
     risk and interestraterisk.

    Foreignexchangerisk
    Changes inforeign currencyrates may expose the Companyto currency risk. The Company has an exposure
    to fluctuationsin foreign currency exchange rateson certainloans denominatedin foreign currencies.These
    are detailedinNote9.

    Credit risk
    Creditrisk arises from the possibility that counterpartiesmay default ontheir obligations to the Company.The
    amounto fthe Company`s maximumexposureto credit risk is indicatedby the carryingamount o f its financial
    assets.

    The Company operates St. Lucia's water supplyand sewerage facilities and financial instruments, which
    potentiallyexpose the Companyto concentrationsof credit risk, consistprimarilyoftrade receivables.The
    Company performsperiodiccredit evaluationsof its customers' financialcondition.The ability o fthe Company
    to continueto operate as aviable entity is dependent on improvementof the collection ofwater and sewerage
    charges as well as the successfulimplementationofmechanismsdesignedto restructure its operations.

    Liquidity risk
    Prudentliquidityrisk management impliesmaintainingsufficient cash and marketablesecuritiesandthe ability
    of fundingthroughan adequate amountofcommittedcredit facilities. In light ofthe working capital deficiency
   as indicated inNote2 managementaimsto maintainsufficient lines ofcredit to meetday to day operations.

   Interest rate risk
   Differencesincontractualrepricing or maturitydates and changes ininterest ratesmay expose the Company
   to interestrate risk. The Company's exposure and interestrateson its financial assets is disclosed inNote 9.

   Fair valueestimation
   Fair value amounts representestimatesofthe considerationthat would currentlybe agreed uponbetween
   knowledgeable,willing partieswho are underno compulsionto act and is best evidencedby aquoted market
   value, ifone exists.None bf the Company's financialinstrumentsare traded ina formalmarket. Estimatedfair
   values are assumedto approximatetheir carryingvalues.




                                                            83

Water and Sewerage CompanyIncorporated
N o t e s to Financial Statements
December31.2004

(expressed in Eastern Caribbeandollars)

4     Criticalaccounting estimates andjudgements

      Estimates andjudgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors,
      includingexpectations o f future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.

      The Company makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates
      will, bydefinition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimate and assumptionthat has a significant
      risk o f causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts o f assets and liabilities within the next financial
      year is discussed below:

      useful lives o f Dlant and eaubment
      The Company's management determines the estimated useful lives and related depreciation charges for it's
      plant and equipment. This estimate is based on projected lifecycles. It could change significantly as a result o f
      the asset mapping exercise and pipe replacement project undertaken during the year. Management will increase
      the depreciation charge where useful lives are less thanpreviously estimatedlives, or it will Writeaff or Write-
      down technically obsolete or non-strategic assets that have been abandoned or sold.

      Were the actual usefullives o f the plantandequipment to differ by 10%frommanagement's estimates, the
      carrying amount o f the plant and equipment would be an estimated $918,185 higheror $834,789 lower.


5     Cash andcash equivalents

                                                                                           2004 s                 2003
                                                                                                                     s

      Cash at bank and inhand                                                          500,597                200,405

      Cash at bank balances are non-interest bearing.

      Cash and bank overdrafts included the following for the purposes o f the casMow statement:

                                                                                           2004                   2003
                                                                                               $                     $

      Cash and cash equivalents                                                        500,597                200,405
      Bank overdrafts (Note 9)                                                      (2,643,204)            (2,999,905)

                                                                                    (2,142,607)            (2,799,500)




                                                                 84

Water and SewerageCompanyIncorporated
Notes to FinancialStatements
December 31,2004

(expressedinEastemCaribbean dollars)

6   Trade and other receivables

                                                                      2004           2003
                                                                         $              $

    Trade receivables                                           28,133,447     26,275,176
     Less: provisionfor impairment o ftrade receivables        (16,936,171)   (15,352,58 1)

    Trade receivables,net                                       11,197,276     10,922,595

    Claims for projects                                          1,551,759      1,509,503
    Less: provisionfor impairment o f claims for projects        (488,238)      (488,238)

    Claims for projects, net                                     1,063,521      1,021,265

    Other receivables                                            1,640,830      1,188,716
    Less:provisionfor impairment of other receivables            (552,280)      (552,280)

    Otherreceivables,net                                         1,088,550        636,436

    Prepayments                                                    357,721         86,489

                                                               13,707,068      12,666,785


7  Inventories

                                                                     2004           2003
                                                                         $              $

   Chemicals                                                       162,749        198,677
   Fuel                                                              5,959          3,895
   Pipes and fittings                                           2,280,470      2,351,566
    Miscellaneous stock                                            115,883        171,324

                                                                2,565,061      2,731,462
    Goods-in-transit                                                               66,561

                                                                2,565,061       2,798,023




                                                         85

86

Water and Sewerage Company Incorporated
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31.2004

(expressedinEastern Caribbeandollars)

9   Borrowings
                                                                             Loan Facility
 Reference          Purpose of loan                Withdrawn Less          2004           2003
                                                      Repayment                $              $

 Loans from Government of St. Lucia

 CDB 2O/SFR
      -            To carry out aspecific water    CDN$     57,922
                   supply project                  US$     161,769
                                                   S K R     5,884
                                                   YEN 12,022,636
                                                   EUR       6,283      908,087         886,796

CDB   - 37lSFR     To carry out a specific water   CDN$    542,021
                   supply project                  STGE    173,682
                                                   S K R   978,307
                                                   US$     993,409
                                                   SDR   1,040,976   9,564,588       9,205,142

CDB   - 8lSFWOR    To assist infinancing the       US$ 6,178,907
                   RoseauDamBasin Project          CDN$    527,145
                                                   STGf     93,158  18,347,672      18,334,665

CDB   - 45lSFR     To assist inrehabilitation of
                   storm damage                    US$   1,774,228   4,790,415       4,820,399

World Bank         To carry out the RoseauBasin    SDR   2,615,315
                   Water Development program       US% 1,634,109    15,378,441      14,932,665

Caisse Francais    To carry out the Rodney Bay
                   Sewer Project                   EURO 4,439,719   16,362,584      15,048,871

OPEC Fund          To assist in financing Roseau
                   DamWater DevelopmentProject US$ 1,345,880         3,633,876       3,656,622

Loans from financial Institutions

Bank of Saint      To repay St. Lucia Electricity
Lucia Limited      ServicesLimited                 EC$   8,500,000   8,500,000       6,988,561

Bank of Saint      To purchasevehicles
Lucia Limited                                       EC$    110,243     110,243               -
                                                                    77,595,906      73,813,721
Current borrowings                                                 (30,456,051)    (25,383,609)

Non-current borrowings                                              47,139,845      48,490,112
                                                                                                (8)




                                                     87

Water and SewerageCompany Incorporated
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31,2004

(expressed in EastemCaribbeandollars)

9   Borrowings...continued

                                                                              2004          2003
                                                                                  $              s
    Current
    Bank overdrafts (Note 5)                                             2,643,204      2,999,905
    Govemmentof St. Luciaborrowings                                    29,796,413      24,703,938
    Bankborrowings                                                         659,638        679,671

                                                                       33,099,255      28,383,514
    Non-current
    Governmentof St. Luciaborrowings                                   39,189,241      42,181,222
    Bankborrowings                                                       7,950,604      6,308,890

                                                                       47,139,845      48,490,112


    Total borrowings                                                   80,239,100      76,813,626

    All bankborrowingsare guaranteedby the Govemmento f St. Lucia.

    The above borrowingagreementscontain variouscovenants,which the Company is required to meet. As at
    December 31,2004, the Company was indefaultof certainofthese covenants. However,the lendershave
    givenno indicationthat their levelof supportwill notbemaintained.

    Maturity ofnon-currentborrowings:

                                                                              2004          2003
                                                                                  $              $

    Between1and 2 years                                                   5,807,427     6,513,627
    Between2 and 5 years                                               15,353,671      17,368,285
    Over 5 years                                                       25,978,147      24,608,200

                                                                       47,139,845      48,490,112

    The weighted averageinterestratesat the balancesheet date were as follows:

                                                                              2004          2003
                                                                                 YO             Yo

    Bankoverdrafts                                                            10.50          10.50
    Government of St. Lucia borrowings                                          6.20          6.20
    FinancialInstitutions                                                       9.00         10.00




                                                          88

Water and Sewerage Company Incorporated
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31,2004

(expressedin EasternCaribbeandollars)

9   Borrowings.. .conlinued

    The company's exposure to foreign currencyexchangerate risk at the year end is as follows:
                                                                             2004                  2003
                                                                                 $                     $
    Unitedstates dollars                                               32,638,416            32,842,708
    Specialdrawingright currency                                       15,331,290            14,699,472
    Euro                                                               16,385,740            15,070,168
    Canadiandollars                                                     2,520,958             2,351,106
    GreatBritishpound                                                   1,390,825             1,282,026
    Swedishhoner                                                          402,239               366,710
    Japanese yen                                                          316,195               302,970

                                                                       68,985,663            66,9 15,160

   The exchange rate of the EasternCaribbeandollar (EC$)to the UnitedStates dollar (US%) has beenformally
   peggedat EC$2.70=US%l.OOsinceJuly 1976.


10 Trade and other payables
                                                                             2004                  2003
                                                                                 $                     $
   Trade payables                                                       1,841,697             2,089,849
   Loaninterest payable                                                14,350,178            13,110,773
   St. LuciaElectricity ServicesLimited                                 3,147,327             2,542,044
   Unexpendeddeveloperscosts                                              161,057               144,334
   Otherpayables and accruedexpenses                                    7,151,412             7,258,222
   Consumerdeposits                                                     1,455,486             1,456,703
   Employeeretirement obligation(Note 11)                                 334,524               264,522

                                                                       28,441,681            26,866,447


11 Employee retirement obligation
                                                                             2004                  2003
                                                                                 $                    $
   Employeeretirement obligation                                        3,009,162             2,896,078
   Less:currentportion (Note 10)                                         (334,524)            (264,522)

   Longtermportion                                                      2,674,638             2,631,556

   The amount representsthe Company's obligation in respectof gratuitiesdue to employeesupon retirementor
   terminationof employment under collectiveagreements with the St. LuciaCivil ServiceAssociation andthe
   National WorkersUnion effectiveJanuary 1, 1993 andApril I,1993 respectively. These agreementsterminated
   on December31, 1995, March31, 1996,March31, 1998 andDecember 31, 1998andwere immediately
   replacedby similar agreements, which expired on December31,2001. These agreementswere transferredfrom
   Water and Sewerage Authority onNovember 1, 1999.

                                                                                                         (10)




                                                        89

Water and SewerageCompanyIncorporated
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31.2004

(expressed in EasternCaribbean dollars)

12 Deferred capitalassistance
                                                                                  2004                 2003
                                                                                      $                   $

    At beginningo fyear                                                    59,820,366           61,907,480
    Received in the year
    Amortisation inthe year (Note 16)                                          146,362              634,217
                                                                            (2,7 18,817)         (2,721,331)

    At endofyear                                                           51,247,911           59,820,366


13 Share capital
                                                                                  2004                2002
                                                                                      $                   $

    Authorised:
         Unlimited ordinary shares

    Issuedand fully paid:
         NilordinaIyshares

    The legal formalities for allotting the shares pursuant to Section 18(2) of the Companies Act 1996have not
    been completed.


14 Expensesby nature
                                                                                  2004                2003
                                                                                     $                    $

   Employee benefits (Note 15)
   Depreciation (Note 8)                                                  12,404,193            12,199,128
                                                                                                10,724,5 19
   Power                                                                  10,085,2 12
                                                                            5,638,831            5,129,415
   Maintenance                                                              3,537,202            3,505,034
   Baddebts expense                                                         1,674,125            4,322,358
   Other expenses                                                           1,017,275              734,748
   Chemicals                                                                  937,846              806,208
   Transport and travelling                                                   862,3 11             746,332
   Utilityexpense                                                             441,280              476,844
   Stationery and office supplies                                             245,961              364,600
   Bank interest and charges                                                  304,269              280,734
   Professional fees                                                          105,886              262,312
   Training                                                                   117,268              201,531

   Total direct and administrative expenses                               37,371,665           39,753,763




                                                               90

Water and Sewerage CompanyIncorporated
Notes to Financial Statements
December31,2004

(expressedinEasternCaribbean dollars)

15 Employeebenefits
                                                                          2004           2003
                                                                              $               $

    Salariesand wages                                               11,544,218      11,456,468
    Social security costs                                              428,317        405,982
    Gratuities andpension                                              431,598        336,678

                                                                    12,404,193      12,199,128

    T h e company had 269 employees at December 31,2004 (2003  -281).

16 Other gains, net
                                                                          2004           2003
                                                                              $              $

    Amortisationof deferred capital assistance (Note 12)             2,718,817      2,72 1,33 1
    Gain on disposal ofplant and equipment                               2,691           6,751

                                                                     2,721,514      2,728,082


17 Finance costs

                                                                         2004            2003
                                                                              $              $

   Interest expense                                                 4,091,477       4,054,441
   Net foreign exchangetransaction losses(Note 18)                  2,100,495       4,314,392

                                                                    6,197,972       8,428,833


18 Net foreign exchangelosses

   The exchange differences chargedto the income statementare includedas follows:

                                                                         2004            2003
                                                                             $               s
   Financecosts (Note 17)                                           2,100,495       4,374,392
   Direct expenses                                                     39,618          43,582

                                                                    2,140,173       4,417,974




                                                        91

Water and SewerageCompany Incorporated
Notes to Financial Statements
December 31,2004

(expressedin EasternCaribbeandollars)

19 Contingent liabilities

    Legalclaims
    InJanuary 1999aclaimwas filedagainstthe Water andSewerageAuthority inrespectofwork done onthe
    RodneyBay SewerageProject.The claimwas for $6,174,139 plus interest fromJanuary 26, 1999at 6% per
    annum. This obligationwas transferredfrom Water and SewerageAuthority to the CompanyonNovember 1,
    1999.The Company is legallyrepresentedin this matter.

    A provisionof $2,063,673 (2003 $2,063,673) has beenmade inrespectof these claims. Furtherprovision
                                     -
    will be made in the financialstatements when the final liability, if any, hasbeendeterminedandagreed.

    Arrears of taxation
    The company is contingently liable for surcharges, interestandpenalties on arrears of PAYE, Contractors' Tax
    and NICcontributionsamountingto $5,641,539 (2003 $5,201,520). Provisionwill be made inthe accounts
                                                           -
    when the liabilitieshavebeendeterminedandagreed.

    Loan agreement
    InDecember2001, theGovernmentofSaintLucia, theWaterandSewerageCompanyIncorporatedandthe
    CaribbeanDevelopmentBankentered intoa loanagreementto financethe implementation ofthe "Fifth Water
    Supply" project.

   The total projectedcost ofUS$5,271,000 will bere-lentto the Water and Sewerage CompanyIncorporatedon
   completionofthe project on similarterms andconditionsunderwhich the loanwas made available to the
   Govemmentof Saint Lucia.

   At December31,2004 the project was still inprogress.


20 Related party transactions

   Water and seweragereceivablesinclude %4,318,412 (2003       - $4,189,906)   due %omthe Govemment o f St. Lucia.
   Loaninterestpayableto the Governmentof St. Lucia amountsto $14,350,178 (2003 $13,110,773) (Note 10).
                                                                                         -

   The Company supplied 12%(2003      -9%)   of its water availablefor consumptionto the Governmentof St. Lucia
   andrelatedstatutory bodies.




                                                             92

               Annex 12: EconomicandTechnicalComparisonof Alternatives
  SAINT LUCIA:WATER SUPPLY INFRASTRUCTUREIMPROVEMENT PROJECT

Introduction

As described earlier in this PAD, the most immediate water supply challenge in Saint Lucia is
the water shortage inthe northern part o f the island. The Roseau system, which was constructed
in 1994 and which consists of the Roseau Dam and reservoir, was designed for a production
capacity o f 5 million imperial gallons per day (MGD). However consumption in the north has
risen beyond the levels forecasted during the design o f the Roseau dam and the construction o f
the attending infrastructure (pumping, treatment and transmission).

The short term investment program for the North, scheduled to be implemented in about two
years (second-half 2005 to first-half 2007), i s in fact an urgent investment program aimed at
providing the current population o f the North, amounting to about 86,000 residents plus tourists,
with a continuous supplyo fwater o fpotablequality.

Two alternatives have been considered for resolving the water shortage in the northern part o f
Saint Lucia: (i)Increase the daily withdrawal rate o fwater from the Roseau dam from the current
value o f 6 MGD to 10 MGD; or (ii)     Construct a Reverse Osmosis Desalination plant to supply
the current water deficit.

The purpose o f this Annex i s to describe the two alternatives and estimate the cost o f each one
(investment and operatiodmaintenance), conduct a comparative economic analysis o f the
alternatives,  as well as a technical and environmental comparison,                 and provide a
recommendationregardingthe most economically and technically feasible alternative.

Descriptionof the AlternativesConsidered

Alternative 1

This alternative was proposed by WASCO and is described in detail in the WASCO report on
"Infrastructural Improvement Project Proposal", October 2003.

The Roseau systemwas designed to enable a daily withdrawal rate o f 5 MGD from the reservoir.
The extraction system's maximumcapacity is somewhat less than 6 MGD, which is the flow rate
currently withdrawn from the reservoir. The concept o f this alternative i s to increase the capacity
o f this system to 10 MGD, which will provide sufficient capacity for future years up to 2015.
The incremental flow produced by this alternative is about 4.5 MGD, Le., about 20,000 m3/day.
The production system consists o f apumpingstation at the dam site, the pipeline from the damto
the treatment plant and the treatment plant at Ciceron. The system components which would
require upgrading include the pumping station, part of the pipeline, expansion o f the capacity o f
the treatment plant and some additional conveyance mains which are needed inorder to connect
the Hill 20 system to the Roseau dam system. The increase in the extraction capacity from the
Roseau reservoir basically reduces the drought return period for which the reservoir was
designed. However, since what currently happens i s that the restrictive extraction capacity results


                                                 93

in water shortages every year-regardless          o f rainfall-it i s recommended to increase the
extraction capacity from the reservoir and satisfy demand in years which are not drought years.
The risk o f drought should be addressed in the medium-terminvestment program through new
source identification and/or         reductions in water losses in the distribution network. In the
forthcoming years, major efforts will be directed to reducing such water losses.

The works which will need to be undertaken inorder to implementAlternative 1are detailed in
the following table:


Table 1.Water SupplyInfrastructureImprovementWorks under Alternative 1

                           Component                                    Estimated Cost
                                                                        (US%Million)
A. Roseau DamPumping StationUpgrade                                         0.35
B.Vanard-Sarot PipeReplacement                                               1.o
C. Expansion o f the Ciceron Treatment Plant                                 3.2
D.Mome Bocage DistributionPipeline                                          2.39
-TOTAL                                                                      6.94


ItemBywhich consists of replacing 1,300 meters o f an 18" pipe by a 24" pipe, was estimated by
WASCO to cost US$ 1.5 million. Inthis analysis o f alternatives, a total cost o f US$1 million i s
assumed as the cost o f replacing the pipe since the original WASCO estimate seems too high.
The Morne Bocage Distribution Pipeline i s the connection o f the Roseau system to the Hill 20
system.

The investment in civil works under this alternative amount to US$ 6.59 million (items B,C, D).
Annual operation and maintenance (O&M) costs for this type o f works amount to about 0.5
percent o f investments, i.e. about 34,500 US$/year.

Annual O&M costs o f the electromechanical equipment like the pumping station (item A)
 amount to about 2.5 percent o f investments, i.e., about 8,750 US$/year.

The cost of chemical usedinthe treatment plant was estimated at US$ 0.03 per m3, which for an
 incremental flow o f 20,000 m3/day translates to about 194,000 US$/year. The Treatment process
 in the plant is almost completely based on hydraulic processing and hence does not consume
 energy and does not result inadditional energy costs.

The incremental energy costs o f the new pumping station were calculated as the difference
between the energy costs for operating the new pumping station and the energy costs for
 operating the existing pumping station, taking into account a unit energy cost if US$ 0.28 per
Kwh.The resultingincremental annual energy cost amounts to about 850,000 US$/year.

 In summary, the total investment required for Alternative 1is US$ 6.94 million and the annual
 operation and maintenance cost amounts to US$ 1,087,250. These investment and O&M costs
 are the input data for the comparative economic analysis presentedbelow.




                                                   94

Altemative 2

The concept o fthis altemative is to separatethe distributionnetwork o fRodney Bay andnorth o f
Rodney Bay from the distributionnetwork south of Rodney Bay (this can be physically achieved
by closing the Mongiraudvalve on the principle 14" pipeline) and to install a Reverse Osmosis
desalination plant which will supply water to Rodney Bay and the area north o f it. Under this
altemative, the Roseau system will remain practically unchanged and it i s estimated that the 6
MGD currently produced by this system will be sufficient to supply the demand o f all the area
south o f Rodney Bay. However, the Mome Bocage distribution pipeline, which will connect the
Hill 20 system to the Roseau system will still be needed under Altemative 2, to alleviate the
water shortage inthe Hill20 area.

The population inRodney Bay and the areanorth o f it is about to 20,000. The existinghotels and
those under construction in this area have a capacity o f 7,500 rooms. With full occupancy o f 2
persons per room, the maximum number o f tourists inthis area could reach 15,000 per day. As a
result, the total population o f residents and tourists in the Rodney Bay and the area north o f can
reach 35,000. The average specific water consumption, taking into account residents and hotel
guests, i s 60 GPD/capita, i.e., 0.27 m3/day/capita. The range o f water losses in the distribution
network in Saint Lucia i s 45 - 55 percent. Using a figure o f 50 percent will result in a water
production rate o f 18,900 m3/day needed to satisfy the demand o f Rodney Bay and the area
north o f it. The RO plant considered in this altemative i s one with a production capacity o f
20,000 m3/day.

The estimated investment cost o f an advanced technology 20,000 m3/day RO plant is about
US$18 million. For the purpose o f the current comparison, it was assumed that a simpler,
modular designed plant with simple automation systems will be used. The estimated cost o f such
a plant is about US$15 million. The investment cost o f an RO plant of 4,500 m3/day in an
unsolicited proposal to the Government o f Saint Lucia was priced at US$5.2 million, excluding
taxes and duties. This indicates that the estimated cost o f US$15 million i s relatively
conservative.

As mentioned, in addition to the investment in the RO plant, an investment o f US$2.7 million
will still be needed under this altemative for the Mome Bocage distribution pipeline, to connect
the Hill20 systemto the Roseau system.

O&M costs for the Mome Bocage pipeline amount to 13,500 US$/year, representing 0.5 percent
o f the investment.

Electricity cost i s the largest annual cost component indesalination and would be especially high
inSaint Lucia due to highenergycost. Specific energy consumptionfor this type ofdesalination
plant is about 5 Kwhper m3 of water produced. With a unit energy cost o f US$ 0.28 per Kwh,
the annual electricity cost o f the plant will amount to 10.22 US$ milliodyear.

Costs of chemical products for treatment o f the raw water and the desalinated water were
estimated at us$ 0.05 per m3, which for a flow o f 20,000 m3/day translates to about 365,000
U S$/year.



                                                  95

The annual costs for replacement o f the R O membrane amount to US$ 0.04 per m3, which
translates to 292,000 US$/year.

The annual costs for spare parts amount to US$ 0.05 per m3, i.e., 365,000 US$/year, and
manpower costs also amount to US$ 0.05 per m3, Le., 365,000 US$/year.

Insummary, the total investment required for Alternative 2 is US$ 17.7 million and the annual
operation and maintenance cost amount to US$ 11,620,000. These investment and O&M costs
serve as the input data for the comparative economic analysis presented below.

ComparativeEconomicAnalysis of the Alternatives

A comparative economic analysis o fthe two altematives was carried out, assuming that: (i)   both
would provide the same benefits; and (ii)    both will provide a constant flow o f 20,000 m3/day
over the years.

For each altemative, the Present Value (PV) o f the expenditure stream during 16 years was
calculated suing a discount rate o f 12 percent. It was assumed that the construction period for
both altematives i s one year and during this year, O&M cost were nonexistent. For Altemative 1,
an additional expenditure o f US$ 350,000 was added in year 10 for replacement o f the Roseau
pumping station, considering a life span o f 10 years for electromechanical equipment. For
Altemative 2, an additional expenditure o f US$ 15 million was added inyear 15 for replacement
of the RO plant. In addition to the PV, the water cost o f each altemative was also calculated,
considering an annual flow o f 7.3 million cubic meters per year (equivalent to 20,000 m3/day).
The resulting values o f the PV and water cost o f each altemative are presented in the following
table:


                              Alternative1:Increaseof             Alternative2: RO
                              WithdrawalRateofWater               DesalinationPlant
                                fromthe RoseauDam
PV, US$million                            13.2                           89.2
Water Cost. US$/m3                       0.26                            1.75


The cost o f desalinated water in an unsolicited BOT proposal for an RO plant which the
Government o f Saint Lucia received was 1.82 US$/m3, which indicates that the economic
analysis of Alternative 2 is reasonable and consistent with market conditions.

The results o f this comparative economic analysis demonstrate that Alternative 1,enhancement
o fthe Roseau system, i s less expensive than Alternative 2, the RO desalinationplant.

As noted, the comparison is based on the assumption that both altematives will provide a
constant flow of 20,000 m3/day over the years. However, the conclusion that Alternative 1 i s
less costly holds for any pattem o f evolution of the water production over the years, Le.,



                                                 96

Alternative 1 will be less costly for any pattem o f water demand evolution. That means that if
less than 20,000 m3/day will be produced, the values o f the PV inthe table above will be lower,
because the O&M costs will be smaller, however the PV o f Alternative 2 will always be larger
thanthat ofAlternative 1.Also, the water cost values at lower productionrates will probably be
higher than those presented inthe table above.

TechnicalandEnvironmentalComparisonofthe Alternatives

Alternative 1 is much simpler to operate and maintain. WASCO has been operating the Roseau
system for many years; the works o f Alternative 1 will not elevate the complexity o f the system.
The operation o f the R O plant under Alternative 2 will be more complex and will require highly
skilled technical staff.

Altemative 1will not generate any negative environmental impacts. Alternative 2, however, may
cause negative environmental impacts resulting from the discharge o f concentrated brine to the
Caribbean Sea at a sensitive environment o f fragile ecosystems o f coral reefs and fragile fauna.
The area is also frequented by whales, for which high salinity is unfavorable. The energy
consumption o f the RO plant might require extension o f the capacity o f energy production in
Saint Lucia and that might cause additional negative impacts. It would also be difficult to
identify in the Rodney Bay area a suitable site for a desalination plant, which would not have
negative impact on the environment, since what would needto be done i s to locate an industrial
plant inabeachresort area or alongside protectedparks.

ConclusionsandRecommendation

Based on the analyses performed, alternative 1 i s the preferred alternative. Given the current
costs o f technology and energy, providing desalinated water into a distribution network results in
much higher costs than the expansion o f an existing source such as the Roseau Dam. It is
therefore recommended to select Alternative 1for the short term investmentprogram




                                               97

                               Annex 13: SafeguardPolicyIssues
 SAINT LUCIA: WATER SUPPLY INFRASTRUCTUREIMPROVEMENTPROJECT

OP 4.01 ENVIRONMENTAL SAFEGUARDS

ProjectClassification   - Category   B

Introduction

The urgent need to improve the availability o f good quality drinking water in the northern
section o f Saint Lucia has been described in Section A o f this PAD. Current inadequacies o f the
distribution system coupled with the demands for growth in the region are placing increasing
pressure on the water supply system. The ability to service all population segments i s a priority
with the greatest benefit going to low income families. At risk groups include children under 5,
the infirm and the elderly.      These groups will realize a greater proportional benefit from
improved access to public water supplies. The impacts associated with the project will result in
induced development in the extreme northern service area (Rodney Bay, Gross Islet) as pent-up
development demand i s currently frustrated due to lack o f water. Numerous communities and
several hotels have been designed and laid-out with supporting infrastructure but are not
developing due to poor land sales.

During the preparation phase o f this project, an Environmental Assessment and a Social
Assessment were prepared. This section summarizes the recommendations o f those studies.

EnvironmentalImpacts

Generally, impacts o f capacity improvement are relatedto construction activities at the work site.
Only those portions o f the project involving the construction o f new pipelines will affect the
community at large as these works will require access to private lands. Those works to occur in
public roadways present additional but manageable impacts.           The greatest positive impact
associated with this option i s that it improves the ability to provide a reliable supply o f potable
water throughout the Theobolds WTP service area and reaches into low-income communities
where service is poor or non-existent.      These are the groups least able to afford developing
alternative sources to public water supply.

Social Impacts

Generally, impacts associated with the capacity improvement, are related to construction
activities at the work site. Only those portions o f the project involving the construction o f new
pipelines will affect the community at large as these works will require access to private lands.
Those works to occur in public roadways present additional but manageable impacts. The
greatest positive impact associated with this option i s that it improves the ability to provide a
reliable supply o f potable water throughout the Theobolds WTP service area and reaches into
low income communities where service i s poor or non-existent. These are the groups least able
to afford developing alternative sources to public water supply.


                                                 98

While this project will result inthe continued development of the extreme northern service area,
the infrastructure and current supply will be adequate to meet the current and anticipated future
demand to 2015.

Mitigation of Impacts

 Specific mitigations are outlined in table 1.0 and pertain to the construction phase o f the works
contemplated. To implement these requirements, a series o f draft contract clauses have been
developed for use inthe preparation o f tender documents. These clauses are designedto require
contractor environmental management at the job site and are managed through inspection and
hold-back penalties.

                      Table 1. Mitigations to Impacts from Construction

                                                         Mitigation
~          Impact
                                Stabilize banks o f excavations, erect erosion control
Potential for soil erosion      barriers where necessary, cover removed soil and re-
                                vegetate excavations when work i s complete

                                Provide sanitary facilities at the construction site or
Worker sanitation               make arrangements for the use o f existing sanitary
management                      facilities

                                Informed the public through press releases and
Interdictiono fpublic           community meetings o fplannedworks, coordinate with
roadways                        emergency services to assure no loss incommunity
                                coverage,
                                Coordinate with Min.Works to re-surface roads ina
                                timely fashion,
                                Planworks inorder to minimize blockages and to
                                facilitate traffic flows ingeneral and around local traffic
                                patterns
                                Control or limit the use o fhazardous materials
Possible contamination o f      substitutingmaterialswith less hazardous products,
work sites with fuels and       Provide for the safe storage and use o fhazardous
hazardous materials.            materials through protected storage and worker
                                training, Provide for the safe disposal o fusedhazardous
                                materials inaccordance with Saint Lucian law.
                                Use existing commercial fueling stations, Provide for
                                the secure storage o ffuel supplies inthe field, locate
                                fueling areas away from environmentally sensitive
                                areas such as water courses, Provide for spill control
                                and prevention as part o f the overall fuel management
                                program, dispose o f waste fuels and containers in
                                accordance with Saint Lucian law



                                                    99

           Impact                                        Mitigation
                                 Minimize waste throughjudicious construction
Pollution form construction      management practices, collect and dispose o f
wastes                           constructionwaste through the Saint Lucian waste
                                 management system, provide for the collection and
                                 management o fworker generated waste (trash cans at
                                 work sites)
                                 Manage noise by conduction construction activities
Noise from construction          duringnormal working hours, alert the community
activities                       whenthe construction is to take place, assure
                                 machinery usedinconstructioni s properly equipped
                                 with working: muffler svstems.
                                 Prohibit the use o f oils on roads for dust control, wet
Dustcontrol issues               roads with water where necessary usingwater supplied
                                 from amroved sources
Temporary loss o f crops         Identify landswhere crops will beremoved for
anduse o f agricultural land     construction andnegotiate with farmers and pay
at the construction site         appropriate compensation
Discovery o f cultural-          Stop work, notify appropriate authorities to evaluate the
historical antiquities           site
Standingwater and disease        Prohibit the long-term accumulation o f standing water
vector Droduction                suitable for mosauito remoduction


Compensation for temporary loss o f crops, harvesting or use o f land will also be required as the
project proceeds. A strong communication program should be developed to keep the public and
supporting public services informed concerning changing traffic pattems.               These will be
implemented through the WASCO Public Affairs office and using existing compensation
procedures already inplace

Management o f induced growth and development is well beyond the scope o f the project and
WASCO's capability. Ministryo f Physical Development i s the lead agency and for the indirect
impact - Induced Development, the solution i s beyond the capabilities o f WASCO and falls
within the domain o fthe Ministry o fPhysicalDevelopment.

The issue gets to the heart o f the balance between economy, development, and preservation. For
the present, institutional strengthening o f the Ministryo f Physical Development has produced a
building code and resulted in improved planning capacity within the ministry. However, the
agency i s still unable to effectively manage regional development. Measures are recommended
to improve the planning and enforcement o f planningrequirements within this ministry to help
develop a coherent development strategy for the northem service area inparticular.

To the degree that development is impacted by water connections, this project can assist the
planning process by seeking to achieve better coordination in permitting connections between
WASCO and the Ministry o f Physical Development.                 In the development of the project,




                                                  100

assistance during the project planning stage can be given to WASCO in strengthening their
permitprocess and accountability between the ministry andWASCO.

OP 4.37 SAFETY OF DAMS

The project consists o f the improvement and construction o f drinking water infrastructure that
relies on the Compton Dam and the Roseau reservoir as the source o f raw water. This triggered
the requirements identified under OP 4.37 - Safety o fDams. The Compton dam was constructed
in 1996 under a World Bank/OPIC program. Based on initial site visits, the dam appears to be
very well maintainedwith no obvious sign o f degradation either inthe dam works themselves or
with the associated appurtenances. All pumps, pipes, buildings and associated facilities appear
to be in excellent condition. Routine maintenance activities were observed during the site visit
and included continual vegetation control along the dam and associated access areas. Safety
equipment located along the dam, access paths and walkways appeared to be in good condition
and regularly maintained. While no technical inspection was made o f the dam structure, all
equipment was functioning and apparently in good repair. Security was intact and site access i s
screened and limited. Fuelstorage facilities were clean, freshly painted and free from debris.

Interviews with WASCO staff indicate that a regular program o f maintenance and professional
inspection i s in operation and functioning well. The area i s subject to seismic activity and
regular, underwater inspections (by contractor) are made after every seismic event regardless o f
magnitude. Wasco appears to have a strong safety inspection program in place and appears to
have the technical capability to maintain this level o f surveillance.

To verify compliance with OP 4.37, WASCO has submitted to the World Bank their most recent
inspection reports together with copies o f their safety management and surveillance program.
Reports include: Daily Inspection Records, Bi-annual Inspection Reports, Post-Seismic Scuba
Reconnaissance Reports and the Dam Operations and Maintenance Manual. Those reports show
that the borrower has an effective dam safety program in operation; the borrower conducts and
documents full level inspections and dam safety assessments; and that those assessments and
findings are satisfactory to the.Bank.




                                                101

                             Annex 14: ProjectPreparationandSupervision
 SAINT LUCIA: WATER SUPPLYINFRASTRUCTUREIMPROVEMENT PROJECT


                                                              Planned                             Actual
PCNreview                                                   02/24/2005                          03/15/2005
InitialPID to PIC                                           03/10/2005                          03/24/2005
InitialISDS to PIC                                          03/31/2005                          04/01/2005
Appraisal                                                   04/15/2005                          04/11/2005
Negotiations                                               04/21-22/2005                      04/21-22/2005
Board/RVP approval                                          05/19/2005
Planned date of effectiveness                               07/15/2005
Planned closing date                                        01/15/2009
Note*: Insteadof Mid-Term Review, one semi-annualprojectreportper year will provide, as an addendum, the status ofthe
projectaccordingto the relevantProjectMonitoring Criteriapresentedinthis PAD.

Keyinstitutions responsible for preparation ofthe project:
MinistryofFinance's Officeofthe PermanentSecretary;WASCO

Bank staff andconsultantswho worked onthe project include:

               Name                                         Title                                      Unit
Jordan Schwartz                             Task Team Leader and Senior                              LCSFP
                                                Infrastructure Specialist
MenahemLibhaber                                 Lead Sanitary Engineer                              LCSFW
Caroline van denBerg                                Senior Economist                               EWDWS
Nico Saporiti                                       Financial Analyst                               LCSFW
JuanDavid Quintero                            Environmental Specialist /                             LCSEN
                                                 Safeguards Specialist
Gerald Meier                                   Environmental Consultant                              LCSFU
Luz Maria Gonzalez                         Economic Analysis Consultant                              LCSFU
Karla Chaman                                  Communications Specialist                             EXTCD
Diana Ortiz Zuluaga                          Urbanand Water Consultant                              LCSFW
Julieta Abad                                          Team Assistant                                 LCSFP
LisaLui                                               Senior Counsel                                 LEGOP
SvetlanaKlimenko                          Financial Management Specialist                           LCOAA
Patricia Macgowan                           Senior Procurement Specialist                            LCOPR

Bankfunds expendedto date onprojectpreparation:
     1. Bank resources: US$80,000
     2. Trust funds: US$117,000
     3, Total: US$197,000

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
     1. Remaining costs to approval: US$30,000
     2. Estimated annual supervision cost: US$70,000



                                                           102

Annex 15: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
 SAINT LUCIA: WATER SUPPLY INFRASTRUCTUREIMPROVEMENT PROJECT


Aide Memoire, Water Sector Reform TechnicalAssistance Project/Infrastructure Improvement
Project, January 24- February 4,2005.

Aide Memoire, Water Sector Infrastructure Improvement Project, December, 2004.

Dam Inspection and Safety Reports, WASCO, 2003 to 2005.

Project Appraisal Document. RoseauDam InvestmentLoanProject. 1989.

Project Appraisal Document. Water Sector Reform TechnicalAssistance Project. November,
2001.

Project Concept Note. Water Supply Infrastructure Improvement Project. March 9,2005

Project Concept Review Minutes. Water Supply Infrastructure Improvement Project. March 15,
2005.

RoseauDam Operations and Maintenance Manual, Stantec, 1996.

Environmental and Social Impact Assessment for the RoseauDam.June, 1989

Stone & Webster Management Consultants, "Poverty Assessment Report". November 2004.

Stone & Webster Management Consultants, "Technical Assessment and Operational Efficiency
Report". October 2004

WASCO, "Infrastructural Improvement Project Proposal". October 2003




                                              103

                                            Annex 16: Statementof Loansand Credits
          SAINT LUCIA: WATER SUPPLY INFRASTRUCTUREIMPROVEMENT PROJECT

                                                                                                                                 Differencebetween
                                                                                                                                 expected and actual
                                                                    Original Amount in US$ Millions                                 disbursements

Project ID   FY    Purpose                                      IBRD         IDA       SF        GEF       Cancel.   Undisb.    Orig.      Frm.Rev'd
PO76795     2005   L C HIV/AIDS PREVENTION &                       3.20       1.60      0.00      0.00       0.00      6.40       0.07        0.00
                   CONTROL
PO86469     2004   LC Disaster Management Project I1               3.70       3.77      0.00      0.00       0.00      7.00       -0.35       0.00
PO70244     2002   LC Water Sector Reform Tech Assist               1.30      1.30      0.00      0.00       0.00       1.79       1.os       0.00
PO77687     2002   Saint Lucia Emergency Recovery Project           1.89      4.41      0.00      0.00       0.00      2.95        2.35       0.00
PO77712     2002   6 0 LC Education (APLOl)                        6.00       6.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      12.81       6.71       0.00

                                                        Total:     16.09     17.08      0.00      0.00       0.00      30.95       9.83       0.00




                                                                SAINT LUCIA
                                                           STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                       Held andDisbursedPortfolio
                                                          InMillionsofUSDollars


                                                                    Committed                                      Disbursed

                                                                   IFC                                            IFC
        FY Approval    Company                        Loan        Equity      Quasi      Partic.      Loan       Equity      Quasi     Partic.




                                    Total portfolio:   0.00         0.00        0.00       0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00




                                  ~~                                                    ~           ~~          ~


                                                                                  Approvals PendingCommitment
                       FY Approval       Company                              Loan        Equity         Quasi        Partic.




                                               Total pending commitment:      0.00         0.00           0.00         0.00




                                                                         104

                                                Annex 17: Country at a Glance
  SAINT LUCIA: WATER SUPPLYINFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT

                                                                  L a t h  Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              America   middle-
                                                     St. Lucia & Carlb.   Income         1evelo pment diamond'
2003
Population,mid-year(millions)                              0.B      534       335                   Lifeexpectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                        4,050    3,250     5,340
                                                                                                           T
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                           0.55     1741     1,788

Average annual growth, 1997-03
Population(%)                                                12        15       1.2
Laborforce (%)                                                        2.1       1.8      ;N I                              Gross
                                                                                         ier                               primary
M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1997-03)                                 :apita                          nrollment
Poverty(%of populationbeiownationaipoveriyline)
Urban population (%oftotalpopulation)                        31       77        76
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                               74        71       73                         1
Infant mortaiity(per 1,OOOlivebirths)                        n        28        B
Chiidmalnutrition (%ofchildren under5)                                                        Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwatersource (%ofpopulation)            96        66        69
iliiteracy(%ofpopuiationage 159                                         11       9
Gross primaryenroliment (%of school-age population)          111     P9        n 4         -St.     Lucia
   Male                                                      111      01       n 4               Upper-middle-incomegroup
   Female                                                    la       a6       n 4

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                               1983       1993    2002      2003
                                                                                         Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                               0.25      0.49     0.66      0.69
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                    21.7      24.6     22.8      26.6
Exportsof goods andservices/GDP                 63.6       67.7     46.3      55.7                       Trade

Gross domestic savingslGDP                       w.3        18.9     6.8       15.2
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                        22.6       14.1     P.4       n.1

Current account balance/GDP                      -6.0      -n.7     -P.5      -14.3
Interestpayments/GDP                              0.4        10        13       1.7
Total debt/GDP                                    a2       20.5      613      53.2
Total debt service/exports                        1.3       3.2       7.0      6.6
Presentvalue of debVGDP                                             59.8
Presentvalue of debt/exports                                        136.7                              indebtedness
                                     1983.93 1993-03     2002     2003 2003-07
(averageannualgroMh)
GDP                                       9.0      1.2      2.2         17
GDP percapita                             7.5    -0.2        15       0.6


STRUCTURE o f the ECONOMY
                                                1983      1993    2002       2003        Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(%of GDP)
Agriculture                                       15.0      n.9       6.4       5A       40 T
industry                                          18.3      210      18.5      m.o
  Manufacturing                                   9.5       7.5       4.6       5.O
Services                                         66.7       66.1     75.1      76.6

Private consumption                              63.3      65.6      56.3      57.2
Generalgovernment consumption                    22.4       14.3     26.9      27.6
imports of goods and services                     71.0      73.6     52.2      69.3     I          -GDI           -GDP


                                             1983.93 1993-03      2002       2003
(averageannualgroMh)                                                                     Growth of exports and Imports (Oh)

Agriculture                                       5.3       -8.3     -6.5      -11.6
industry                                          9.8        17       -15       -11
  Manufacturing                                   7.4       -0.5      5.0       0.6
Services                                          6.6       2.2         11      4.3

Private consumption                               9.7        -11      2.9       3.4
Generalgovernment consumption                     4.6        9.6     -0.7       4.2
Gross domestic investment                         111        3.1    -n.6       28.6
imports of goods and services                     a.7       -0.7    -6.7       35.0             -Exports         -Inports
                                                                                                                               I




                                                                        105

                                                                                                              St. Lucia
_________~                                         ~~




PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1883        1883    2002   2003
Domestic prices                                                               Inflation (YO)

(%change)                                                                                                               I
Consumer prices                            14          0.8    -0.6    0.5
Implicit GDP deflator                      3 2         0 4     12     0.1

Government finance
(%of GDP,includes current grants)
                                                                                     -
Current revenue                              ..       26.3    23.5   23.6
Current budget balance                       ..        1.4     15     0.3
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..       -4.9    -5.1   -9.3                  GDPd#lator    -CPI


TRADE
                                         1883        1883    2002   2003
(US$ millions)                                                                 Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                        48          0 0     10      70   500 T
  Bananas                                   B           51      ll Error
  Fruits andvegetables                      0            1       1   Error  400

  Manufactures                              14         35      25    Error  300
Total imports (cif)                        D l        300      3 0    401
  Food                                     24          59      63       11  200

  Fuel and energy                           0           B       31     42     100
                                                                                                                        I
  Capital goods                             B          64      12     P 2      0

Export price index (S95=WO)                61          93      64      87          97    98  99    00      01  02

Import price index(995=W0)                 83          92      04      a1                 IExports       e Inports  O3
Terms of trade (995=WO)                     81         D2      DO     100

BALANCE o f PAYMENTS
                                         1883        1883    2002   2003
(US$ millions)                                                                 Current account balance to GDP (X)

Exports of goods andservices               102        333      346    390
imports of goods andservices               P l        362      400    453
Resource balance                           -25         -29     -55    -63

Net income                                  -1         -35     -43    -49
Net current transfers                       14          P       73      0

Current account balance                    -0          -52     -85    -99

Financing items (net)                       P           51      71
Changes in net reserves                      0          -5       7

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)        8          58      80
Conversion rate (DEC,iocaWS$j              2.7         2.1     2.1     2.1


 EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1883        1883    2002   2003
 (US$ mi//ionsj                                                                Composition o f 2003 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        B           D1     415    368
  IBRD                                       0           0       6      D
  IDA                                        0           5      20      23    1                                          I
Total debt service                            1          11     26      21
  IBRD                                       0           0        1      2        G O
  IDA                                        0           0       0       0

 Coinpositionof net resourcefiow                                              i
  Official grants                            3           14      15
  Official creditors                         2           D       11      9
  Private creditors                          0           -1     30      15
  Foreign direct investment                 10          34      22
                                                                                                                         I
  Portfolio equity                           0           0       0
                                                                                                 F:93                    I
 World Bank program
  Commitments                                0           0       21      0     A IBRD
                                                                                 -                           E BilatHal
                                                                                                              -
  Disbursements                              0            1      8       6     6-IDA     D-Othwmrltilaterai  F-Rivate
  Principal repaynents                       0           0        1      2     C-IMF                         G- Short-tsm




                                                               106

MAPSECTION


