Page  1
Environmental Assessment (EA) 
Saint Lucia Water Supply Infrastructure 
Improvement Project 
 
]March 25, 2005 
 
Prepared for the World Bank
E1134 
Page  2
Page i 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
1. 
EXECUTIVE 
SUMMARY 
      1 
 
2. 
INTRODUCTION 
       3 
 
3. 
DESCRIPTION 
OF 
ALTERNATIVES 
    3 
 
3.1. 
  Alternative 1 
–
Improve Capacity of Existing System 
(Capacity 
Improvement) 
 
     4 
 
3.2. 
Alternative 2 – Installation of a Mobile Desalination 
Plant at Pigeon Point (Desal- Plant)    
 
 
11 
 
4. 
REGULATORY 
AND 
LEGAL 
FRAMEWORK 
   12 
 
4.1. 
  General Legislative Authorities 
 
 
 
12 
 
4.2. 
 
 
WASCO 
legislation 
     13 
 
4.3. 
  Public Health Legislation and Regulations   
 
17 
 
4.4. 
 Employees (Occupational Health and Safety)  
Act 
No 
10 
of 
1985 
      18 
 
4.5. 
 
International 
Treaties 
     18 
 
5. 
DESCRIPTION 
OF 
ENVIRONMENT 
    21 
 
5.1. 
Physical 
       21 
 
5.2. 
 
 
BIOLOGICAL 
      23 
 
5.3. 
 
 
Socioeconomic 
      27 
 
6. 
ANALYSIS OF IMPACTS AND MITIGATION 
 
 
 
36 
 
6.1. 
Summary 
Overview      36 
 
6.2. 
  Alternative 1 – Improve Capacity of Existing System 
(Capacity 
Improvement) 
 
     37 
 
6.3. 
Alternative 2 – Installation of a Mobile Desalination  
Plant at Pigeon Point (Desal- Plant)    
 
 
44 
Page  3
Page ii 
 
7. 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
MANAGEMENT 
PLAN 
   52 
 
7.1. 
Contract 
development 
     52 
 
7.2. 
 
Vigilance 
       53 
 
7.3. 
 
Close 
out 
       53 
 
7.4. 
 
WASCO 
Responsibilities     53 
 
8. 
MANAGEMENT 
RECOMMENDATIONS    54 
 
9. 
INSTITUTIONAL 
IMPLEMENTATION 
    54 
 
10. 
 
CAPACITY 
BUILDING 
      54 
 
APPENDICES - 
 
APPENDIX I, IUCN Criteria for Critically Endangered, Endangered and 
Vulnerable  
 
APPENDIX II, DRAFT ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT CONTRACT 
CLAUSES 
 
Page  4
Page 1 
 
1. EXECUTIVE 
SUMMARY 
 
The urgent need to improve the availability of good quality drinking water in the northern 
section of St. Lucia is obvious.  Current inadequacies of the distribution system coupled 
with the demands for growth in the region are placing increasing pressure on the 
distribution system.  The ability to service all population segments is a priority with the 
greatest benefit going to low income families.  At risk groups include children under 5 
and the elderly.  These groups will realize a greater proportional benefit from improved 
access to public water supplies.  The impacts associated with both alternatives differ 
widely given the technologies involved and the users served by the two options.  Both 
options will result in induced development in the extreme northern service area (Rodney 
Bay, Grose Islet) as pent-up development demand is currently frustrated due to lack of 
water.  Numerous communities have been designed and laid-out with supporting 
infrastructure but are not developing due to poor land sales.  There are also plans for the 
construction of no less than 4 new hotel complexes in the region. 
 
Environmental Impacts 
 
Generally, impacts associated with the first alternative 
–
Capacity improvement, are 
related to construction activities at the work site.  Only those portions of the project 
involving the construction of new pipelines will affect the community at large as these 
works will require access to private lands.  Those works to occur in public roadways 
present additional but manageable impacts.  The greatest positive impact associated with 
this option is that it improves the ability to provide a reliable supply of potable water 
throughout the Theobolds WTP service area and reaches into low income communities 
where service is poor or non-existent.  These are the groups least able to afford 
developing alternative sources to public water supply. 
 
While this option will result in the continued development of the extreme northern 
service area, the infrastructure and current supply are adequate to meet the current and 
anticipated future demand.   
 
The second option, the Desal-plant, provides water only to a specific section of the 
Theobolds WTP area.  While it would relieve the system of short term demands 
emanating from that area, it would not permit the other improvements necessary to 
reliably supply water throughout the Theobolds WTP service area.   
 
Aside from the greatly increased costs of water production, the desal option contains a 
variety of other environmental consequences.  These include for example, aesthetic 
issues, management of seawater intake and brine discharge, chemical pollutants, 
ecological and marine habitat concerns, issues associated with endangered species and 
increased energy demands. Furthermore, it is clear, given the pressure for growth in the 
Page  5
Page 2 
plants service region, that the demand on the system will quickly increase as new 
construction begins again in the belief that water is readily available.  Finally, the service 
area for the desal plant represents one of the highest income areas of the island where the 
average household income is nearly double the national average.  This indicates that the 
direct benefits of this option will not be distributed among the middle to lower income 
brackets more prevalent in the greater northern service area.  The additional cost 
associated with the production of desalinated water would not be borne by the local 
service area but would necessarily be folded into the general cost of WASCO water 
production.  Paying for this additional cost would have to be distributed across the entire 
population through the entire system.  Absent a special use fee for the service area, the 
result is a form of water subsidy for the most affluent portion of the country. 
 
Comparison of Alternatives 
 
Of the two options, option 1, Capacity upgrade, produces the greatest long-term benefit 
for the entire service area and addresses the total water demand over the next 10 
–
15 
years.  The capacity upgrades clearly meet the long term growth requirements of the 
northern section with greater reliability, lower cost, and fewer significant direct 
environmental impacts than the desal option. 
 
Neither alternative has constructions planned in an area suspected of containing 
undiscovered artifacts or areas of cultural-historical significance. 
Page  6
Page 3 
 
2. INTRODUCTION 
 
A
program of improvements to the St. Lucian public water system is contemplated to 
alleviate the shortages currently experienced in the northern portion of the distribution 
system.  The two scenarios examined include: 
 
·
Improvements to increase the capacity of the current system 
 
·
Installation of a 20,000m3/day desalination plant 
 
Of the two options, the improvements to existing capacity has the greatest impact on the 
service region by making water available to a wider segment of the population.  The 
Desalination plant is planned in a sub-region of the northern part of the island and while 
alleviating the short-term demand for water, services a limited population in an explosive 
growth area.  In either case, development in the north is hampered by the lack of water.  
This report explores the environmental impacts associated with the two alternative 
projects. 
 
3.  DESCRIPTION OF ALTERNATIVES 
 
Two alternatives are under consideration for the improvement of potable water services 
under this project.  The first involves the improvements to existing infrastructure and the 
amplification of the existing water treatment facility at Cicero.  As the map indicates, 
figure 3.1, this system is connected to the John Compton reservoir the principal source of 
water to the north end of the island.   
 
The second alternative is the installation of a containerized desalination plant at the north 
end of the island.  This plant would be built with a 20,000 m
3
/day production capacity.  
The objective of both alternatives is to improve water availability to the northern end of 
St. Lucia and areas in the vicinity of Castries which currently receives limited or 
intermittent service.   
 
This program is part of a comprehensive strategy to strengthen the water sector, which is 
essential to the economic development and growth of Saint Lucia. The sector has 
tremendous impacts on health, agriculture, tourism, industry and the quality of life.  
 
It is important to note that the benefits of the recommendations outlined can only be 
realized with the implementation of the capacity upgrades recommended for the entire 
Roseau System. Calculations illustrate that the 2003 demand exceeds the capacity of 
many of existing components in the Roseau System. As indicated 
Table 3.0 below summarizes the current and projected demands as well as the existing 
capacities of the infrastructural components required for production. 
 
Page  7
Page 4 
Table 3.0 
Current & Projected Demands (Roseau System)
 
SYSTEM 
Existing 
Capacity 
(MGD) 
Demand 
2003* 
(MGD) 
Demand 
2010* 
(MGD) 
Demand 
2015* 
(MGD) 
Demand  
2020* 
(MGD) 
Demand 
2025* 
(MGD) 
ROSEAU SYSTEM 
 
a)   Pumps 
 
b)   Pipeline 
 
c) Treatment Plant 
 
6.20 (max) 
6.00 (max) 
6.20 (max) 
6.20 (max) 
 
7.19 
 
8.66 
 
9.92 
 
11.41 
 
13.16 
Improvement to existing infrastructure comprises a 4 part program designed to improve 
treatment and distribution for the northern end of the Island.  Project elements include: 
 
·
John Compton Dam Pumping Upgrade 
 
·
Removal of Vanard-Sarot Bottleneck 
 
·
Expansion of the Theobalds Water Treatment Plant (WTP) 
 
·
Upgrade of Morne-Bocage Distribution Line 
 
3.1.   Alternative 1 
–
Improve Capacity of Existing System (Capacity 
Improvement) 
 
3.1.1. 
 
John Compton Dam Pumping Upgrade 
 
The John Compton Dam pumping facility is the primary intake, transmission and 
distribution of raw water in St Lucia. The sequence of operations that form part of this 
facilty require extraction of water from a built-up dam using a parallel-pump 
configuration consisting of five (5) pumps, pumping in sequence to a collecting tank 
located at the Millet Ridge which flows by gravity to the Theobalds Water Treatment 
Plant at Ciceron in Castries. See Figure 3.1.  
 
Currently, the existing configuration cannot meet the forecasted demand for the year 
2000 and beyond, to the year 2025. recommendations for an upgrade to the facility have 
been made. Some of the problems identified included Inadequate capacity to maintain 
current demand as well as the lack of back up capacity in the event of mechanical and or 
electrical failure.   
 
Page  8
Page 5 
With the John Compton Dam as the primary source of supply, recommendations are to 
increase the output of the current facility to match current and future demands. The 
proposed solutions to the above stated problems are as follows: 
 
·
Upgrade of pumping capacity to match future demand (i.e. to the year 2025). 
 
·
Upgrade of pipework and other civil works  
 
Replacement of the current standby generating set to accommodate for the increased 
power supply requirements of the larger pump-motor assemblies.  
The scope of work required includes the replacement of the the existing pump-motor 
assemblies, as shown in the photo presented in figure 3.2, No.4 & No.5 (rated at 150 Hp 
(horsepower) each), with larger capacity pump-motor assemblies (rated at 200 Hp each). 
The pump-motor assembly unit No.3 is also to be replaced by a 150 Hp unit. This 
upgrade will facilitate a pumping capacity of approximately 10 MGD as opposed to the 
existing 6 MGD capacity. 
 
The resulting increase in power supply requirements will require an increase in the 
standby generating capacity and slight changes to the electrical appurtenances inclusive 
of the Motor Control Center to accommodate  the increased electrical demand required to 
sustain at least four pumps in the event of a power loss to the station. These works are 
planned as upgrades or replacements for existing infrastructure, and fall with the the 
existing operational design parameters of the system.  
 
This pipeline would be installed parallel to the existing 1
8”
pipeline which would 
upgrade the raw water transmission pipeline capacity of up to 10 MGD from the Roseau 
dam and Millet intake.   
 
The joint restraints will be installed on pipe sections between Millet and Vanard stations 
at river crossings to improve the integrity and reduce the disaster vulnerability of the 
pipeline particularly when exposed to heavy river flows.  
 
Figure 3.1 
Page  9
Page 6 
Project Area and Generalized 
Infrastructure
Page  10
Page 7 
Figure 3.2  
 Pumps at the John Compton Dam
 
3.1.2.  Expansion of the Theobalds Water Treatment Plant (WTP) 
 
The T.R.Theobalds Water Treatment Plant , or the Ciceron Water Treatment Plant as it 
was formerly known, was commissioned in March 1993 as part of the upgrade of the 
general water works that formed part of the  Roseau Basin Water Development Project.  
The components completed under that project included the construction of a 750,000,000 
gallon rock filled water dam complete with a pumping station, a new water intake and 
raw water transmission pipeline at Millet stream extraction station, construction of a 
100,000 gallon header tank at Millet, a raw water transmission pipeline between Millet 
and Ciceron, construction of a modern water treatment plant at Ciceron (T.R.Theobalds ) 
and finally the first phase installation of a new treated water transmission main from 
T.R.Theobalds to Port Castries. 
 
The T.R.Theobalds Water Treatment Plant is designed to meet the needs of persons 
living the northern portions of the island.  The areas serviced by this facility plant include 
all of Castries, the Roseau Basin, Babonneau and Gros Islet and associated rural areas. 
Demand calculations for the north of the island indicate a current domestic demand 
(2003) of 5.39 MGD. The demand from the commercial sector such as hotels, cruise 
Page  11
Page 8 
ships and other large consumers is an additional 2.5 MGD.  This represents a total daily 
demand of 7.89 MGD.   
 
To date the plant is treating on average a total of 6 MGD.  This increase in treatment 
capacity is in keeping with the maximum design capacity of the plant of 6.5 MGD. Minor 
modifications have already been made to the plant with respect to the filter media in two 
of the bays and the use of a coagulant aid 
–
Polymer (PAX-18) for sediment flocculation 
to improve throughput in the existing facility.   
 
The original design of the system included the installation of a duplicate plant on space 
reserved at the same site in order to ultimately produce a maximum of 10.0 MGD.  This 
was anticipated to meet the population demands beyond 2005.  
 
Limiting the productivity of the future system however, is the raw water transmission 
pipeline capacity.  New larger pipe (24 inch) was connected to 18 inch lines during the 
initial project resulting in flow restrictions to the system.  The intention was to address 
replacement of these older lines in the future program phase bringing transmission 
capacity up the original system design specifications.  For the additional treatment 
capacity to have its desired effect, transmission line upgrades will be required as the 
available supply will be insufficient to realize the benefit of increased treatment capacity. 
 
Specifically, the expansion of the Theobalds Water Treatment Plant (WTP) will include 
the following elements: 
 
·
Expansion of the existing facility 
–
This to meet the capacity of the raw water 
transmission system which is expected to  be approximately 10 MGD.
 
·
Modification of receiving chamber
 -
to allow for the increase in flows. 
 
·
Introduction of plate or tube settlers –
 to improve the efficiency of the clarifiers 
by 40% to 50%.   The settlers will increase the surface area in the clarifier, 
thereby reducing the settling time by more then 50%.  
 
·
Construction of settling tank or pond for the re-cycling of back wash water and 
sludge collection -
 
a
settling tank or pond would be constructed for the treatment 
of back wash water which is normally discharged with the solids. At an operating 
volume 9.0 MGD, the total backwash water volume is about 400,000 gallons per 
back wash cycle. In order to reuse the backwash water it will be necessary to 
construct a pond to contain this water and to recycle it. With planned 
improvements to the system, the projected backwash interval when operation at 
9.0 MGD is every 2 days.  
 
·
Trucking of Sludge
 
–
the installation of water recovery and sludge drying areas 
will allow the removal of solids to the Beausejour Sewage Treatment Facility for 
further processing and drying.  Sludges are currently discharged directly to a 
nearby surface stream. 
Page  12
Page 9 
 
3.1.3.   Upgrade of Morne-Bocage Distribution Line 
 
This component focuses on the Morne, Bocage and Morne Du Don Water Distribution 
System.  
 
Demand calculations for the north of the island indicate a total daily demand of 7.89 
MGD, not including the storage demand, can be expected. Combined supply figures for 
the Roseau and Hill 20 systems vary between 7.4 MGD and 6.5 MGD during the wet and 
dry seasons respectively. Domestic demand for the Babonneau region is estimated at 0.7 
MGD.  
 
The high elevation areas in the Castries region, (such as Upper Morne Du Don, Bocage, 
Upper Entrepot and Carillie) are supplied by both the Theobalds and Hill 20 water 
treatment systems. Hill 20 derives its raw water from two stream extraction stations..  
During the rainy season, excess water produced by the Hill 20 System is the primary 
source of potable water. During the dry season, however the stream flows are greatly 
reduced and raw water available to the Hill 20 plant is often not capable of supplying the 
Babonneau region.  Under these conditions, water is diverted from the Roseau System to 
Hill 20.  Water is pumped from the Theobalds WTP to Morne via an 8” PVC pipeline.  
This line flows by gravity to the Bocage reservoir tank through a badly corroded 6” cast 
iron pipeline.  
 
Current domestic demand (2003) requires a pumping capacity at Theobalds WTP of 
approximately 1.84 MGD and a gravity line with a capacity of 1.69 MGD. Current 
capacities for the pumping and gravity system are 0.9 MGD and 0.76 MGD respectively. 
Table 3.1 summarizes the existing system capacities and present and projected demands.  
 
During the dry season, poor infrastructure and the lack of raw water in the Hill 20 
System, dictate that stringent rationing schedules be implemented. Most of the high 
elevation communities in the Castries and Babonneau areas which enjoy a daily supply 
during the rainy season, only receive water for a few hours once or twice weekly. This is 
a
rural area and residents most effected include numerous low income families who are 
unable to purchase storage tanks to compensate for the interruptions in supply. 
 
Page  13
Page 10 
Table 3.1 
Current & Projected Demands (Roseau System & Hill 20 System) 
 
SYSTEM 
Existing 
Capacity 
(MGD) 
Demand 
2003* 
(MGD) 
Demand 
2010* 
(MGD) 
Demand 
2015* 
(MGD) 
Demand  
2020* 
(MGD) 
Demand 
2025* 
(MGD) 
ROSEAU SYSTEM 
Ciceron P.S. 
Morne to Morne  
Du Don Pipeline 
 
6.20 (max) 
0.90 (max) 
 
0.76 (max) 
 
7.19 
1.84 
 
1.69 
 
8.66 
2.10 
 
1.93 
 
9.92 
2.31 
 
2.13 
 
11.41 
2.53 
 
2.34 
 
13.16 
2.78 
 
2.57 
HILL 20 SYSTEM 
Wet Season 
Dry Season 
 
1.20 (max) 
0.24 (min) 
 
0.70 
 
0.80 
 
0.89 
 
0.97 
 
1.06 
TOTAL 
Wet Season 
Dry Season 
 
7.40 (max) 
6.44 (min) 
 
7.89 
 
9.46 
 
10.81 
 
12.38 
 
14.22 
*
Figures do not include demand generated by private storage tanks. 
 
The specific system upgrades to be constructed include the following: 
 
·
New Ciceron Pump Station at Theobalds WTP - 
Installation of three duty pumps 
and one standby pump at Ciceron to meet the estimated water demand of  2.31 
MGD by 2015.  
 
·
New dedicated 12” Pumping Main - 
Install a 1900m pipeline to improve supply 
flows from Theobalds WTP to Morne Fortune. Pipeline upgrades are designed to 
meet water demands estimated at 2.53 MGD in 2020. 
 
·
New 200,000 Imperial Gallon (Igal) tank at Morne Fortune - 
Install a 200,000 
Igal  tank at Morne Fortune to provide additional storage for  Flow stabilization 
during peak demand, Flow stabilization required for firefighting, and  Emergency 
storage.   
 
·
New 12” gravity main, 4900m - 
Install a dedicated transmission pipeline directly 
to existing storage tanks at the Morne and Morne Du Don. This special pipeline 
link and valve assembly will allow the Theobalds WTP to feed the Bocage 
Reservoir tank and the Hill 20 WTP.  
 
·
New 100,000 Imperial gallon (Igal) tank at Babonneau - 
This storage facility will 
be required Install a 100,000 Igal  tank at Babonneau, near the Hill 20 WTP to 
accept flows from the Morne.  This is to provide additional storage for Flow 
Page  14
Page 11 
stabilization during peak demand and flow stabilization required for firefighting, 
and Emergency storage 
 
3.2.   Alternative 2 
–
Installation of a Mobile Desalination Plant at Pigeon 
Point (Desal- Plant) 
 
The second alternative is the installation of a 20,000 M
3
desalination plant along the east 
end of the Pigeon Point causeway.  The proposed site is on the west coast of the island, 
north of Rodney Bay.  This alternative involves the installation of a portable, 
containerized facility covering approximately 2,200 sq. ft. in the vicinity of the Rodney 
Bay public beach.  The installation will include necessary upgrades to electrical supply 
and the installation of backup power systems.  
 
A
transmission line of approximately 700 meters in length is to be constructed along the 
causeway to connect with WASCO transmission system.  Water would then pass to the 
local pumping network to service the extreme northern portion of the island including 
Rodney Bay, Cap estates and surrounding areas.  The proposed location is undeveloped 
and covered with vegetation typical of the region; acacia and other dry adapted flora 
adapted typical of the island’s dry coastal environs. 
 
The planned service area is the northern segment of the current WASCO distribution 
system and includes Gros Islet, Rodney Bay , Cap estates Casen Ba and surrounding 
areas.  The service area is currently experiencing significant water shortages as the 
restrictions in the current WASCO transmission system permit pumping to the area 2 or 3 
days per week.   
 
Additionally, current capacity limitations in the WASCO system do not permit the 
development of sufficient water pressures to reach houses constructed at higher 
elevations.   The area is located behind a critical elevation in the WASCO system where 
water originating at the Theobalds WTP is pumped.  After the topographic rise, the flow 
is by gravity to a series of local pumping stations used to maintain distribution pressures 
in this portion of the network.  The result is that the water produced by the desalination 
plant will only service the local area as the WASCO system cannot distribute this water 
beyond the gravity fed portion of the line. 
 
This portion of the Island is an important tourism and commercial area which is under 
intense development pressure.  Several hotels are in operation in the area and several 
more are planned for future construction.  This is an affluent area filled with large homes 
and vacation residences.   Additionally, the area supports a golf course and plans are for 
the development of several housing areas for residents and vacation homes.  Also in this 
area is the Rodney Bay complex which supports the island’s largest recreational port.  It 
is the “dry” end of the island and alternative water supplies, apart from rainwater storage, 
do not  currently exist.  One hotel, on the Pigeon Point causeway has installed a 
Page  15
Page 12 
desalination unit to augment the public water supply.  Intakes and brine returns are 
located in the sea on the north side of the causeway. 
 
Residents and businesses in the area have constructed a large number of personal storage 
tanks to help alleviate the shortages due to the limited mainline supply.  These tanks can 
reach as much as 10,000 Igal in capacity.  As a result, when water is available, WASCO 
is constantly supplying future water demand, by filling tanks, rather than satisfying the 
much lower daily end-of-pipe demand.  Tanks at lower elevations are filled first with 
those at higher elevations having access to water on a much shorter time schedule.  This 
has created an artificial drought return period that only increases as residents continue to 
install large storage tanks. 
 
Specifically, this alternative involves: 
 
·
Construction of a mobile desalination plant at the pigeon point causeway 
 
·
Construction of appropriate office, laboratory spaces and sanitary services fro 
operating staff. 
 
·
Construction of a transmission line to link with the WASCO system 
 
·
Providing sufficient pumping capacity to move water to the local WASCO 
pumping stations. 
 
Water would be drawn either from Rodney Bay or the sea along the northern side of the 
causeway via 12 inch buried pipeline.  Brine discharges would be routed either to Rodney 
bay or the sea to the north as well. 
 
4.  REGULATORY AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK 
 
4.1.   General Legislative Authorities 
 
There are four main institutions with shared responsibility for the management of 
inland water resources and related environmental policy in St Lucia.   These are: 
 
·
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries 
 
·
Ministry of Physical Development, Housing & Infrastructure
 
·
National Water & Sewerage Commission (NWSC) 
 
·
Ministry of Health 
 
The principal environmental regulatory instruments in St. Lucia are dispersed among the 
four principal government agencies as presented in table 4.1.  While conservation law is 
Page  16
Page 13 
fairly strong, laws pertaining to the use of lands and management of their environmental 
impacts are relatively new and not well enforced.   Additional supporting environmental 
management instruments are presented in table 4.2. 
 
As a resource manager, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries has overall 
responsibility for the protection of both land and marine resources for conservation as 
well as managed exploitation.   
 
The Ministry of Planning is in the process of strengthening its capabilities in both land 
use planning and in the establishment of a new building code.  In their enabling 
legislation, the Physical Planning & Development Act, 2001, the ministry is also 
responsible for the review of environmental impact statements, which are only required 
for major projects.  A land rationalization and titling program is underway but a 
significant amount of land remains untitled.  
 
Finally, in theory, the Ministry of planning grants use and building permits for 
constructions.  This process is co-managed by WASCO as the Ministry should not grant 
permits unless WASCO has approved the connection to the public water and sewage 
system.  Inefficiencies and poor communication between WASCO and Ministry of 
Planning have limited the effectiveness of this process. 
 
4.2.   WASCO legislation 
 
The Water and Sewerage Act (No. 13 of 1999) repealed the Water and Sewerage 
Authority Act (No 18 of 1984) and provides for establishment of a National Water and 
Sewerage Commission to regulate the granting of licenses, the development and control 
of water supply and sewerage facilities and related matters.  
 
The Act requires that all existing gathering grounds be retained as forest reserve or 
protected forest in accordance with the Forest, Soil and Water Ordinance, or be declared 
controlled areas, in which no person or public authority can claim or obtain the right to 
abstract and use water or construct works except in accordance with the Act. The Act also 
provides for proclamation of additional gathering grounds, to forest reserve, protected 
forest, or controlled areas.  
 
The Act protects the storage capacity or sanitation of gathering grounds from 
deforestation and animals, via the Minister responsible under the Forest, Soil and Water 
Conservation Ordinance, the Ministry of Health under the Public Health Act of 1975, or 
directly (in the case of animals) should responsible agencies not take appropriate action.  
 
The National Water and Sewerage Commission, established under the Water and 
Sewerage Act of 1999 is also required to regulate the granting of licenses and 
development and control of water supply and sewerage facilities. The Commission must 
work with WASCO for the purpose of conserving, redistributing or otherwise 
augmenting water resources. 
Page  17
Page 14 
 
Table 4.1 
Key Environmentally Related legislation
 
Agency Legislative 
Mandate 
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry 
and Fisheries
 
Department of Forestry Department of Agriculture 
Forest, Soil & Water Ordinance, 1946 
Wildlife Protection Act, 1980 
Water Resources Policy (Draft) 
Land Conservation & Improvement Act, 1992 
Pesticides & Toxic Chemicals Act, 2001 
Agricultural Small Tenancies Act, 1983 
 
National Water & Sewerage 
Commission 
(NWSC) 
 
Water & Sewerage Act, 1999 
Ministry of Physical Development, 
Housing & 
Infrastructure 
 
Physical Planning & Development Act, 2001 
 
Ministry of Health 
 
Environmental Heath Department 
Public Health Act, 1975 
Public Health (Water Quality Control) Regulations, 1978 etc. 
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT GOVERNMENT 
OF ST. LUCIA 
 
Table 4.2 
Government of St. lucia 
Selected Water and Environmentally related Mandates
 
Page  18
Page 15 
Agency Instrument 
Notes 
Land Conversation and  
Improvement Act (1992) 
 
Provision for improved land 
drainage conservation 
Establishment of Pesticides 
Control Board 
Control of import, use, labeling 
and storage of pesticides 
Pesticides & Toxic Chemicals 
Act (2001) 
Pesticides Control 
Regulations (1987) 
 
Registration of and licenses for 
use and storage of pesticides 
Agricultural Small Tenancies 
Act (1983) 
 
Enforcement of regulations 
requiring sound soil and water 
conservation practices on small 
holdings 
Control of plant pests and 
diseases 
Department of 
Agriculture, MAFF 
 
Plant Protection Act (1988) 
Regulations SI (1995) 
 
Prevent the introduction of exotic 
species 
Management of forest resources 
Establishment of forest reserve and 
protected forests 
Protection of forest, soil, water and 
wildlife resources 
Forest, Soil and Water 
Conservation Act (1946) 
 
Management of water catchments 
Department of Forestry, 
MAFF 
 
Wildlife Protection Act (1980) • 
Conservation of wildlife 
Designation of wildlife reserves 
Water Resources Policy 
(draft) 
 
Promotion of the integrated 
management of water resources 
 
National Water & 
Sewerage Commission 
 
Water & Sewerage Act (1999) • 
Management of water resources 
(ensure sustainability of water 
resources, promote public 
awareness and disseminate 
information about water 
resources management) 
 
Regulatory oversight of water 
supply and sewerage services 
 
Ministry of Physical 
Development, 
Environment and 
Housing 
 
Physical Planning & 
Development Act (2001) 
 
Land use planning, development 
control, formulation and 
implementation of housing policy, 
environmental management 
 
Page  19
Page 16 
Agency Instrument 
Notes 
Environmental Health 
Department, Ministry 
of Health 
 
Public Health Act (1975), Public Health 
Regulations 
(1978, 1980) 
 
Regulatory oversight of water 
quality, domestic waste disposal, 
sanitary facilities, food safety and 
drainage 
 
National Conservation 
Authority 
 
National Conservation 
Authority Act (1999) 
 
Establishment of an authority to 
manage public parks and beaches 
 
Under the Water and Sewerage Act (No. 13 of 1999), WASCO is required to carry out 
Government policy in relation to water supply and sewerage, provide the public with a 
safe and reliable water supply, and provide dependable sewerage services. WASCO shall, 
as far as reasonably possible, provide the public with potable water for domestic purposes 
and satisfactory supplies for agricultural, industrial or commercial purposes.  
 
The Minister may make regulations for water conservation, prescribing water fittings to 
be used, forbidding the illegal reconnection or use of water fittings that are deemed 
unsuitable, prescribing the method of water storage on any premises, and the installation, 
operation and maintenance of a water supply system in a private development.  WASCO 
is required to comply with directives, instructions, regulations and standards for water 
quality set by the Ministry responsible for public health.   
 
Persons authorized by WASCO may enter upon any land with such equipment as may be 
necessary, for the purposes of carrying out its functions, providing reasonable notice to 
the owner or occupier has been given. WASCO may enter any land and construct or 
operate (water or sewerage) works, providing reasonable notice to the owner or occupier 
has been given. A person whose property is affected has a right to compensation. 
 
The Act provides for the declaration of discharges or deposition of wastes onto land, 
sewer or drain, water or watercourse, and of wastes or classes of waste, as controlled 
water quality areas, or controlled wastes or classes of wastes respectively.  This is to 
protect public health, established and intended uses of water resources, protection of flora 
and fauna, and scenic and environmental 
values.  
 
The Minister may take action to prevent polluting matter from entering water, or remove 
and dispose of polluting matter to remedy or mitigate any pollution.  The legislation is 
currently being revised under the Water Sector Reform Project. 
 
4.3.   Public Health Legislation and Regulations 
 
The principal source of mandatory environmental standards for water and sewage works 
in St. Lucia is the Public Health Act (Act No.8 of 1975.  Regulations made under this Act 
include Water Quality Control Regulations, Sewage and Disposal of Sewage etc (No. 24 
Page  20
Page 17 
of 1978), Disposal of Offensive Matter (1976) and the Public Health (Nuisance) 
Regulations (1978). Generally, these legal instruments impose absolute prohibitions or 
qualitative restraints on activities, including the disposal of sewage and industrial 
effluents, that are intended to protect water supplies from contamination at source. Some 
applicable standards are imposed by the Public Health (Sewage and Disposal of Sewage 
and Industrial Waste Works) Regulations 1978, which prohibit the unauthorized disposal 
of any sewer fluid or liquid industrial effluent into any watercourse.  
 
The Regulations provide that authorization may only be granted if the quality and rate of 
dilution of the effluent prevents the creation of a nuisance or the effluent is treated to the 
satisfaction of the Public Health Board. The Regulations contain detailed specifications 
for the construction of sewage treatment plants, including septic tanks, Imhoff tanks, 
settling tanks, biological filters, package sewage treatment plants, oxidation ditches and 
ponds, and intermittent sand filters. As regards the allowable standards of biological 
oxygen demand (BOD), suspended solids and other chemicals in any effluent to be 
released into the environment.  
 
The Public Health (Water Quality Control) Regulations also address issues like the 
construction of water supply systems, construction and location of wells and penalties for 
infringement. As regards the inspection, repair or renewal of water and sewerage mains, 
however, the only relevant provisions appear in the Public Health (Nuisance) Regulations 
1978, under which the matters designated as nuisances include any water supply system 
that is not maintained in a sanitary manner and any sanitary convenience not constructed 
and maintained according to law. The MOH issues licenses to hotels for occupancy, food, 
swimming pool, but not for sewage plant operations. 
 
4.4.   Employees (Occupational Health and Safety) Act No 10 of 1985 
 
The Employees (Occupational Health and Safety) Act No 10 of 1985 sets standards for 
occupational health and safety in places of employment, and  requires employers to, as 
far as practicable, maintain work conditions that are safe and without risk of injury to 
health, provide safe means of access and egress, ensure risks of injury or accident do not 
arise from the handling, storage, transport, use or disposal of dangerous substances, 
provide information, training, supervision, protective clothing and first aid facilities to 
ensure employee 
protection.  
 
Employees are required to take reasonable care, cooperate with the employer in carrying 
out the provisions of the Act, not tamper with safety devices, ensure that risks do not 
arise in the handling, storage, transport, use or disposal of dangerous substances, properly 
use and care or protective clothing, report defects which may cause accident or injury, 
and report accidents or injuries to his immediate supervisor. The Act provides for 
disposal of wastes and effluents, ventilation, drinking water, latrines and urinals, first aid 
appliances, medical examination, notification of accidents and dangerous occurrence, 
guarding of machinery, training and supervision of operators, toxic substances, work in 
Page  21
Page 18 
confined spaces, personal protective equipment and protective tools, protection of eyes 
and precautions in case of fire. 
 
4.5.   International Treaties 
 
St. Lucia is party to fourteen environmentally relevant treaties or conventions.  As 
presented in table 4.3, these deal variously with protection of resources, pollution 
management and abatement, endangered species protection, management of hazardous 
chemicals and protection of marine resources.  Of particular interest are the treaties 
dealing with marine protection and management of natural resources.  While the 
preferred alternative, strengthening the existing water infrastructure, is unaffected by 
these instruments, the proposal for the installation of a desalination plant will affect the 
coastal zone.  Therefore, treaties relating to the protection of endangered species and 
protection of marine environments have particular relevance. 
 
Table 4.3 
International Environmental Treaties And Conventions 
Ratified by St. Lucia 
 
Subject Title 
Summary 
Information 
Hazardous 
Wastes 
 
Basel Convention on the 
Control of Trans-
boundary Movements of 
Hazardous Wastes and 
Their Disposal
 
Opened for signature -
 22 March 1989  
Entered into force -
 5 May 1992 
 
objective -
 to reduce trans-boundary movements of wastes subject to 
the Convention to a minimum consistent with the environmentally 
sound and efficient management of such wastes; to minimize the 
amount and toxicity of wastes generated and ensure their 
environmentally sound management as closely as possible to the 
source of generation; and to assist LDCs in environmentally sound 
management of the hazardous and other wastes they generate.  
Biodiversity  
 
Convention on Biological 
Diversity
 
Opened for signature -
 5 June 1992 
 
Entered into force -
 29 December 1993 
 
objective -
 to develop national strategies for the conservation and 
sustainable use of biological diversity. 
Marine Life 
Conservation 
 
Convention on Fishing 
and Conservation of 
Living Resources of the 
High Seas
 
Opened for signature -
 29 April 1958 
 
Entered into force -
 20 March 1966 
 
objective 
-
to solve through international cooperation the problems 
Page  22
Page 19 
Subject Title 
Summary 
Information 
involved in the conservation of living resources of the high seas, 
considering that because of the development of modern technology 
some of these resources are in danger of being overexploited. 
Endangered 
Species 
Convention on the 
International Trade in 
Endangered Species of 
Wild Flora and Fauna 
(CITES)
 
Opened for signature -
 3 March 1973                                
Entered into 
force -
 1 July 1975  
objective -
 to protect certain endangered species from overexploitation 
by means of a system of import/export permits. 
Marine 
Dumping 
Convention on the 
Prevention of Marine 
Pollution by Dumping 
Wastes and Other Matter 
(London Convention)
 
Opened for signature -
 29 December 1972                       E
ntered into 
force -
 30 August 1975  
objective -
 to control pollution of the sea by dumping and to encourage 
regional agreements supplementary to the Convention. 
Environmental 
Modification 
Convention on the 
Prohibition of Military or 
Any Other Hostile Use of 
Environmental 
Modification Techniques
 
Opened for signature -
 10 December 1976                       
Entered into 
force -
 5 October 1978  
objective -
 to prohibit the military or other hostile use of environmental 
modification techniques in order to further world peace and trust 
among nations. 
Whaling  
 
International Convention 
for the Regulation of 
Whaling
 
Opened for signature -
 2 December 1946                         
Entered into 
force -
 10 November 1948  
objective -
 to protect all species of whales from over-hunting; to 
establish a system of international regulation for the whale fisheries to 
ensure proper conservation and development of whale stocks; and to 
safeguard for future generations the great natural resources represented 
by whale stocks.  
Climate 
Change-Kyoto 
Protocol  
 
Kyoto Protocol to the 
United Nations 
Framework Convention 
on Climate Change
 
Opened for signature -
 16 March 1998, but not yet in force  
objective -
 to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions by enhancing 
the national programs of developed countries aimed at this goal and by 
establishing percentage reduction targets for the developed countries. 
Ozone Layer 
Protection 
 
Montreal Protocol on 
Substances That Deplete 
the Ozone Layer
 
Opened for signature -
 16 September 1987                      
Entered into 
force -
 1 January 1989  
objective -
 to protect the ozone layer by controlling emissions of 
substances that deplete it. 
Ship Pollution 
Protocol of 1978 Relating 
to the International 
Convention for the 
Prevention of Pollution 
From Ships, 1973 
(MARPOL)
 
Opened for signature -
 17 February 1978                         E
ntered into 
force -
 2 October 1983  
objective -
 to preserve the marine environment through the complete 
elimination of pollution by oil and other harmful substances and the 
minimization of accidental discharge of such substances. 
Page  23
Page 20 
Subject Title 
Summary 
Information 
L
aw of the Sea 
 
United Nations 
C
onvention on the Law of 
the Sea (LOS)
 
Opened for signature -
 10 December 1982                       
Entered into 
force -
 16 November 1994  
o
bjective -
 to set up a comprehensive new legal regime for the sea and 
oceans; to include rules concerning environmental standards as well as 
enforcement provisions dealing with pollution of the marine 
environment.  
Desertification  
 
United Nations 
Convention to Combat 
Desertification in Those 
Countries Experiencing 
Serious Drought and/or 
Desertification, 
Particularly in Africa
 
Opened for signature -
 14 October 1994                           
Entered into 
force -
 26 December 1996  
objective -
 to combat desertification and mitigate the effects of drought 
through national action programs that incorporate long-term strategies 
supported by international cooperation and partnership arrangements. 
Climate Change 
United Nations 
Framework Convention 
on Climate Change
 
Opened for signature -
 9 May 1992                                    
Entered into 
force -
 21 March 1994  
objective -
 to achieve stabilization of greenhouse gas concentrations in 
the atmosphere at a low enough level to prevent dangerous 
anthropogenic interference with the climate system. 
5.  DESCRIPTION OF ENVIRONMENT 
 
5.1. Physical 
 
5.1.1. General 
 
St. Lucia has an area of approximately 616 square kilometers, making it one of the largest 
islands in the Organization of East Caribbean States (OEC'S). The island lies between 
latitude 130 43'N and 140 07'N and longitude 600 53'W to 610 05'W and is 
approximately 43 km long by 22 km wide. The Atlantic Ocean washes the windward or 
eastern coast and the Caribbean Sea, the leeward or western coast of the island.  
Therefore, many of the sheltered bays and bathing beaches lie on the western coast of the 
island. The northwestern coast of the island, has been developed for tourism, light 
industry and housing.  The island’s principal recreational beaches and yacht harbor are 
located along Rodney bay. 
 
5.1.2. Topography 
 
The topography of the island could be described as mountainous. It has a central 
mountain ridge, known as the Barre de L'lsle, running parallel to the West Coast rising to 
a
maximum elevation of 950 m at Mt. Gimie. All of the other mountain ridges rise to 
elevations below 400m.  
 
Page  24
Page 21 
Many rivers and streams cut the mountain ridges forming steep sided gullies and narrow 
valleys. Over half the island has slopes greater than 200 and more than 70% of the island 
has slopes over 10°. The island could be divided into 37 main watersheds. One such 
watershed in the upper reaches of the Roseau valley has been dammed to form the John 
Compton Dam and impounding reservoir that feeds the Theobalds Water Treatment 
Plant.  This forms the largest water supply system on the island.  
 
The slopes created by mountain rises are steep and cuts are often unstable.  When 
exposed these slopes are susceptible to landslide. On the coast, the rivers flow into 
narrow alluvial flood plains often forming small alluvial deltas.  
 
5.1.3. Climate 
 
St. Lucia enjoys a tropical climate with little annual or diurnal variation in temperature. 
Maximum daily temperatures ranges between 
30
to 
33
C
with minimums ranging 
between 16 to 21 C.  
 
Rainfall distribution across the island varies considerably. The total annual rainfall is 
approximately 1,200 mm at the northern and southern ends of the island, the dry regions.  
Higher amounts are realized in the central mountains owing to orographic effect and 
reaches up to 3,500 mm near Mt. Gimie.  Although the distribution of rainfall across the 
island is variable, the pattern of rainfall across the island is the same. There is a dry 
season that runs from January to June and a wet season from June to December. 
 
The island is vulnerable to hurricanes and the hurricane season runs from June to 
November. 
 
5.1.4. Geology 
 
Almost all of St. Lucia is composed of volcanic rocks of Tertiary to Quaternary age. 
Radiocarbon dating gives the last volcanic eruptive phase at some 30,000 to 40,000 years 
ago although, at present, there are signs of volcanic activity at the sulphur springs at 
Soufriere on the West Coast.  The oldest rocks are found mainly in the region north of an 
imaginary line joining the Cul de Sac Valley to Grand Anse Bay. A central series of 
younger rocks forms the main mountain mass with a third younger series in the south and 
southwest centered on 8 
Soufriere. In the south, around Vieux Fort, the rocks are older, and comparable to the 
northern series. 
 
The rocks of the northern series, north of the Barre de L'isle systern, are mainly basaltic 
and comprise lava flows, agglomerates and mudflows. Andesites also occur in this area. 
Agglomerates formed by explosive eruption of volcanoes and consisting of a mixture of 
boulders, cobbles and ash are also found in the northern area. Where there are no 
gravelsized particles, the deposit is an ash. If the ash is consolidated, a luff is formed. 
Tuffs are not widespread in the northern part of the Island.  
 
Page  25
Page 22 
Mudflows are found resembling agglomerates, but consisting of boulders in a matrix. 
These boulders are sometimes large.  The central area, corresponding to the Barre de 
L'lsle land system contains hard columnar andesites. Towards the East Coast, the rock 
consists mainly of andesitic agglomerates and ashes and are similar to those found in 
Anse La Raye on the West Coast. 
 
At the southern border of the central series, basaltic rocks occur in the Mt. Gimie and 
Piton St. Esprit systems. Andesitic agglomerates are also found north of Soufriere but, 
also occur further south. To the south and east of Soufriere the main deposit is a pumice 
flow, consisting of a loose light-colored porous sandy deposit. 
 
Regarding earthquakes, the island lies on the western margin of the Caribbean tectonic 
plate and is seismically active.  Earthquakes occur with regularity but seldom reach 
magnitudes sufficient to produce damage.  
 
5.2.   BIOLOGICAL 
 
5.2.1. Environmental Features 
 
Variations in altitude, rainfall and soil characteristics have contributed to the wide variety 
of vegetation cover of St. Lucia that ranges from tropical wet forest, tropical dry forest;  
tropical moist forest, sub-tropical moist forest to sub-tropical rain forest and wetlands.  
Approximately 43% of the island's coverage falls under the category of tropical wet 
forest. It is estimated that the rate of deforestation is approximately 1.9% per annum. By 
1988 St. Lucia had lost up to 40% of its wetlands through reclamation and other forms of 
physical land transformation. 
 
5.2.2. Habitats 
 
The variation in vegetation cover is matched by great heterogeneity of habitats and 
ecosystems. In the coastal zone areas, the ecosystems comprise mangroves, sea grass 
beds, coral reefs and sandy beaches. According to Devaux, Rj., 3 in the terrestrial 
environment, the diversity continues with wetlands; varying vegetation zones; riverine 
ecosystems and ecosystems created by micro-climatic, edaphic and other factors in 
valleys, canyons and on mountains.  The northern end of the island supports a dry forest 
ecology composed of acacia and related species. 
 
Of particular note is the plight of the endangered Jacquot (St. Lucia Parrot) which has its 
habitat in the mountainous tropical wet forest areas. The John Compton Dam was built 
within the natural habitat of Jacquot. As part of the environmental mitigation measures 
for that project, a plan was successfully put in place for the protection of this natural 
Page  26
Page 23 
treasure of St. Lucia. There is no evidence to suggest that the construction of the dam 
significantly affected the population of the bird. 
 
5.2.3. Protected areas 
 
St. Lucia has designated a number of sites across the island as protected areas. These 
protected areas have been put under special management status to ensure that the 
resources they contain are maintained and made accessible for sustainable uses 
compatible with conservation requirements. The first protected area in St. Lucia dates 
back to 1916 when the Castries Waterworks Reserve was set up. This reserve now forms 
part of the St. Lucia Forest Reserve. Since that time, Other protected areas comprising 
archaeological and historic sites; and marine, nature and forest reserves have been 
established. A full listing together with annotated maps of St. Lucia", protected areas can 
be found in the publication 'A System of Protected Areas for St. Lucia' put out by the 
SLNT in 1992.  Pigeon Island, located on the western north coast is the site of a colonial 
fort and enjoys national park status as a cultural historic site.
 
5.2.4. Endangered Species 
 
Eight internationally recognized endangered species are noted for St. Lucia under the 
Convention for Trade in Endangered Species 
CITES.  
Aside from the St. Lucian parrot 
and the Peregrine Falcon, the remaining extant species, presented in table 5.0, are 
reptiles.  Notably the majority are marine turtles with their attendant critical habitat 
requirements.  These include feeding grounds, nesting beaches, and other requirements 
relating directly to marine water quality. 
 
Note:  1. Annexes I, II and III list the species covered by the Convention and may be amended pursuant to Articles XV 
(Appendices I and II) and XVI (Appendix III). 
 
a). Appendix I includes all species threatened with extinction which are or may be affected by trade. Trade in specimens 
of these species must be subject to particularly strict regulation in order not to endanger further their survival and must 
only be authorized in exceptional circumstances. 
 
Table 5.0 
St. Lucia Appendix 1  
CITES Endangered Species 
 
Group 
Scientific Name 
Common Name 
Caretta caretta 
Loggerhead Turtle 
Chelonian mydas 
Green Turtle 
Eretmochelys imbricata 
Hawksbill Turtle 
Dermochelys coriacea 
Leatherback Turtle 
Reptiles 
Boa constrictor 
Boa Constrictor 
Mammals 
Megaptera novaeangliae 
Humpback Whale 
Amazonia versicolor 
 
St. Lucian Parrot 
Birds 
Falco peregrinus 
Peregrine Falcon 
Page  27
Page 24 
 
5.2.5.  IUCN Red List 
 
In addition to the species listed under 
CITES
,
the IUCN* (the World Conservation 
Union), maintains a separate list of species it deems endangered, threatened or of special 
concern.  While the listing carries no regulatory or legal force it is the result of a rigorous 
application of scientific criteria and peer review and com
pliments the CITES
 listing by 
considering those species not necessarily threatened by trade or commerce.  The criteria 
for listing are presented in appendix I.   
 
In St. Lucia and its adjacent marine environment, there are 27 species listed as vulnerable 
or endangered including birds, mammals, reptiles, fish and plants.  Presented in table 5.1, 
the majority of the species are listed due to the general decline in populations as a result 
of habitat loss and changes in habitat quality.  These are largely due to human 
interactions through development and economic pressures.  Over half of those species 
listed are marine wildlife largely dependent on nearshore and reef environments.  Of 
particular interest is the White-Breasted Thrasher, 
Ramphocinclus brachyurus.  
By IUCN 
criteria this species is considered endangered and depends on the dry forest habitats 
found on the island.  The northern portion of St. Lucia supports this species however 
development is threatening this habitat.  Presently, land planning efforts have done little 
to assist in managing the remaining habitats in this portion of the island 
 
*(Formerly International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN))  
 
Table 5.1 
St. Lucia IUCN Redlist of Species of Concern
 
Group 
Scientific Name  
Common Name(s)  
Red List Status 
 
Amazona versicolor  
 
SAINT LUCIA AMAZON (E) 
SAINT LUCIA PARROT (E) 
ST LUCIA AMAZON (E) 
ST LUCIA PARROT (E) 
 
VULNERABLE 
 
Cichlherminia lherminieri  
 
FOREST THRUSH (E)  
 
VULNERABLE 
 
Leucopeza semperi  
 
SEMPER'S WARBLER (E)  
 
CRITICALLY 
ENDANGERED 
 
Melanospiza richardsoni  
 
ST LUCIA BLACK FINCH (E)  
 
ENDANGERED 
 
BIRDS 
 
Ramphocinclus brachyurus  
 
WHITE-BREASTED 
THRASHER (E)  
 
ENDANGERED 
Page  28
Page 25 
Group 
Scientific Name  
Common Name(s)  
Red List Status 
 
Megalomys luciae 
 
SANTA LUCIA GIANT RICE 
RAT (E)  
 
EXTINCT  
 
MAMMALS 
 
Megalomys luciae 
 
BUNCH (E) 
HUMP WHALE (E) 
HUMPBACK WHALE (E) 
HUNCHBACKED WHALE (E)
VULNERABLE 
 
Scarus guacamaia  
 
RAINBOW PARROTFISH (E)  
 
ENDANGERED 
 
Epinephelus striatus  
 
NASSAU GROUPER (E) 
CHERNA CRIOLLA (S) 
 
VULNERABLE 
 
Balistes vetula  
 
QUEEN TRIGGERFISH (E)  
 
VULNERABLE 
 
Carcharodon carcharias  
 
GREAT WHITE SHARK (E)  
 
VULNERABLE 
 
Lachnolaimus maximus  
 
HOGFISH (E)  
 
VULNERABLE 
 
Lutjanus analis  
 
MUTTON SNAPPER (E)  
 
VULNERABLE 
 
Lutjanus cyanopterus  
 
CUBERA SNAPPER (E)  
 
VULNERABLE 
 
Dermatolepis inermis  
 
MARBLED GROUPER (E)  
 
CRITICALLY 
ENDANGERED 
 
FISH 
 
Epinephelus itajara  
 
GOLIATH GROUPER (E) 
JEWFISH (E)  
 
CRITICALLY 
ENDANGERED 
 
Dermochelys coriacea  
 
LEATHERBACK (E) 
LEATHERY TURTLE (E) 
LUTH (E) 
 
CRITICALLY  
 
Eretmochelys imbricata  
 
HAWKSBILL TURTLE (E) 
 
ENDANGERED  
 
Caretta caretta  
 
LOGGERHEAD (E) 
 
ENDANGERED 
 
REPTILES 
 
Chelonia mydas  
 
GREEN TURTLE (E) 
 
ENDANGERED 
Page  29
Page 26 
Group 
Scientific Name  
Common Name(s)  
Red List Status 
 
Liophis ornatus  
 
ST LUCIA RACER (E)  
 
VULNERABLE 
 
Cnemidophorus vanzoi  
 
ST LUCIA WHIPTAIL (E)  
 
VULNERABLE 
 
Juniperus barbadensis  
No common name 
 
ENDANGERED 
 
Pouteria pallida  
No common name 
 
VULNERABLE 
 
Pouteria semecarpifolia  
No common name 
 
ENDANGERED 
 
Swietenia mahagoni  
AMERICAN MAHOGANY (E)
CUBAN MAHOGANY (E) 
SMALL-LEAVED 
MAHOGANY (E) 
WEST INDIAN MAHOGANY 
(E) 
 
VULNERABLE 
 
PLANTS 
 
Cedrela odorata 
CIGAR-BOX WOOD (E) 
RED CEDAR (E) 
SPANISH CEDAR (E) 
 
**EXTINCT (EX) 
-
A
taxon is Extinct when there is no reasonable doubt that the last individual has died. 
CRITICALLY ENDANGERED (CR)
 - A taxon is Critically Endangered when it is facing an extremely high risk of 
extinction in the wild in the immediate future, as defined by any of the criteria (A to E) as described Appendix I. 
 
ENDANGERED (E
N) - A taxon is Endangered when it is not Critically Endangered but is facing a very high risk of 
extinction in the wild in the near future, as defined by any of the criteria (A to E) as described Appendix I. 
 
VULNERABLE (VU)
 - A taxon is Vulnerable when it is not Critically Endangered or Endangered but is facing a high risk 
of extinction in the wild in the medium-term future, as defined by any of the criteria (A to E) as described in Appendix I. 
 
5.3.   Socioeconomic 
 
The Government Statistics Department estimates the current population at 156,260 with a 
growth rate at 1.21% per annum. The capital city, Castries, with a population density of 
710 persons per sq. km is the most densely populated area in St. Lucia. Other areas of 
high to moderately high population densities include Vieux Fort in the south of the island 
and Gros Islet to the northwest.  The Gros Islet area the area of highest tourism 
infrastructure.  
 
5.3.1. Economic Conditions 
 
Notwithstanding its small land area, exacerbated by its rugged terrain; its small 
population; and limited natural resource base; St. Lucia's economy could be regarded as 
having performed well over the last two decades fueled by activity in the agricultural and 
tourism sectors. 
Page  30
Page 27 
 
The country's fertile volcanic soils have provided the resource base for a vibrant 
agricultural sector. This sector, which is dominated by banana production, has, between 
1995 to 1999, contributed an annual average of 8.5% of GDP. However a combination 
of: 
 
·
Recent changes in the European Union's import preference regime and increased 
competition from Latin American bananas 
 
·
Unfavourable weather conditions 
 
·
Efforts by GOSL for crop diversification 
 
have contributed to a steady decline in banana output and farmers leaving the industry.  
 
The island’s natural beauty and long expanses of white sandy beaches, has been exploited 
in support of tourism. The tourism sector (as measured by the hotel and restaurant sub-
sector) has. between 1995 to 1999. contributed an average of 18.5% of GDP. Total visitor 
arrivals continue to grow at an average rate of 3.5% per annum. In 1999, St. Lucia 
recorded a modest rate of inflation of 3.5%, the highest for the period 1996 to 1999. In 
keeping with worldwide trends, the country could be expected to maintain low rates of 
inflation in the short to medium term. Its average exchange rate which is set by the 
Eastern Caribbean Central Bank and has been fixed since 1976, is pegged at EC$2.7 per 
US$. 
 
On the whole, economic growth in St Lucia has been relatively slow in the period since 
1995 (see Figure 5.1 below).  GDP has grown at approximately 2.5 per cent per annum in 
real terms, with the exception of the period 2000-01 where growth was zero or negative.  
This compares with the 1980s when GDP growth was much higher at around 7 per cent 
per annum. 
 
Figure 5.1 
Real GDP growth, St Lucia, 1993-2003 
 
Page  31
Page 28 
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
G
D
P
g
r
o
w
t
h
(
p
e
r
c
e
n
t
)
Source: IMF Statistics and World Bank, World Development Indicators 
 
This level of economic growth has not been enough to significantly reduce 
unemployment, which has remained at around 15-20 per cent, while per capita income 
has grown by a total of approximately 11 per cent in total in real terms since 1995 (see 
Figure 5.2 below). 
 
Figure 5.2 
Per capita income and unemployment 
St Lucia, 1993-2002
 
0
5
10
15
20
25
1993199419951996199719981999200020012002
U
n
e
m
p
l
o
y
m
e
n
t
r
a
t
e
(
p
e
r
c
e
n
t
)
0
2000
4000
6000
8000
10000
12000
G
N
I
p
e
r
c
a
p
i
t
a
(
E
C
d
o
l
l
a
r
s
)
Unemployment
GNP per capita
Source: St Lucia Statistics Department 
 
5.3.2.  Factors influencing income distribution 
 
Figure 5.3 shows the level of unemployment in St Lucia since 1996.  Over this period 
unemployment has fluctuated roughly between 15-20 per cent.  In 2001, the last year for 
which figures are available, unemployment was marginally greater than in 1995.  
 
Page  32
Page 29 
Income distribution may also be affected by the level of growth in individual industrial 
sectors that are important employers for low income households.  Perhaps the most 
significant structural shift in the economy since 1996 has been the decline in banana 
production as favorable market access conditions for banana exports have been removed.  
The total number of banana farmers has declined from 13,000 at the time of the 1996 
Poverty Assessment Report to less than 3,000 today.  This change has been reflected in 
the declining contribution of agriculture to GDP, which was around 11 per cent in 1995 
falling to around 6 per cent in 2002. 
 
The decline in banana production and the number of banana farmers might have been 
expected to contribute to an increase in poverty since 1996.  However, this is not 
necessarily the case.  First, there were a significant number of marginal banana producers 
already living in poverty prior to the structural adjustment that has been observed in the 
industry.  Second, whether poverty has increased will depend on whether the former 
banana producers have been able to find employment elsewhere in the economy, or 
whether there has been sufficient growth in other economic sectors to offset the decline in 
banana farming. 
 
At a macro-level, the unemployment figures would seem to indicate that the decline in 
banana farming has not shown up as a long term increase in the unemployment rate.  
Labor force participation has also been constant at around 69 per cent over the period 
1997-2000 (indicating that former banana farmers have not left the labor force to become 
unemployed).  Also, the total level of employment over 1997-2000 increased from 
56,000 persons to 64,000 persons in 2000. 
 
It seems likely that growth in tourism prior to 2000 largely offset the impact of the 
decline in banana farming and minimized any impact from this structural shift in the 
distribution of income in St Lucia.  Since 2000, there has been a slow down in the tourist 
trade, particularly since the events of 2001.  This may have had some impact on low 
income households to the extent that hotels and other tourism related employers have had 
to reduce staff numbers.  No quantitative data is available at this stage to assess this 
impact. 
 
5.3.3.  Average income by district 
 
Much of the commercial and tourism development is focused in the north of the island 
and, as a result, the administrative districts located in the northern region of the island 
might be expected to have significantly higher levels of income.  This is generally true, 
with average income in Gros Islet (EC$3,069 per month) and Castries Suburban 
(EC$2,559 per month) significantly above the national average of EC$1,695 per month. 
 
That said, average monthly incomes in the remaining two administrative districts in the 
northern region (Castries City and Castries Rural), while significantly above the national 
average, are broadly similar to those in Viuex Fort, in the south of the island. 
 
Page  33
Page 30 
Table 5.2 shows average monthly income in each of St Lucia’s administrative districts 
and incorporates a map showing the location of each of these administrative districts (as 
well as population distribution on the island). 
 
5.3.4.  Access to water supply services 
 
Based on 2001 census data, 86 per cent of households in St Lucia report that their 
primary source of water (table 5.3) is supplied by WASCO through either a house 
connection, yard tap or standpipe.  This figure may be closer to 90 per cent when illegal 
connections are taken into account.  This is a significant increase compared to 1991 when 
around 80 per cent of households (including an allowance for illegal connections) 
reported that their primary water supply was from WASCO. 
 
In terms of absolute numbers, the number of households where WASCO is the primary 
water supplier (according to census data and without any allowance for illegal 
connections) increased from approximately 25,000 in 1991 to around 36,000 in 2001, an 
increase of around 11,000 households. 
 
There has also been a significant increase in the number of households with house 
connections or yard taps and a corresponding decline in the number of households served 
by standpipes.  Between 1991 and 2001, the number of in-house or yard tap connections 
increased by approximately 17,000, while the number of households served by standpipes 
declined from around 9,000 (28 per cent of all households) to around 3,500 (8.5 per cent 
of all households).  Based on data from WASCO’s customer database, estimates are that 
by end-2003 this figure had dropped to 3,000 (about 6 per cent of all households). 
 
Page  34
Page 31 
 
Table 5.2 
 Average Monthly Household Income By District 
(East Caribbean dollars per month) 
 
District Number 
of 
households
Average 
income 
(EC$ per 
month) 
Gros Islet 
5,794 
3,069 
Castries 
Suburban 
7,659 2,559 
Castries City 
3,009 
2,116 
Castries Rural 
6,389 
2,013 
Vieux Fort 
4,159 
1,974 
Soufriere 1,827 1,763 
Micoud 4,461 
1,716 
Laborie 1,971 
1,680 
Anse La Raye 
1,733 
1,556 
Canaries 537  1,553 
Choiseul 1,674 1,510 
Dennery 3,485 
1,501 
National 
average 
 1,695 
Source: St Lucia Population and Housing Census, 2001; St Lucia map courtesy of St Lucia Statistics Department 
 
A
number of factors have contributed to the significant increase (between 1991 to 2001) 
in the number of households being served by WASCO, particularly through house 
connections or yard taps.  One factor has been the decline in private water systems.  
Apparently a number of private water systems, perhaps related to the operation of various 
banana plantations, were transferred to WASCO management over this period. 
 
Other factors contributing to the increase in yard tap or house connections over this 
period include: 
 
·
Free connections policy instituted for a limited period following WASA’s 
conversion to WASCO in 1999 
 
·
Investments in network infrastructure initiated and partly financed by PRF and 
BNTF over this period; 
 
·
Network investment initiated by WASCO on its own over this period; and 
government policy to eliminate standpipes. 
 
Table 5.3 
Page  35
Page 32 
Sources of Water Supply, St Lucia
 
1991 2001 
Number Proportion 
(%) 
Number Proportion 
(%) 
Private piped into 
dwelling 
5351 16.2  1001 2.4 
Private catchment not 
piped 
697 2.1  491 1.2 
Private catchment piped 
 
245 0.6 
Public piped into 
dwelling 
10444 31.6 
24221 58.4 
Public piped into yard 
4917 14.9  8070 19.5 
Public standpipe 
9361 28.3  3517 8.5 
Public well or tank 
226 0.7  138 0.3 
Other 
2083 6.3 
2909 7.0 
Not stated 
 
889 2.1 
Total 
33079 100.0  41481 100.0 
Source: Government of St Lucia, Ministry of Social Transformation, Culture and Local Government, Interim Poverty Reduction 
Strategy and Action Plan for St Lucia, 2003 drawing on Population and Housing Census, 1991 and Preliminary Population and 
Housing Census, 2001. 
 
The ‘other’ category identified in table 5.3 is likely to include households that collect and 
store rainwater, self abstract from rivers, and may also include households obtaining 
water from relatives or neighbors with WASCO connections.  WASCO considers that a 
large number of respondents in this category are also likely to have illegal connections.   
 
In the period since 2001, a review of WASCO customer records indicated that the trends 
have continued.  In particular, the number of households depending on standpipes has 
declined from 3,500 in 2001 to an estimated 3,000 in 2003.  The number of households 
directly connected to the WASCO network has also continued to increase. 
 
Table 5.4 provides details of settlements in St Lucia with more than 50 households 
reporting non-WASCO or ‘other’ water supply sources as their primary water supplier in 
the 2001 census.  In 2001, 18 communities in St Lucia had more than 50 households that 
reported their primary source of water supply was either a private system, public tank or 
well, or ‘other’ water supply source.  Half of the 18 communities are located in the 
Castries district.  Six of the 18 communities (Ciceron, Morne Du Don, Victoria Street, 
Downing Street, Clark Street, Waterworks) are in predominantly urban areas.  For these 
communities, the large number of ‘other’ water supplies may indicate a concentration of 
illegal connections 
 
Table 5.4 
Settlements in St Lucia with more than 50 households reporting non-WASCO or 
‘other’ water supply sources
 
Page  36
Page 33 
 
Settlement 
Households reporting non-WASCO water 
supplies
 
Total 
Private 
supply, 
public 
tank, well 
‘Other’ 
Number Proportion 
of 
households 
Castries - Bexon/Ravine 
Poisson 
86 274 
360 
19% 
Gros-Islet - Monchy/Vieux-Sucr 
96 
119 
215 
24% 
Castries – Babonneau/Fond 
Assau 
76 123 
199 
15% 
Castries - La Croix Maingot/Ba 
70 
42 
112 
28% 
Castries – Forestiere 
41 
61 
102 
57% 
Castries - Ciceron/Millenium 
8 
89 
97 
10% 
Castries - Morne Du Don 
26 
55 
81 
8% 
Vieux-Fort – Augier 
27 
49 
76 
12% 
Vieux-Fort – La Resource 
7 
67 
74 
17% 
Dennery - Village/Victoria 
Street 
11 53 
64 7% 
Micoud - Village/Downing 
Street 
8
55
63
9% 
Castries - Cul De Sac/Ferrand 
16 
44 
60 
32% 
Anse-La-Raye – Jacmel 
8 
51 
59 
33% 
Micoud - Pierrot/Tet Morne 
6 
53 
59 
30% 
Castries – Marigot 
33 
23 
56 
31% 
Vieux-Fort - Town/Clark Street 
8 
48 
56 
8% 
Castries – Waterworks 
54 
1 
55 
41% 
Dennery - Au Leon 
12 
39 
51 
12% 
Source: Statistics Department, Population and Housing Census data, 2001 
 
5.3.5.  Water expenditure by low income households 
 
The amount that each household spends on water is determined by their volume of water 
consumption (if they are metered) or the number of household occupants (if they are un-
metered).  A lack of relevant survey data means that it is not possible to generalize as to 
whether low income households are metered or un-metered or, if metered, the volume of 
their consumption.  As a result a number of different billing scenarios for low income 
households have been considered.  The three billing scenarios examined, presented in 
table 5.5 are that: the household water bill paid by a low income household is at the 
average level for the district; the household water bill paid by a low income household is 
the minimum bill for a metered customer (i.e. EC$14.70 per month); and the household 
Page  37
Page 34 
water bill paid by a low income household is the minimum bill for an un-metered 
customer with five household occupants (i.e. EC$37.05 per month). 
 
Table 5.5 
Water expenditure as proportion of household 
expenditure for low income households
 
District 
Scenario 1 
Average water 
bill
a
(% of 
household 
income
)
Scenario 2 
Minimum water 
bill for a metered 
household
 
(% of household 
income) 
Scenario 3 
Water bill for 5 
person, unmetered 
household
 
(% of household 
income) 
Anse La 
Raye 
3.7-4.8% 1.6-2.1% 
4.1-5.3% 
Canaries 
3.9-5.1% 2.0-2.6% 
5.1-6.6% 
Castries 
2.8-3.7% 1.3-1.7% 
3.3-4.3% 
Choiseul 
4.4-5.7% 2.5-3.2% 
6.2-8.1% 
Dennery 
3.0-3.9% 1.9-2.5% 
4.8-6.3% 
Gros Islet 
3.8-5.0% 1.5-1.9% 
3.7-4.8% 
Laborie 
4.2-5.4% 2.1-2.7% 
5.3-6.8% 
Micoud 
3.4-4.4% 1.9-2.5% 
4.8-6.3% 
Soufriere 
2.3-3.0% 1.3-1.7% 
3.3-4.3% 
Vieux Fort 
3.7-4.8% 1.6-2.1% 
4.0-5.2% 
National 
Average 
3.4-4.4% 1.6-2.1% 
4.0-5.2% 
a
Average household water bi
ll for each the administrative districts was calculated using WASCO’s billing records. 
 
6.  ANALYSIS OF IMPACTS AND MITIGATION 
 
6.1. Summary Overview 
 
The urgent need to improve the availability of good quality drinking water in the northern 
section of St. Lucia is obvious.  Current inadequacies of the distribution system coupled 
with the demands for growth in the region are placing increasing pressure on the 
distribution system.  The ability to service all population segments is a priority with the 
greatest benefit going to low income families.  At risk groups include children under 5 
and the elderly.  These groups will realize a greater proportional benefit from improved 
access to public water supplies.  The impacts associated with both alternatives differ 
Page  38
Page 35 
widely given the technologies involved and the users served by the two options.  Both 
options will result in induced development in the extreme northern service area (Rodney 
Bay, Grose Islet) as pent-up development demand is currently frustrated due to lack of 
water.  Numerous communities have been designed and laid-out with supporting 
infrastructure but are not developing due to poor land sales.  There are also plans for the 
construction of no less than 4 new hotel complexes in the region. 
 
Generally, impacts associated with the first alternative 
–
Capacity improvement, are 
related to construction activities at the work site.  Only those portions of the project 
involving the construction of new pipelines will affect the community at large as these 
works will require access to private lands.  Those works to occur in public roadways 
present additional but manageable impacts.  The greatest positive impact associated with 
this option is that it improves the ability to provide a reliable supply of potable water 
throughout the Theobolds WTP service area and reaches into low income communities 
where service is poor or non-existent.  These are the groups least able to afford 
developing alternative sources to public water supply. 
 
While this option will result in the continued development of the extreme northern 
service area, the infrastructure and current supply are adequate to meet the current and 
anticipated future demand.   
 
The second option, the Desal-plant, provides water only to a specific section of the 
Theobolds WTP area.  While it would relieve the system of short term demands 
emanating from that area, it would not permit the other improvements necessary to 
reliably supply water throughout the Theobolds WTP service area.   
 
Aside from the greatly increased costs of water production, the desal option contains a 
variety of other environmental consequences.  These include for example, aesthetic 
issues, management of seawater intake and brine discharge, chemical pollutants, 
ecological and marine habitat concerns, issues associated with endangered species and 
increased energy demands. Furthermore, it is clear, given the pressure for growth in the 
plants service region, that the demand on the system will quickly increase as new 
construction begins again in the belief that water is readily available.  Finally, the service 
area for the desal plant represents one of the highest income areas of the island where the 
average household income is nearly double the national average.  This indicates that the 
direct benefits of this option will not be distributed among the middle to lower income 
brackets more prevalent in the greater northern service area.  The additional cost 
associated with the production of desalinated water would not be borne by the local 
service area but would necessarily be folded into the general cost of WASCO water 
production.  Paying for this additional cost would have to be distributed across the entire 
population through the entire system.  Absent a special use fee for the service area, the 
result is a form of water subsidy for the most affluent portion of the country. 
 
Of the two options, option 1, Capacity upgrade, produces the greatest long-term benefit 
for the entire service area and addresses the total water demand over the next 10 – 15 
years.  The capacity upgrades clearly meet the long term growth requirements of the 
Page  39
Page 36 
northern section with greater reliability, lower cost, and fewer significant direct 
environmental impacts than the desal option. 
 
Neither alternative has constructions planned in an area suspected of containing 
undiscovered artifacts or areas of cultural-historical significance. 
 
6.2.   Alternative 1 
–
Improve Capacity of Existing System (Capacity 
Improvement) 
 
Under this alternative, impacts are considered for the following four capacity 
improvement program components: 
 
·
John Compton Dam Pumping Upgrade 
 
·
Removal of Vanard-Sarot Bottleneck 
 
·
Expansion of the Theobalds Water Treatment Plant (WTP) 
 
·
Upgrade of Morne-Bocage Distribution Line 
 
Negative impacts are generally restricted directly to the construction sites and are limited 
to the construction phase of the program.   
 
At the John Compton dam, works involve the replacement of existing equipment and 
require no additional intervention in the area beyond the existing facility.  These are 
basically maintenance upgrades and involve the removal and installation of pipes and 
machinery.   While the entire program will result in the increase availability of raw water 
to the system, the upgrades are within the water sector development initiative plans and 
well within the planned parameters of the long term design capacity of the reservoir.  For 
this reason, further environmental analysis of equipment upgrades is not necessary.  The 
remaining three components are discussed in the following. 
 
6.2.1.  Removal of Vanard-Sarot Bottleneck 
 
This element involves two components.  The installation of 1300 m of 24 inch 
pipe and the replacement of joint restraints on existing lines. 
 
The replacement of restraints is a maintenance function with no significant 
impacts associated with the process.  The result is wholly beneficial to the 
system as it improves the survivability of pipe connections when exposed to flood 
or earthquake forces. 
 
Page  40
Page 37 
The installation of 1300 meters of 24 inch pipe does have significant negative 
environmental consequences associated with the works.  These however are 
reversible and limited to the construction phase. 
 
Impacts expected from the pipe installation include: 
 
·
Temporary loss of crops and use of agricultural land at the construction 
site 
 
·
Potential for soil erosion 
 
·
Worker sanitation management 
 
·
Interdiction of public roadways 
 
·
Possible contamination of work sites with fuels and hazardous materials. 
 
·
Pollution from construction wastes 
 
·
Noise from construction activities 
 
·
Dust control issues 
 
·
Discovery of cultural-historical antiquities 
 
·
Standing water and disease vector production 
 
As the works are planned, no permanent modification to the landscape is 
expected and no natural areas will be intervened during the project.  Finally, the 
routing of the new pipeline was chosen so that no persons or structures will 
require relocation. 
 
6.2.2.  Expansion of the Theobalds Water Treatment Plant (WTP) 
 
The Theobalds WTP was originally designed to accommodate two treatment units and a 
sludge dewatering tank.  During the first phase of construction, space was set aside for 
the location of the sister unit within the WTP property.  Land has already been prepared 
for the construction.  As the entire system was originally designed to achieve the 
treatment throughput the additional unit will provide, there is no additional design 
demand being placed on the raw water supply.  With this addition, the system will be 
brought up to 100% operational performance in accordance with original designs. 
 
Environmental impacts are limited to those associated with construction and include: 
 
·
Worker sanitation 
Page  41
Page 38 
 
·
Disposal of construction wastes 
 
·
Use and storage of fuels during construction 
 
·
Management of hazardous materials and hazardous wastes during construction 
 
·
Site management and erosion control. 
 
·
Noise from construction activities 
 
·
Dust control issues 
 
The area is fenced and self contained.  A positive direct impact of the project element is 
the elimination of the practice of discharging backwash water directly to a stream off 
property.  With the additional facilities, provisions will be made for sludge drying and 
disposal will be managed using the local landfill. 
 
Of course, the major positive social benefit is the contribution of this element to the 
overall strategy for doubling the volume of available treatment capacity for improved 
service and distribution.  As part of the long term strategy, this upgrade will meet the 
forecast demands into the year 2015. 
 
6.2.3.  Upgrade of Morne-Bocage Distribution Line 
 
This component will provide for the installation of : 
 
·
New Ciceron Pump Station at Theobalds WTP 
 
 
 
·
New dedicated 12” Pumping Main 
 
 
 
 
 
·
New 200,000 Imperial Gallon (Igal) tank at Morne Fortune  
    
 
·
New 12” gravity main, 4900m 
 
 
 
 
 
 
·
New 100,000 Imperial gallon (Igal) tank at Babonneau  
 
The Ciceron pump station is to be located in the same area as the existing pump station at 
the Theobalds WTP.  It is essentially a rehabilitation fo the exsting facility. 
 
The remaining works will have the same basic impacts as envisioned for the installation 
of the Vanard 
–
Sarot line.  Negative impacts are generally limited to the construction 
phase and include: 
 
·
Potential for soil erosion 
Page  42
Page 39 
 
·
Worker sanitation management 
 
·
Interdiction of public roadways 
 
·
Possible contamination of work sites with fuels and hazardous materials. 
 
·
Pollution form construction wastes  
 
·
Noise from construction activities 
 
·
Dust control issues 
 
·
Discovery of cultural-historical antiquities 
 
·
Standing water and disease vector production 
 
Sites chosen for tank installation are already occupied by older, smaller tanks therefore 
no new land will be required for those constructions.  Pipes, as with Vanard 
–
Sarot will 
follow existing roadway alignments.  The principal impact associated with this is the 
possible interdiction of access through the affected communities.  This is particularly 
important as essential services could be disrupted. 
 
6.2.4.  Summary of Impacts 
 
Taken together, the suite of projects are socially important and beneficial.  The 
improvements in distribution and treatment supply provide benefits across the social 
spectrum in the service area.  These works will: 
 
·
Improve health and welfare for the service region through improved potable water 
supply 
 
·
Reduce the need for the purchase of expensive bottled water particularly 
beneficial to lower income groups. 
 
·
Differentially benefit populations at risk from water borne disease such as the 
elderly and children under 5 
 
·
Assist with reducing the overall reliance private storage tanks (which are beyond 
the economic reach of low income groups) 
 
·
Improve the quality of treated water through improved treatment capacity 
 
·
Add distribution capacity to those currently not on the public water system 
 
Negative impacts are largely related to the construction phase and include: 
Page  43
Page 40 
 
·
Potential for soil erosion 
 
·
Worker sanitation management 
 
·
Interdiction of public roadways 
 
·
Possible contamination of work sites with fuels and hazardous materials. 
 
·
Pollution form construction wastes  
 
·
Noise from construction activities 
 
·
Dust control issues 
 
·
Discovery of cultural-historical antiquities 
 
·
Standing water and disease vector production 
 
A
lingering issue is the anticipated growth for the Grose Islet 
–
Rodney Bay 
service area.  There is no doubt that once water becomes reliably available that 
pent-up development demand will become unrestrained.  While not an issue in 
terms of WASCO functions, this development will greatly alter the landscape 
impacting other public services and the remaining dry forest habitats of the area.  
This issue goes beyond the scope of WASCO’s programs and will require pro 
active involvement on the part of the Ministry of Planning to manage in a 
balanced manner. 
 
6.2.5. Mitigation Measures 
 
The mitigation of direct impacts associated with the capacity expansion option 
are relatively simple and straightforward.  The direct impacts are related to 
construction, compensation, and short-term impediments to transportation.  
These are managed by: 
 
·
Improved communication with the public 
 
·
Strong planning and coordination with emergency services and Ministry of 
Works 
 
·
Site management plans 
 
·
Enforcement and inspection through contract vehicles 
 
Specific mitigations are outlined in table 6.0 and pertain to the construction phase 
of the works contemplated.  To implement these requirements, a series of draft 
Page  44
Page 41 
contract clauses have been developed and are presented in Appendix II.  The 
use of these clauses is presented in the following section, Environmental 
Management Plan.  
 
Impact Mitigation 
Potential for soil erosion 
 
Stabilize banks of excavations, erect erosion 
control barriers where necessary, cover removed 
soil and re-vegetate excavations when work is 
complete 
Worker sanitation 
management 
 
Provide sanitary facilities at the construction site or 
make arrangements for the use of existing sanitary 
facilities 
Interdiction of public 
roadways 
 
Informed the public through press releases and 
community meetings of planned works, coordinate 
with emergency services to assure no loss in 
community coverage, 
Coordinate with Min. Works to re-surface roads in 
a
timely fashion, 
Plan works in order to minimize blockages and to 
facilitate traffic flows in general and around local 
traffic patterns 
Possible contamination of 
work sites with fuels and 
hazardous materials. 
 
Control or limit the use of hazardous materials 
substituting materials with less hazardous 
products,  Provide for the safe storage and use of 
hazardous materials through protected storage 
and worker training, Provide for the safe disposal 
of used hazardous materials in accordance with 
St. Lucian law. 
Use existing commercial fueling stations,  Provide 
for the secure storage of fuel supplies in the field, 
locate fueling areas away from environmentally 
sensitive areas such as water courses, Provide for 
spill control and prevention as part of the overall 
fuel management program, dispose of waste fuels 
and containers in accordance with St. Lucian law  
Pollution form 
construction wastes  
 
Minimize waste through judicious construction 
management practices, collect and dispose of 
construction waste through the St. Lucian waste 
management system, provide for the collection 
and management of worker generated waste 
(trash cans at work sites) 
Noise from construction 
activities 
 
Manage noise by conduction construction 
activities during normal working hours, alert the 
community when the construction is to take place, 
assure machinery used in construction is properly 
Page  45
Page 42 
Impact Mitigation 
equipped with working muffler systems. 
Dust control issues 
Prohibit the use of oils on roads for dust control, 
wet roads with water where necessary using water 
supplied from approved sources 
Temporary loss of crops 
and use of agricultural 
land at the construction 
site 
Identify lands where crops will be removed for 
construction and negotiate with farmers and pay 
appropriate compensation 
Discovery of cultural-
historical antiquities 
Stop work, notify appropriate authorities to 
evaluate the site 
Standing water and 
disease vector production
Prohibit the long-term accumulation of standing 
water suitable for mosquito reproduction 
For the indirect impact 
–
Induced Development, the solution is beyond the 
capabilities of WASCO and falls within the domain of the Ministry of Planning.  
The issue gets to the heart of the balance between economy, development, and 
preservation.  For the present, institutional strengthening of the Ministry of 
Planning has produced a building code and resulted in improved planning 
capacity within the ministry.  However, the agency is still unable to effectively 
manage regional development.  Measures are recommended to improve the 
planning and enforcement of planning requirements within this ministry to help 
develop a coherent development strategy for the northern service area in 
particular. 
 
6.3.   Alternative 2 
–
Installation of a Mobile Desalination Plant at Pigeon 
Point (Desal- Plant) 
 
6.3.1. Plant Siting 
 
A
new desalination facility changes the properties of a coastal site and can permanently 
alter land use options. Potential impacts can be expected during plant construction and 
operation, but also from the building itself, including intakes, outfalls, pumping stations, 
and supporting infrastructure like roads, pipelines or power transmission lines. 
Construction activity could result in soil disturbance (dunes, beaches, seafloor), erosion, 
and damage to archaeological 
sites; heavy machinery produces air emissions and noise, obstructs views and disturbs 
terrestrial and marine organisms. Plant operation causes atmospheric and marine 
emissions or noise from pumping stations, while the building complex and supporting 
infrastructure alter the visual properties (and thus attractiveness to tourists) of a landscape 
permanently. As a consequence, altered air, water and sediment quality, in addition to 
auditory and visual effects, have potential impacts on human activities and the coastal 
environment (including loss of habitat). Values of adjacent properties could be reduced as 
well. 
 
Page  46
Page 43 
6.3.2.  Sea Water Intake and Outfall 
 
Maritime structures such as intakes or outfalls could interfere with navigation, access to 
harbours or other activities such as fishing.  Construction and intake and outfall systems 
can affect water currents and sediment transport as well. An open seawater intake usually 
results in the loss of marine organisms when these collide with screens at the intake 
(impingement) or are drawn into the plant with the seawater (entrainment).  An open 
intake requires an above-ground intake structure that can affect surface currents and 
sediment transport, interfere with shipping or other maritime uses, and provides a surface 
for the attachment of marine organisms.  
 
Optimal chemical dosage may be difficult to establish and overdosing might ensure safe 
operation in the case of deteriorating feed water quality, in turn increasing the risk of 
chemical discharges to the marine environment. Besides requiring minimal chemical pre-
treatment, underground intake structures eliminate impacts from entrainment and 
impingement. However, initial disturbance during construction is higher as sediments 
have to be replaced or become re-suspended.  
 
6.3.3.  Impacts of Brine Production 
 
Most substances in the desalination discharge have a limited dispersal range so the 
associated environmental effects will be usually be restricted to the discharge site and its 
immediate vicinity. Their environmental fate is characterized by processes such self-
decomposition (e.g. chlorine) and transport into sediments (e.g. copper, coagulants) in 
addition to dilution. Local effects may be significant. Residual chemical concentrations in 
the desalination discharge are relatively low but may eventually amount to heavy loads 
due to the large effluent volumes produced. 
 
The waste stream resulting from the desalination process consists of highly concentrated 
saline brine that may be increased in temperature, contain residual chemicals from the 
pretreatment process, heavy metals from corrosion or intermittently used cleaning agents.  
Emission of this multi-component waste into the sea, either directly through coastal 
outfalls or disposal might therefore have potential adverse effects on water and sediment 
quality or impair marine ecosystems.  
 
The physical and chemical properties of seawater are modified during desalination, 
depending on the pre-treatment methods and desalination process used. Pre-treatment 
steps required for reverse osmosis plants include scale and biofouling control, removal of 
suspended material and the control of corrosion and fouling. The process has a significant 
influence on effluent salinity, which is typically higher in the RO brine. 
 
In addition to pre-treatment chemicals, the effluent may contain intermittently used 
cleaning solutions if these are blended with the brine. The single effluent properties have 
potential impacts on the marine environment and their combined discharge might result 
in additive or synergistic effects. 
 
Page  47
Page 44 
Salinity 
is one environmental factor controlling the distribution of marine organisms. 
Although most organisms can adapt to minor changes or might temporarily cope with 
strongly deviating salinities, the continuous discharge of highly saline effluents will be 
harmful to marine life and cause a change in species composition and abundance. 
 
The 
thermal discharge 
may change variable localized temperature distribution and 
seasonal variability in the outfall site with potential impacts on biological activity, 
species abundance and distribution. increased water temperatures could result in stress or 
cause an abrupt decline in biological activity when a critical value is exceeded. Marine 
organisms could be attracted or repelled by the plume, and species more adapted to the 
higher temperatures could eventually predominate in the discharge site. 
 
Oxygen solubility 
declines because reducing agents such as sodium bisulfite are used for 
dechlorination. The effluent might cause an oxygen deficiency in the discharge site, 
possibly harmful to marine life.  
 
Chlorine 
is a highly effective biocide and residual concentrations may be hazardous to 
marine life. Although environmental concentrations are decreased by rapid self-
degradation and dilution, the potential for adverse effects on the marine environment is 
high. An initial decrease of 90 % can be expected in warm sunlit seawater, resulting in 
environmental levels of 20-
50
µg/l in the mixing zone of the effluent, which is consistent 
with observed concentrations in discharge sites of desalination plants.  
 
For comparison, the U.S. EPA recommends a quality criterion for seawater of 7.5 µg/l for 
long-term exposure, which is based on toxicological results from a wide spectrum of 
species. Residual chlorine levels in seawater increase the risk that organohalogen by-
products are produced, of which a major part will contain bromine in addition to chlorine. 
Bromide ions are naturally present in seawater and transformed into highly reactive 
bromine in the presence of chlorine. 
 
Organohalogen compounds 
may be formed from precursors of natural or anthropogenic 
origin. For example, trihalomethanes (THMs) originate from naturally-occurring organics 
and have been detected as major by-products in desalination plant discharge sites.  
Chlorophenols and chlorobenzenes may arise in the presence of petroleum compounds. 
The number of by-products is difficult to quantify due to many possible reactions with 
organic seawater constituents. While the different organohalogen compounds may not be 
present in acutely toxic concentrations, sufficient evidence exists that some of them have 
carcinogenic properties or may cause chronic effects during long-term exposure. 
 
Coagulants
:
Filter backwash is non-toxic, but marine disposal increases the amount of suspended 
material in the discharge site. A potential adverse effect of higher turbidity and lower 
light penetration is a decline in primary production, while increased sedimentation rates 
could cause a burial of sessile organisms. 
 
Page  48
Page 45 
Antiscalants
:
Organic polymers are non-hazardous to marine life as toxicity values (LC50) exceed 
required dosage levels by several orders of magnitude. However, biodegradation is 
relatively slow with half-lives of one month or longer and it must be expected that 
organic polymers are persistent in the marine environment. As these substances control 
scale formation by dispersing and complexing calcium and magnesium ions in the 
desalination plant, they could influence natural processes of other divalent metals in the 
marine environment.  
 
Heavy metals
:
Trace amounts of stainless steel alloys pose relatively little risk to the marine 
environment, but copper is highly toxic to most marine organisms. Concentrations as low 
as 10 µg/l in seawater may have significant effects, but toxicity generally depends on 
bioavailability and species sensitivity. Background copper levels in the Mediterranean are 
low and range between 0.04-0.70 µg/l in open water and <0.01-50 µg/l in coastal areas 
(UNEP, 1996).  
 
Dissolved copper levels are decreased by chemical and physical processes in seawater 
(precipitation, complex formation, adsorption), while the element is enriched in 
suspended material and finally in sediments. The risk of copper accumulation is 
potentially high for soft bottom habitats and areas of restricted water exchange, where 
sedimentation rates are high. Many benthic invertebrates (including shellfish) feed on 
suspended or deposited material, with the risk that heavy metals are enriched in their 
bodies (bioconcentration) and passed on to higher trophic levels. 
 
Cleaning solutions
:
Seawater has a good buffering capacity, i.e. the natural pH of about 8 is usually not 
affected by slightly alkaline or acidic discharges. The discharge of highly acidic or 
alkaline cleaning solutions, however, may become toxic to aquatic life if dilution in the 
discharge site is insufficient. Detergents such as dodecylbenzene sulfonate are hazardous 
to aquatic life as they have the potential to disturb the intracellular membrane system of 
organisms. Similarly, the oxidizing potential of some chemicals (e.g. sodium perborate) 
may affect marine organisms by oxidizing their organic tissue. If complexing agents are 
released into seawater, they could interact with dissolved metal ions and interfere with 
natural processes of these elements in the environment. Complexing agents, e.g. EDTA, 
are typically used in cleaning solutions, which is persistent in the marine environment. 
Oxidizing or nonoxidizing biocides (e.g. chlorine or formaldehyde) are used for 
membrane disinfection, which are particularly hazardous and may be toxic to marine life 
if released to the environment. Membrane storage solutions containing sodium bisulfite 
could also have detrimental effects on marine life by causing oxygen deficiency in the 
discharge site. 
 
Oceanographic Conditions and Behaviour of Water Mass 
Page  49
Page 46 
 
A
distinct water mass may be formed under limited mixing conditions, characterized by 
effluent properties such as increased salinity or residual chemical concentrations. The 
spreading of this discharge plume could affect marine organisms. The RO brine is 
negatively buoyant as a result of its high salinity, with the potential to sink to the bottom 
and spread over the ocean floor, where it could have detrimental effects on benthic 
habitats. Sinking and spreading of the brine plume along the seafloor may affect benthic 
organisms. 
 
6.3.4.   Socio-Economic Impacts of Desalination 
 
·
Possible positive socio-economic impacts 
of
desalination include: 
 
·
ensuring access to sufficient and safe drinking water for domestic use 
 
·
creating wealth through tourism, industrial and agricultural development, or even 
new employment opportunities in the desalination industry 
 
·
decreasing the pressure on natural resources, protecting freshwater ecosystems, 
preventing desertification or ground-water salinisation 
 
·
aiding in attaining stability and peace in the region.  
 
Possible negative socio-economic impacts 
of
desalination include: 
 
·
changed consumption patterns or even misuse of water due to the impression that 
water is readily available 
 
·
a
further concentration of development and activity in the coastal zone,  migration 
of people.  
 
·
dependency on a technology that may in turn depend on the import of know-how 
or energy, that is vulnerable to deteriorating seawater quality (e.g. oil spills), and 
is probably centralized in a few locations requiring the transport of water over 
large distances.  The magnitude of socio-economic impacts depends on the future 
development of desalination activity in the Mediterranean region. Trend scenarios 
range from a restricted use in developed countries to a widespread applicability in 
the whole region if costs can be further reduced. 
 
6.3.5. Increased Development 
 
Related to the above-mentioned socio-economic impacts, the construction of a 
desalination plant to meet water supply needs will likely result in growth-inducing 
impacts. This is likely to result in explosive growth in the desal plant service area owing 
to the already pent up demand in the region.  Limited water is the major constraint to 
development in the service area. Therefore, the addition of the desalination could result in 
Page  50
Page 47 
rapid new development  placing additional pressure on the already strained infrastructure.  
This growth must be considered together with the ability to provide other basic services 
such as sewage, access to education, electric power etc.  This growth should also be 
considered with respect to the size of the plant to be installed.  As growth continues, there 
is the possibility that the plant will not be sufficient to meet the anticipated demand 
resulting in water shortages again.  
 
6.3.6. Water Balance Issues 
 
The addition of water into the local and regional water balances, and into an urban water 
supply system that has a design capacity for smaller amounts of water, may cause some 
major impacts. In the urban setting, the water treatment systems, if existing, may not be 
capable of handling the new fresh water provided. Therefore, when new water is 
introduced into a supply system, corresponding water treatment capacity must be 
developed. When new water is added into a water basin which has always had the same 
water balance, physical impacts such as rising of the water table and possible water 
logging may take place. These physical impacts may have further-reaching consequences. 
 
6.3.7. Hurricane Risk 
 
The proposed desal site is located along the coastal margin and is vulnerable to 
Hurricane.  The site is relatively unprotected and exposed.    
 
6.3.8. Mitigation Measures 
 
Construction 
 
Construction should be scheduled for time periods that guarantee a low interference with 
recreation and tourism or breeding and migration of coastal animals. Preventive actions 
further include noise buffering, visual screening and spatially restricted construction.  
The desalination plant can be designed to minimize visual and auditory impacts (sound-
proofing of complexes where pumps are housed, limited height of the facility and 
blending into the surrounding landscape). Impairment of water and air quality should be 
minimized by implementing best available techniques (BAT/BATNEEC) to limit 
emissions.  
 
Siting should be optimized to reduce land use and to avoid impacts on sensitive marine 
areas and protected species. Pipelines should be placed underground and/or their number 
and length minimized without accessing sensitive areas. The different interests and 
activities in the coastal site should be regulated by the coastal development plan to avoid 
conflicts. 
 
Seawater Intake 
 
Page  51
Page 48 
Screens should be used to avoid intake of larger marine organisms. Intakes should be 
sited where less productivity is taking place to avoid intake of eggs or larvae; as a result, 
somewhat less fouling should take place and chemical use may be reduced. Intakes 
should further be designed to avoid impingement and flows should be optimized to avoid 
same. Generally, beach wells should be used in preference to intakes.  
 
Mitigation for Impacts of Brine Discharge 
 
Salinity: 
To minimize impacts from elevated salinity levels, desalination effluents should 
be within 10% of the ambient value, achieved by blending desalination effluents with 
power plant cooling water in adequate mixing ratios. Options that improve mixing in the 
discharge site should further be considered. 
 
Thermal Discharges
:
Temperature increase in discharged water should be limited to 10% 
above normal.  Adequate mixing of the effluent plume with surrounding seawater should 
be ensured to mitigate impacts from elevated temperature. 
 
Oxygen Content
:
To prevent oxygen deficiency, oceanographic conditions in the 
discharge site should provide for good mixing of effluent and seawater to adjust oxygen 
contents to ambient levels within close distance from the outfall.   
 
Biocides: 
Neutralization of residual chlorine levels is of importance regarding the 
desalination process. Several chemical treatment options exist: dosing of sodium bisulfite 
(used in RO) or sulphur dioxide. Alternative treatment methods should be considered 
where feasible, such as ultraviolet light in small, automated systems. Major advantages of 
UV-light are that storage and handling of chemicals is not required, physical and 
chemical seawater parameters are not altered and no toxic by-products are formed. Other 
non-chemical pre-treatment options include prefiltration with fine-pored membranes 
(microfiltration or ultrafiltration) or the use of beach-wells, so that continuous biocide 
dosing is replaced by intermittent treatment for disinfection and cleaning. 
 
Coagulants: 
The filter backwash should be sufficiently diluted, e.g. by continuous 
blending with the brine, or be removed from the filters and transported to a landfill. The 
disposal option will also depend on the amount of material produced. Deposition in a 
landfill should be considered for large plants, where more material accumulates and 
potential impacts are more likely. The plant would further have to include a process for 
removal and means of transportation to the landfill. 
 
Antiscalants: 
Organic polymers may be used to mitigate potential impacts from increased 
nutrient levels in the discharge site. Although these substances are relatively non-toxic, 
their environmental fate and potential impact on dissolved metals in seawater should be 
addressed. Pre-treatment with sulphuric acid might be considered for where piping is 
plastic or stainless steel.   The intake water can further be pre-treated by nanofiltration, a 
membrane softening process that partially removes divalent cations such as calcium or 
magnesium from seawater. 
 
Page  52
Page 49 
Heavy Metals: 
Expected discharge levels of copper should be well below an established 
discharge limit of 500 µg/l (Barcelona Convention), but may exceed the water quality 
objective of 8 µg/l. The outfall should be placed and configured as to achieve sufficient 
dilution of copper, so that the quality objective can be met at the edge of the mixing zone. 
To lower the risk of toxic effects in the mixing zone, it is desirable to decrease copper 
concentrations in the effluent as far as possible. Sediments and organisms should be 
monitored with regard to quality criteria. Discharge concentrations can be influenced by 
controlling corrosion, which is usually achieved by pre-treatment of the intake seawater, 
the choice of corrosion-resistant construction materials, and the use of corrosion 
inhibitors. Nonmetallic equipment should be used where possible, e.g. for intakes and 
outfall pipes or in RO plants.  
 
Cleaning Solutions: 
Prior to discharge, cleaning and storage solutions should be 
recovered to remove any potential toxicity. This requires neutralization of the alkaline or 
acidic pH values and specific treatment for detergents, oxidants, complexing agents, 
biocides or other compounds with detrimental effects on marine life and the coastal water 
body. A wastewater treatment section should be implemented in the desalination plant, 
while substances for which existing treatment methods are inadequate should be avoided 
or replaced by alternative chemicals. 
 
Mixture of effluent in receiving waters: Mixing of the effluent in the receiving water 
body should be optimized by making use of favorable oceanographic conditions and 
discharging at appropriate intervals. Good mixing results can be achieved on high-energy 
coasts, where turbulence is high and strong currents cause a rapid water exchange; 
sheltered sites may trap effluents, resulting in long residence times of pollutants. In this 
case, the outfall should be located further offshore. Similarly, outfalls near the surface 
prevent attachment of negatively buoyant plumes to the sea floor.   The outfall can further 
be technically improved, for example by using multi-port diffusers or increasing the 
discharge velocity. Different discharge scenarios should be analyzed for a proposed 
desalination plant to determine the best method of disposal. 
 
Water Balance Issues 
 
The water balance of the given area should be properly researched, so that the exact 
effects of the increased water in the basin can be calculated within a reasonable error 
margin. Wastewater treatment capacity would have to be increased to compensate for the 
extra water so that water logging and excessive water table increases do not take place to 
an extreme level. 
 
Hurricane Risks 
 
Construction should be made hurricane resistant to the extent possible by observing 
modern architectural practices. 
 
Page  53
Page 50 
 
7. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN 
 
For the works contemplated under the preferred option, capacity improvement, 
environmental management is relatively straight forward.  The negative impacts 
associated with the program are construction related.  Environmental management should 
begin at the contracting phase of the project, be evaluated during the tendering process 
and enforced during the performance of the actual works. 
 
Ultimately, WASCO should be responsible for environmental enforcement on these 
projects. 
 
7.1.   Contract development 
 
At the time works contracts are developed, enforceable clauses should be included with 
the contract requiring contractor environmental performance. Draft contract clauses are 
presented in Appendix 2 for consideration.  Performance should be guaranteed through 
the use of the contract “hold back” often used to guarantee the performance of the 
construction works themselves.  The environmental holdback should be constructed so as 
to allow partial penalty for failure to comply with the management requirements.  A 
system based on number of failed inspections can be used to assess penalties.  For 
instance, a series of 10 violations noted results in forfeiting 1/3 of the environmental hold 
back .  Failure to deal with noted deficiencies should be considered a violation in itself. 
 
At the tenders phase, contract bids should include an evaluation of the contractors ability 
to fulfill the environmental management requirements and this requirement should the 
highlighted in the tenders documents. 
 
7.1.1.   Initial Planning 
 
Once engaged, the contractor is required to develop a series of operational management 
plans in accordance with the project requirements.  This includes the development of 
environmental plans for the specific areas identified in the tender documents.  For the 
capacity improvement project, these will include: 
 
1.  A construction waste management plan 
2.  An oil and hazardous materials management plan 
3.  The worker sanitation plan 
4.  A traffic management plan 
5.  A site stabilization and erosion control plan 
 
The WASCO project officer will approve the plans developed by the contractor to assure 
they accomplish the environmental management objectives of the program and address 
Page  54
Page 51 
the needs associated with the specific works.  Once approved, the contractor is given 
authorization to start work. 
 
7.2.  Vigilance 
 
As with the management of the construction works, the WASCO project officer should 
inspect fro compliance with the environmental management requirements on a regular 
basis.  Weekly sight visits should be sufficient for works of this nature.  Where 
deficiencies are found, these should be noted and brought to the attention of the 
contractor.  A period of three days should be given for contractors to rectify any problems 
noted.   
 
As the anticipated environmental impacts are during the construction phase of the project, 
timeliness is important.  The impacts are of short duration and reversible but failure to 
exercise control during construction promotes incremental damage.   Regular inspections 
of contractor activities are critical to their successful management. 
 
7.3.   Close out 
 
At the completion of works, the project officer should inspect the works for both 
engineering adequacy and environmental compliance.  In all cases work sites are to be 
returned to an acceptable condition and in the case of excavations in roadways and 
agricultural fields, returned to serviceable condition.  A satisfactory close out releases all 
hold back funds. 
 
7.4.  WASCO Responsibilities 
 
Apart from the requirements on contractors, WASCO has the responsibility for informing 
the public and management the compensation of losses incurred as a result of the works.  
Prior to the initiation of contractor operations, WASCO should contact each landowner 
and farmer to identify the extent of loss anticipated and negotiate a compensation 
settlement. 
 
Where works will affect traffic patterns, WASCO should hold a series of information 
meetings with affected locals to explain the works and the project work schedule.  Route 
changes and work schedules should be published in local newspapers so as to allow 
citizens to plan for changes in traffic patterns.  Additionally, WASCO should meet with 
police, fire, and medical personnel to present their plans and alert these agencies to the 
possible changes in short term access. 
 
8. MANAGEMENT 
RECOMMENDATIONS 
 
During the management of these works, WASCO should develop clear lines of 
communication with project management and field personnel.  All persons associated 
Page  55
Page 52 
with the performance and supervision of the works should understand the environmental 
requirements imposed and who should be notified in the event of a problem 
 
Public affairs and public information will represent a major requirement for WASCO.  As 
the projects are planned,, WASCO should appoint a Public Affairs officer to handle 
citizen questions and complaints.  As needed the public affairs officer should meet with 
citizens groups and emergency services to provide timely information concerning road 
closures and route changes. 
 
Because the Ministry of works is responsible fro resurfacing damaged roadways, a 
specific liaison should be appointed to keep works informed as to schedule changes and 
road repair requirements. 
 
9. INSTITUTIONAL IMPLEMENTATION 
 
Implementation of the environmental management program for these works can be 
managed through the project contract officer.  Field inspectors reporting to the project 
officer will provide vigilance over the works and written reports for performance should 
include environmental management observations as well.  Implementation in this case, is 
simply a slight augmentation of the responsibilities associated with civil works project 
management. 
 
Liaison with the public should be managed by WASCOS public affairs officer andd clear 
lines of communication should be maintained with Ministry of Works.   
 
10.  CAPACITY BUILDING 
 
WASCO is presently involved in a program of institutional strengthening under the 
Water Sector Reform program which includes the development of enhanced 
environmental management capacity.  To this end, the implementation of the 
recommendations under that effort should continued as designed. 
 
Page  56
Page 53 
APPENDIX I 
IUCN 
Criteria for Critically Endangered, Endangered and Vulnerable 
 
CRITICALLY ENDANGERED (CR)
 
A
taxon is Critically Endangered when it is facing an extremely high risk of extinction in the wild in the 
immediate future, as defined by any of the following criteria (A to E): 
A)
Population reduction in the form of either of the following: 
1)
An observed, estimated, inferred or suspected reduction of at least 80% over the last 10 
years or three generations, whichever is the longer, based on (and specifying) any of the 
following: 
a)
direct observation 
b)
an index of abundance appropriate for the taxon 
c)
a
decline in area of occupancy, extent of occurrence and/or quality of 
habitat 
d)
actual or potential levels of exploitation 
e)
the effects of introduced taxa, hybridisation, pathogens, pollutants, 
competitors or parasites. 
 
2)
A
reduction of at least 80%, projected or suspected to be met within the next 10 years or 
three generations, whichever is the longer, based on (and specifying) any of (b), (c), (d) or 
(e) above. 
 
B)
Extent of occurrence estimated to be less than 100 km
2
or area of occupancy estimated to be less 
than 10 km
2
,
and estimates indicating any two of the following: 
1)
Severely fragmented or known to exist at only a single location. 
2)
Continuing decline, observed, inferred or projected, in any of the following: 
a) 
extent of occurrence 
b) 
area of occupancy 
c) 
area, extent and/or quality of habitat 
d) 
number of locations or subpopulations 
e) 
number of mature individuals 
 
3)
Extreme fluctuations in any of the following: 
a) 
extent of occurrence 
b) 
area of occupancy 
c) 
number of locations or subpopulations 
d) 
number of mature individuals 
 
C)
Population estimated to number less than 250 mature individuals and either: 
1)
An estimated continuing decline of at least 25% within three years or one generation, 
whichever is longer or 
Page  57
Page 54 
2)
A
continuing decline, observed, projected, or inferred, in numbers of mature individuals 
and population structure in the form of either: 
a)
severely fragmented (i.e. no subpopulation estimated to contain more than 
50 mature individuals)  
b)
all individuals are in a single subpopulation  
 
D)
Population estimated to number less than 50 mature individuals. 
E)
Quantitative analysis showing the probability of extinction in the wild is at l
east 50% within 10 years 
or three generations, whichever is the longer.  
ENDANGERED (EN)
 
A
taxon is Endangered when it is not Critically Endangered but is facing a very high risk of extinction in 
the wild in the near future, as defined by any of the following criteria (A to E):  
A)
Population reduction in the form of either of the following: 
1)
An observed, estimated, inferred or suspected reduction of at least 50% over the last 10 
years or three generations, whichever is the longer, based on (and specifying) any of the 
following: 
a)
direct observation 
b)
an index of abundance appropriate for the taxon 
c)
a
decline in area of occupancy, extent of occurrence and/or quality of 
habitat 
d)
actual or potential levels of exploitation 
e)
the effects of introduced taxa, hybridisation, pathogens, pollutants, 
competitors or parasites. 
 
2)
A
reduction of at least 50%, projected or suspected to be met within the next 10 years or 
three generations, whichever is the longer, based on (and specifying) any of (b), (c), (d), 
or (e) above. 
 
B)
Extent of occurrence estimated to be less than 5000 km
2
or area of occupancy estimated to be less 
than 500 km
2
,
and estimates indicating any two of the following: 
1)
Severely fragmented or known to exist at no more than five locations. 
2)
Continuing decline, inferred, observed or projected, in any of the following: 
a) 
extent of occurrence 
3)
Extreme fluctuations in any of the following:  
a) 
extent of occurrence 
b) 
area of occupancy 
c) 
number of locations or subpopulations 
d) 
number of mature individuals 
Page  58
Page 55 
d) 
number of mature individuals 
 
C)
Population estimated to number less than 2500 mature individuals and either: 
1)
An estimated continuing decline of at least 20% within five years or two generations, 
whichever is longer, or  
2)
A
continuing decline, observed, projected, or inferred, in numbers of mature individuals 
and population structure in the form of either: 
a)
severely fragmented (i.e. no subpopulation estimated to contain more than 
250 mature individuals) 
b)
all individuals are in a single subpopulation. 
 
D)
Population estimated to number less than 250 mature individuals. 
E)
Quantitative analysis showing the probability of extinction in the wild is at least 20% within 20 years 
or five generations, whichever is the longer. 
VULNERABLE (VU)
 
A
taxon is Vulnerable when it is not Critically Endangered or Endangered but is facing a high risk of 
extinction in the wild in the medium-term future, as defined by any of the following criteria (A to E): 
A)
Population reduction in the form of either of the following: 
1)
An observed, estimated, inferred or suspected reduction of at least 20% over the last 10 
years or three generations, whichever is the longer, based on (and specifying) any of the 
following: 
a)
direct observation 
b)
an index of abundance appropriate for the taxon 
c)
a
decline in area of occupancy, extent of occurrence and/or quality of 
habitat 
d)
actual or potential levels of exploitation 
e)
the effects of introduced taxa, hybridisation, pathogens, pollutants, 
competitors or parasites. 
 
2)
A
reduction of at least 20%, projected or suspected to be met within the next ten years or 
three generations, whichever is the longer, based on (and specifying) any of (b), (c), (d) 
or (e) above. 
 
B)
Extent of occurrence estimated to be less than 20,000 km
2
or area of occupancy estimated to be less 
than 2000 km
2
,
and estimates indicating any two of the following: 
1)
Severely fragmented or known to exist at no more than ten locations. 
2)
Continuing decline, inferred, observed or projected, in any of the following: 
a)
extent of occurrence
3)
Extreme fluctuations in any of the following: 
Page  59
Page 56 
3)
Extreme fluctuations in any of the following: 
a) 
extent of occurrence 
b) 
area of occupancy 
c) 
number of locations or subpopulations 
d) 
number of mature individuals 
 
C)
Population estimated to number less than 10,000 mature individuals and either: 
1)
An estimated continuing decline of at least 10% within 10 years or three generations, 
whichever is longer, or 
2)
A
continuing decline, observed, projected, or inferred, in numbers of mature individuals 
and population structure in the form of either: 
a)
severely fragmented (i.e. no subpopulation estimated to contain more than 
1000 mature individuals)  
b)
all individuals are in a single subpopulation  
 
D)
Population very small or restricted in the form of either of the following: 
1)
Population estimated to number less than 1000 mature individuals. 
2)
Population is characterised by an acute restriction in its area of occupancy (typically less 
than 100 km
2
)
or
in the number of locations (typically less than five). Such a taxon 
would thus be prone to the effects of human activities (or stochastic events whose impact 
is increased by human activities) within a very short period of time in an unforeseeable 
future, and is thus capable of becoming Critically Endangered or even Extinct in a very 
short period. 
 
E)
Quantitative analysis showing the probability of extinction in the wild is at least 10% within 100 
years.  
 
Page  60
Page 57 
APPENDIX II 
DRAFT ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT CONTRACT CLAUSES 
 
Standard Contract Clauses 
 
To facilitate environmental management, the following clauses have been 
developed for inclusion in construction contracts.  These are based on the 
findings of the environmental assessment conducted fro the proposed works.  
These clauses, may be modified to conform with Grenadian law and shall remain 
in force during the contract period.  It is recommended that these clauses be 
included in an Environmental Appendix to the construction contract.  In most 
cases, it is the responsibility of the contractor to present environmental plans to 
the contraction officer prior to the commencement of works.  Plans developed 
need only be as detailed as the works require.  
 
Specific Clauses 
 
1. Site Security 
 
The contractor shall be responsible for maintaining security over the construction site 
including the protection of stored materials and equipment.  In the event of severe 
weather, the contractor shall secure the construction site and associated equipment in 
such a manner as to protect the site and adjacent areas from consequential damages. 
This includes the management of onsite wastes, construction and sanitary, additional 
strengthening of erosion control and soil stabilization systems and other conditions 
resulting from contractor activities that may increase the potential for damages.    
 
2. Discovery of antiquities 
 
If, during the execution of the activities contained in this contract, any material is 
discovered onsite which may be considered of historical or cultural interest, such as 
evidence of prior settlements, native or historical activities, evidence of any existence 
on a site which may be of cultural significance, all work shall stop and the 
supervising contracting officer shall be notified immediately.  The area in which the 
material was discovered shall be marked and the evidence preserved for examination.   
 
Work may resume, without penalty of prejudice to the contractor upon permission 
from the contracting officer with any restrictions offered to protect the site. 
 
Page  61
Page 58 
 
3. Worker Sanitation 
 
Sanitation facilities shall be provided to site workers.  All sanitary wastes generated 
as a result of project activities shall be managed in a manner approved by the 
contracting officer.  The contractor shall provide the contracting officer with a site 
sanitation plan for approval and implementation prior to the commencement of site 
activities. 
 
4. Noise Control 
 
The contractor shall control noise emissions generated as a result of contracting 
activities to the extent possible.  In the case of site locations where noise disturbance 
will be a concern, the contractor shall ensure that the equipment is in good working 
order with manufacturer supplied  noise suppression (mufflers etc.) systems 
functioning and in good repair.  Where noise management is a concern, the contractor 
shall make reasonable efforts to schedule activities during normal working hours 
(between 8 am and 5 pm).  Where noise is likely to pose a risk to the surrounding 
community, the contractor shall inform the contraction officer and shall develop a 
public notification and noise management plan for approval by the contracting 
officer.
 
5. Use and management of hazardous materials, 
fuels, solvents and petroleum products 
 
Any use hazardous materials excluding pesticides, oils, fuels and petroleum 
products shall conform to the proper use recommendations of the product.  
Waste hazardous materials and their containers shall be disposed of in a 
manner approved by the contracting officer.  A site management plan will be 
developed by the contractor if the operation involves the use of these 
materials to include estimated quantities to be consumed in the process, 
storage plans, spill control plans, and waste disposal practices to be followed.  
This plan is subject to the approval of the contracting officer. 
 
6. Use of preservatives and paint substances 
 
All paints and preservatives shall be used only with the approval of the contracting 
officer.  Information shall be provided to the contracting officer that describes the 
essential components of the materials to be used so that an informed determination 
can be made as to the potential for environmental effects an suitability can be made.  
Page  62
Page 59 
Storage, use, and disposal of excess paints and preservatives shall be managed in 
conformance with the manufacturers recommendations and as approved by the 
contracting officer.  The contractor shall provide the contracting officer with a list of 
materials and estimated quantities to be used, storage, spill control and waste disposal 
plans to be observed during the execution of the contract.  This plan is subject to the 
approval of the contracting officer. 
 
7. Site stabilization and erosion control 
 
Contractor shall implement measures at the site of operations to manage soil erosion 
through minimization of excavated area, preservation of existing ground cover to the 
extent possible, provision of approved ground cover. 
 
Where excavations are made, contractor shall implement appropriate stabilizing 
techniques to prevent cave-in or landslide. Erosion control measures shall be 
approved by the contracting officer. 
 
An erosion management plan will be required where the potential exists for 
significant sediment quantities to accumulate in wetlands, lakes, rivers and near-shore 
marine systems.  This plan shall include a description of the potential threat, 
mitigation measures to be applied, and consideration for the effects of severe weather 
and an emergency response plan. 
 
8. Management of standing water 
 
Under no circumstances shall the contractor permit the collection of standing water as 
a
consequence of contractor activities without the approval of the contracting officer 
and consultation with the Ministry of Health’s environmental health unit.   
 
9. 
Management of trash and debris 
 
The contractor shall provide the contracting officer with a trash and debris 
management plan that conforms to the solid waste management policies and 
regulations of Grenada.  Under no circumstances shall the contractor allow 
construction wastes to accumulate so as to cause a nuisance or health risk due to the 
propagation of pests and disease vectors.  The site waste management plan shall 
include a description of how wastes will be stored, collected and disposed of in 
accordance with current law.  Additionally the contractor shall provide for the regular 
removal and disposal of all site wastes and provide the contracting officer with a 
schedule for such removal.
 
Page  63
Page 60 
 
