Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC1406 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 04/01/2005 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: St. Lucia 
Project ID: P094416 
Project Name: ST LUCIA WATER SUPPLY INFR IMPROVEMENT 
Task Team Leader: Jordan Z. Schwartz 
Estimated Appraisal Date: April 15, 2005 
Estimated Board Date: May 19, 2005 
Managing Unit: LCSFW 
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector: Water supply (100%) 
Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
3.85 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
3.85 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00
0.00 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The Saint Lucia Water Supply Infrastructure Improvement Project will support a short term 
investment program to carry out critical works which are required to achieve the following 
objectives:  
 
(i) 
alleviate the water shortage in the north of the country.  (The infrastructure works 
proposed will allow the utility to supply the entire north of the island with a more efficient, 
continuous and reliable service.) and  
 
(ii)  
implement urgent investments which will result in additional revenues, reduce the 
likelihood of commercial users (important sources of cross-subsidy for poor consumers) 
abandoning the system and improve the potential of a successful partnership between the 
government and the private sector.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
The project will improve the reliability of the Roseau Dam water supply system (Compton Dam) 
by raising the flow volumes of water to the north of St. Lucia  in accordance with the original 
system design specifications. This is required to meet the current shortfall in water supply in 
northern sections of the island and to assist with the reduction of costs for water production 
Page  2
through improved system efficiencies.  The system components that would be upgraded under 
this phase include: replacement of inefficient pumps at the Roseau Dam pumping station, the 
removal of pipe restrictions along the Roseau Dam raw water transmission line to the Theobalds 
(Cicero) Treatment plant, construction of the phase II raw water treatment facility at the 
Theobalds plant,  and improvements to the Morne Bocage distribution pipeline that will connect 
the Hill 20 system, (an area suffering from severe water shortages)  to the Roseau system.  The 
increase in the flow capacity from the Roseau reservoir reduces the drought return period for 
which the reservoir was designed.  The current flow restrictions along the distribution system are 
largely responsible for turning every year to a drought year.  Removing these restrictions will 
raise the extraction capacity from the reservoir to original design levels and generally satisfy all 
the forecast demand under normal operating conditions.  The issue of drought years will be taken 
care of in the medium term investment program by the future owner/operators under which an 
expansion of the water source for the north may be considered, or alternatively, an aggressive 
water losses reduction in the distribution network will be pursued.  
 
The components of the proposed project are thus the following:  
 
Component A:  Infrastructure Improvement Works:  This component includes the following 
infrastructure improvement works, which are detailed in Annex 1:  
 
?
Roseau Dam Pumping Station Upgrade:  This entails the upgrade of pumping capacity to 
match future demand.  
 
?
Vanard-Sarot Pipe Replacement: This requires a new 24? ductile iron pipe to be installed 
from Varnard to Sarot (1.3 km) parallel to the existing 18?, which will upgrade the raw water 
transmission pipeline capacity up to 10 MGD.  
 
?
Theobalds Treatment Plant Upgrade:  Consisting of doubling the capacity of the 
treatment plant by adding treatment units.  
 
?
Morne Bocage Distribution Pipeline:  This new pipeline functions as a dedicated 
transmission pipeline directly to existing storage tanks at the Morne and Morne Du Don, for 
enhancing water supply to the Hill 20 area.  
 
Due to the urgent nature of the works and the close inter-relationship among the components of 
the project it is considered that a turnkey contract will be the most efficient and safe way to 
implement this type of project and achieve project objectives as demonstrated in other Bank 
projects such as the Espiritu Santo project in Brazil.  
 
Component B:  Technical Assistance and Project Management. This component includes:  
 
?
consulting services for:  
 
?
preparation of preliminary designs and tender invitation documents for all civil, 
mechanical and electrical works;  
 
?
preparation of pre-qualification reports where necessary;  
 
?
assistance in the evaluation of tenders, preparation of tender the evaluation reports, 
selection of the winning bidder and negotiation of contracts;  
 
?
supervision of the quality of works  
 
?
other activities, as required, to provide support to the project management unit.  
Page  3
?
Additional support to the PMU and the Government in TA and training, as necessary.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
Works contemplated under this project, aside from the pumping station upgrades at the Roseau 
dam, extend from the Vanard distribution line (in the Roseau river valley) through the Theobalds 
treatment plant, near Castries to areas north and east of the plant.  The works will be installed 
through agricultural areas and along existing roadways to service the northern part of the 
country. Works are to be constructed in inland areas away from tourist, and coastal zone 
localities. Improvements to the Theobalds plant will occur onsite, in a section set aside during 
the first phase construction program.   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) has been prepared, including a social assessment.   
WASCO has a developing environmental management program and an environmental 
management plan has been developed to guide the execution of this project.  Contracting 
mechanisms with WASCO supervision will be employed to assure compliance with 
environmental requirements.  WASCO has previous experience with public outreach and 
compensation mechanisms for crop damages.  
 
Compliance with dam safety requirements will be reviewed with WASCO and a review of their 
existing safety program will be made.  It is presently believed that the existing program is 
technically adequate and sufficient to satisfy OP 4.37 however, if deficiencies are noted and 
independent inspection will be made and additional recommendations will be made to strengthen 
the safety program.   
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one 
safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.  
 
N/A  
 
II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future  
 
activities in the project area.  
 
None, the long term impact is beneficial with the installation of a greatly improved raw and 
treated water distribution system. Planned improvements will also result in lower energy costs 
helping to lower the overall cost of water production.  
 
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)  
 
Two alternatives were examined for this project.  The first was the development of the 
works presented in the project description and the possible installation of a desalination plant to 
service the north end of the island.  
Page  4
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
The desalination plant was rejected for several reasons:  
 
1. Environmental impacts to public beaches, national trust lands (cultural historical site) and 
nearshore marine environments were significant requiring major mitigations.  
 
2. Cost or water production would be much greater than the preferred alternative.  
 
3. The project would not service the rural communities included in the preferred plan 
servicing primarily the vacation communities, hotels and recreational/commercial areas in the 
north.  
 
4. The impacts from preferred alternative are limited to the construction phase and the 
project services the entire community in the north rather than a specific segment   
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
X
The project consists of the improvement and construction of drinking water infrastructure 
that relies on the Compton dam and the Roseau reservoir as the source of raw water.  This 
triggered the requirements identified under OP 4.37 ? Safety of Dams.  The Compton dam was 
constructed in 1996 under a World Bank/OPIC program.  Based on initial site visits, the dam 
appears to be very well maintained with no obvious sign of degradation either in the dam works 
themselves or with the associated appurtenances.  All pumps, pipes, buildings and associated 
facilities appear to be in excellent condition.  Routine maintenance activities were observed 
during the site visit and included continual vegetation control along the dam and associated 
access areas.  Safety equipment located along the dam, access paths and walkways appeared to 
be in good condition and regularly maintained.  While no technical inspection was made of the 
dam structure, all equipment was functioning and apparently in good repair.  Security was intact 
and site access is screened and limited.  Fuel storage facilities were clean, freshly painted and 
free from debris.  
 
Interviews with WASCO staff indicate that a regular program of maintenance and 
professional inspection is in operation and functioning well.  The area is subject to seismic 
activity and regular, underwater inspections (by contractor) are made after every seismic event 
regardless of magnitude.  Wasco appears to have a strong safety inspection program in place and 
appears to have the technical capability to maintain this level of surveillance.  
 
To verify compliance with OP 4.37, WASCO has been asked to submit their most recent 
inspection reports together with copies of their safety management and surveillance program.  
Records will be reviewed to assure the program is indeed working.  If significant deficiencies are 
noted as a result of this review, an independent inspection will be made of the facilities.   
Page  5
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
B
-
Partial Assessment 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  04/07/2005 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  04/01/2005 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
04/20/2005   
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Jordan Z. Schwartz 
03/31/2005 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Jean-Roger Mercier 
03/31/2005 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Jose Luis Irigoyen 
03/31/2005 
Comments:   
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  6
