Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4065-SLU 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Water Supply Infrastructure Improvement Project) 
 
between 
 
SAINT LUCIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 23, 2005
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4065-SL 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 23, 2005, between SAINT LUCIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the loan agreement (Loan Agreement) 
of the same date herewith entered into between the Borrower and the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), has requested the Association to assist 
in the financing of the Project;  
(B) 
the Borrower also has requested the Bank to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Project and, pursuant to the Loan Agreement, the 
Bank is making a loan to the Borrower in the amount of three million eight hundred and 
fifty thousand Dollars ($3,850,000) (the Loan); and 
(C) 
the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practicable, that the 
proceeds of the credit provided for in this Agreement (the Credit) be disbursed on 
account of expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of 
the Loan are made. 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement. 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows: 
Page  3
-
2
-
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Development Credit Agreement, 
the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Borrower on the goods or services to be financed under 
the Credit, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. 
Financing of such taxes is subject to the Association’s policy of requiring 
economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its credits. To that end, if 
the Association shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes 
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit is excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Association may, by notice 
to the Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to 
in respect of such item in the Development Credit Agreement as required to 
be consistent with such policy of the Association.” 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions, in the Loan Agreement, and in the Preamble to this Agreement 
have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to two million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
2,600,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
 Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 15, 2009, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 
1, and November 1, commencing November 1, 2015 and ending May 1, 2040. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2025 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
Page  5
-
4
-
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling 
six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out 
in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, 
that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.09. The Minister of Finance, and any person whom he or she shall 
designate in writing, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 
of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) Subject to the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, 
Sections 3.01, 3.02, 4.01, 4.02, and 5.01 of the Loan Agreement and Schedules 1, 2, 4, 
Page  6
-
5
-
and 5 thereto are incorporated in this Agreement, with the following modifications in said 
Sections and Schedules unless the context otherwise requires: 
(i) 
the term “Bank” shall be read as “Association”; 
(ii) 
the term “Loan” and “Loan Account” shall be read as “Credit” 
and “Credit Account”; and 
(iii) 
the term “this Agreement” shall be read as “the Credit 
Agreement”.
 
Section 3.02.  So long as any part of the Loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement shall remain outstanding and unless the Borrower has been notified otherwise 
by the Association: 
(a) 
all actions taken, including approvals given, by the Bank with respect to 
any Project-related matter under the Loan Agreement shall be deemed to be taken or 
given in the name and on behalf of both the Bank and the Association; and 
(b) 
all information or documentation furnished by the Borrower to the Bank 
with respect to any Project-related matter pursuant to the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement or the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for 
Fixed-Spread Loans of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), shall be deemed to be furnished to both the Bank and the Association. 
ARTICLE IV
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that: 
(a) 
Subject to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph:  
(i)  
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of 
the Loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of 
the Loan Agreement providing therefor; or 
Page  7
-
6
-
(ii)  
any such Loan shall have become due and payable prior 
to the agreed maturity thereof. 
(b) 
Subparagraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (i) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such 
agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. 
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a) 
(ii) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) 
of that Section. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness 
of the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of 
this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. The date September 21, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  8
-
7
-
Page  9
-
8
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Office of the Prime Minister 
Greaham Louisy Administrative Building 
Waterfront, Castries 
Saint Lucia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
758-453-7352 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
SAINT LUCIA 
 
By/s/ Sonia M. Johnny 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By/s/ Pamela Cox 
Authorized Representative 
 
