Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7297-SLU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Water Supply Infrastructure Improvement Project) 
 
between 
 
SAINT LUCIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 23, 2005
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7297-SL 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 23, 2005, between SAINT LUCIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) 
the Borrower also has requested the International Development 
Association (the Association) to provide additional financial assistance towards the 
financing of the Project, and by the Development Credit Agreement between the 
Borrower and the Association of even date herewith (the Credit Agreement), the 
Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in a principal amount equivalent to  
two million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,600,000) (the Credit); 
(C) 
the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practicable, that the 
proceeds of the credit be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the Project 
before disbursements of the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Loan) are made; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004, and with modifications set forth below) with the modifications set 
forth below to this Agreement (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:  
Page  3
-
2
-
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower or the 
Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to 
the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its 
loans. To that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes 
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank.” 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;   
(b) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;  
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(d) 
“Operations Manual” means the operational manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank, adopted by the Project Coordination Unit, including all annexes thereto, which sets 
forth the policies and procedures for carrying out the Project (including provisions to 
ensure that all works under Part A of the Project are conducted in such a manner as to be 
consistent with appropriate procedures and practices for environmental and dam safety), 
as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank;  
(e) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated April 
21, 2005, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as 
the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
Page  4
-
3
-
3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
(f)  
“Project Coordination Unit” or “PCU” means the unit within the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance which is responsible for the implementation of the 
Project; 
(g) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;  
(h) 
“Resettlement” means the impact of involuntary taking of land under the 
Project which taking causes the affected persons to have their: (i) standard of living 
adversely affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, 
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, 
temporarily or permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, 
temporarily or permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or 
habitat adversely affected, temporarily or permanently”; 
(i) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B.1 of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement;
 
and  
(j) 
“Water and Sewerage Company” or “WASCO” is the Borrower’s water 
and sanitation utility service. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to three million 
eight hundred and fifty thousand Dollars ($3,850,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and 
Page  5
-
4
-
any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the 
Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 15, 2009, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate.
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
Page  6
-
5
-
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 (c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.10.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of  Section 
2.09 of this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full 
maturity of such amount  in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
Section 2.11. The Minister of Finance, and any person or persons whom he or 
she shall designate in writing, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental, social, 
engineering, public utility and technical practices (including for dam safety), and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
The Borrower also declares that: (i) no excavations or other types of 
works under Part A of the Project shall be carried out unless the use, or the process of 
acquisition, of land sites are carried out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) no 
Resettlement shall occur under Part A of the Project; and (iii) if any temporary loss of 
crops, harvesting or use of land occurs under the Project, it shall cause WASCO to 
compensate any affected person(s) an amount equivalent to the market value of such 
temporary loss. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.  
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of 
 
statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Schedule 5 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, which: 
Page  9
-
8
-
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Loan, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  
such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Other Covenants 
Section 5.01.
 
The Borrower shall cause all contractors carrying out Part A of the 
Project: 
(a) 
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts 
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice; 
 
(b) 
to carry on their operations and conduct their affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial, environmental, engineering, social and technical 
practices (including for dam safety, if relevant) under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and 
 
(c) 
at all times to operate and to maintain their plants, machinery, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound environmental, engineering, 
financial and technical practices. 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE VI 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that:  
(a) 
subject to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph:  
(i) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have 
been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement providing 
therefor; or 
(ii)  
any such credit shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof. 
(b) 
Subparagraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:  
(i) 
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and  
(ii) 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement
.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a) 
(ii) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) 
of that Section. 
Page  11
-
10
-
ARTICLE VII 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the recently built 55 kilometer transmission pipeline, which runs from 
the Port of Castries to approximately 300 meters north of the Choc River, is completed, 
successfully hydro-tested, and in operation; 
 
(b) 
the Operations Manual has been finalized and adopted by the Project 
Coordination Unit; and 
(c) 
the Credit Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions 
precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, have been fulfilled. 
Section 7.02. The date September 21, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VIII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 8.01. Except as provided in Section 2.11 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance
 
is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.  
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Office of the Prime Minister 
Greaham Louisy Administrative Building 
Waterfront, Castries 
Saint Lucia 
 
Facsimile: 758-453-7352 
Page  12
-
11
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
SAINT LUCIA 
 
By/s/ Sonia M. Johnny   
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By/s/ Pamela Cox 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. General
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in 
each Category: 
 
Amount of the  
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
 (Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent) 
Dollars)
to be financed 
(1) 
Works under Part A   
2,450,000 
3,075,000 
100%  
 
of the Project 
 
(2) 
Goods under Part B 
20,000 
0 
100% 
 
of the Project 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
80,000 
230,000 
60%  
 
and training costs 
 
(4) Operating 
costs 
50,000 
25,000 
60% 
 
(5) 
Front-end fee 
 
19,250 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(6) 
Premia for Interest 
0 
0 
Amount due under 
 
Rate Caps and 
 
 
Section 2.09(c) of 
 
Interest Rate Collars 
 
 
this Agreement 
 
(7) Unallocated 
0 
500,750 
 
 __________ 
________ 
 
 
TOTAL 2,600,000 
 
3,850,000 
 ========= 
======= 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule:  
 (a) 
“operating costs” means reasonable expenditures directly related to the 
implementation, management and monitoring of the Project incurred by the Project 
Coordination Unit (which expenditures would not have been incurred absent the Project), 
consisting of expenditures for: (i) travel and per diem costs for the PCU staff and persons 
(such as the technical staff of the Water and Sewerage Company), who provide direct 
support to the implementation of the Project, as authorized by the PCU coordinator; (ii) 
rentals of cars or other services; (iii) fuel for Project vehicles; (iv) communications 
(including Internet connectivity); (v) maintenance of PCU facilities, equipment and 
vehicles, and WASCO equipment and vehicles used to support Project implementation; 
and (vi) consumable office supplies; and  
 
(b) 
“training costs” means reasonable expenditures directly related to the 
provision of training under Part B of the Project. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than $150,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $1,000,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract; and (d) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the three-month period following the 
date of such request.  
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
Page  16
-
15
-
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (i) 
the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (ii) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
Page  17
-
16
-
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  18
-
17
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. For 
th
e
purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $770,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Page  19
-
18
-
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  20
-
19
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 of 
this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the three-month period following the date 
of such reports. 
 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to carry out critical water infrastructure works 
designed to: (a) provide more efficient, continuous and reliable water service to the north 
of the Borrower’s territory; and (b) maintain the patronage and support of commercial 
users within the system. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A
:
Infrastructure Improvement Works
Carrying out of infrastructure improvement works to: 
1. 
upgrade the Roseau dam 
pumping station through: (a) replacement of existing 
pump-motor assemblies to facilitate a pumping capacity of approximately 10 million 
gallons per day; and (b) additional works which may include, 
inter alia
,
provision of 
voltage conditioning equipment, upgrade of switchgear, installation of adjustable speed 
drives, upgrade of pipe works, and replacement of standby generation to accommodate 
increased power supply requirements of the pumping-motor assemblies; 
 
2. 
improve raw water transmission between Vanard and Sarot through the 
installation of: (a) a 24-inch ductile iron pipe between Vanard and Sarot; and (b) joint 
restraints at river crossings located between the Millet and Vanard pumping stations; 
 
3. 
upgrade of the Theobalds water treatment plant to a capacity of 10 million 
gallons per day through the installation of additional treatment units; and 
 
4. 
upgrade of the Morne Bocage distribution pipeline through the construction of 
required works, using the existing or an alternative design approach that responds to the 
supply needs, which may include the installation of a new: (a) pump station at Ciceron; 
(b) pressure pipeline with capacity to meet water demands up to 2.53 million gallons per 
day; (c) storage tank of 200,000 imperial gallons at the Morne Fortune storage facility; 
(d) gravity main transmission pipeline linked to storage tanks at Morne Fortune and 
Morne Du Don; and (e) storage tank of 100,000 imperial gallons in the Babonneau area.  
Part B
:
Technical Assistance, Project Management and Capacity Building
Provision of technical assistance required to support Project implementation, 
carry out Project management activities, and strengthen the capacity of the staff of the 
Page  22
-
21
-
Borrower and WASCO in Project management and priority technical areas, which may 
include the provision of training.  The areas of technical assistance include: 
1. 
oversight and monitoring of the quality of works performed by contractors hired 
under Part A of the Project; 
 
2. 
carrying out of studies on the water resources of the Roseau River, including 
analyses of: (a) the hydrological capacity of the Roseau dam and reservoir system, and 
possibly of other surface water sources; (b) the potential for increasing the capacity of the 
Roseau dam through engineering improvements; and (c) safety and environmental 
considerations related to such activities; and 
 
3. 
carrying out of a groundwater resources study to determine the quantity, quality 
and potential use of groundwater in St. Lucia. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by July 15, 2008. 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share). If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each May 1, and November 1 
 
Beginning November 1, 2010,  
 
through May 1, 2020 
5% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Page  24
-
23
-
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding. 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract  and 
works estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Page  26
-
25
-
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consu
ltants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines  may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
5. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
6. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Page  27
-
26
-
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review. 
 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  28
-
27
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
Project Management and Implementation
1. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed with the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; and 
(b) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule 5 
and the Operations Manual. If any provision of the Operations Manual is inconsistent 
with this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall govern. 
Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Reporting
2. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank by not later than March 15 and September 15 of each year during Project 
implementation (except in September 2005), an annual report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 1 (a) of this 
Schedule, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date, including the costs thereof (the first of such report 
shall cover at least five months of Project implementation); and   
(b) 
review with the Bank, by May 15 and November 15, respectively, of 
each year during Project implementation, or such later date as the Bank may request, the 
semi-annual reports referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of this Schedule, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
Page  29
-
28
-
