Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1558 
Project Name 
WATER SUPPLY INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT 
PROJECT 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Water supply (100%) 
Project ID 
P094416 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF SAINT LUCIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
April 19, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 11, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
May 19, 2005 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Like many of its neighboring island states, Saint Lucia is at a development crossroads.  With the 
economy having moved away from traditional agribusiness and declining trade preferences, 
growth prospects are now closely tied to its competitive position as a tourism destination.
1
Yet 
the ability of the country to absorb further resort development and to grow beyond the 
approximately one million tourists who now visit the island yearly is being tested by the 
extraordinary fiscal constraint
s
that restrict public investment in the island’s infrastructure.  
While the private sector is recognized as the engine of sustainable growth for St. Lucia’s 
economy, the access of developers and hoteliers to basic services is already affecting their 
interest in investing in the island.
2
In this context, the water and sanitation sector has emerged as 
a
key factor in the economic development of St. Lucia. 
 
Despite a concerted effort in 2000 to turn around the state water utility, Saint Lucia is suffering 
once again from a crisis of confidence and performance in the water sector.
3
The government-
owned utility which currently controls nearly all water and sanitation services on the island, the 
Water and Sewerage Company (WASCO), has ceased to make capital investments and has lost 
the good will of its domestic and commercial consumers due to severe shortages, mis-billings 
1
While agriculture has dropped from about 15 percent of GDP as recently as 1990 to about 5 percent in 2003, the impact on 
employment has been even more severe.  At the time of the Poverty Assessment of 1996, banana industry employment was about 
13,000 and is now about 3,000.  Much of that decline, however, has been picked up by growth in Tourism which now accounts 
for about half of GDP along with related businesses (restaurants, construction). 
 
2
Recent interviews by the Bank team with developers, hotel owners, the Ministry of Tourism and the National Development 
Corporation revealed a heightened sense of concern among developers that their greenfield and expansion plans would not be 
feasible due to the inability of the country to provide water connections, reliable service and other basic infrastructure such as 
access roads.   
 
3
Some of the early actions taken by the government to improve its performance included: the corporatization of a state authority, 
WASA (into WASCO); the appointment of a private sector managing director and board director; the downsizing of staff by 
about one-quarter; and a tariff increase in 2000 after many years of a stagnant tariff.  In addition, the Government signed a loan 
with the World Bank that led to the drafting of a water law, the establishment of a regulatory body and the enactment of a PSD 
strategy. 
 
Page  2
and poor quality of service.  Hotels throughout the island are purchasing water trucked to them in 
tankers while entire neighborhoods are relying on rainwater, private purchases and storage tanks 
to compensate for days-on-end without water from the utility.  Exacerbating the situation, a 
severe dry season over the last year has compounded existing water shortage problems forcing 
WASCO to implement strict water allocation schedules, island-wide, in 2003.  These shortages 
may lead to severe health and quality-of-life crises if they are left to fester.
4
The main financial and operational issues faced by the water sector can be summarized as 
follows:   
 
·
Insufficient cash flow to cover all operating and maintenance costs (let alone 
servicing dept and maintaining a sustainable level of investments);  
·
Decrepit state of the utility’s assets which are in dire need of a capital infusion; 
·
Insufficient supply of treated water to meet current demand leading to water 
shortages—particularly in the population and resort centers of the north; 
·
Prospects for further increase in demand for water as a result of the booming tourist 
industry and upturn in over-all economic growth; and 
·
Loss of good will on the part of consumers due to the further decline in service after 
the 2000 tariff increase. 
·
Insufficient supply of treated water to meet current demand leading to water 
shortages—particularly in the population and resort centers of the north; 
 
The proposed project addresses the most urgent works required to turnaround the performance of 
the water utility and to relieve water shortages in the north.  That project is first described in the 
context of the strategy for reforming the water utility. 
 
Strategic Direction for the Water Utility 
 
The Government and the World Bank agree that the water utility’s failure to perform has grown 
out of the legacy of underinvestment in assets, insufficient average tariffs over the past decades 
and severe human resource constraints.  While WASCO has attempted to turn around its 
performance over the last few years, the utility has been unable to confront that legacy and, 
instead, has seen its services and assets deteriorate further. 
 
Since 2000, the World Bank has been working with the Government of St. Lucia through a 
Technical Assistance Loan for Sector Reform to pursue a strategy that would leverage private 
sector financing and know-how to reach a sustainable solution for the sector.  As a result of that 
project’s Private Sector Development (PSD) Strategy and direct discussions with the World 
Bank, the Government of St. Lucia has decided to pursue a public-private partnership (PPP) for 
the utility.  Given that a capital injection was required to turn around the utility, management 
contracts and leases/affermage were rejected as first alternative approaches.  Conversely, the 
prospects of a traditional concession met with little interest from the market given the risks 
associated with those arrangements. The Bank and the Government turned finally to local and 
regional investors presenting the possibility of a public-private partnership based upon successful 
4
Without identifying a one-to-one causal relationship, the Poverty Assessment noted a worrying rise in levels of diphtheria on 
the island and cited water-borne disease as a likely primary cause.
 
Page  3
St. Lucian experiences with mixed capital companies.  The response to the prospects of 
capitalizing the water utility by purchasing a controlling stake have been very positive from 
institutional investors, local and regional business interests as well as small and international 
water utilities.   
 
While the proposed partnership structure is described in more detail in the following sub-section, 
the basic premise is that it will comprise a minority share for the Government, a likely minority 
share set-aside for a St. Lucian institutional investor and an auction for the majority shares to 
consortia willing to recapitalize the utility with a minimum bid that reflects the immediate 
investment needs of the utility.  In this way, the Government can break from its history of bailing 
out the company every several years and the utility can return to playing a productive role in the 
growth of the economy.   
 
In order to confront the utility’s challenges head on and increase the likelihood of a successful 
transaction for WASCO, the Government and the World Bank team have agreed: 
 
·
An urgent works program, costing about US$8 million, is required to increase water 
flows to the north.  The Government, residents of the north and the commercial sector 
cannot afford to wait for the transaction to be completed in order to initiate that program.  
The Government will absorb the cost of that investment even as the transaction process 
moves forward. 
 
·
Further capital will be required for other short to medium term investments.  The medium 
term operational improvements and capital investment program can best be funded from 
the successful completion of the PPP transaction. 
 
·
Tariffs should reflect the rate base of the investment after the transaction is complete. The 
Government and the World Bank recognize that WASCO will only achieve sustainability 
if the new productive investments, fresh capital injection, new management and 
revamped organizational strategy, are accompanied by a tariff structure that ensures a fair 
return on investment for the private owner/operators. As a starting point, financial 
analysis conducted by Technical Advisors to the PSD Strategy and reviewed by the Bank 
suggest that the current average tariff (approximately US$1.15 per cubic meter) is 
sufficient to turnaround the utility given other modest assumptions about improved 
collections, and operations, government willingness to assume debt and the capital 
injection expected from private investors. 
 
Structure of the Transaction for the Water Utility Public-Private Partnership 
 
The primary approach to be pursued for the transaction will be a public-private partnership in 
which local, regional and international investors will be invited to form consortia and bid to 
purchase a controlling block of shares in the new WASCO.  The World Bank team is currently 
working with the Government to prepare for the transaction on an accelerated time schedule and 
in parallel to the proposed project.  Now that the Water and Sanitation Services Act has been 
passed into law, the Government will hire a transaction advisor with World Bank funds from the 
Page  4
existing Water Sector Reform T.A. Loan.  That advisor is expected to be in place by June 2005 
with the auction for the utility to be held by the end of the 2005 calendar year.  During this 
period, the draft operating license will be finalized and implementing rules and regulations which 
spell out the responsibilities of the National Water and Sewerage Commission will be drafted, 
again with available World Bank funds from the T.A. Loan.  Assuming three months for 
negotiations and financial closure, the new owner/operator may take control of the Board as 
early as mid-2006.  The proposed schedule, albeit aggressive, appears feasible as engineering 
feasibility, investment needs analysis and financial modeling have already been undertaken and 
the Government has agreed upon the working structure of the public-private partnership.  In 
addition, extensive discussions with potential bidders (locally, regionally and internationally) 
have already taken place.  Finally, many of the likely bidders know St. Lucia well and have made 
considerable efforts to evaluate the utility from the perspective of potential investors and/or 
operators. 
 
The agreed upon structure of the transaction for the public-private partnership being prepared 
under the T.A. loan can be described as follows: 
 
·
The ownership structure will be such that private investors will exercise board and 
managerial control of the utility although the Government will be expected to maintain a 
position on the Board with approximately 20 percent of the shares.  In addition to the 
Government’s share, the World Bank team has also identified a St. Lucia-based 
institutional investor
5
which is highly interested in an approximately 15 to 20 percent 
share in the utility under proposed arrangements.  That portion will likely “anchor” the 
investment and will be held apart from the bid for the majority block purchase. 
 
·
In addition, the team has held several discussions and two preliminary investor 
conferences with St. Lucia’s tourism and manufacturing associations to test local interest 
in equity participation.  Local business leaders have expressed interest in participating as 
consortium members while other private sector representatives expressed a general level 
of support for the proposed approach.  In addition, regional developers from neighboring 
islands as well as international water utilities have contacted the Bank to discuss the 
details of the proposed initiative and to express their interest in participating in an 
auction.  It is expected that consortia of these private participants will be invited to 
compete for 60 percent of the shares of the company providing management and board 
control for the winning bidder.  
 
·
Recognizing that, as a going concern, the utility’s investors could not be asked to finance 
existing debt, the Government will continue to service WASCO’s existing debt.  So that 
the new utility will be in a position to borrow against its balance sheet, the Government 
will most likely write off WASCO’s debt from the utility’s books.  However, as an offset 
to the liabilities of the Roseau Dam (WASCO’s primary asset), the Government may 
retain the reservoir in its own accounts.  It would then include in the operating license for 
5
The National Insurance Corporation currently holds approximately 17 percent of the power utility, Lucelec.  The 
investment levels suggested for WASCO would be about 20 percent of the size of their investment in Lucelec in 
absolute dollars, which in turn is a relatively small part of its portfolio and so would not add significant risk to the 
NIC portfolio. 
Page  5
the new utility full rights and responsibilities related to use of the water from the dam as 
well as proper operations and maintenance of the facility. 
 
·
Dividends from its equity share, or canon payments are being considered for payment to 
the Government to compensate, to the degree feasible, for the servicing of old debt.  If 
the canon is established that is not held subordinate to other dividend obligations, it will 
be priced and timed so as not to inhibit the ability of the private investors to receive a fair 
return on their investment.  That is, any canons or dividend payments to Government 
would likely begin at zero following the transaction and be timed against an improvement 
in the financial performance of the utility so as to be ramped up or “capitalized” over 
time.  The same goal and a similar process might also be accomplished through a water 
extraction fee. 
 
·
In the case of a failed transaction (i.e., no qualified consortia submit offers or only non-
responsive bids are received), the Government of St. Lucia will need to mobilize public 
funds to undertake the short-term investment program.  The European Union and/or the 
Caribbean Development Bank are possible sources of support in such a scenario.  In 
order to break from the cycle of poor maintenance and inefficient operations, the 
Government will have three choices for the use of the additional investment capital, 
estimated at US$12 to $15 million.  Those approaches, in descending order of likely 
impact, are as follows: 
 
1.  Least Cost Subsidy Purchase or Concession:  As a primary alternative, a second-
chance auction for either share ownership or the rights to a concession are held 
based upon a least-cost subsidy bid.  In this arrangement, the outputs expected of 
the operator would be clearly defined and payments would be made from the 
public funds—held in escrow—upon proof of service delivery according to the 
those service delivery criteria.  The consortium or firm that bids for the least 
required subsidy to meet those criteria wins the shares or concession rights.  The 
exact performance obligations as well as the ceiling on bids would be determined 
by the amount of public funds that could be garnered for the bid. 
 
2.  Affermage Lease:  A long-term lease, say 10 to 20 years, would be competitively 
tendered in which the winning bidder would have access to the revenue generated 
by the tariffs in exchange for the obligation to operate the utility according to 
strict performance criteria.  The public resources would be made available to the 
leasor so that they may implement the capital expenditure program. 
 
3.  Management Contract with Step-up Option:  A short-term management contract 
of 3 to 5 years, would be tendered which will focus on implementing short-term 
efficiency gains through improvements in customer information systems, billings, 
collections and minor works.  Once the utility has demonstrated its ability to 
cover operating and maintenance costs, a more aggressive form of private sector 
participation would be attempted again.  While the first phase may be done 
without the full capital required for the investment plan, the cost of the 
Management Contract itself could run as high as US$1 to 2 million per year. 
Page  6
The choice of which back-up alternative approach to pursue would be made based upon 
the lessons learned during the transaction (i.e., numbers of bidders, quality of bidders, 
and source of concerns regarding capital requirements, current state of utility finances 
and/or regulatory risk).  The exhaustive work undertaken for the preparation of the 
proposed transaction would serve as the basis for launching the back-up option so that it 
may be pursued almost immediately following the proposed transaction for a public-
private partnership.  This information base includes technical and engineering reports, 
consumer surveying, least cost alternative planning, financial analysis and forecasting of 
the utility, and investor surveying.  In addition, the Government and WASCO have held 
discussions with the European Union and the Caribbean Development Bank which 
indicate their interest in providing additional financial support to the sector.   
 
The primary constraint to the first two arrangements would be the ability of the 
Government to borrow or dedicate further sums of money to the sector given its serious 
fiscal constraints.  The trade-offs will be clear, however.  Any delay in commitment of 
resources will mean greater rehabilitation and investment costs in subsequent years.  As 
such, short-term tariff increases may need to be considered in conjunction with the back-
up plan so as to relieve the need for excessive borrowing.   
 
The Proposed Investment Loan in the Context of the Future Water Utility 
 
The proposed investment loan is to finance an urgent works program that will increase water to 
the north
—a project which was specifically requested by the Administration and one which is 
aimed at resolving shortages in the most densely populated and developed region of the island.  
The Government requested Bank involvement in the investment project so that it may serve as a 
complement to the Bank’s existing Water Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project (Ln 
70960-SLU).  The specific objective of that existing project is to help the transition of WASCO 
from a publicly-managed utility to a privately-operated company under a well-functioning 
regulatory framework.  To date, the project has seen the completion of a financial and technical 
analysis of the sector (including an investment needs analysis), and a PSD strategy (including 
investors’ survey), and has funded the drafting of a new Water Law, recently passed by the St. 
Lucia House of Commons, which defines the market structure and regulatory responsibilities of 
the Water and Sanitation Commission.  These institutional, legal and regulatory reforms are 
needed to underpin the proposed public-private partnership and to achieve deeper operational 
reform of the utility.  
 
In order to halt the deterioration of key assets, avert a worsening water supply crisis in the north, 
reduce the possibility of abandonment of the system by resorts and hotels
6
,
and help entice the 
equity contribution of private investors into the water utility, the Government of St. Lucia has 
asked The World Bank to finance the utility’s most urgent rehabilitation works.  The components 
of this project have been identified by technical advisors, WASCO staff and the World Bank and 
6
Hotels and other commercial establishments represent an important source of cross-subsidy for low volume users 
such as poorer households.  Their abandonment of the system would be detrimental to the finances of the utility. 
Page  7
are described in detail in Annex 4.  While the investments planned for financing from the Bank 
will help to meet part of the pent-up demand, the speed of financial turnaround will depend on 
the performance of the private operator in improving collection rates and reducing losses.  
Investors are likely to be required to recapitalize the utility with US$15 million to US$20 million 
of new equity.  This will be done through their share “purchases” which will be utilized as equity 
contribution. 
 
Determining the Best Alternative Solution to Water Supply in the North 
 
The proposed investment loan is to finance an urgent works program that will increase water to 
the north—a project which was specifically requested by the Government and one which is 
aimed at resolving shortages in the most densely populated and developed region of the island.  
The Administration requested Bank involvement in the investment project so that it may serve as 
a
complement to the Bank’s existing Water Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project (Ln 
70960-SLU).  The specific objective of that existing project is to help the transition of WASCO 
from a publicly-managed utility to a privately-operated company under a well-functioning 
regulatory framework.  To date, the project has seen the completion of a financial and technical 
analysis of the sector (including an investment needs analysis), a PSD strategy (including 
investors’ survey), and has funded the drafting of a new Water Law, recently passed by the St. 
Lucia House of Commons, which defines the market structure and regulatory responsibilities of 
the Water and Sanitation Commission.  These institutional, legal and regulatory reforms are 
needed to underpin the proposed public-private partnership and to achieve deeper operational 
reform of the utility.  
 
For the short term investment the two alternatives that were considered were thus: (i) increasing 
the capacity of the Roseau system from 6 to 10 million gallons per day (MGD) by upgrading 
existing infrastructure that follows the dam; and (ii) installing a Reverse Osmosis desalination 
plant in Rodney Bay with a capacity of about 4 MGD.  For this second alternative, the concept 
that had been proposed to the Government of St. Lucia by desalination developers and other 
interested parties was evaluated for its economic costs as well as its likely environmental impact 
as part of the environmental assessment.  The desalination alternative presupposes the 
disconnection of the water supply network north to Rodney Bay from that south to it. The 
southern part would be supplied from the Roseau Dam System which will not be upgraded.  
Based on a comparative economic analysis, the first alternative was selected as a clear choice 
based both on the Net Present Value of the investment and the difference in the costs of water.  
The first alternative will not only improve the level of service, but will also improve the integrity 
of the system for the long term at a lower cost than the alternative. This is not to say that 
desalination could not play an important role in future sourcing decisions but that the currently 
available technology cannot compete with the rehabilitation and minor expansion works 
proposed for this project. 
 
The Roseau system, which is the primary source of water supply for the north of St. Lucia, has 
an estimated capacity of 10 MGD.  Current demand levels to the north of the island, where 80 
percent of St. Lucians live and where most of the country’s resorts are located, is estimated at 
about 7.5 MGD.  Because of constraints in the infrastructure (transmission, treatment, pumping) 
Page  8
that support the dam, it is only able to supply between 5 and 6 MGD effectively creating regular 
shortages and rationing of water.  The backlog in investment in pumping stations, the primary 
transmission pipeline to the north of the island, and water treatment capacity are the main 
reasons for the current shortage.  These reasons are exacerbated by high levels of water losses 
and uncertain consumption patterns driven by partial metering and inadequate consumer 
information systems.  The purpose of the proposed project is to address the primary investment 
backlog in an urgent fashion.  The rapid expansion of the north with respect to residential and 
commercial development has increased water demand to a point that if the necessary investments 
are not undertaken it could be detrimental for the health of the citizens and development of the 
island.  The complementary public-private partnership described above will be important for the 
sustainability of the investment as well as proper demand management, including rational billing 
and collections and steady reductions in Unaccounted-for-Water through leakage reduction 
programs.  The works that would comprise the project are described in greater detail below.   
 
2. Objectives 
 
The Saint Lucia Water Supply Infrastructure Improvement Project will support a short term 
investment program to carry out critical works which are required to achieve the following 
objectives:  
(i) 
alleviate the water shortage in the north of the country.  (The infrastructure works 
proposed will allow the utility to supply the entire north of the island with a more 
efficient, continuous and reliable service.) 
(ii) 
implement urgent investments that will result in additional revenues, reduce the 
likelihood of commercial users (important sources of cross-subsidy for poor 
consumers) abandoning the system and improve the potential of a successful 
partnership between the government and the private sector.  
Key indicators for the proposed project are: reduction of water rationing in the north, sufficient 
pressure for end users, daily demand being met without use of storage tanks, a successful 
transaction to a public-private partnership, and improved financial performance of the utility. 
 
Quality of Life for the Citizens of St. Lucia:
The rationing of water in the north of St. Lucia has 
begun to affect citizens of all income levels.  The reliable availability of high quality water 
throughout the north of Saint Lucia will likely provide a greater benefit to the lower income 
segments of society in two regards:  they pay the highest percentage of disposable income when 
they purchase water from bender, and they are the primary beneficiaries of the cross-subsidies 
paid by hotels and commercial entities (about 3:1, though much higher for cruise ships).  That 
portion of the proposed project which will serve to keep commercial entities on the system will 
be substantially converted into a direct subsidy to low volume domestic water consumers, 
allowing the utility to maintain the current tariff structure and level.
7
Moreover, by taking on 
this critical project, the Government has been able to leverage the Bank as a partner in seeking 
and obtaining grant funds for poor community connections.  Originally identified as a target for 
7
Hotels, commercial establishments and cruise ships currently represent about 1/3 of all billings from WASCO. 
Page  9
this project because of its underserved poor population, water supply to the township of Dennery 
will be built with grant funding by the European Union Water Fund.  The project proposed in 
this PAD
—identified in the Government’s application to the European Union as the required 
“Partnership Arrangement”—resulted in the commitment of those grant funds.   
 
Economic Growth and Development:
Water supply is a critical factor in tourism development, 
which, as described in Section 1 above, is the predominant driver of economic activity in Saint 
Lucia following the decline in agricultural dependence. The supply of potable water and the 
provision of a reliable service will improve the likelihood of  hoteliers and developers to invest 
in these sector and meet the growing demands for the north of the island.  This need has been 
highlighted by the selection of Saint Lucia as a host to the Cricket World Cup in 2007—an event 
which will drive the construction of new tourism facilities provided access to basic infrastructure 
services can be assured to developers. 
 
Regional Development Strategy:
The bankruptcy and perennial failure of public water utilities is 
a
common development challenge for countries throughout the Caribbean Basin.  With similar 
economic features as well as legal and regulatory structures, the proposed public-private 
partnership—underpinned by selected public investments—may serve as a pilot for the OECS 
region and beyond.  St. Lucia offers, as case analysis, a best practice, layered regulatory 
arrangement; a refined but tested approach to public-private partnership (as found in its electric 
utility); and a clearly defined, complementary investment program to enable the transaction.  If 
successful, this initiative can be a significant contribution to the regional development strategy. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The World Bank is currently the only institution that is in a position to prepare for and finance 
the proposed urgent investments in a coordinated fashion with the design and implementation of 
the planned transaction for the water utility.  The financial engineering of the transaction is being 
built around a shifting set of variables related to investment cost estimates, government debt 
absorption ability and willingness and potential for other sources of funding to offset long-term 
investments.  The Bank is closely involved in discussions on all of these issues each of which 
could affect the approach to the transaction.  In turn, the transaction is taking place in the context 
of a new water law and regulatory framework both of which have been financed and closely 
coordinated by the World Bank under the Water Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan.  For 
these reasons, the Government has asked the Bank to finance and assist with the planning of an 
urgent investment program in such a way as to fit within the regulatory framework and to 
strengthen the transaction rather than complicate it.   
 
The proposed project is in line with the CAS
8
objective of creating an enabling environment for 
continued or increased private investment in sunrise industries and improving living conditions 
through increasing the efficiency of infrastructure provision. 
 
8
This particular operation was not included in the CAS discussed by the Board on 6/28/01, but is in line with its 
overall objectives. 
Page  10
4. Description 
 
The project will improve the reliability of the Roseau Dam water supply system by increasing 
the flow of water to the north of St. Lucia as required to meet the current shortfall in water 
capacity in that area.  The system components that would require upgrading include:  the Roseau 
Dam system pumping station, the Roseau Dam system raw water transmission, the Theobalds 
Treatment Plant and the Morne Bocage distribution pipeline that will connect the Roseau system 
to the Hill 20 system, which suffers a severe water shortage.  The increase in the extraction 
capacity from the Roseau reservoir technically reduces the drought return period for which the 
reservoir was designed.  However, since current supply from the Dam is creating constant 
shortages, it is considered that it would be better to increase the extraction capacity from the 
reservoir and satisfy all the demand in years that are not drought years.  The issue of drought 
years will be taken care of in the medium term investment program by the future 
owner/operators in which an aggressive water losses reduction program in the distribution 
network will be pursued while expansion of the water source for the north is being considered. 
 
The components of the proposed project are thus the following: 
 
Component A:  Infrastructure Improvement Works:
 
This component includes the following 
infrastructure improvement works, which are detailed in Annex 4: 
 
·
Upgrade the Roseau dam pumping station through (a) replacement of existing pump-
motor assemblies to facilitate a pumping capacity of approximately 10 million gallons per 
day, and (b) additional works which may include, 
inter alia
,
provision of voltage 
conditioning equipment, upgrade of switchgear, installation of adjustable speed drives, 
upgrade of pipe works, and replacement of standby generation to accommodate increased 
power supply requirements of the pumping-motor assemblies; 
 
·
Improve raw water transmission between Vanard and Sarot through the installation of (a) 
a
24-inch ductile iron pipe between Vanard and Sarot, and (b) joint restraints at river 
crossings located between Millet and Vanard; 
 
·
Upgrade of the Theobalds water treatment plant to a capacity of 10 million gallons per 
day through the installation of additional treatment units; and 
 
·
Upgrade of the Morne Bocage distribution pipeline through the construction of required 
works, using the existing or an alternative design approach that responds to the supply 
needs, which may include the installation of a new (a) pump station at Ciceron, (b) 
pumping line with capacity to meet water demands up to 2.53 million gallons per day, (c) 
storage tank of 200,000 imperial gallons at Morne Fortune, (d) gravity main transmission 
pipeline linked to storage tanks at Morne and Morne Du Don, and (e) storage tank of 
100,000 imperial gallons at Babonneau.  
 
Due to the urgent nature of the works and the close inter-relationship among the components of 
the project it is considered that a turnkey contract will be the most efficient and safe way to 
Page  11
implement this type of project and achieve project objectives as demonstrated in other Bank 
projects such as the Espiritu Santo Water and Sanitation project in Brazil. 
 
Component B:  Technical Assistance and Project Management.
 
This component includes:  
 
Provision of technical assistance required to support Project implementation, carry out Project 
management activities, and strengthen the capacity of the PIU staff in Project management and 
priority technical areas, which may include the provision of training.  The areas of technical 
assistance include: 
 
·
Oversight and monitoring of the quality of works performed by contractors hired under 
Part A of the Project; 
 
·
Carrying out of studies on the water resources of the Roseau River, including analyses of 
(a) the hydrological capacity of the Roseau dam and reservoir system, and possibly of 
other surface water sources, (b) the potential for increasing the capacity of the Roseau 
dam through engineering improvements, and (c) safety and environmental considerations 
related to such activities; and 
 
·
Carrying out of a groundwater resources study to determine the quantity, quality and 
potential use of groundwater in St. Lucia. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0.24 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
3.85 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
3.85 
 Total 
7.94 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The approach taken to implementing this project will be one that combines (i) program 
management and accountability at the highest levels of Government; (2) proven fiduciary and 
disbursement management experience; and (3) contracted third-party and utility-based technical 
oversight and monitoring.  At the management level, The Program Coordinator will report 
directly to the Permanent Secretary of Finance who will also serve as the Program Manager of a 
newly consolidated Program Implementation Unit.  In addition, the Permanent Secretary has 
identified by the Administration as the “champion” and primary liaison for the water sector 
reform initiative and public-private partnership transaction.  The fiduciary and disbursement 
responsibilities will be handled by PIU staff with a proven track record of successful 
performance.  Finally, the technical oversight of the turnkey contractor will be undertaken by a 
top quality consulting firm with funds from the proposed project.  In addition, the utility will 
second a project engineer full-time to monitor and report to the Program Manager and the utility 
Page  12
on the status of the works and performance of the technical advisor and primary contractor.  
These arrangements are described in more detail below: 
 
The PIU of the proposed project will be housed at the Ministry of Finance under the Permanent 
Secretary of Finance who will serve as Program Manager.  Fiduciary, accounting and 
disbursement responsibility will be shared with the HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project 
and the Disaster Management Project allowing the proposed project to benefit from a proven, 
monitored, evaluated and successful PIU arrangement. The additional staff hired for this 
particular project will consist of an administrator to be housed in the Ministry of Finance who 
will report directly to the Permanent Secretary/Program Manager and an engineer, with reporting 
responsibilities to the Minister of Finance, who will be seconded to the project by WASCO.  The 
dedicated project engineer will be located at the water utility’s office.
 
In addition to these two 
staff dedicated to the project, the procurement specialist and an accountant working on the 
DMPII and the HIV/AIDS projects will expand their responsibilities to include the proposed 
project.  The Project’s Operational Manual is now being consolidated with the other two Bank’s 
projects with separate annexes for each particular project.  
 
The Ministry of Finance will appoint the Project Coordinator to oversee, coordinate and 
implement the contracts related to this project on behalf of the Permanent Secretary of Finance.  
The Project Coordinator must be knowledgeable of the Government’s procedures and operations 
since he/she is responsible for all correspondence from the PIU to the World Bank and other 
parties.  It is recommended that this person be also knowledgeable about (i) the water and 
sanitation sector; (ii) private sector participation; and (iii) World Bank procurement guidelines. 
 
The main responsibilities of the PIU will be to initiate the implementation of the various 
components of the Water Supply Infrastructure Improvement Project; supervise the 
implementation of the works and services to be contracted or already contracted under these 
projects; and prepare progress reports to the World Bank and the Government of St. Lucia on the 
status of the implementation. 
 
The PIU will be responsible for coordinating the implementation, procurement, disbursement 
and the financial management aspects of the project. The urgent and integrated nature of the 
works suggests that a single turnkey contract will be the most efficient manner in which to 
undertake the construction components of the project.  This arrangement will greatly reduce the 
number of contracts being administered by the PIU.  An Engineering Consultant will have 
primary responsibility for preliminary design and turnkey oversight.  
 
The responsibilities of the Engineering Consultant include the following services: (i) preparation 
of preliminary designs and tender invitation documents for all civil, mechanical and electrical 
works; (ii) assistance to WASCO in the qualification of contractors, including the preparation of 
pre-qualification reports where necessary; and (iii) assistance in the evaluation of tenders and the 
preparation of tender evaluation reports, contract documents and negotiation of contracts.   
 
The Services of the Engineering Consultant will be required for the purposes of project 
implementation for a period of about 4.5 months during which time a contract is expected to be 
Page  13
awarded to a suitable firm to commence implementation of works.
9
After a contractor is selected 
for executing the works, funds will be disbursed according to achievement of targets defined in 
the contract.  Infrastructural works components must be undertaken in a period of 1.5 years.  
 
Payments will be made at the request of the Project Manager/Permanent Secretary of the 
implementing agency or by the Project Coordinator, where the Project Coordinator acts on behalf 
of the Project Manager, in accordance with the method summarized in Annex 7 of the PAD. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The proposed operation is targeted to interventions that will significantly improve the economic 
sustainability of the water utility. In fact, the Financial Impact analysis presented in Annex 9 
demonstrates a positive return even with the utility absorbing the debt associated with the 
project.  In addition, the assets that will be built by this project are all within the current 
capability of the water utility to manage and operate.  That said, long-term project performance 
will also be affected by a successful partnership between the government and the private sector 
and the expected improvements and operating efficiency that comes from this project.   
 
With the passage of a Water and Sewerage Services Act, the establishment of a water utility 
commission, the undertaking of a public awareness campaign to learn from and educate 
consumers, and the design of a St. Lucia-specific public-private partnership that includes a 
continuing role for the Government on the Board of the utility, the probability of achieving a 
successful transaction has increased significantly. 
 
Government Commitment:  The sense of urgency of the required investments is now a priority in 
the Government’s agenda.  This has been confirmed by the appointment of a senior level 
Champion of the reform program from the Ministry of Finance and the agreement to take on the 
proposed loan.  In contrast to the earlier stages of the reform process, the Ministry of Finance has 
taken on responsibility as the primary counterparts for this project and the attendant transaction. 
Indeed, the proposed project will have its Program Implementation Unit (PIU) housed at the 
Minister of Finance—with the Permanent Secretary of Finance serving as the Program 
Manager—in order to create an environment of commitment to the transaction while sufficient 
technical support to provide oversight of the proposed works and reporting on progress will 
remain housed at the utility.   
 
Public Trust:  In addition to securing government commitment, household and focus groups 
surveying conducted as part of the reform program in St. Lucia illustrate a general acceptance of 
the proposed initiative (with greater interest in water service and quality than the ownership 
structure of the utility).  Nonetheless, a public relations campaign is being built around the 
transaction to ensure a transaction design which is sensitive to the perceptions of risk held by 
consumers and the perception of transparency and fairness required for a smooth transition. 
 
9
The contracting of a technical firm to undertake preliminary design work and to assist tin the selection of the 
turnkey contractor is already underway financed with available resources from the existing Water Sector Reform 
T.A. Loan.  Proposals from the short-listed technical firms are expected by May 11
th
,
2005. 
Page  14
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The design of this project draws on lessons learned in the implementation of the Water Sector 
Reform Technical Assistance Loan as well as over fifteen years of private sector participation in 
infrastructure design projects throughout Latin America and the Caribbean. These lessons are 
described below: 
 
·
The World Bank’s understanding of the market for, and proper design of, public-private 
partnerships has evolved since the inception of the Technical Assistance project nearly 
five years ago.  As a result of this “maturing” of Bank vision and in response to the 
GOSL’s willingness to collaborate, the Bank has proposed lending assistance for the 
undertaking of urgent works as well as direct assistance in the design and implementation 
of the transaction.  The willingness of the Government to assume the debt associated with 
this loan and of the Bank to prepare this project in advance of the transaction illustrates 
this new recognition of the importance of the public sector’s contribution to the 
sustainability of public-private partnerships in the water sector. 
 
·
From infrastructure reform initiatives undertaken throughout Latin America over the last 
ten years, the World Bank has also learned that successful transactions—particularly in 
the water sector—depend in large part on the 
a
priori
 existence of a legal and regulatory 
framework that is at once conducive to a private sector investor, sensitive to local legal 
and cultural attributes and protective of basic public and consumer interests. With the 
passage of a Water and Sewerage Services Act, the establishment of a water utility 
commission, the undertaking of a public awareness campaign to learn from and educate 
consumers, and the design of a St. Lucia-specific public-private partnership that includes 
a
continuing role for the Government on the Board of the utility, the probability of 
achieving a successful transaction has increased significantly.  Market interest in the 
transaction appears to reflect the attractiveness of this new, more balanced approach to 
public-private partnerships. 
 
·
The Bank has also learned that Government commitment at the highest levels is required 
for a successful transaction in a sensitive sector such as water.  The sense of urgency of 
the required investments is now a priority in the Government’s agenda.  This has been 
confirmed by the appointment of a senior level Champion of the reform program from the 
Ministry of Finance and the agreement to take on the proposed loan.  Utility reform 
initiatives that are based at the agency or authority being reformed often flounder from 
lack of political will or institutional commitment.  In contrast to the earlier reform 
process, the Ministry of Finance has recently taken on responsibility as the primary 
counterparts for this project and the attendant transaction.  Indeed, the proposed project 
will have its Program Implementation Unit (PIU) housed at the Ministry of Finance—
with the Permanent Secretary of Finance serving as the Program Manager—in order to 
create an environment of commitment to the transaction while sufficient technical 
support to provide oversight of the proposed works and reporting on progress will remain 
housed at the utility.   
 
Page  15
·
In addition to government commitment, the Bank has come to recognize that the public’s 
understanding and support of a reform initiative will also directly impact the success of 
the transaction. Household and focus groups surveying conducted as part of the reform 
program in St. Lucia illustrate a general acceptance of the proposed initiative (with 
greater interest in water service and quality than the ownership structure of the utility).  
Nonetheless, a public relations campaign is being built around the transaction to ensure a 
transaction design which is sensitive to the perceptions of risk held by consumers and the 
perception of transparency and fairness required for a smooth transition. 
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[X] [ 
] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
Aide Memoire, 
Water Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project/Infrastructure Improvement 
Project
,
January 24- February 4, 2005. 
 
Aide Memoire, 
Water Sector Infrastructure Improvement Project
,
December, 2004. 
 
Dam Inspection and Safety Reports, WASCO, 2003 to 2005. 
 
Project Appraisal Document. Roseau Dam Investment Loan Project. 1989. 
 
Project Appraisal Document. 
Water Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project.
 November, 
2001. 
 
Project Concept Note. 
Water Supply Infrastructure Improvement Project.
 March 9, 2005 
 
Project Concept Review Minutes. 
Water Supply Infrastructure Improvement Project.
 March 15, 
2005. 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  16
Roseau Dam Operations and Maintenance Manual, Stantec, 1996. 
 
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment for the Roseau Dam. June, 1989 
 
Stone & Webster Management Consultants, “Poverty Assessment Report”. November 2004. 
 
Stone & Webster Management Consultants, “Technical Assessment and Operational Efficiency 
Report”. October 2004 
 
WASCO, “Infrastructural Improvement Project Proposal”.  October 2003 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Jordan Z. Schwartz 
Title: Sr Private Sector Development Spec. 
Tel: (202) 458-0493 
Fax:  
Email: Jschwartz3@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
