Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  04/20/2005 
Report No.:  AC1457
1. Project Statistics  
 
Country:  St. Lucia 
Project ID:  P094416 
Project Name:  ST LUCIA WATER SUPPLY INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT 
Task Team Leader:  Jordan Z. Schwartz 
Estimated Appraisal Date: April 11, 2005 
Estimated Board Date: May 19, 2005 
Managing Unit:  LCSFW 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Water supply (100%) 
Theme:  Infrastructure services for private sector development (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
3.85 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
3.85 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The Saint Lucia Water Supply Infrastructure Improvement Project will support a short 
term investment program to carry out critical works which are required to achieve the 
following objectives:  
 
(i) 
alleviate the water shortage in the north of the country.  (The infrastructure works 
proposed will allow the utility to supply the entire north of the island with a more 
efficient, continuous and reliable service.)  
 
(ii) 
implement urgent investments that will result in additional revenues, reduce the 
likelihood of commercial users (important sources of cross-subsidy for poor consumers) 
abandoning the system and improve the potential of a successful partnership between the 
government and the private sector.  
 
Key indicators for the proposed project are: reduction of water rationing in the north, 
sufficient pressure for end users, daily demand being met without use of storage tanks, a 
successful transaction to a public-private partnership, and improved financial 
performance of the utility.   
 
3. Project Description 
The project will improve the reliability of the Roseau Dam water supply system by 
increasing the flow of water to the north of St. Lucia as required to meet the current 
shortfall in water capacity in that area.  The system components that would require 
Page  2
upgrading include:  the Roseau Dam system pumping station, the Roseau Dam system 
raw water transmission, the Theobalds Treatment Plant and the Morne Bocage 
distribution pipeline that will connect the Roseau system to the Hill 20 system, which 
suffers a severe water shortage.  The increase in the extraction capacity from the Roseau 
reservoir technically reduces the drought return period for which the reservoir was 
designed.  However, since current supply from the Dam is creating constant shortages, it 
is considered that it would be better to increase the extraction capacity from the reservoir 
and satisfy all the demand in years that are not drought years.  The issue of drought years 
will be taken care of in the medium term investment program by the future 
owner/operators in which an aggressive water losses reduction program in the 
distribution network will be pursued while expansion of the water source for the north is 
being considered.  
 
The components of the proposed project are thus the following:  
 
Component A:  Infrastructure Improvement Works:  This component includes the 
following infrastructure improvement works, which are detailed in Annex 4:  
 
*
Upgrade the Roseau dam pumping station through (a) replacement of existing 
pump-motor assemblies to facilitate a pumping capacity of approximately 10 million 
gallons per day, and (b) additional works which may include, inter alia, provision of 
voltage conditioning equipment, upgrade of switchgear, installation of adjustable speed 
drives, upgrade of pipe works, and replacement of standby generation to accommodate 
increased power supply requirements of the pumping-motor assemblies;  
 
*
Improve raw water transmission between Vanard and Sarot through the 
installation of (a) a 24-inch ductile iron pipe between Vanard and Sarot, and (b) joint 
restraints at river crossings located between Millet and Vanard;  
 
*
Upgrade of the Theobalds water treatment plant to a capacity of 10 million 
gallons per day through the installation of additional treatment units; and  
 
*
Upgrade of the Morne Bocage distribution pipeline through the construction of 
required works, using the existing or an alternative design approach that responds to the 
supply needs, which may include the installation of a new (a) pump station at Ciceron, 
(b) pumping line with capacity to meet water demands up to 2.53 million gallons per day, 
(c) storage tank of 200,000 imperial gallons at Morne Fortune, (d) gravity main 
transmission pipeline linked to storage tanks at Morne and Morne Du Don, and (e) 
storage tank of 100,000 imperial gallons at Babonneau.  
 
Due to the urgent nature of the works and the close inter-relationship among the 
components of the project it is considered that a turnkey contract will be the most 
efficient and safe way to implement this type of project and achieve project objectives as 
demonstrated in other Bank projects such as the Espiritu Santo Water and Sanitation 
project in Brazil.  
 
Page  3
Component B:  Technical Assistance and Project Management.  This component 
includes:  
 
Provision of technical assistance required to support Project implementation, carry out 
Project management activities, and strengthen the capacity of the PIU staff in Project 
management and priority technical areas, which may include the provision of training.  
The areas of technical assistance include:  
 
*
Oversight and monitoring of the quality of works performed by contractors hired 
under Part A of the Project;  
 
*
Carrying out of studies on the water resources of the Roseau River, including 
analyses of (a) the hydrological capacity of the Roseau dam and reservoir system, and 
possibly of other surface water sources, (b) the potential for increasing the capacity of the 
Roseau dam through engineering improvements, and (c) safety and environmental 
considerations related to such activities; and  
 
*
Carrying out of a groundwater resources study to determine the quantity, quality 
and potential use of groundwater in St. Lucia.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Works contemplated under this project, aside from the pumping station upgrades at the 
Roseau dam, extend from the Vanard distribution line (in the Roseau river valley) 
through the Theobalds treatment plant, near Castries to areas north and east of the plant.  
The works will be installed through agricultural areas and along existing roadways to 
service the northern part of the country. Works are to be constructed in inland areas away 
from tourist, and coastal zone localities. Improvements to the Theobalds plant will occur 
onsite, in a section set aside during the first phase construction program.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Specialists on the Team 
Mr Juan D. Quintero (LCSEN) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
Page  4
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
N/A   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
None.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Two alternatives were examined for this project. The first was the development of the 
works presented in the project description and the second was the possible installation of 
a
desalination plant to service the north end of the island. The desalination plant was 
rejected for several reasons:  
 
1.
Environmental impacts to public beaches, national trust lands (cultural historical 
site) and nearshore marine environments were significant requiring major mitigations.  
 
2. 
Capital costs as well as cost of water production would be much greater than the 
preferred alternative.  
 
3. 
The project would not service the rural communities included in the preferred 
plan, instead servicing primarily the vacation communities, hotels and 
recreational/commercial areas in the north.  
 
4. 
The impacts from preferred alternative are limited to the construction phase and 
the project services the entire community in the north rather than a specific segment   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) has been prepared, including a social 
assessment.  WASCO has a developing environmental management program and an 
enironmental management plan has been developed to guide the execution of the project.  
Contracting mechanisms with technical contractor and WASCO supervision will be 
employed to assure compliance with environmental requirements. The Borrower thus has 
sufficient capacity--buttressed by technical advisory budget included in the project--to 
plan and implement the measures described above.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Aside from the communities of the north of the island receiving more regular water 
service(fewer shortages, higher pressure), few if any people will be affected by the 
project. To the degree that agricultural land will be disturbed to lay pipes, the water 
utility has in place a program for public outreach and compensation mechanisms for crop 
damages.  There are no serious right of way issues relatd to this project.   
Page  5
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
03/28/2005 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
05/31/2005 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
04/04/2005 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Safety of Dams: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
03/28/2005 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
03/28/2005 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
05/04/2005 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management, Cultural Property and/or the Safety 
of Dams policies, the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of 
the Environmental Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
The documentation proving appropriate Dam Safety policies including the Dam 
Operations and Maintenance Manual, daily and bi-annual dam inspection reports and 
post-seismic scuba inspection reports were made available to the Bank by the public 
utility and as such have always been publically available.   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit review and approve the EA 
report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.37 - Safety of Dams 
 
Have dam safety plans been prepared? 
Yes 
Have the TORs as well as composition for the independent Panel of Experts 
(POE) been reviewed and approved by the Bank? 
No 
Has an Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP) been prepared and arrangements 
been made for public awareness and training? 
No 
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
Page  6
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
No 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Jordan Z. Schwartz 
04/20/2005 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Juan D. Quintero 
04/20/2005 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Jean-Roger Mercier 
03/28/2005 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Jose Luis Irigoyen 
04/20/2005 
Comments:   
